Patel !1 Jeet Patel Mrs. Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Should College Athletes get paid? Sports is the number one entertainment for many people around the world; sports has changed from year to year because the athletes keep getting better and better. When records used to be held for many years now it expectations for many athletes. The athletes are getting smarter and smarter every year because of their choice of going to college and having a free education while playing the sport they love. The National College Athletic Association (NCAA) looks over all of the collegiate sports, University and the athletes. The NCAA is a non profit organization that is located in Indianapolis, Indiana. It has been charge of all the college level sports, For a high school athlete to be eligible to play college sports, he/she has to follow the many rules that go along with it. Rules such as an athlete cannot be paid by the university, and if both the university and the athlete break the rule then they both will be suspended. (Silverstein) Many universities over the years have tried to convince the NCAA to let them pay there athletes because most big schools do it under the table and the NCAA cannot crack down on everyone. The small universities then do not get the big name recruit and in sports that is not fair. The NCAA restricts any university from paying athletes for whatever reason it is, on the other had we have small university where they believe that they should be allowed to pay the athletes so they can offer something big universities cannot to the student athletes. The NCAA and the small universities should make a pact that allows a small portion of the multi billion dollar revenue the Patel !2 NCAA makes from the broadcast networks should go to small universities so they can give money to the athletes so athletes who need money will go to small universities and which will cause a fairness in recruitment and in level of play. This will positively affect both the NCAA and the small universities because the level of completion on and off the playing field and which will bring in more ticket sale and that affects both stake holders. The NCAA has been cracking down on coaches and universities paying big named high school athletes, for many schools that fair so the The NCAA tries to get through every case and make it a fair playing field. Many coaches and Universities are smart because instead of giving out money they promise the players cars, houses and other nice things. An article by Darin Gannet called Foster admits getting money in displays the perspective of the student athlete Arian Foster. Foster is a pro football player who recently played for the Houston Texans and many other NFL teams. He tells know if this will throw us into an NCAA investigation my senior year, I was getting money on the Foster said. really have any money. I had to either pay the rent or buy some food. I remember the feeling of like, be (qtd. in Ganett) So foster was on rough times as he stated that he had no money for food or rent but the coach started to give him money on the side so he does not give up football. Foster saw that how much money the University and the coaches were making from the games and he thought it was not fair that he was the one working hard and not getting nothing. The NCAA makes billions of dollars every year and they stand that they are non profit because they give that money back to the university. Well people believe that the NCAA should allow athletes like Foster to get paid, but only on some circumstances. If the athlete is good on the field and good in class he/she is eligible but they have to show the NCAA why they need the Patel !3 money (Family, Personal, etc.). The only way the NCAA will give money is if the athlete actually needs only for major problems, as many many people would say why pay them if they are already getting free education. The Big Universities like Tennessee have been paying college athletes for years, Foster who went to Tennessee University an big South Eastern Conference school and he was being paid and seeing that a lot of recruits only go to big schools because they have more to offer. This is not fair to most small universities because they cannot recruit like the big schools and that causes the smaller schools to not have a sports program. The NCAA makes billions of dollars every year and it goes back to the schools, but what others like Jay Bilas who is an analyst for ESPN and CBS college basketball was arguing that if there is surplus of money then why the kids who actually play the sport make anything? This question has been ask many times in the history of college sports. But what The NCAA and the university fear is that the athletes will miss use the money and it would cause them get into trouble with law or themselves. In college sports history many athletes have been caught with robbing or drugs and thats what the NCAA and the Universities fear. But we also have to think about what the student athletes are going through in their life. Many of these athletes decide to pick up a sport so that they can go to college for free and later hope to make to the pros but as the NCAA suggest that less than 10 percent of athletes make it to the pros.(NCAA Research) So the kids want to make money as soon as possible and help their family or themselves. The lovers of College sports do not understand what is going on with the athlete and we disregard the fact they have a life too. The NCAA and the small universities need to make a pact so they can pay the athletes only and Patel !4 so the small schools can get good recruits to come to their school and the level of competition would be more fair as explained in the quote by Jay Bilas in the Complex Sports article below. Jay Bilas is trying to say that small school do not get the best payers like big school do, so if the small schools offered money to the same players, who knows some of those players will choose to play for a small school. if a smaller school, say Wichita State. Wichita State does good no matter what, but Wichita State could not get the players that Kansas are recruiting. And they afford to attract the top players Kansas are recruiting, but they could marshal their resources and pay more for third-best player than Kansas could pay. So, they would be able to afford more talent that way, and then they could make decisions such as know, we need to build these gigantic facilities, we can throw the money into the procurement of The best way for the NCAA and The universities to come at peace is by giving more money to the small schools from that billion dollar revenue every year by the NCAA from all of the broadcast networks. More money to the small schools so they can improve their facilities and give some of the extra money to the athletes that need it. By doing this it will cause more athletes to decide weather to go to big name school or a small school that will pay them for being good on and off the field. The level of competition will be good again and will cause the rise of more people watching college sports. The NCAA will be giving rights by implementing in their bylaws that the small universities are allowed to pay college athletes, the small universities will only have an limit on how much money that they will be given to student athletes. In doing this the NCAA and the small universities make more revenue because as stated earlier the level of Patel !5 competition increases and that has an positive correlation to an higher fan base and increase in revenue. Student athletes all around the United states deserve a chance to get paid to pay sports but only if they meet a certain requirement. Most student athletes go to college so they can have a chance at the pros but as we know less than 10 percent make It to the pros and the rest just get the degree and do not get jobs. If the NCAA and the the small universities came together to make a pact about paying college athletes that are in need. If this were to be the athletes, small universities and The NCAA will benefit from this because athletes will have a chance to go to graduate schools and the NCAA and the small universities will make money from the increase of a fan base due to the competition level rising. Patel !6 Work Cited Benner, Bill. Most college sports programs are  Indianapolis BusinessJournal2011: 39. General OneFile. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Estimated Probability of Competing in Professional  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 02 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ganett, Darin. Arian Foster Admits Getting Money In  ProFootballTalk. NBC Sports, 20 Sept. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maurice PeeblesDeputy Editor Complex Sports. Twitter. IG. 7 Common Sense Reasons Why College Athletes Should Be Paid (According to Jay  Complex. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Silverstein, Yisroel, CLC. National Collegiate Athletic Association  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 10 Feb. 2017.