Jacobs 1 Parker Jacobs Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102/35 29 Jan 2017 Gun Legislation in America 93 people die in America due to gun (Brady Campaign/homepage). The Brady Campaign is a non-profit organization that is trying to put an end to gun violence. They have participated in various protests for anti-gun violence, one of their most recent ones being in Philadelphia in 2015. They believe there should not only be stricter gun laws but also gun bans for civilians. On the other hand there is the NRA which stands for the nation rifle association, they promote gun safety but believe American citizens have the right to bear arms (2 nd amendment right). The NRA too wants to have safer gun laws but they are more conservative about it than The Brady Campaign. Both groups are so clear on their point they feel the need to work together, if both stakeholders worked together who knows what they could accomplish. Both stakeholders not only believe gun violence is terrible but they also believe there should be stricter background check on anyone who applies for a gun license. Obama has already given an executive order on safer background checks, so time to take it to the next level and make America a safer place to live. This is why the NRA and the Brady Campaign should work together to come up with new gun legislation (stricter gun laws and stricter background checks) on how to stop gun violence. The Brady Campaign is a non-profit organization founded in 1974 and have had strong opinions on gun violence ever since. Their mission statement is mission of the Brady Jacobs 2 organization and its Million Mom March is to create a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (Brady Campaign, About). The Brady policy focuses on life-saving background checks, and to stop unauthorized gun dealers. Many things need to happen to get background checks passed but they could help toward not letting mentally ill people possess deadly weapons like a gun. Although guns be in the hands criminals like drug lords they also be in the hands of a mentally ill person. On January 6 th ,2017 in the delta terminal of the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport in Broward County, Florida a mentally ill male named Esteban Santiago-Ruiz opened fired in baggage claim leaving five dead and six more injured. Ruiz had a concealed carriers permit to bring his gun on the plane, who knows what would have happened if there were stricter gun laws. The Brady Campaign came out with statement on the event a couple of hours after it happened: thoughts and prayers are action only will have to reserve the course now through sensible laws that protect all of us. As a new session of congress gets underway, every politician should reflect deeply on what they can do to keep all Americans safe from such acts of tragic violence, as well as the gun violence that takes 93 lives in this country every day. Enough is enough, we are better than this. Congress has to be better than (Brady Campaign 2017). The statement by the Brady Campaign stays true to their roots. They want to get their point across that action needs to be taken in order for new legislation to be passed. While on the other hand the NRA make a statement on the event. About three days after the shooting the NRA send out a tweet stating law abiding gun owners are not the problem and will do anything to protect there 2 nd amendment rights (to bear (NRA homepage/Twitter). This statement put out by the NRA was in response to Jacobs 3 many people criticizing the process of gun background checks and if everyday citizens should even own guns. According to the NRA website their motto is primary goal of the association would be to promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific  according to a magazine editorial written by (NRA, About). The NRA was founded in 1871 by two Union veterans named Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate, the association has stayed true to its roots ever since. They have stated it time and time again they are the top defender on 2 nd amendment rights and are a major political force. The NRA focuses on new gun legislations and safer gun regulations in its off time from defending 2 nd amendment rights. Both stakeholders are fighting for what they think is right but there is a grey area they can meet at in the middle. The NRA and The Brady Campaign should team up with congress and other government officials to make better gun legislation. federal statute prohibits those who unlawfully use, or are addicted to, controlled substances from possessing a firearm. The construction, like that of 922(g)(4), creates two distinct classes of individuals who are excluded from Second Amendment protections. This law provides ample reason for concern given that the law lacks narrow (Soloperto 2016). This article from the Seton Hall Law review shows how gun laws have changed over time. Both stakeholders sway in the same direction when it comes to this subject; they feel that although guns are legal they be in the hands of drug addicts and dealers when they could inflict pain and in some cases many deaths. A citizen who purchases a gun must have a mental illness evaluation two weeks prior to the purchase of the firearm. This includes random check-ups to see if the person with ownership of the gun is still mentally stable. This would also create a ton of jobs, by hiring people to randomly perform medical examinations Jacobs 4 on gun owners to make sure they are still mentally stable. This will ensure that the gun in not getting in the hands of an ill person. Citizen who have gotten a drug charge before even if it was expunged be able to purchase firearms. Guns in the hands of drug lords can turn into a blood bath, everybody has seen what El Chapo could do. This comprise would be great for both parties because the NRA gets to keep their 2 nd amendment rights while the Brady Campaign will see a decrease in deaths by gun violence in America. Who knows maybe if these legislations went in affect it could have stopped people like Syed Farook (San Bernardino), Omar Mateen (Pulse Nightclub Orlando), and Esteban Santiago- Ruiz (Fort-Lauderdale). Innocent lives be taken because a person is mentally sick and be possessing a gun when they should be in a mental hospital. Not only are these mentally ill people killing innocent people, they are also bringing so much heartbreak to not only the families of the victims but the bystanders too. Many things have to happen for the legislations of new gun laws and background checks to get passed but it could happen with effort not only from the Brady campaign and the NRA but help from congress and the president. With new gun legislation the threat to gun violence could be lower, and with support from both of these stakeholders would provide the American people with safer living and 2 nd amendment gun rights. Jacobs 5 Works Cited Page http://www.bradycampaign.org https://home.nra.org Cooper, Alexander C. Fully Loaded: An Alternative View Of The Gun Control  Albany Government Law Review 8.(2015): 337. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rostron, Allen1. A New State Ice Age For Gun  Harvard Law & Policy Review 10.2 (2016): 327-360. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Soloperto, Adam P.1. A Standard Of Review For Gun Rights: The Second Amendment Question Hot As A Two-Dollar  Seton Hall Law Review 47.1 (2016): 225-265. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.