Osenton 1 Lauren Osenton Bianca Hernandez ENC1102-088 12 February 2017 The Future for Energy Fossil Fuels and clean energy are two subjects that have been debated for years. Fossil fuels are non-renewable and depleting but most people are accustomed to them while renewable energy is growing quickly but may not be as reliable. According to the National Academies of Science, The U.S. gets 81% of its energy from fossil fuels, so the U.S. is using up a lot of non- renewable energy and predicted that we could run out of coal by 2088, just 70 years from now. The American Petroleum Institute is an organization that promotes the safe use of oil and natural gas. Greenpeace is an organization that uses peaceful protest to bring awareness to a plethora of environmental issues. These organizations have opposite views on energy but if they work together, they could create a better future of energy for generations to come. The API and Greenpeace could combine their research to find ways to create cleaner air while keeping it accessible to all Americans. The American Petroleum Institute, or API, is the voice of oil and natural gas industry. The API speaks for the industry to and the executive branch state (API). Not only does the API speak to the government but they represent the oil and natural gas industry in legal proceedings to achieve their public policy goals (API). Since the API wants to find a way to create cleaner air, they conduct a lot of research on it. The API researches the sources and impacts of air contaminants so that they can find the best way to face the issues head-on (API). The API works to improve the use of their products in terms of Osenton 2 environmental concern while supplying quality products to customers (API). The API informs the public about different environmental issues regarding fossil fuels, more specifically, clean air. According to Cleaner and Greener, fossil fuels and their production send toxins into the air which can lead to the depletion of the Ozone and dirty air, which can eventually affect health. According to the API, oil and natural gas industry supports 9.8 million U.S. so it is also good for the economy. The main goal of the API is to public policy in support of a strong, viable U.S. oil and natural gas (API). Greenpeace is actively working to address environmental issues and propose solutions for them. Gabe Wisniewski, the director of energy for Greenpeace in the U.S., calls Greenpeace an organization that afraid to challenge corporations or the government and speak the truth about what is happening. Greenpeace supports renewable and clean energy. Greenpeace has several running campaigns for each environmental issue that they stand for. For example, Greenpeace fights for this issue of climate change so they have several different campaigns for it such as It in the and Renewable Energy for Greenpeace believes that fossil fuels need to be kept the (Greenpeace). According to Greenpeace, coal, oil, and natural gas account for the majority of greenhouse gas and air pollution, which can be detrimental to the environment as well as health. The toxic compounds that are released into the air can cause brain damage in humans and even death (CleanerandGreener). Greenhouse gas emissions lead to the heating of the Earth, which can cause severe weather changes and can make it harder to produce crops (CleanerandGreener). Greenpeace also believes that the U.S. should work towards becoming 100% reliable on renewable energy. According to Greenpeace, moving towards renewable energy can our communities healthier, reduce pollution, and create more and better Greenpeace states that Osenton 3 solar industry employs more people than coal and that the working conditions are much safer. The API and Greenpeace both want to improve the quality of the air and keep the Earth safe for the present and future generations. If these two organizations come together they could make the world a better place. Since the API and Greenpeace both conduct a lot of research on clean air they could combine their research to find the best way to create a better environment. The two organizations should combine their efforts and help the world have more renewable energy. Since the API works closely with the government they could help promote rules and regulations for renewable energy. Since the API conducts so much economic research, they could aim their research more towards renewable energy to find ways to make it accessible and affordable for the American people. As more renewable energy sites are created, people with jobs for non-renewable energy companies could transfer to them. The API could keep its relationship with the government intact and do some the work while Greenpeace expands renewable energy and creates even more jobs. Greenpeace and the API could slowly merge to create a better environment and reliable energy sources for future generations. The API and Greenpeace currently have opposite views on energy sources but maybe in the future they could find a way to come together to help the planet and its people. Osenton 4 Works Cited API, http://www.api.org/about. Accessed 10 February 2017. Cleaner and Greener, http://www.cleanerandgreener.org/resources/air- pollution.html. Accessed 12 February 2017. National Academies presents: What You Need to Know About FossilFuels. http://needtoknow.nas.edu/energy/energy-sources/fossil-fuels/ Accessed 10 February 2017. Renewable Energy for Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/renewable-energy-future/. Accessed 10 February 2017. Rinkesh. of Fossil Conserve Energy Future, http://www.conserve-energy- Accessed 12 February 2017.