Johanning 1 Gregory Johanning Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 SEC 035 26 January 2017 The Conflict over Corporal Punishment The conversation and developments on corporal punishment have progressed over time, as parents and figures of authority are at odds in which methods and forms of discipline are most effective on children. The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children believe that corporal punishment or spanking being used as a form of discipline is child abuse and should be completely abolished and not used on children as a result of bad behavior. There have already been over 90 countries in the world that have completely done away with the use of corporal punishment in their public school systems hitting kids). Corporal punishment has been linked to criminal behavior because it does not teach these children how to rethink the situations they get in so they do not exhibit bad behavior, instead it just instills anger in children (Barwick). Gale-Cengage Learning is another group that has written an article about how corporal punishment should not be viewed as a form of abuse. The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment and Gale-Cengage opinions are on opposite ends of the spectrum with this issue. In order to reach a compromise on corporal punishment, both groups have to be willing to sit down with each other, discuss and present the research each group has found on the issue, and talk about the action that has already been taken in order to reach a common ground. Firstly, the organization The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children is against corporal punishment and the continued use of spanking on children. There are many other organizations that are supporting this movement and the principles it stands for Johanning 2 such as The Association for the Prevention of Torture and Child Rights Connect (Global Initiative). In order to push for the protection of children against corporal punishment, this group has rallied under the idea of calling for reform of the human rights law. As a result of this movement, other countries have started to fall in line behind the principle of protecting children against this form of discipline. This demonstrates the growing awareness that this organization is responsible for (Global Initiative). Next, the Gale-Cengage Learning group believes that corporal punishment is effective when disciplining children and its use should be left up to parents and figures of authority. In this article Debra Saunders argues that there is a difference between beating your child and spanking them and that parents understand this difference (Saunders). This article focuses on the mood of corporal punishment and spanking out in California and explains why it would be difficult to put a law into effect that would actually enforce the law. Saunders was motivated to write this article when legislation was in the process of being passed in California banning all forms of corporal punishment. The reason Saunders argues for why a ban on corporal punishment would not work is that the police force is already busy enough with other forms of crime and that a law like this one would essentially put the police living (Saunders). Saunders believes that parents know best when it comes to disciplining their children effectively. The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children and Gale-Cengage Learning both could be considered to have extreme measures when it comes to corporal punishment. On one hand, one group wants the complete abolishment of disciplining a child this way while the other group believes that corporal punishment and the use of it should be left up at the discretion of the parents or authoritative figures. However, both groups agree that corporal Johanning 3 punishment should be used as a last resort when disciplining a child and they both believe that different methods and forms of punishment need to be thought of that benefit the child physically and mentally. The ways that parents discipline their children directly affect the attitude and behaviors of those children (Barwick). In order for both groups to come to a more unified understanding on corporal punishment, the first fact that must be accepted by both sides is that each child responds differently to different forms of punishment. Depending on how the child has been raised up to a certain point in their life is going to determine what method of discipline will work the best in disciplining a child when they have misbehaved. The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children can explain and present the information how corporal punishment is detrimental to child development both physically, mentally, and emotionally. For example, studies have shown that kids who are not spanked are said to exhibit better behavior and lead better lives when they are older hitting The Gale-Cengage Learning group can present their findings on how spanking or corporal punishment is not abuse if it is controlled and done in a manner to prevent misbehavior, not beat. An example is that teachers in a few schools have used a paddle to discipline their students but have done so under control and have only used the paddle when the students have committed serious offenses (Anastasia). This demonstrates the teachers using corporal punishment only when no other methods of discipline are working effectively. The overall compromise should be to come to an understanding that any form of corporal punishment should be frowned upon and used as a last resort. The negative effects of corporal punishment on children both physically and psychologically are seemingly more prevalent than the benefits that come from the use of it. These groups have enough research and evidence to Johanning 4 find alternative forms of discipline that will not generate distaste and disapproval with the public. One idea that could work is that both of these groups can create an ad campaign where both viewpoints of each group are addressed, thus, placing all of the knowledge in the hands of the parents who are ultimately making these decisions. Spreading awareness about the topic of corporal punishment and informing the people who are put in positions to use it will advise them to make educated choices depending on certain situations that require discipline of children. Parents deserve to know how their own methods of discipline are affecting their children. Both groups can definitely find a way to loosen the reigns on each of their stances without completely giving up what each of them stand for. The biggest issue that they will have is being willing to listen to one another because once that happens, they will easily be able to find other forms of discipline that are both proven to be effective and safe for children. Both the Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children and Gale-Cengage Learning have provided compelling arguments for each of their stances on corporal punishment. Each of these groups have the opportunity to create a compromise to come to a more reasonable understanding on how corporal punishment is enforced. The organizations each have the research to work together and find a solution that can be widely accepted by the population as a whole. With this compromise, these groups can then work towards a common goal of spreading the awareness of corporal punishment and how and when it should be used by using ad campaigns to get other groups and organizations involved in this movement. Word Count: 1215 Johanning 5 Works Cited Anastasia, Laura. Paddle battle: a Kansas proposal rekindles a debate: should schools use corporal  Junior Scholastic/Current Events, 31 Mar. 2014, p. 14+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=GPS&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA3639 72605&it=r&asid=0b8aadca5b46e7e77ef0d1e83a3086cb. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Barwick, Melanie. Corporal Punishment Is Ineffective and  Parenting, edited by Roman Espejo, Greenhaven Press, 2013. Opposing Viewpoints. Opposing Viewpoints In Context, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=GPS&sw=w&u=brevard&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CEJ3010863 206&it=r&asid=400e5b0a67ee2ac55bb5964f2443bc6c. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Originally published as Parenting: The Line Between Punishment and , 24 June 2008. Saunders, Debra. Spanking Should Not Be  Child Abuse, edited by Heidi Williams, Greenhaven Press, 2009. Opposing Viewpoints. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/EJ3010115262/OVIC?u=morrisville&xid=05873e62. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Originally published as California Spanking Law Proposal Is  The National Ledger, 20 Jan. 2007. Stop hitting kids. (Bulletins: news about pregnancy, birth, and  Mothering, Mar.- Apr. 2003, p. 26. General OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=GPS&sw=w&u=brevard&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA1008070 65&it=r&asid=24fbd6c17ca47d1a1d17a90e193d373d. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Johanning 6  Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.