Thompson 1 Khalani Thompson Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 2/11/2017 Violence in Video Games Video games are a growing entertainment medium in the modern age. Their popularity grows to challenge even television and movies in some aspects. Video Games can be violent, and their popularity among children is large. Many people believe that Video Game violence can have a negative lasting effect on youth. The Television Council (PTC) is an organization that has turned its attention towards Video Game violence and aims to reduce exposure to it. Play is a charity that believes Video Games are a positive force for children and families and that violence as depicted in videogames is not mentally damaging to children. Both of these organizations have opposing viewpoints in their view of the effect that violence in videogames has on children, but there is an option for them to compromise. If the two groups collaborated to create a presentation for students in schools to inform and educate students about the possible dangers of violence as depicted in Video Games the result would be a net-positive for both groups because they both would be able to spread their message to an extent. It gives the PTC an opportunity to advocate towards the dangers that video game violence can possibly present, and it gives Play a platform to show that violence in video games also provide an opportunity to enrich entertainment. The Television mission states their goal is protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful They originally were founded with their attention towards television, but as Thompson 2 Video Games found their way into more possession they spread their gaze towards that medium. In the Journal Psychological Science an article written by Neil McLatchie and Tobias Greitmeyer found that behavior is triggered when victimizers perceive the victim to be less In the study subjects were told to play three different games, a violent game, a neutral game, and a pro-social (with the goal to help rather than defeat or help) game (GreiteMeyer and McLatchie 660). They found that those that played violent games were observed to have a higher behavior of (Greitemeyer and McLatchie 661). This information lead the authors to form the conclusion that this dehumanization of subjects and video games makes it easier to act aggressive or violent in real life, as one dehumanizes for a differing opinion or for being of an (GreitMeyer and McLatchie 664). On the own website they have published an article entitled Violence: An Examination of Violence, Graphic Violence and Gun Violence in the In the article The PTC investigates the amount of violent acts, depictions, or graphic language present in media and how these examples are becoming more prevalent and numerous with time. They then examine the amount of children that are exposed to the programs in question. They conclude this study by referencing and juxtaposing school connections to mental health and access to firearms with video game violence. From this information their stance is clear, they do not wish for violence in video games to become more widespread. On the opposing side of the issue lies the charity, Play. They are a charity organization that dedicates themselves to the lives of children hospitals and domestic violence shelters through the generosity and kindness of the videogame industry through the power of On their website banner stated that since 2003 they have raised over 40 million dollars for their cause. Play was founded by two web comic artists to Thompson 3 challenge their readers to refute the negative depiction of games and gamers in general media, largely directed at a article entitled Video games are Training Children to On their website they have a guide posted entitled the Video Game The guide was created with the goal of providing children in hospitals a sense of comfort and normalcy as they grow through what is often a life changing trial or experience. For various symptoms such as pain, anxiety, sadness or even the duration of their stay different video games are recommended to children. On this list games such as Street Fighter and Order of are displayed. Each possesses strong themes of violence, war and horror respectively. This guide demonstrates that play believes that violence in video games can be beneficial to children, even therapeutic. As opposed to the PTC, play prefers to focus on the good that is possible to accomplish using video games as a medium, rather than the negatives. An article published in The English Journal by Kristie Jolley titled Games to Reading: Reaching out to Reluctant supports Play stance that games can be beneficial to children, but from an educational perspective. In the article, reluctant readers are motivated by reading material inspired by games from being unengaged with reading as an activity entirely (Jolley 83). The books most discussed were those from franchises such as Warcraft, and all with strong themes of violence. The author also found the opposite to be true, books from franchises with movie, or video game adaptations were found to be more attractive to the students in question as well (Jolley 85). Because video games are a medium that is engaging to children, they are better able to motivate children to explore other media than a newspaper or magazine article, mediums today that are struggling for attention. This study illustrates that violent video games can serve as a Thompson 4 bridge towards motivating unengaged students and displaying video games as a force of good in lives. Both Play and the PTC have opposing opinions on what role they believe violence in video games has in lives. Play believes they can be used to improve lives and provide relief and therapeutic treatment. However, the PTC believes that violence in games is a growing trend with negative effects on children, socially and mentally impacting them adversely. The two groups can reach a compromise that is mutually beneficial to their goals. If the two groups collaborated to create a presentation to students to educate them on these depictions of violence and explain to them the meaning and imagery behind several images or situations present within games it would be a successful endeavor for both organizations. However, both sides would be forced to compromise. The PTC would have to both accept that students are playing these games and that they will be exposed to these themes, but they will be able to warn students of their dangers and prepare them mentally. Play would have to compromise on their values by acknowledging that violence in video games can be damaging without context. They would also have to represent games in a somewhat negative light by showing a darker side of what they believe is a force of good. Joy D. Osofsky writes in The Future of Children, how exposure to various types of violence affects children and what best enables them to cope can point to important This information shows that a presentation that properly presents depictions of violence within a certain context and understanding can help children better understand violent imagery, in relation to separating those depictions to real life. If the presentation by Play and PTC is extended to include a separate portion for education, that would prove even more beneficial because parents a crucial in understanding of violence that they see and witness (Osofsky Thompson 5 42). This compromise be too difficult to enact. Two things are crucial to seeing this compromise become an actuality. First, Play and The PTC must agree upon the exact content within the presentations. To be most effective, they should use examples from the most popular games at the time that use violence. In this presentation they can provide instances within these games where characters use violence to solve their problems and juxtapose that with a comparable real-world problem. One example may be that a player may not have enough gold for a rare item in a game, and a comparable real life situation may be not having enough money for an iPhone. They could then ask the audience else could this character have solved their problem, without using This provides an opportunity to highlight the point that there are more benefits to solving problems amicably then solving them with violence. In the example presented earlier, bartering or waiting to acquire more money is more beneficial than the possible repercussions of stealing or using physical violence. The second condition that must be satisfied is having the presentation cleared by the appropriate school administration to be presented to students. One step towards can be gathering support online for the effort using both Play and The audience. This support can be presented to schools to convince them of their credibility and validity. Out of all the information presented, it is evident that violence in video effect on children is not a clear science. It can be used to benefit children, both mentally and educationally. But there is also evidence and widespread belief that it can be damaging to children. More than anything else it is important to educate our children on the growing phenomenon around them in the internet age, as well as traditional education. As the gaming industry as a whole continues to grow, it will become an issue that needs to be addressed increasingly as time goes on. Thompson 6 Works Cited  Therapeutic Video Game Recommendations. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://childsplaycharity.org/>. Greitemeyer, Tobias, and Neil Mclatchie. Denying Humanness to  Psychological Science vol. 97, no. 5, 2011, pp. 659-65. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jolley, Kristie. Games to Reading: Reaching out to Reluctant The English Journal, vol. 97, no. 4, 2008, pp. Web. 29 Jan 2017. Media Violence: an Examination of Violence, Graphic Violence, and Gun Violence in the  Parents Television Council. Oct. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://w2.parentstv.org/>. Osofsky, Joy D. Impact of Violence on The Future of Children, vol. 9, no. 3, 1999, pp. Web. 29 Jan 2017.