Garcia 1 Santiago Garcia Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Payment for College Athletes College athletes and their supporters have been protesting the NCAA, because they feel unfair that athletes get paid yet the colleges make tons of profit off their hard work. They believe that they work just as hard as NFL or NBA players, and they are not getting the same treatment as them. If college athletes got paid they would begin to have financial awareness which would give them a head start to adulthood and how they should use their money wisely (SmartAsset). Student athletes already receive many scholarships and other benefits like free tuition and board, and basic needs like their meal plans. The whole point of college sports is for the glory and fame and to win, but many believe that paying athletes would ruin the whole idea of that and would instead make the athletes play for the money instead of sportsmanship and other values. The athletes would most likely go for the college that is paying them more, causing the team with the most money have the best players, and they will not have much competition in the sport. This means they would keep winning and all the funds from winning will keep going to these schools. In regards to whether college athletes should be paid or not, NCAA and organizations such as the NFL, NBA, etc., should compromise to find the best possible outcome that satisfies both the athletes and the universities. Garcia 2 The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is a non-profit organization for student athletes in colleges and universities. The National Collegiate Athletic Association was founded March 31, 1906 by Theodore Roosevelt, in Indianapolis, Indiana. The organization was made in order to protect young people from the dangerous athletics at the time (Huffington Post). In 1905, football was almost abolished because 18 college and amateur athletes died during games, for which Theodore Roosevelt held two meetings at the white house with 13 football representatives to talk about getting safety equipment for the players. After this, the NCAA was formed to what people know it is today. The National College Athletic core values have been to be a model for athletics and have tons of sportsmanship, culture, leadership, and respect for other players. The National Collegiate Athletic Association stands against paying college athletes, because the whole point of their organization was to be which means that nobody under it can earn money, all the sports in college are under NCAA and they cannot gain money unless winning a championship. However, the NCAA has made 1 billion dollars a year from merchandise and TV. College athletics make around 12.4 billion dollars in total in a year, and college athletes get none of the money. 96% of the NCAA member schools revenue goes to the colleges and the money is spent for athletic programs, coaches, staff, stadiums, and equipment. (Money Nation) Programs like the NFL and NBA however, are for profit organizations, and believe that college athletes should be paid for their hard work, because they work just as hard and entertain millions of people just like the professionals. The National Football mission statement is, Engagement is to have a positive impact on values and culture, while promoting the personal and professional growth of players and their families before, during, and beyond their NFL (NFL) The NBA does not have only one specific mission statement, but all the Garcia 3 different teams have various similar and different statements to their cause for the game. The National Football League is a professional American football league consisting of 32 teams, divided equally between the National Football Conference (NFC) and the American Football Conference (AFC). The National Football League was created in 1920 as APFA, other known as the American Professional Football Association, until it was renamed to the NFL in 1922. Just recently in 2016, NFL revenues projected to surpass thirteen billion dollars in just that year, thanks to NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, who negotiated television rights deals as well as enhancing upcoming league income streams. (Forbes) The National Basketball Association, also known as the NBA, was founded on June 6, 1946 in New York City, New York. The NBA is the very famous professional basketball league in North America, and is considered the best professional basketball league in the world. Both of these professional leagues believe that college athletes should be paid for their hard work and effort into their sport, because they are gaining revenue for the NCAA and the universities. I had the chance to take care of my family through college, I would have probably stayed in Says former South Carolina defensive end Jadeveon Clowney. Clearly a compromise needs to be made between these organizations in order to satisfy the students, and the universities. The NCAA and the NFL/NBA want to make sure the student athletes receive a fun experience in college within their sport, and that the universities also get their piece of the pie in the deal they must make in order for them to comply with each other and not cause problems for the colleges having money issues. The purpose of the NCAA was to make sports safe and it was a non-profit organization from the start, but they should start to advertise and merchandise more in order to gain more revenue so that they can stop being non- profit and making it more fair for the hard-working student athletes who are risking their lives Garcia 4 and time in playing the sport at their best potential. typical college football player devotes 43.3 hours per week to their sport. Which is 3.3 more hours than the typical American work (Forbes) The NFL and NBA however, must pitch in some of their revenue to help the NCAA pay the universities and colleges and their student athletes. This will make more athletes want to join teams and play better and train more, the students however need to spend more time in the sport than they already do, because they are not on professional level yet, so they must wait a few years or get signed by a professional team if they are good enough or if they wanted to join to get paid more and have more free time. Sports are very important to athletes and no matter if they get paid or not, they will still put in a lot of work and time to do their best in the game they love so much to play. The NCAA and the professional sports organizations should be able to form a contract in order to be able to complete their goals with one another, since they want the students to be treated fairly and the universities to get revenue for the sports. The universities will be making just as much money and maybe more since more fans may try to contribute to the cause, and the students will be able to pay for their wants and needs. The sports industry would grow vastly and many young athletes would rise from many different areas with different skills and potential which can be improved if they have the mindset if they are paid to play for their sports teams. (WC: 1200) Garcia 5 Works Cited Belzer, Jason. Thanks To Roger Goodell, NFL Revenues Projected To Surpass $13 Billion In  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 29 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonbelzer/2016/02/29/thanks-to-roger-goodell-nfl- revenuesprojected-to-surpass-13-billion-in-2016/#1af42b3d3278>. Edelman, Marc. 21 Reasons Why Student-Athletes Are Employees And Should Be Allowed To  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Jan. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.forbes.com/sites/marcedelman/2014/01/30/21-reasons-why-student athletes-are-employees-and-should-be-allowed-to-unionize/#18093eab2991>. Gerencer, Tom. How Much Money Does the NCAA  Money Nation. Money Nation, 17 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.<http://moneynation.com/how-much -money-does -the-ncaa-make/>. NCAA Core  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 06 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values>. Our  Our Goal. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nflplayerengagement.com/mission-statement/>. Patterson, Tiffany. Should College Athletes Be  SmartAsset. N.p., 26 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://smartasset.com/insights/should-student-athletes-be-paid>. Treadway, Dan. Why Does the NCAA  The Huffington Post. Garcia 6 TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/danieltreadway/johnny-manziel-ncaa-