Gonzalez 1 Madison Gonzalez Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 February 2017 Assisted Suicide: In the Best Interest or not? Assisted suicide has become increasingly more prevalent in society, especially in the United States, as Washington, and Montana have legalized the practice of physician assisted suicide, and in 2013, Vermont declared that suicide with prescribed medications was a legal (healthresearchfunding.org). Due to the growing attention to this matter, more controversy surrounds it, and opinions involving assisted suicide are very confidently stated but extremely varied. Organizations such as The Final Exit Network believe people should have a choice in deciding their fate, while other institutions like True Dignity oppose the idea of ending life even if they request it. It is hard to believe that these corporations could come together due to their polar standpoints on this matter, but a compromise between these two stakeholders is vital if either of them truly want to make improvements concerning assisted suicide. The Final Exit Network is a national, non-profit corporation that is a member of the World Federation of Right-to-Die Societies. This corporation advocates for the ultimate human right: the right to die. Originally, this organization was called The Hemlock Society in 1980 and then it broke off into two organizations in 2003, one being the Final Exit Network (finalexitnetwork.org). It is their belief that a person should be able to end their life without the judgement or scrutiny from their family, peers, or medical professionals. They want to ensure that all citizens that fall into their criteria are educated on assisted suicide and are aware of their Gonzalez 2 options if it comes down to that. This network does not promote suicide in any way, but they do want people who are enduring painful and lengthy medical issues to know their options. Final Exit Network also is dedicated to educating the masses about their cause and assisted suicide in general. The thing that sets this corporation apart from other ones that support assisted suicide in the United States is that they help patients that are not necessarily terminally ill. True Dignity is an independent organization led by citizens against assisted suicide in the state of Vermont, which is one of the states in the United States that is attempting to deem assisted suicide legal. This corporation believes in with but they find the thought of suicide to be dignified. True Dignity believes is never death with dignity, and assisted suicide legislation threatens true patient choices at the end of (truedignity.org). They formed this organization to push back against lawmakers, stating that they think taking the easy and cheap way out when allowing assisted suicide in the state. True Dignity acknowledges that treatment for terminally ill patients can become excruciating at a certain point, and they support the conclusion of treatment along with pain medication if this situation arises; they just do no not approve of shortening life before it is meant to end. The main goal of True Dignity is to call people to action against Vermont legislature concerning assisted suicide. People who join their cause get provided information about how to become involved in taking a stance against lawmakers as well as facts on assisted suicide in Vermont and around the world in general. At first glance these two organizations seem to have absolutely nothing in common, but it is not hard to see that they both merely want what is best for the patient. This concept seems like it should be simple, but it clearly is not. The reason for all of this conflict is how these two parties go about doing what is best for these people. In an academic article named the Gonzalez 3 Best Interest- A Call to Action, A Call to Norma J Hirsch addresses this dilemma, skills and tools that we use well to address moral distress and moral dissonance. In the latter cases, we address a more complex question: What is in the best interest in the context of the larger (Hirsch). One side feels as though patients should be able to stop their pain whenever they please, while the other side encourages fighting for life, or at least not shortening it. The Final Exit Network and True Dignity do not have malicious agendas at all; they solely just want to protect people. They cannot see that they truly want the same thing because they are so confident in their own beliefs, blinding them from what the other organization is saying completely. If True Dignity and Final Exit Network could come together and settle on an agreement that ultimately has the best interest in mind, both of them would get more accomplished and ultimately help people even more. True Dignity and Final Exit Network need to unite and form a board that exclusively promotes the well-being of the patient. This board, composed of members from both organizations, would work together to draft guidelines that have to be followed when it comes to assisted suicide. Such guidelines would include an age minimum of 21, certain illnesses that qualify, a time frame that the illnesses occurred, ensuring sanity through therapy, and the procedures used to bring upon the death of the patient. A main component that would ensure this process to run smoothly and efficiently would be that the board would have to approve each candidate that goes through assisted suicide. This procedure would guarantee that all patients would be getting the right course of treatment, whether that be therapy due to psychological deficiencies, more medication to fight the illness aggressively, or at last case scenario, assisted suicide. Also, this compromise would help the United States financially as well as seen in Economic Motives for Physician-Assisted Suicide, estimated that legalizing physician- Gonzalez 4 assisted suicide could save each year as much as $627 million in the United (Mehlman). This union and cooperation of these two opposing organizations would also allow for more awareness of assisted suicide across the United States. Overall, this plan of action is logical due to financial reasons and it appeases both organizations because it safeguards their main objective: keeping the patient as safe as possible. The concept of taking away life is not easy to discuss because of the harshness and severity of the outcome, but this topic is extremely prevalent as of current. This sudden influx has caused organizations to take sides and form strong opinions, like in True Dignity and Final Exit case. It is clear how easy conflict can arise through words, challenge is best described as a clash that results from differences in the beliefs and values of those who participate in the decision-making (26). Hirsch explained this current situation perfectly because there are so many individuals and organizations that have a stake in patient care, so there is bound to be differing and even opposing beliefs regarding assisted suicide. Together True Dignity and Final Exit Network could make such a positive impact on the whole healthcare community if they stand united and fight, not for their personal standpoints, but for the well-being of the patient. Through the compromise outlined prior, these two organizations could create a positive and helpful outlet for people in dire need of their assistance. Word Count: 1201 Gonzalez 5 Works Cited Citizens Against Assisted  True Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dying With Dignity Physician Aided Death Assisted Suicide  Dying With Dignity Physician Aided Death Assisted Suicide States. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hirsch, Norma J. In the Best Interest- A Call to Action, A Call to  (n.d.): 24-29. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mehlman, Maxwell J., J.D. Economic Motives for Physician-Assisted  The Doctor Will See You Now. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gonzalez 6 Wpadmin. Surprising Physician Assisted Suicide HRFnd. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.