Jeffrey 1 Jeffrey Smith Professor Anastasia Khawaja ENC 1101 2/10/17 What is the correlation between the Swedish economic policies and their quality of living, and how did the adaptability of the economy over the years helped to form it? Sweden is one of the leaders in their Quality of Living. One of the main reasons of this is because of the socialistic economies that most of the countries in that region employ. Through taxes the Swedish government is able to provide free healthcare and education. The ability to adapt their economy over time is one of the main factors contributing to the rise in the socialistic economic policies in effect today. One of the reasons Sweden was able to transition to a strong economy was their ability to stay neutral during World War One and World War 2. While also reaping the benefits of rebuilding efforts without suffering any industrial losses. This Economic period of growth almost came to stop and nearly collapsed in the early nineties due to high unemployment rates. Since 1993 they have left the private sector alone and weakened some of the socialist policies around the economy and the national bank keeps the inflation rate steady at nearly one or two percent a year. economic model has came from being a largely socialistic to a quasi-socialistic economy with a huge emphasis on private sector capitalism. Feng, Tian. Dynamic Welfare State: How adaption can save the Swedish Harvard International Review, Winter 2008, pp. 32-35 This article focuses on adapting economy over time to keep it from collapsing under the weight of the socialistic policies it incurs. Sweden must adapt to keep its stability economically as the economy almost collapsed before on a purely socialistic viewpoint causing them to add a more capitalist Jeffrey 1 aspect to it. It also goes on to compare and contrast other countries economies throughout the region as well. The International Review is published by the Harvard International Relations Council at Harvard University, It is a quarterly journal that discusses global issues in a variety of subjects. Brown, Andrew. Dark Side of Statesmen, January 10, 2011, pp. 34-37 This article focuses on the reputation that Sweden has and how in reality fascism is slowly taking over. It examines the rise of the Democratic party in Sweden during the early to the far right gaining popularity in the Brown states in the article that in the at the height of the Democratic party that was richer and more equal than any other Brown grew up in Sweden and he often writes about his childhood growing up and how it was influenced by the politics and economy growing up there. He has also won an Orwell Prize for one of his books, and has been nominated for multiple awards. The Statesmen was founded on April 12, 1913 as a weekly review of politics and literature. Schnyder, Gerhard a phoenix from the ashes? Reassessing the transformation of the Swedish political economy since the of European Public Policy , September 11, 2012, pp. 1126-1145 This article focuses purely on the Economy of sweden since the It explores why they ditched the and adopted the more capitalistic and socialistic economy that is in place now. It goes on to explain in high detail all of the changes that happened and why they happened to make economy today. This is a peer reviewed journal covering politics in the European Union. The author has a PhD in political science from the University of Lausanne in Switzerland. His research is in Comparative Management, Comparative Political Economy, and Comparative Politics. He is currently a Senior Lecturer at the College in London, He was also a research fellow at Cambridge University. Jeffrey 1 Larabell, John T. happiest people on New American , August 22, 2016, Vol. 32 Issue 16, pp. 17 - 21 This article focus on all the Scandanavian countries being at the top of the highest quality of life mostly because of the socialistic economic practices of these countries, however it does mention that this in combination with the culture in these countries also contributes to the quality of life. It talks about how these countries are getting lazier because of the social welfare policies that many of them have. The American was founded in 1985 due to a merger of two magazines from the John Birch Society. It is a bi-monthly magazine the focuses mostly on politics.