Weldon 1 John Weldon Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 15 February 2017 Gun Control Laws and Regulations: Are They Reliable? In recent years, the increased number of mass shootings--and shootings in general--in the United States has sparked a national debate over gun control laws and regulations. On one side of the argument, gun ownership privileges in the United States are viewed as unreliable and dangerous to a safety and well-being. The CSGV, an organization in favor of stricter gun laws and regulations, presents their belief through the following mission statement: Coalition to Stop Gun Violence seeks to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement, and effective policy to Stop Gun Universal background checks, a ban of assault weapons, and microstamping are only a few proposals that the CSGV intends on executing through legislative measures. On the opposing side, current gun control laws and regulations are viewed as constitutional and necessary for self-defense. The NRA, an organization that supports the constitutional right to bear arms, presents their belief through the following statement: heart of the NRA mission is preserving the core of our American values and traditions in our steadfast effort to Teach NRA The NRA has raised more than $300 million in funding that benefit a variety of programs such as youth education, law enforcement training, hunter education, conservation, firearms and marksmanship training and safety, and much more NRA Although the CSVG and NRA have opposing views toward current Weldon 2 gun control laws and regulations in the United States, both organizations desire a future free of gun violence; specifically regarding a decrease of criminally-purchased firearms. Compromise, therefore, is possible between both organizations. The CSVG-- the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence-- is an organization in favor of stricter gun control laws and regulations, which is in complete opposition with the NRA. According to the CSVG, on life-saving gun reforms has been stalemated by legislative gridlock. Our politicians, intimidated by the political power of the National Rifle Association, have refused to act in the wake of tragedy after to Stop Gun In order to combat these stalemates, the CSVG proposed a three step strategy to break the gridlock: taking an aggressive approach with political advocacy, building relationships with legislators and illustrating importance of sensible gun laws, and talking about the issue in terms of democratic value to Stop Gun This three step strategy directly eliminate the issue of gun violence, but it indirectly helps the cause through communication with government officials. In addition to CSVG government intervention, the organization has developed many potential solutions to end gun violence including universal background checks, a ban of assault weapons, and microstamping; and all of these parallel to stricter gun laws and regulations. In support of the CSVG, Ladd Everitt provided his rationale through the following statement: about 40 percent of gun sales are conducted without any background check at all. That gives convicted felons, domestic abusers, and those with a dangerous history of mental illness a free pass to arm the U.S. Need Tougher Gun-Control As a potential solution, Everitt says, solution is to require background checks on every gun sale--with a potential exception for individuals selling to immediate family members--and to Weldon 3 strengthen the screening process to detect obvious warning signs in people who are trying to buy the U.S. Need Tougher Gun-Control Clearly, Everitt and the CSVG desire stricter gun laws and regulations in the United States; and most importantly, the CSVG believes that every American should live free from gun violence. The NRA-- the National Rifle Association-- is an organization that was created in 1871 that aspired to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific according to its founder William C. Church NRA Originally designed to improve marksmanship following the American Civil War, the NRA eventually branched out and developed many shooting programs such as the Boy Scouts of America, the NRA Police Firearms Instructor certification program, and the Youth Hunter Education Challenge NRA All of these programs are representative of one main goal: to protect and defend the constitutional right to bear arms. In recent years, however, the Second Amendment became jeopardized following multiple shooting-related massacres such as Sandy Hook, San Bernardino, and Aurora. In response to the Sandy Hook Elementary School Massacre, Wayne LaPierre, the chief executive, issued a nationally televised statement in support of the Second Amendment that read, the press and the political class here in Washington, D.C., so consumed by fear and hatred of the NRA and American gun  he said, that willing to accept the world where real resistance to evil monsters is unarmed school principal left to surrender her life, her life, to shield those children in her  Afraid of the In addition to this statement, the NRA intends to propose legislative measures that call for an armed police officer at every school in the United States Shootings And The Legislative Push To Arm The NRA not only believes in the Second Amendment Weldon 4 Right to bear arms, but also pushes for a pro-gun society in the United States; and the overarching goal is to defend and protect the national public from gun violence. Although both the NRA and CSVG differ in approach to gun control laws and regulations, their shared goal of a nation free of gun violence unites them. One topic that both organizations agree upon is the intention to keep firearms out of criminal possession. On one hand, the CSVG believes in universal background checks on the purchase of firearms. According to their website, 40% of gun sales are made without any background convicted felons, the dangerously mentally ill and others unchecked access to firearms. long past time to require a background check on every gun sale in to Stop Gun Although the CSVG believes in stricter background checks, the NRA believes that background checks stop criminals from acquiring firearms because of the black market, theft, and many more illegal actions. The NRA, however, proposed a solution to eliminate criminal purchases of firearms at gun sales, thus allowing for a margin of freedom for compromise. Therefore, universal background checking is a subject for compromise in relation to criminally-purchased firearms. As previously mentioned, common ground between the CSVG and NRA is the opposition to criminally-purchased firearms. As a compromise, universal background checks will be administered to everyone during the purchase of a firearm; however, all weapons will be available to purchase. This intensified screening process, which will be funded and carried out by federal agencies, will reduce the number of criminally-possessed firearms. According to a scholarly book source, these information gaps will better enable the system to keep guns out of the hands of persons prohibited by federal or state law from receiving or possessing Weldon 5 (Wolf and Rosen 876). As a result, the NRA could legally benefit on the legalization of assault rifle purchase, and the CSVG could benefit on universal background checking. Recent trends of mass shootings-- and shootings in general-- in the United States over the last decade has sparked a national debate regarding gun control laws and regulations. On one side, gun control laws and regulations are viewed as unreliable and need to be stricter. The CSVG-- the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence-- supports this claim through their mission statement: Coalition to Stop Gun Violence seeks to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement, and effective policy to Stop Gun On the other hand, current gun control laws and regulations are viewed as reliable; in fact, organizations like the NRA support a pro-gun society in the United States. Although these organizations have opposing approaches to gun control laws and regulations, their overall goal is to reduce gun violence in the United States of America. One topic of similarity between both the CSVG and the NRA is their belief that criminals should not be allowed to possess firearms. Although the CSVG advocates universal background checking, the NRA believes that particular system is flawed; and criminals will always be able to acquire firearms through illegal measures. The NRA, however, proposed any legislation as a solution to this problem, thus allowing for compromise. Universal background checks will be administered to everyone during the purchase of a firearm; however, all weapons will be available to purchase. As a result, the NRA could legally benefit on the legalization of assault rifle purchase, and the CSVG could benefit on universal background checking. Weldon 6 Works Cited Barrett, Paul M. Afraid Of The NRA? (Cover  Businessweek 4321 (2013): 48-54. Source Premier . Accessed 31 January 2017. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence . Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Accessed 31 January 2017. Everitt, Ladd, and Erich Pratt. Does the U.S. need tougher gun-control  York Times Upfront 2015: 22. OneFile . Accessed 31 January 2017. National Rifle Association . National Rifle Association of America, Accessed 31 January 2017. Rostron, Allen. School Shootings And The Legislative Push To Arm  Of Toledo Law Review 45.3 (2014): 439-455. Search Alumni Edition . Accessed 31 January 2017. WOLF, CAROLYN REINACH, and JAMIE A. ROSEN. Missing The Mark: Gun Control Is Not The Cure For What Ails The U.S. Mental Health  Of Criminal Law & Criminology 104.4 (2015): 851-878.