Knight 1 Mateo Knight U96540446 ENC1102 910 15 February 2017 Nuclear Waste in Space The disaster at Chernobyl in 1986 was one of the largest nuclear power plant disasters to date. Radioactive material contaminated the air and soil for miles surrounding the power plant site. Additionally, acute radiation syndrome was confirmed in 134 people on-site and involved with the clean-up As a result of this catastrophe, and after witnessing the danger of a disaster regarding nuclear waste, power plants across the globe have precautions in place to prevent a similar event from ever occurring again. Although the risk of a nuclear power plant explosion has significantly dropped, environmentalists are now further concerned with the proper disposal of radioactive nuclear waste. As of now, there is not a safe, affordable, and efficient way to dispose of radioactive waste for long periods of time. This is a risk towards the environment as well as humans, considering chronic exposure to radiation has a direct positive correlation to cases of cancer, cataracts, and potentially harmful genetic changes Health Possibly, by joining forces and funds, ecologists and nuclear power plant companies can use a safe, permanent method to dispose of hazardous waste. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) are two large agencies that could collaborate on a project which would send loads of radioactive waste into outer space. The United States Environmental Protection Agency is a government organization that works to reduce environmental risk. The mission statement is protect human health Knight 2 and the environment The EPA has laws and regulations specifically regarding radioactive waste and the methods of which it is disposed. For example, there is a specific regulation which sets an environmental standard for the disposal of The proper disposal of this material plays a key role in preservation of the Earth because it may take up to 100,000 years in some cases for such material to decay (Kautsky). Environmentalists have come up with many ideas and concepts regarding safe disposal and even with the regulations put in place by the EPA, the current method of burying highly reactive waste in mountains is a risk to humans and the environment. The lower-level radioactive byproduct of the power plants is stored in a storage facility, as a result of The Low-level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of Waste Although this waste is much less radioactive than high-level waste, having large amounts of radioactive material in a storage facility is still hazardous for many reasons. By completely dispelling radioactive waste into outer space Like the EPA, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is an organization in which human as well as environmental health is the goal. The NRC was created by Congress in 1974 and works with the mission to ensure the safe use of radioactive materials for beneficial civilian purposes while protecting people and the environment As a result of nuclear power plant disasters, such as Chernobyl, nuclear energy is seen as a threat to many environmentalists. As of now, the NRC is responsible for the disposal of high-level waste at Yucca Mountain, Nevada, as outlined by Congress in the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982(NWPA) Level Waste Although this is currently the best plan for permanent disposal, it is not the most effective way to protect the environment or humans from radioactive wastes. The main issue with radioactive dumping in mountains is that there is a Knight 3 possibility of contamination of soil and even water. The alpha particles of the radioactive elements are too large to quickly effect living creatures, however the ingestion of these particles through contamination pose a serious health threat Health This is why the current method of disposing of radioactive waste underground or in mountains still poses a threat to life and the environment, which is why the possibility of a safe, permanent method could be set forth. Both the EPA and NRC have the best interest of humans as well as the environment, according to their mission statements. The most effective way to achieve their goals in relation to energy, would be a successful transition from consumption of non-renewable resources, such as fossil fuels, to renewable resources, such as nuclear energy. In fact, the burning of fossil fuels is the primary source of CO2 emission in the world However, research presents data that suggests that there is a negative correlation between nuclear energy consumption and CO2 emission (Baek). Thus, by reducing the amount of non-renewable resources used across the globe, and replacing those methods with nuclear energy, there should also be a steady decline in greenhouse gases emitted. This then creates the possibility to expand on nuclear energy production and consumption, while directly reducing emission of carbon dioxide, which is a dangerous greenhouse gas. In turn, this can lead to saving the atmosphere and slow down the process of global warming. In order to achieve a successful transition from non- renewable resources to nuclear energy, there must be a much more effective plan for disposing of large amounts of radioactive byproduct. Thus, by collaborating on a method to dispose of radioactive waste permanently, both of the NRC and EPA can benefit and work towards their goals. Knight 4 Ever since the discovery of nuclear energy conversion in the twentieth century, the proper disposal of the radioactive byproduct has been the issue preventing worldwide expansion of nuclear energy consumption. To permanently dispose of radioactive waste, a concept presented by a group of researchers introduces a detailed plan of flying nuclear waste into outer space (Kim). The EPA and NCR are able to collaborate on a project of this size, because they have the resources and influence to bring something like dispelling nuclear waste into outer space even possible. NASA came up with a similar concept in the past, however it was rejected by the nuclear community most likely because of price (Kim). However, this modern concept of space disposal seems possible in the near future because the price to fly materials to space has lowered as well as the cost to process spent-fuel (Kim). In the concept, even a failsafe is in place, so even with a systematic malfunction, the waste will be flying so low to the surface that it is only possible that it falls in the water (Kim). This method is more detailed, safe and reasonable than similar previous plans, which is why the two largest agencies that are concerned with safe nuclear waste disposal, the EPA and NRC, should work towards making this concept reality in the near future. Environmental policies are widely discussed politically, and the plan to transfer from non-renewable resources towards renewable resources, such as nuclear power, is a necessary transition in order to preserve the environment. However, it will be impossible to make the change unless there is some effort invested into new methods of radioactive waste disposal. The Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S Nuclear Regulatory Commission are two organizations with enough influence and expertise to be capable of turning a concept such as waste in space, into reality. Knight 5 Works Cited EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 26 Jan. 2017, www.epa.gov/aboutepa About  NRC: About NRC. U.S Nuclear Regulatory Commission, https://www.nrc.gov/waste/llw-disposal.html Baek, , Jungho. Nuclear and Renewable Energy Improve the Environment? Empirical Evidence from the United ScienceDirect, www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S1470160X16300139?np= y&npKey=69481693ec576e1a3804fc94af9cc93c2c92394ef110dce563a97db7514de4b2 Web. 30 Jan. 2017 https://www.nrc.gov/about-nrc.html Chernobyl Chernobyl Accident Chernobyl Disaster - World Nuclear Association. N.p., Nov. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/safety-and- security/safety-of-plants/chernobyl-accident.aspx Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 09 Aug. 2016 Web. 30 Jan. 2017. https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/global-greenhouse-gas-emissions- data High-Level Waste  NRC: High-Level Waste Disposal. U.S. NRC, 17 May 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. https://www.nrc.gov/waste/hlw-disposal.html Kautsky, Ulrik. Impact of Low and Intermediate-Level Radioactive Waste on Humans and the Environment over the next One Hundred Thousand ScienceDirect, Jan. 2016, www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0265931X15300370?np= y&npKey=352be63914edf5eb774e50e62e382d938c2ac861d90e1463f2c03461be4cf8fa Kim, Hyungjin. Design of the Space Disposal System for the Highly Radioactive Knight 6 Component of the Nuclear ScienceDirect, 15 Nov. 2016, Jan. 27, 17 www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0360544216312531?np= y&npKey=3fbb054e363077c6afeb8e8f85618f7ee82ffbc62718388fa6855506aec088d0. Low-Level Waste  NRC: Low-Level Waste Disposal. U.S. NRC, 17 May 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. https://www.nrc.gov/waste/llw-disposal.html Health EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 21 July 2016, www.epa.gov/radiation/radiation-health-effects.