Reinke 1 Ashley Reinke Kirsten Rouisse ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The War on Vaccines When we look at the most technological advancement throughout history, many think of how far our medicine has evolved within just a few decades. Vaccines are a big part of this development dating back to 1798 when Edward Jenner gave a boy diagnosed with smallpox the first known antibiotic Historic Dates And Events Related To Vaccines And ) 221 years later, the people of the United States views countless advertisements from the Center for Disease Control encouraging them to go out and get their annual flu vaccine. In fact, these ads greatly increase the average amount of flu shots received in this country. However, there are many that reject these flu shots because they fear that it harms their health in a long-term process. An organization that is strongly against flu vaccines is the Vaccine Resistance Movement. When viewed from the outside, the Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement seem to be as opposite as Sea World is to PETA. But when viewed in an abstract way, they are both pushing for what they feel is best for the well-being for the public. Because of these strong similarities, the Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement should work together to create new flu vaccines that include both alternative and modern medicine. Since 1946, the Center for Disease main focus was to minimize the spread of diseases around the United States and continues to do so to this day. They are a firm believer that the health of the United States resides largely with the injection of vaccines at least every 6 months (Make It Your Business To Fight The Flu 1.) With different doses depending on your level of immunity, they have designed specific vaccines that provide people with many options that doctors feel best suit their needs. The Center for Disease Control continually works to update the flu vaccine in order to keep up Reinke 2 with its mutating state as each flu season is different each year. In fact, statistics from 2014-2015 years show that the doses received to the general public is continuing to grow year by year and is expected to keep growing Flu Vaccination Coverage, United States, 2014-15 Influenza Season Fluvaxview Seasonal Influenza (Flu) .) However there are some that are very resistant to vaccines and are working in order for there to be a change in the ingredients that are put into the flu shot. Vaccine opposition dates back to the early in which parents feared for the injection of a live smallpox virus into their body. Today, a group that stems from that initial protest is the Vaccine Resistance Movement. Their main purpose is to eliminate any and all vaccines that are currently in use. also a big supporter for the idea of parental choice for their children as well as pushing for the people to consider alternative medicine (herbalism, acupuncture, etc.) as a medical option. Contrary to the Center for Disease Control, they promote the negative effects associated with vaccines in that they contain harmful chemicals such as Thimerosal which contains a high concentration of mercury Vaccine Resistance .) This chemical is also known to be found in the flu vaccine. Additionally, they claim that if young babies and children are vaccinated, it can lead to a declined immunity to disease later in life along with the development of autism Vaccine Resistance Movement ) However, like the Center for Disease Control, there are people that oppose the Vaccine Resistance Movement and reject the idea that flu shots and other vaccines cause autism and feel that the flu shot should be promoted instead of shot down. Ironically, these the Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement have middle ground between them that neither of them seem to recognize. Primarily, they both want best for the people of the United States as well as our future generations for years to come. The Center for Disease Control is promoting the flu shot to the public through advertisements and increasing the number of locations one could get a flu shot. Meanwhile, the Vaccine Resistance Movement is gaining momentum through Facebook and their online website explaining the problems with modern medicine. Secondly they both care very strongly towards the health of population and how it can be Reinke 3 maintained throughout life. This is the one thing that has never changed since both founding. The Center for Disease Control has lives, protecting on the front page of their website likewise to the Vaccine Resistance Movement that has a tab entitled leading to articles containing information on alternative medicine. The Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement are doing a plethora of research and, even though one is for modern medicine and the other is for alternative medicine, making great achievements in the health field. Therefore, it is important for the Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement to come together and make massive strides in research and health options by working with one another rather than against one another. A way they can do this is by having the Center for Disease Control advertising modern and alternative medicine equally. This advertisement will inform people that there are more options for them to try if they worry about the chemicals found in vaccines or if modern medicine helping their medical condition. In addition, the Center for Disease Control should include alternative medicine within their research. By doing this, more people in the company will come to accept methods that considered orthodox. Before the research is expending with the Center for Disease Control however, a subsection should be created within the organization that specifically includes people that are trained experts in multiple forms of alternative medicine to make sure that this option stays pure and without contamination of chemicals that people may want to avoid. Even though the Center for Disease Control will now have more research to take on, there will be vaccine resistance opinions within the CDC that can help expand the idea of alternative medicine at a faster rate and the research will be distributed evenly so that each section is attacked equally. With this compromise, the Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement both achieving their opposing goals. However, they can achieve more ground through this agreement than if they were to continue butting heads. Both organizations would be contributing to the health of the public by providing them with more options in medicine. Reinke 4 The Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement have both made great accomplishments within themselves towards the health of the public to the current date. Yet their differences in what medicine should be distributed, and what that medicine should contain, is causing them to focus on those differences instead of working together. If these two organizations recognize each other similarities and what they what for the people, they could possibly make even bigger accomplishments towards the future of medicine as well as greater options for the people. Word Count: 1186 Reinke 5 Works Cited CDC Works . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Flu Vaccination Coverage, United States, 2014-15 Influenza Season Fluvaxview Seasonal Influenza (Flu) . Cdc.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Historic Dates And Events Related To Vaccines And . Immunize.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Make It Your Business To Fight The Flu. 1st ed. CDC, 2017. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Vaccine Resistance Movement . VRM Autism Study. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.