Sharoupim 1 Pavly Sharoupim Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 15 February 2017 Trade Privacy for Security?: The Final Draft Would you trade privacy for security, or security for privacy? Although favorable to go with them both, theoretically impossible, or at least what the NSA and Restore the Fourth Movement think. In June 2013, Edward Snowden, a former contractor for the United States government, revealed his data about the surveillance programs targeting the United States, shocking the world with this unexpected news. (Elliot, Rupar) As a response, the Restore the Fourth movement was formed in order to reestablish the constitutes formed by the Fourth Amendment (The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, etc.) and protect the individual from having his privacy violated by the NSA (Restorethe4th.com). The goal is to our (Nsa.gov), while Restore the mission is to the Fourth which they believe has been violated by the surveillance programs (Restorethe4th.com). Although both organizations may seem to be opposing each other in their own causes, they share a common cause: to protect the privacy against uncalled-for surveillances. Using this common cause, the movement can learn to encourage its audiences to help the NSA in its mission against threats and the NSA can help preserve its privacies and freedom. The first party in the conflict is the NSA. Established in 1952, the mission is to defend the nation from external threats, as its slogan indicates. However, following Edward revelations about the mass surveillance programs, the NSA was put under the Sharoupim 2 spotlight as to explain their reasons for these programs. As a response, James Clapper, the director of the national intelligence, explained that collected under this program is among the most important and valuable intelligence information we collect, and is used to protect our nation from a wide variety of (Savage, Wyatt, Baker). The information collected used to plainly spy on the individuals for no apparent reason, but are perhaps used for fighting external threats back. As a form of assessing and confirming these claims, Major Beaudette Jr., a staff Judge Advocate for the Office of Military Cooperation in Kuwait, stated that programs narrowly tailor their targets, and any interference only truly occurs once information in a database responds to an (Baudette Jr.). This statement confirms that the programs made to spy aimlessly on U.S. citizens, but for targeting and defeating any threats that could affect the safety. The second party in the conflict is the Restore the Fourth movement. Formed in 2013, following revelations, the goal is to the fourth which they believe was violated by the programs (Restorethe4th.com). As a way of responding to the programs, the movement has been organizing protests, like the one done in Washington (Kelly), and encouraging people to make protests of their own, calling for the courts to put a stop to the surveillance programs. To support their position towards the conflict, and after reviewing the leaked documents undisclosed by Snowden, Ilna Georgieva, a researcher, concluded in a research that programs involve countless interferences with privacy and that society is developing in a profoundly undemocratic (Georgieva). In addition to that, during the Washington protest, some protesters convinced about their liberty for (Kelly). However, based on the claims made by the other party, are they in a situation where they have to sacrifice a right for the other? Sharoupim 3 The NSA needs all the data required in order to execute their missions properly; their work might be incomplete without Restore the and all US data. On the other hand, Restore the members, audience, and other unrelated US citizens need security in order to live safely without any fatal threats; this safety be done without the data required for the missions for defending threats incomplete. In a press conference, General Keith Alexander, the director of the NSA, stated that job is defending this country, saving lives, supporting our troops. our responsibility to provide the information that they need to survive to go after the (Carroll). Both stakeholders need each help in order to execute their own jobs and live their own lives safely; that be done without a compromise. For an idea of compromise to happen, people will have to accept giving some of their information to the NSA. On the other hand, the NSA will have to notify individual citizens about the information taken from them and be clear about their surveillance programs, their effectiveness, and results. A research conducted by the University of Texas at San Antonio concluded that, in fact, there are more people who approve the surveillance programs than people who (Reddick, Chatfield, Jaramillo). The research suggests too that the government to be more efficacious in communicating about surveillance programs more transparently to garner greater approval for its surveillance (Reddick, Chatfield, Jaramillo). The NSA will have to do several conferences to talk in detail about their surveillance programs, their purposes, methods, effectiveness, and results. As the people know how effective and successful giving a limited amount of their information has been to the overall safety of their country, start engaging and communicating with the NSA in order to help them more with their missions, hence keeping the country safer not only for a single individual and not for a single generation, but for a whole country and future generations. Sharoupim 4 Edward revelations have been an unexpected surprise for all the citizens of the United States. Misunderstandings have led to conflicts between the NSA and Restore the Fourth. The NSA has been trying to prove their reasons and methods to prove a point while Restore the Fourth has been backlashing with statements that the programs have violated the Fourth Amendment. However, empathy and understanding can help the NSA understand Restore the intentions, and vice versa, hence the common ground and compromise. Restore the audiences, protesters, and unrelated citizens should help the NSA by giving them the information they need whenever required in order to make the country safer. The NSA, on the other hand, has to notify individual citizens with the information taken and the reason for taking them. They have to be very vocal too about their programs: conduct conferences where they talk in detail about their programs, reasons, effectiveness, and statistical results. The success will encourage citizens to be more willing to give required information whenever needed in order to help their country be safer and more secure for their own families, states, and future generations. Sharoupim 5 Works Cited: Kennedy Elliot, Terri Rupar. Months of The Washington Post. 23 December 2013. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/national/nsa-timeline/. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017) We Restore the Fourth. 8 December 2015. https://restorethe4th.com/who-we-are/. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017) National Surveillance Agency. https://www.nsa.gov/. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017) Charlie Savage, Edward Wyatt, Peter Baker. Confirms that it Gathers Online Data New York Times. 6 June 2013. http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/07/us/nsa- verizon-calls.html. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017) Peter Beaudette Jr. Compliance Without Credit: The National Security Agency and the International Right to Privacy. The Air Force Law Review. Volume 73. P. 25-59. Heather Kelly. Against the NSA Spring up Across CNN. 5 July 2015. http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/04/tech/web/restore-nsa-protests/. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017) Ilna Georgieva. Right to Privacy Under Fire- Foreign Surveillance Under the NSA and GCHQ and its Compatibility with Art 17. ICCPR and Art. 8 ECHR. Utrecht Journal of International and European Law. Vol. 31. P. 104-130. 27 February 2015. http://www.utrechtjournal.org/articles/10.5334/ujiel.cr/. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017) Rory Carroll. Director Keith Alexander Defends Surveillance Tactics in Speech to The Guardian. 31 July 2013. Sharoupim 6 https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/jul/31/nsa-keith-alexander-black-hat- surveillance. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017) Christopher G. Reddick, Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Patricia A. Jaramillo. Opinion on Natonal Security Agency Surveillance Progarms: A Multi-Method Government Information Quarterly. Volume 32. Issue 2. P: 129-141. April 2015. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740624X15000246. (Last Accessed: 15 February 2017