Mancuso 1 Sophia Mancuso Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 12 February 2017 The Ethics of Factory Farming With the increasing temperature of the Earth and its obvious correlation with the degradation of the environment, many questions have been raised about the main contributors. Greenhouse gases are the gases emitted into the atmosphere that trap heat within it, causing what is known as global warming (EPA). Global warming has been and still is wreaking havoc on many ecosystems all over the world. One of its largest contributors is factory farming and the raising of livestock for food. This is said to be responsible for 51 percent of the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, which to put into perspective, is more than all vehicle emissions combined globally (PETA). On top of this, factory farming is infamous for its unethical treatment of their livestock and there are currently no federal laws protecting those animals from this mistreatment (FFAC). Factory Farming Awareness Coalition (FFAC) is an organization against factory farming; their goal is to push others to reduce their personal consumption of animal products. The National Beef Association is an organization that works with the beef industry to increase the demand of beef. This may even mean treating animals even more unethically than they are already treated, and destroying the environment further in the process. To come to a compromise concerning their opposing stances on the ethics of factory farming, the FFAC and the NCBA need to work together to help improve the lives of the animals and reduce its ecological footprint by lowering the production of animal products. Mancuso 2 FFAC was founded in 2010 with the mission to combat the harmful effects factory farming has on animals, people, and the environment (FFAC). However, the fight against livestock is one that tends to be difficult. Many people are unaware of the dangers behind animal products. If they are aware, they are usually reluctant to make the life style changes it requires to make an impact. FFAC takes a different route to deter the animal industry by educating people across the country at numerous colleges. With these efforts, they hope to make small impacts across the country that will in turn make a large one. They encourage people through education to reduce or cut out animal products in their diet so they can ultimately lessen the demand of animal products. Doing this will force the industry to stop producing so much, minimizing the amount of harm done to the animals involved, and the environment. The NCBA is an organization with the goal to increase the demand for beef through marketing the safest and best source of protein. They are responsible for the popular slogan For seen everywhere. Their marketing urges the support of the meat industry and factory farming. They also have their own national marketing and research program that they fund that reaches out to business nationally and internationally. One problem the industry is facing today is supplying the increasing population with meat that as sustainable as it is wished to be by the meat industry. The industry alone is composed of over one million businesses and farms and is a crucial component to the economy (NCBA). If the meat industry were to dwindle, so might the economy. Even though both organizations are essentially opposites, they both care about sustainability. FFAC recognizes that animal products are hardly sustainable, especially with the population growing exponentially. Their push toward plant-based diets is with sustainability in mind. The reason for factory farms is to save space, time, and money. Even on free-range farms Mancuso 3 animals still suffer. On top of this, free-range farms use a significantly larger amount of land than a factory farm would, which is why switching to this method would not be a good compromise in the case of sustainability (PETA). The NCBA continues its research in sustainability while keeping up with the population size (BeefUSA). It was estimated by the USDA that in 2015 the average American ate 210.8 pounds of red meat and poultry in one year (The National Chicken Council). Compare that to 1980 where the average American only ate 195.1 pounds of red meat and poultry and it is clear the rate of animal products consumed is going up significantly (The National Chicken Council). Not only that but the population demanding this large quantity of meat is growing as well. Clearly a solution needs to be made to tackle this rapidly growing problem. Implementing the lower production of animal products in the industry is the only way to reduce the harm to animals and the environment, as well as deal with the sustainability issue all in one. A solution argued for by many animal rights activists and environmental activists is to get rid of the agriculture industry all together. If it were as easy as that, it would have been done by now. Obviously, there are many repercussions to completely wiping out an entire industry. Ultimately, production of animal products needs to be lowered, but stabilized. The FFAC win some and lose some, eliminating some suffering and ecological harm, but not all, which is their goal. The same goes for the NBCA who will move their efforts from increasing the demand and shift them towards sustainability, welfare of the animals and environment, and stabilizing the supply and demand. The goal is to keep up with the growing populations and even increase its demand. With this compromise, they will need to lower production. However, with lower production comes a higher demand. It is said that the average consumer is willing to pay for animal products even if the prices go up (NBCA). So, if prices are raised because of this Mancuso 4 supply and demand ratio, loyal customers will pay and not as much money is lost. Others who are not willing to pay the increased prices, however, will shift toward a plant-based diet. Together the FCAA and the NBCA should continue expanding the outreach of information and education concerning the effects animal products and explore ways of sustainability and substitutions for meat and dairy. Efforts need to be made by FFAC to instead focus more on only reducing consumption of animal products and expanding education on plant-based substitution rather than eliminating the agriculture industry altogether. An equilibrium of consumption of a both animal and plant-based substitutions will be the desired goal of the compromise. When it comes to the Earth, nothing is more important. Without it there is no life, no society, no economy, or politics. Many of these things are put ahead of the welfare and care of our environment and the animals in it every single day. It is important for activists and the factory farm industries--and all industries, for that matter--to work together to ensure a better tomorrow and not just for a profit today. The FFAC and the NBCA working together to help each causes should only cause a ripple effect of support for animals, for health of humans, and for the environment throughout society and the nation. The FFAC bringing information about factory farms to the public in collaboration with the NBCA allows people to make their own decisions in caring for the world. Many people go on about their day doing their average daily things, unaware of the consequences it has on their Earth and the horrors animals face in these factories. This ignorance is not entirely their fault. They may recycle, own energy efficient appliances and light bulbs, ride their bike to work to help lessen greenhouse gases emitted, they may even buy only cage-free eggs. They are aware of the down falls the environment is facing, yet their contributions do little to nothing because they still consume animal products blindly. People only know to recycle and drive less because these are the only Mancuso 5 contributors of pollution that are brought to the public in efforts of green living. The dangers behind this industry need light shown on them with the help of the FFAC and NBCA for a hope of a better tomorrow. Mancuso 6 Works Cited About  Beef - For Dinner. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Beef Industry Long Range  Beef USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Factory Farming Awareness  Factory Farming Awareness Coalition. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Greenhouse  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Per Capita Consumption of Poultry and Livestock, 1965 to Estimated 2016, in  The National Chicken Council. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 35 Mind-Shattering Facts Linking Factory Farming to Climate  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Word Count: 1329