Andrew Hudson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 15 February 2017 God In the Closet: The Separation Between Religion and Sexual Orientation America is steadily progressing, now more than ever, and the people of the land are tak- ing advantage of these times to address their concerns and setbacks regarding the First Amend- ment that have been present for decades. Recently, Americans have been protesting in the streets of Washington DC and other major cities across the US to draw attention to various issues health care, immigration, and public education to name a few) that they feel the need to be changed. A common social issue that has been paraded, recently marched, and fought for many decades, if not centuries, is equality for gay rights. Gay marriage was legalized across the country in June of 2015 by president Obama. Some disagree with this law across the states, like the American Family Association (AFA), because it lays contrary to their religious beliefs. This is the main border that interferes with those for sexual orientation equality, like the Human Rights Campaign (HRC), and freedom of religion to agree. Organizations like the HRC advocate civil rights for gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and queer citizens (LGBTQ) and try to build a world where these people can be open, honest, and safe in their community. Opposing organizations like the AFA try to educate the public on absolute truth and that culture based upon biblical morals serves the best well-being of the nation. Though the ideas of these organizations differ, they both seek to educate the public for their greater goods and have poten- tial to come to a compromise. HRC has been an organization serving LGBTQ people for nearly forty years. The Human Rights Campaign a world where people are ensured equality and embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every (HRC mission statement). In Carole article State of she describes the average life of LGBTQ peo- ple stating that heritage, gender sexual familial relations, social mores, and numerous other factors are as strong a variable among homosexual couples as they are for heterosexual (Jurkiewicz 152). The lives of those in the gay community are just as dimensional as those in the heterosexual. America is a heterosexual-based community where homosexuality is considered strayed from mainstream values and put into a sexual orien- tation minority category. Because same-sex couples face the same structure of family, life, and work as multi-sexual couples, this is why the HRC sees gay people as equals and for equality for LGBTQ. Jurkiewicz continues to support the values of HRC by describing how hid- den and unwelcome homosexuality can range among races in different communities. For in- stance, gay black men in the south have a different situation from gays elsewhere. com- mon practice of black Southern gay men [is adopt a ask, tell approach to their sexuality. These men are characterized as having effeminate mannerisms and same-sex partners, while frequently being married to women and fathers of children, a circumstance of which the community is fully aware but which is not publicly (Jurkiewicz 156). This is ex- actly what organizations like HRC are trying to prevent, a population being forced to hide their true selves and masking it with the looks of a traditional American family. Discussing American family values, the AFA is an organization to reach out to the public and educate to have the foundations of American tradition revitalized. With the ideology of Christianity behind the organization, AFA that God has communicated absolute truth to mankind, and that all people are subject to the authority of Word at all (AFA philo- sophical statement). The ideas that the AFA try to point out are that of gender roles playing a vi- tal part in traditional religious views that the homosexual agenda does not follow. In Andrew article and Female He Created Them: Gender Traditionalism, and Atti- tudes Toward Same-Sex he talks about how traditionalism closely associ- ated with attitudes toward homosexuality. Individuals (both men and women) holding more tra- ditional gender beliefs are generally unfavorable toward (Whitehead 481). Christians, like the AFA, view homosexuals as possessing qualities of the opposite sex a fault to their philosophies. According to Whitehead, this reverse-gender role play offends those of con- servative religious views because marked division of labor and authority between the sexes is often present within the idea of the that most religious groups hold as the ide- al Because homosexuality is an alternative to the traditional understanding of family, propo- nents of traditional marriage view same-sex relationships as a severe threat to the institution of marriage and thus a threat to a functioning, stable social (Whitehead 481). In some cases, homosexuals do not follow the mainstream ideas of gender roles; Christians see this defacing the value of tradition and Christianity that the AFA tries to restore. Similarly on the views of AFA, they believe that the United States was founded under the direction of God and that established family morals are a vital structure of American tradition. Continued in article, same- sex couples break these family morals by traditional gender beliefs leads to the breakdown of the traditional family. This in turn results in societal disintegration, which will cause God to cease blessing the United States and let it (Whitehead 483). bless Amer- is a phrase that has been said by Christians for many years and they fear that the growing homosexual community will start to diminish the value of blessing. While the beliefs of the HRC and AFA tend to be at odds with one another, they both have valid reasons to suppose their beliefs structure society to be better, making a good playing for common ground. Both the HRC and AFA believe that their views are right for society, and in some re- spects, they both are. They both share a desire to educate and reform public thought though hav- ing different goals, but it is totally in range for the two worlds to combine. For example, the HRC posted an article mentioning how Conservative Judaism, one of the major four branches of Judaism, is beginning to accept LGBTQ citizens into their religion, as believers and rabbis. Though each rabbi and believer does not have to agree with what the Rabbinical Assembly and the Committee on Jewish Laws and Standards, Conservative Jews will encounter a wide range of experiences at Conservative institutions. Some are welcoming and or- daining LGBTQ rabbis and celebrating same-sex marriages. As a denomination, however, Conservative Judaism has taken a and public stance for (HRC 31 May 2016). Ju- daism might not be the same as Christianity, but for a religion, and particularly a conservative one, accepting gay worshipers and rabbis is a huge step for both the religious and gay communi- ties. But while other religions are advancing in accepting those of the HRC community, the AFA claims to be eternally standing with their beliefs of holiness. Christians, we can and must guard our religious freedoms while showing mercy to people in bondage to homosexual- ity. Avoiding problems in the future depends on what we do (AFA 19 August 2015). The AFA is not trying to say all homosexuals are a spawn of evil brought onto the world, but rather that they want to see homosexuals socially brought to a higher moral ground under their light of God. Both organizations are right in their own way and share a heavy common ground of wanti- ng to unite the community. The AFA and HRC, like any religious or social activism organization, have their rights to speech and religious freedom granted in the First Amendment and can choose to believe in whatever they so choose. Under the First Amendment, the issue of gay marriage usually ends up being a political battle between believers and non-believers. The battle in this case lies between the HRC and AFA. Marriage is typically celebrated in the church, but because in many cases where one can not be gay and be married under the word of God in a church, gay marriage is often left to be- come a political task by the courthouse of the state. Considering, a legitimate compromise for the HRC and AFA would be separation between church and state. Separation between church and state is a historical phrase once stated by Thomas Jefferson meaning that the of reli- gion can not be involved in process of dealing with political issues or in everyday life, like gay marriage. In Joe Phillips, Shin-Do Sung and Joseph article Marriage, Korean Christians, and the Challenge of Democratic they describe a younger (second) and older generation of Korean Christian pastors that engage with living harmoniously with homosexuals. Phillips, Sung, and Yi write about generation Korean pastor Richard Shin who once did not support homosexuality in religion but now supports the idea with a revision of sec- ond generation pastoral views. Shin once said is the Bible. Bible (Phillips, Sung and Yi 418). This ideology is what many Christians like the AFA believe but it is what sets the two groups from compromise. With church and state, AFA still practices their beliefs, advances their interpretations of the bible and can welcome marriage to people of all sexual orientations while HRC maintains their legal right to gay marriage, can comfortably and is unaffected by Christian views. As pastor Shin in the article mentions, have to under- stand [gay embrace them, and help them. But if we just keep criticize them, [gay will never come to (Phillips, Sung and Yi 418). This is another advantage for both groups as going to church can unite the AFA and HRC. Gay marriage is still strongly discussed among politicians and churches throughout the states and continues to be questioned whether legally moral or unholy practice. The HRC and AFA are both at heads to have it be accepted into everyday life and realized as irregular to tradi- tional family matters. Though distinct differences, they share common interest in creating a world where gay marriage exists as an act of the people. The way for all views to be melted into harmony is through the separation of church and state where views are accepted and respected among citizens, regardless of political or religious obligation. Works Cited Jurkiewicz, Carole. State of Journal of Health and Human Services Adminis- tration. Vol 37 Issue 2 (Fall 2014): 152-170. Whitehead, Andrew. and Female He Created Them: Gender Traditionalism, Mas- culine Images of God,and Attitudes Toward Same-Sex The Journal for the Study of Religion. Vol 53 Issue 3 (2014): 479-494. Phillips, Joe, Sung, Shin-Do, Yi, Joseph. Marriage, Korean Christians, and the Challenge of Democratic Society. Vol 51 Issue 4 (3 July 2014): 415-421. of Faith on LGBTQ Issues: Conservative Human Rights Campaign. 31 May 2016. Human Rights Campaign 2017. www.hrc.org/resources/stances-of-faiths-on-lgbt- issues-conservative-judaism. Accessed 27 January 2017. Marriage: Three things your church must do immediately to protect Ameri- can Family Association. 19 August 2015. 2017 American Family Association. www.afa.net/ac- tion-alerts/gay-marriage-three-things-your-church-must-do-immediately-to-protect-itself/. Ac- cessed 29 January 2017.