Watts 1 Craig Watts Ms. Ricketts ENC 1101 29 January 2017 CTE Annotated Bibliography In the past former players have died due to taking to many hits to the head while playing in the NFL.I play college football now and I have to be careful about how I tackle and where I put my head so I will not have any injuries to my head or will not have to experience CTE in the future. CTE is a disease in the brain found mostly in athletes with a history of repetitive brain trauma taken over the years in football. The effects of CTE is mental health, headaches, and insomnia. Ken Stabler, Tyler Sash, Frank Gifford, Mike Webster are just a few names of famous former NFL players that have died from CTE. The NFL can go about preventing CTE by using better equipment as far as helmets and mouth pieces, teaching the youth better tackling habits to lessen concussions in the future. It is also important that the NFL is concerned about this situation because the NFL could lose a lot of money from this type of situation and it could also lose interest from fans once they find one happening they could start to reject the league because they might not feel like there taking care of there players. What can the NFL and college football organizations do to prevent CTE? Kubota, Taylor. 5 Ways Science Makes Football  . N.p., 30 Mar. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. In article, 5 Ways Science Makes Football He discusses concussions and how to decrease them. Kubota argues that a specific type of helmet can help change the Watts 1 game. Kubota says, designs for helmets are receiving much attention in concussion prevention For example the $1,500 Vicis Zero 1 helmet is designed with a soft outer layer that crumples and bounces back after the impact. The crumple zone slows down the Kubota believes that this new helmet can reduce concussions because of the padding that is used inside to protect the skull. Kubota audience are people that are interested in contact sports and new design of helmets. Taylor Kubota has a degree in Biological Anthropology at UC San Diego. She also has a health care/ social issues degree, along with an Masters degree in Journalism with an advanced certificate in Science Journalism. She has written articles for Journal and Livescience.com specializing in science and health topics. She is credible because, she had extensive knowledge on this particular subject. Even though Kubota maintains the argument that the Vicis zero 1 helmet can help change the game on concussions. She considers that improving them could be worse because the helmets are it heavy and it could increase the acceleration on the person that is making the contact. Thomas, Chad . Concussion  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. In article, Concussion he discusses ways to prevent from getting a concussion. Thomas argues that the it is extremely important that everyone involved in youth sports and recreation understands how to recognize the signs and symptoms of concussions, and knows what to do if a concussion in suspected both on the field and Thomas also believes that youth sports should practice good habits so it will be less concussions when the youth get older. Thomas supports this argument by explaining that youth sports should learn to use proper Watts 1 technique for your sport. Some sports organizations have taken additional action to minimize the risk of concussion by limiting the number of contact practices allowed during the season. Thomas information is current because he uses a lot of insight on ways to prevent concussions and going by deep by saying education is the key for prevention. And he uses examples from other football leagues and what they do to prevent concussions. audience includes anyone interested in contact sports. Chad Thomas writes for the Brain Injury Alliance of New Jersey. It is a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving quality of life after a brain injury,and offering the promise of a better tomorrow. This is which he is credible, he also teaches on the phone classes,which means he has extensive knowledge on this particular subject. Conley, Quincy, and Willi Savenye. Brainbook: An Impact Study Of a Statewide Concussion Awareness Training for High School  N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. In Conley article, An Impact Study Of a Statewide Concussion Awareness Training for High School Conley argues that the impact of e-learning course designed to improve student engagement by replicating popular social network features such as blog posts, videos, and the like. In addition, this article outlines the program overview,evaluation procedures, results, implications of the resulting data,and recommendations for further he also discusses the online resource called e-learning that brings awareness to high school athletes about how concussions are serious they are and educating them on the signs of a concussion and how severe they can be. Conley audience are people interested in contact sports and an interest on signs of concussions. Watts 1 Dr. Quincy is an assistant professor at Boise State University in organizational performance and workplace learning in the College of Engineering. He also had his Ph.D degree in Educational Technology and a Degree in Instructional Design & Technology from the University of North Dakota. Dr. Quincy is also the instructional designer & developer on the Brainbook: Keep you head in the game. This is which he is credible, he designed the website that brings more awareness to high school athletes about concussions. Straus, Lindsey Barton. Coaches Can Play Important Role in Encouraging Athletes To Report Concussions Symptoms, Studies  (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. In Lindsey article, Coaches Can Play Important Role in Encouraging Athletes To Report Concussions Symptoms, Studies Find. She discusses that coaches need to create an environment where athletes will feel comfortable coming to them and telling them about their head symptoms and possible concussions. Lindsey believes, A new study suggest that one of the best ways to combat chronic underreporting of concussions by athletes may be educate coaches on ways to create an environment where athletes feel safe reporting concussion Lindsey supports this argument by also explaining It adds to a growing body of evidence challenging the conventional wisdom that inadequate athlete concussion knowledge is the principal barrier to increase reporting, and other ways need to be found to keep athletes safe, including enlisting coaches and parents in creating an environment in which concussions symptoms reporting is Lindsey provides to be credible in her article and her audience are people who cares about sports safety and who are in contact sports. Lindsey Barton is a Senior Editor for MomsTeam.com since its lauch in 2000. She was Co- writer and researcher for the MomsTeam PBS documentary. Lindsey graduated cum laude of Watts 1 Harvard College where she was the editor of the daily newspaper. She received her JD with honors from the University of Maryland School of law. Lindsey is proven to be credible. She has an great education and writing background to make her credible. Habib, Hal. Is NFL too soft on hard hits? Some think the campaign to curb helmet-to-helmet hits makes the game less  . N.p., 20 Oct. 2010. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In article, Is NFL Too Soft on Hard he discusses that the NFL is getting to soft on the helmet to helmet hits. Habib argues that the A handful of violent hits on what could be called black and blue sunday led the league to say it could begin fining and suspending first time offenders in helmet to helmet collisions. Which is where Crowder wonders if the league is losing its Habib supports his argument by having former NFL players put their opinion in his article. audience includes anyone that like NFL football or contact sports. Hal Habib has reported 19 years as a sports writer, copy editor and assistant sports editor at The Miami Herald, Hal joined the Palm Beach sports department in 1998. Areas of coverage range from the olympics Kentucky Derby and Super bowl to local sports. Which means he has extensive knowledge in this particular sport. Mike, Mitka. Reports of Concussions From Youth Sports Rise Along With Awareness of the Problem  The Journal of the American Medical Association 304.16 (n.d.): 1775-776. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In article, Reports of Concussions from youth sports Rise Along with Awareness of the he discusses that there has been a growing number of emergency visits by children with sports related concussions. Mitka argues that A new study has documented a Watts 1 growing number of emergency department visits by children and adolescents with sports related concussions, but it is unknown whether the increase reflects a true rise in the number of incidents or better reporting due to greater Mitka also believes from 1997 to 2007 the concussions from ages 8 to 13 has doubled and from ages 14 to 19 years old had tripled. Mitka supports this argument by saying The study, by researchers from Brown University in Providence, RI found that from 1997 to 2007, US emergency department visits for concussions occurring in organized team sports had almost doubled from ( 3946 to 7791) in children aged 8 to 13 years and more than tripled from (7276 to 23,239) among youth aged 14 to 19 Mike Mitka is a reporter at Journal of the American Medical Association. And he has also written over 15 journals of the American Medical Association in 2003. From this information the author is considered to be credible. Watts 1 Work Cited Conley, Quincy, and Willi Savenye. Brainbook: An Impact Study Of a Statewide Concussion Awareness Training for High School  N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Habib, Hal. Is NFL too soft on hard hits? Some think the campaign to curb helmet-to-helmet hits makes the game less  . N.p., 20 Oct. 2010. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Kubota, Taylor. 5 Ways Science Makes Football  . N.p., 30 Mar. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Mike, Mitka. Reports of Concussions From Youth Sports Rise Along With Awareness of the Problem  The Journal of the American Medical Association 304.16 (n.d.): 1775-776. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Straus, Lindsey Barton. Coaches Can Play Important Role in Encouraging Athletes To Report Concussions Symptoms, Studies  (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Thomas, Chad . Concussion  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Watts 1