Ntukogu 1 Ofordili Ntukogu Kristen. Gocinski ENC 1102 15 February, 2017 Gun Control Over the past couple of hundreds of different gun control proposals have been introduced into congress. However, none have been passed which shows how divided this country is about gun rights. Gun Control is one of the most controversial topics in our society today. News coverage of numerous shootings around the country like the Sandy Hook, Orlando nightclub, and Virginia Tech shootings have forced this issue into the national spotlight. Gun control is a hard issue to approach because the second amendment protects Americans right to own guns. However, some organizations like the Brady Campaign have tried to limit the guns that can be sold to the general population, in hope that it lowers the gun violence in the United States. Some people argue that since the American society is so different than when the constitution was drafted the second amendment is not needed anymore. In contrast the National Rifle Association(NRA) mission is to protect the second amendment, and make sure that no new limits are placed on the gun industry. The NRA along with numerous gun manufacturers argue that since the second amendment protects the right to own firearms, the government be allowed to place restrictions on the gun manufacturing industry no matter the changing circumstances. While the NRA and the Brady missions go directly against each other, both stakeholders want to reduce gun violence in America, and their shared goal could help them come to a compromise could satisfy both parties. Ntukogu 2 The Brady Campaign is one of the biggest organizations that is solely dedicated to reducing gun violence. The Brady mission statement states that it is their goal to cut gun related deaths by half by the year 2025 (Brady Campaign). To achieve this goal, they have tried to get the government to take action against the gun industry, which they feel is out of control. Many people are astonished by the various acts of violence that occur throughout our country. In Jill article she states that the United States is the country with the highest rate of civilian gun ownership in the world (The New Yorker). Guns contribute to most of the violent deaths in this country. In his article, LK Stell estimates that 70% of all criminal killings in America involve guns, and 50% percent of all suicides involve guns (41). Stell also concludes that assault with guns are 5-7 times more deadly than any other types. The Brady approach to gun violence is unique because they are not just calling to limit the types of guns being sold. Their goals are to enforce Brady background checks on all guns, crack down on the few gun dealers that supply criminal organizations with most of their guns, and to educate the public about the danger of guns (Brady Campaign). The Brady campaign has faced resistance on some of these goals until recently. A major catalyst of change was the Sandy Hook shooting in 2012. Sandy Hook forced the gun control issue into the national spotlight after the death of twenty elementary school kids and six adults. After Sandy Hook, Sharmila Devi states that there have been 138 new gun laws in 42 states (224). And, support for new background checks is around 90% but those people are not voting out legislators that vote against universal background checks. Also, research done by Gary Kleck and Tomislay Kovandzic have supported the Brady theory that new background checks would lower the rates of certain crimes. For example, in their research they concluded that states that Ntukogu 3 have bans on guns for alcoholics, criminals, and the mentally ill have a lower rate of homicides, assault, and robberies (3). However, associations like the NRA feel like these restrictions will have any influence on violence in the country. The NRA feels that the key to solving the gun violence problem in America is to reeducate Americans, and to change the culture around guns, rather than restricting them. The NRA mission is to protect the second amendment. They argue that the second amendment should not be infringed on in any circumstances and that it would be impossible to limit the gun industry with the number of guns that are in America. In article she states that there are almost 300 million privately owned firearms in America. James Q. Wilson in his article Control the argues that even if you put restrictions on guns, gun violence will still occur (LA Times). He uses the Virginia Tech shooting as an example. Prior to the shooting, Virginia Tech was a guns-free zone, but the University still ended up having a shooting where around 32 people died. He also argues that a change in background checks would not solve the problem either because the people who would want to use guns for violence would either steal them, buy them from unauthorized sources, or borrow them. Also, there have been research on the effectiveness of laws that restrict gun purchasing. Kleck, Kovandzic, and Bellows researched several laws the restrict the gun industry and concluded that, control laws generally show no evidence of effects on crime (488). They hypothesize that this is because gun levels do not have a positive effect on violence rates. This validates the argument that the NRA has, which is that guns the reason America is violent, Americans are. Wilson points out that the non- gun homicide rate in America is three times higher than in England (LA Times), which he suggests is due to the violence of the American culture. Wilson also argues that restricting Ntukogu 4 peoples access to guns would make it harder to people to protect themselves from potential attackers (LA Times). He uses various examples of armed administrators or teachers apprehending school shooters before they did more damage to the students in the school. And he concluded by saying that if some teachers would have been armed there could have been less deaths at Virginia Tech. This point starkly contrasts with the Brady attitude that guns should be less accessible. Though the Brady Campaign and the NRA campaign oppose each other on most points the both want less gun violence. The Brady mission is based on making sure there is less gun violence. However, the NRA would like less gun violence so that they are stopped being seen in a negative light. Both companies agree on the point that the public must be reeducated about the dangers of guns and how to use them. Also, both stakeholders would like to eliminate the illegal gun dealers that provide most of the weapons that criminals use. It is not unheard of for the NRA help the government deal with gun violence. Kevin Clarke and James paper points out that in the and in the response to high levels on gun violence the NRA helped craft new gun legislation (31). This shows that the NRA could be willing to help with the issue especially if there were not any new restrictions put on the manufacturing of guns. The Brady campaign and the NRA could come to a compromise that reduced gun violence, but also heavily restricts a right to own guns. To help reduce gun violence both parties could come to a compromise to implement more in depth background checks for all weapon sales, reeducate the American population about guns, and crackdown on the illegal gun dealers. Both parties agree that the American public needs to Ntukogu 5 be reeducated about the use of guns and that the illegal gun dealers need to be eliminated. So, those two points to the compromise would not upset anyone involved. However, the new background checks were not something that the NRA was in favor of. This would satisfy the Brady Campaign because one of their goals is met. Since there is evidence that gun restriction does not affect gun crime there will be no need to restrict guns in this compromise. Since the compromise presents no new changes to the gun manufacturing industry and it severely limit the ownership of guns the NRA will be satisfied since their main goal is to protect the second amendment. What would be required is that the countries legislators would have to pass proposal that would change the background checks. It is already stated in research that 90% of the population backs universal background checks. So, all that would be required is that the voters put pressure on their legislators to pass the background check proposal in congress or vote them out of office. Also, new educational programs could be included in the process that leads up to obtaining a gun. Another thing would be required would be for an increased effort to find the illegal gun dealers and get them off the street. To achieve this there would have to be increased funding to our police forces which would have to be allocated by our representatives in power. Ultimately most of the incentive for change must come from people communicating with their legislators about the steps that have to be done for this compromise to work. The Brady Campaign and the NRA are very differently in almost every possible aspect. However, nobody is okay with the gun violence that plagues this country. So, if both parties can keep this common goal in tact they could help create a compromise that would benefit everyone living in this country. Even though both parties will end up giving up some of their core goals a significant change is needed to increase the safety and address this huge problem in our society. Works Cited Clarke, Kevin, and James Martin. A history of violence: Gun control in.  America, 2016, 31. Accessed. 28 January. 2017 Devi, Sharmila. The Long Road To Gun Control In  Lancet 388 North American Edition.10041, 2016, pp 224-225. CINAHL. Accessed. 30 January. 2017. Kleck, Gary, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellows. Does Gun Control Reduce Violent  Criminal Justice Review, 2016, 488. Sage Publications. Accessed. 30 January. 2017. LePore, Jill. The New Yorker, www.newyorker.com/magazine / 2012/04/ 23/battleground-america. Accessed 10 July 2016. Stell, LK. The Production Of Criminal Violence In America: Is Strict Gun Control The  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 32.1, 2004, 38-46. Accessed. 30 January. 2017. Wilson, James Q. Control the Los Angeles Times, www.latimes.com/la-oe- wilson20apr20-story.html. Accessed 10 July 2016.