Nygil Somwar Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Player Health and Safety: Concussion Protocol With the recent release of the film Concussion, the issue of how concussions are currently handled in the NFL has come under fire. The film has aroused plenty of debate around the NFL with regards to player safety and how they treat head injury. Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, found in 96% of ex-NFL players, is a degenerative disease that decays the brain over time. The NFL has come to a stand still with the Players Association about concussion protocol and a compromise has to be made soon or else the lawsuits will just continue to pile up for the NFL costing them millions of dollars. Or if worst comes to worst the players could strike against the NFL and choose not to play. It is imperative for improved safety protocols to maintain healthy and skillful players. Thom Mayer said, is really serious stuff. This is your brain; this is your mind; this is you. risk (NFLPA, 2016). The NFLPA are partners with The American Academy of Neurology and The American Brain Foundation, researching for ways to reduce the effects of head trauma in NFL games and at practices. The NFLPA has released a training video for all NFL teams with directions to follow on how to reduce concussions and how to deal with concussion-like symptoms. The slogan of the NFLPA is as follows; National Football League Players Association is the union for professional football players in the National Football League. Established in 1956, the NFLPA has a long history of assuring proper recognition and representation of interests. The NFLPA has shown that it will do whatever is necessary to assure that the rights of players are ceasing to be a union, if necessary, as it did in 1989. (NFLPA, The NFL has been hesitant about adding increasingly strict protocols on to the pre-existing ones. They have trainers in booths that can call players to be examined if they seem to have taken a big hit as well as 29 medical officials that are present at each game. If it is determined that a player has taken a detrimental blow, they can be removed for the rest of the game or for a number of future games. Booth trainers also have the right to call a medical timeout. They also have in game evaluations, the loss of consciousness, lack of balance, holding head after contact, a look of confusion, getting up slowly are all signs of a concussion and warrant investigation. The madden rule is also a part of the current concussion protocol; a player who suffered a concussion must be returned to the locker room or training room. The player is only released back to the game when medically cleared. The newest addition to NFL protocol is as follows; this year, the NFL can impose penalties after games if it is determined that teams failed to remove concussed players from games. Teams can be fined up to $150,000 for a first violation; no less than $100,000 for a second violation and can even loses draft picks. (Flynn As more research surfaces about long term effects of concussions, new protocol is constantly being instated. NFL and the NFLPA could come to a compromise even though the NFL want to add more concussion protocol, they could implement new training equipment that is safer for the players. Most of the time injuries occur during practice instead of the games. The helmet company Riddell is creating new helmets with more padding to help players with head trauma. The way the NFLPA contributes to the compromise is that they will pay for all the equipment since the NFL is willing to give in. The exercise and training in practices should be regulated since plenty of NFL teams over work their players and get away with it. If the medical examiners were at practices as well as the games it would greatly help with the head trauma issues since practices are every day and NFL games are every week and only 16 games long. Another aspect being introduced with the new safety equipment is radars inside the helmets that can track data and transfer it back to the athletic trainers. To see where and when a majority of the damage is being done to the head. It can track major hits and record when something seems to be odd. The trainers would be trained in recognizing symptoms of a CTE and have access to the new CTE scanners. Since CTE is still trying to be understood, many colleges and high schools are teaching kids about it to spread the awareness of how dangerous it is to play football without taking care of our brain. It is the only muscle in our body that cant regenerate themselves. With assistance from both of the respected organizations, the future of player safety could increase dramatically. Both the NFL and NFLPA will work together to accomplish the same goal. The NFL can continue to grow and maintain its mainstream status while not losing their players to head injuries such as concussions. NFLPA will help pay for all the advancements and new training equipment while still making the change for future NFL stars to have a long and enjoyable life. Many former NFL players have lost their lives to CTE and it will be a great stepping-stone for other sports in improving player health and safety. Word Count:1100 Works Cited Child, Ben. Concussion: NFL legal issues of biopic says The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 02 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. DiSalvo, David. Is The NFL Doing Enough To Prevent Brain Trauma? Probes For Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Flynn, Erin. What is the concussion SI.com. Sports Illustrated, 16 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McClure, Vaughn. Falcons shift to finishing-touch phase on Super Bowl game ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 29 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. New Concussion Training for NFL Players Ahead of This Season NFL Players Association. NFL Players, 16 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Supreme Court asked to reject $1 billion NFL concussion Sports Illustrated. Time Incorporated, 29 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.