Cassandra Shaw Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that is caused by traumatic events or experiences in a life. The National Alliance on Mental Illness states that stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that often occurs after someone experiences a traumatic event that caused intense fear, helplessness, or The symptoms of this disorder include but do not limit to; irritability, agitation, hostility, self-destructive behaviors, flashbacks, fear, anxiety, guilt, loneliness, loss of sleep, and nightmares. There are multiples different ways of handling and treating PTSD. Train a Dog Save a Warrior (TADSAW) is an organization that focusses on training dogs to help better the life of veterans dealing with post-traumatic stress disorder. Another method of treatment is medication, which is how U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs used when treating those suffering from PTSD. Both of these organizations aim to better the lives of veterans who are facing Post-traumatic stress disorder. However, coming to a compromise using parts from both organizations methods could create a better system for people going through this disorder. Train a dog Save a Warrior is an organization that works with dogs in efforts to give them to a surviving veteran or family of one (free of charge) that is faced with a mental illness, including PTSD. Train a Dog Save a mission is to for the training of a Medical Alert Service Dog, as designated by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990/2010 guidelines, for any wounded Veteran Service Member (Active duty, Retired, Discharged) surviving with Post-Traumatic Stress The objective of providing these struggling veterans with trained service dogs is to offer comfort and improvement to the quality of their life. This helps the person who is struggling from the disorder and gives them and outlet and something to provide them with some comfort and happiness. According to TADSAW of life for over 1300 Veterans and shelter dogs, their families, their neighborhoods and their communities have changed for the Having a medical service dog can help with the symptoms such as; fear, anxiety, irritability, hostility, and more. To receive a dog from TADSAW, you first have to go through an application process and speak to your doctor and receive their approval. The service dogs offer a peaceful environment for those who are dealing with Post-traumatic distress order. The U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs uses a different style of treatment in efforts of improving the lives of veterans who struggle with post-traumatic stress disorder. They use medications such as antidepressants to help the patients cope with the disorder they are fighting. Per the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs people suffering from PTSD often have different amounts of certain chemicals than people who do not suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. and SNRIs are believed to treat PTSD by putting these brain chemicals back in In order to receive these medications, the patients are required to meet with a provider who will then prescribe a medication to the patient after one meeting. The patient is not asked to go into detail of their trauma but they may be subject to answer a few basic questions relating to their trauma. The goal of this organization is also to offer assistance to veterans in improving their life and overcoming post-traumatic stress disorder. These two organizations use two very different methods of treatment. However, they share the same goal in hoping to aid the lives of veterans who are still suffering from their intense and traumatic experiences. TADSAW believes that the service dogs allow the patients to have a sense of peace and comfort during recovery. While the U.S Department of Veteran Affairs focuses mainly on the use of medicating the patient. However, rather than having two different ways of treating, these two organizations can come to compromise in their efforts to create a system that is much more effective for the suffering veteran. Instead of reaching out to the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs for medication, the patients could instead start to see a counselor or someone to talk to for a little. This will allow the person have time to talk and get things off their chest while also allowing the counselor to assess the situation and the need for medical use. While going through the process, the counselor or therapist can also see whether the option of having a service dog would be a better choice in the situation depending on the severity and such. These two organizations could compromise and team up, with the first step being seeing a counselor or therapist. Then depending on the severity of the situation the patient can be prescribed with medication and/or a medical service dog. The trauma that the person is facing is not going to go away solely because of the comfort of a dog or the medication. These two organizations teaming up could offer a much more effective solution for the veterans that are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. They can offer the comfort of having a loving medical service dog and potentially a certain level of medication to balance out the certain chemicals that have been imbalanced due to their trauma. Both of these organizations strive to help those who are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. This anxiety disorder is often caused by horrific and intensely fearful situations that the person has experienced. The disorder typically takes around 10 years to completely go away. However, these different methods of treatment can start to make the symptoms go away and ease them the disorder slowly disappears over time. Train a Dog Save a Warrior focusses more on the psychological and mood aspects of the symptoms with the help of a trained canine. While, the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs focuses more on the behavioral and sleep aspects of the symptoms by medicating the veteran. Compromising and combining these efforts can allow for more positive results in the treatment of the veteran who is suffering from PTSD. There are multiple ways to treat post-traumatic stress disorder but research showed that these two were the most effective. As previously stated, both organizations aim to better the quality of life and help with the healing of these veterans. With compromising on some of the details of the way these organizations handle PTSD patients a system that helps the suffering veteran in a way that may be seen as the most useful. Work Cited  TADSAW. TADSAW, 2016. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder  Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) - Brain Injury Resource BrainLine.org. WETA, 2014. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.  NAMI Michigans Voice on Mental Illness. N.p., 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. PTSD: National Center for  Medications for PTSD - PTSD: National Center for PTSD. U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, n.d. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Recovering from  Phoenix Australia. The University of Melbourne, 2017. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.