Whigham 1 Alexandria Whigham Bianca Hernandez Composition II 09 February 2016 Death by Euthanasia: The Analysis Many believe that death is not a choice. Individuals enter this world with an expiration date and nothing can interfere with that set time stamp. On the contrary, others argue that we do indeed have a choice in dying. This ideology is encompassed in the practice of Euthanasia. Euthanasia is simply defined by dictionary.com as The act of putting to death painlessly or allowing to die, as by withholding extreme medical Beginning in 1997, Oregon passed the Death with Dignity Act which terminally ill-Oregonians to end their lives through the voluntary self-administration of lethal medications, expressly prescribed by a physician for that Oregon soon became the catalyst for the adoption of Euthanasia practices. As expected, the conversation is quite a controversial one. The adoption of Euthanasia has created widespread contending arguments through countries all around the world. There are many stakeholders involved, but two organizations that have a big voice in the topic are HOPE and Dignity in Dying. Although both organizations views differ on whether or not Euthanasia is an ethical option for death, a possible compromise between the two organizations would be implementing a third party committee to make the final decision on behalf of the patients wishes to end their own life. Within the argument of making Euthanasia legal in many places there are two main opposing stakeholders. Dignity of Dying is a nonprofit organization that aims to make Euthanasia for competent adults in the UK legal, while HOPE opposes the legalization of Euthanasia in Australia. Whigham 2 HOPE undeniably opposes the law based on a rights and justice perspective based upon firm belief that Euthanasia is a risk for vulnerable people (HOPE: No HOPE ultimately believes that human rights should be respected. HOPE argues that those near deaths are vulnerable and therefore lack the ability to think logically. HOPE presents the issues of elderly abuse and choice as an illusion as evidence against euthanasia. According to them, the elderly is the main target for Euthanasia due to their senile state of living. law in this country could effectively be aiding and abetting elder abuse with extremely grave consequences (HOPE: No By legalizing the Death with Dignity Law it would make it much easier for relatives to their elders emotionally and financially. By passing the law, they believe that relatives abusing their elders will now have a card to play in achieving monetary gain from their loved passing. Aside from this, there have been cases in which the physicians were seemingly pressuring the patient into considering assisted suicide as an option of care. For example, a woman in Vermont reported that her mother was a victim of this pressure. Beth Neil stated that while her mother was at the Berlin Health and Rehab Center recovering from a fall she was constantly told that she had the right to choose which is assisted suicide. This consistent reminder from doctors caused mother to feel pressure to kill herself (Citizens Against Assisted Suicide). Beth was highly confused that her mother was being informed about this option because she did not meet the criteria for assisted suicide. Her mother was not terminally ill and she was in relatively good health for her age. Cases like further support claim that assisted suicide is a form of elderly abuse and discrimination. On the Contrary, Dignity in Dying states that they campaign to legalize assisted suicide for individuals with six months or less to live. Their stance on Euthanasia is quite focused. They simply support an decision to end their life peacefully and painlessly when death is their only option. Dignity in main source of support for their position is the fact that in places where assisted suicide is illegal, individuals with six months or less to live are leaving the country to end their life in Whigham 3 places such as Dignitas.  Every eight days a Briton travels to Dignitas for help to (Dignity in Dying). According to Dignity in Dying, there are too many risks involved in traveling abroad for help in assisted suicide such as  a cost of over 10,000 pounds, a difficult and painful journey, and a loss of control. Dignity in Dying simply wants to avoid these matters in order to make assisted suicide safer and less strenuous on the dying individual. Bob Cole was a very active campaigner for Dignity in Dying when in 2014, he decided to travel to Dignitas to end his own life. In words  I should be able to die with dignity in my own country, In my own bed. The law needs to (Dignity in Dying). Ultimately, Dignity in Dying wishes to make Euthanasia legal to insure safe practices of assisted suicide. Despite each organization view on Euthanasia, they both share a common ground. Neither organization supports the mistreatment of disabled individuals and the elderly. Dignity in Dying states that they do not campaign for the of assisted dying for people who do not have the capacity to make decisions for themselves i.e. elderly (Dignity in As discussed previously, HOPE also uses the issue of elderly abuse to support their claims against Euthanasia. Through this common ground, a possible compromise would be to implement a committee that ultimately comes in to evaluate the patient of concern. Once a doctor declares that a patient only has 6 months or less to live and the patient requests assisted suicide, a Euthanasia committee will then be called in to examine all aspects of the case including: medical history, current tests, physician testimony, mental capabilities, age, a full interview from the patient, life expectancy, disabilities etc. The process will be very in depth, thus, preventing any inconsistencies and wrong doings. Once the patient meets all criteria for Euthanasia decided by the committee, then and only then can the patient continue with their wishes to end their life. This compromise is beneficial to both sides because it eliminates the of the actions and it takes out the emotional aspect in the decision making process. By bringing a third party into the decision making process, the issue of elderly abuse will not be one of concern. In New Zealand, there is currently a petition to implement a Health Select Committee that comes in and investigates  The desire to end life, the effectiveness of services, and international  (The Nathaniel Centre). Like my Whigham 4 proposed compromise, The Health Select Committee will eliminate any possible mistakes in the process of euthanasia. In conclusion, Euthanasia is a very controversial topic. Although HOPE and Dignity in Dying have different views on the legalization of Euthanasia practices, they both share a common ground, which is that neither organization supports the discrimination against the disabled and elderly. They both are fighting for the human rights of individuals. Through this evident place of common ground, a compromise between the two organizations could be a third party committee that makes the final decision on whether or not an individual can end their life. In closing, the conversation of Euthanasia does not have to be one of such hostile conversation. Ultimately, there is a common ground possibility that can make both sides content. Whigham 5 Work Cited Citizens Against Assisted  True Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. - Euthanasia -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Issues - HOPE: No  Issues - HOPE: No Euthanasia. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Nathaniel  Www.fitzbeck.co.nz. N.p., 9 Nov. 2016. Web. 09 Feb. 2017.