Gabriela Shephard Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 28 January 2017 The use of therapy is a very well known practice for improving the physical and/or mental health of people with disabilities and developmental delays, as well as athletes and those who have been injured. Music therapy is an increasingly desired method that helps soothe patients undergoing any physical, mental, emotional issue, or pain. It applies music and related strategies such as vocalizing, playing instruments, and listening to different genres of music. The practice of music therapy is an interactive type of therapy that is performed on an individual level. Music therapy can help children with disabilities in numerous ways and can be used as a source of comfort. It may progress their skills and develop new perspectives of learning and growing. It is common to wonder how music can be used as a type of therapy and how one would benefit from this. Music itself can trigger diverse thoughts and feelings, which can involve memory exercises, recalling rhythmic patterns, and using your imagination. Because music is known as a universal language and a general form of entertainment, many are using it as a method for relaxation and improving health. There are various types of common disabilities that are a hindrance to social interactions and specifically in children, such as autism and Down syndrome. Having a disability can dramatically change ones character and way of life, therefore music therapy was created for various reasons, including to help disabilities be able to redirect the thought of having barriers and using music outlet. That being said, how does music therapy affect children with disabilities and disorders in the United States? Constantin, Fulvia Anca. Effects of Music Therapy on Children with Special Autism: The International Journal of Research & Practice, vol. 12A, 2015, pp. 178-183, Journal Plus Education / Educatia Plus, doi:10.1177/1362361309105660. Accessed 29 Jan 2017. This article explains in depth how music therapy affects children with special needs and how music itself can create different emotions and feelings that improves their social and emotional well-being. It discusses the reasons why music should be associated with a therapeutic practice and give reason and examples as to how the therapy functions and how the music increases their social skills. Fulvia article says, to the children with special needs, through music therapy in general, or melotherapy in particular, children obtain a motivating setting in which their social skills can be (Constantin 179). This quote ties back to the topic because it proves that music therapy is a method that can positively increase ones skills simply by listening to a melody line and engaging the brain and learning about music. The article also demonstrates how music is a way of communication and can generate different kinds of feedback based on emotions because music is powerful enough to evoke those kinds of responses. Constantin concludes, researchers provide a mean of understanding the complex aspects of the relation between music, thought and feeling (Constantin 178). The author of this text is Fulvia Anca Constantin from University Transylvania of Brasov in Romania. This text is mainly intended for those who are interested in studying or learning about music therapy. It is written for the general audience and the tone and language appeals to those above. The purpose is to inform and enlighten those who are interested in music therapy by giving all the details specific to how it assists children with special needs. This article was published in 2015 and it derives from Journal Plus Education, articles solely on the topics of psychology, sociology, pedagogy, and social work. The committee consists of members from Romania and other locations in Europe, therefore it is not an American journal. The article primarily aimed for the clarification of the purpose of music therapy and describing the ways it can benefit children with special needs and how influential music can be in that area. This article also relates to my topic by providing information that proves music therapy is beneficial by testing its credibility and performing an experiment using additional factors. Ghasemtabar, Seyyed, et al. Therapy: An Effective Approach in Improving Social Skills of Children with Advanced Biomedical Research, vol. 4, no.1, 2015, pp.157, Academic Onefile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=HRCA&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE% 7CA473859645&it=r&asid=ed186d5f5a8f7ec09409208a799ad448. Accessed 19 Feb 2017. In this journal article, the authors inform the reader about the effects of music therapy on children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). The research in this article explains how performing a clinical trial can identify the effectiveness of music therapy (Ghasemtaber et al). The text defines Autism Spectrum Disorder as by persistent deficits in social communication and social interaction across multiple contexts, including deficits in social reciprocity, nonverbal communicative behaviors used for social interaction, and skills in developing, maintaining, and understanding (Ghasemtaber et al). It goes into depth about the characteristics of ASD relating to social skills, specifically mentioning social deficits as one of the main characteristics of ASD. The article provides the definition of social skills, then explains the relationship between social skills and children with autism. Additionally, the authors emphasize on how a lack of social skills may be a detriment to autistic children. Subsequently, it discusses the types of methods used to help ASD children such as social stories, peer-mediated strategies, and pivotal response training to train social skills (Ghasemtaber et al). The authors finish with the main idea of music therapy being the most attractive means of therapy for autistic children not only because it generally benefits them by increasing their social skills and abilities but because it exposes them into utilizing their musical talents. The authors of this article are Seyyed Ghasemtabar, Mahbubeh Hosseini, Irandokht Fayyaz, Saied Arab, Hamed Naghashian, and Zahra Poudineh. The text is an informative journal article intended for those who are interested in how music therapy effects children, specifically those diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorder. This journal article was published in 2015 by Medknow Publications and Media Pvt. Ltd., a publishing company since 1997 that provide services to many print and online journals. This publishing service is primarily used for Peer reviewed scholarly research. This source connects with my research topic since it specifically illustrates the relationship between music therapy and specifically autism spectrum disorder and how it positively affects ASD children. Kim, Jinah, et al. Emotional, Motivational and Interpersonal Responsiveness of Children with Autism in Improvisational Music  Autism: The International Journal of Research & Practice, vol.13, no. 4, 2009, pp.389-409. Sage Premier, doi:10.1177/1362361309105660. Accessed 18 Feb 2017. This piece illustrates the affect of improvisational music therapy compared to toy play sessions in children with autism as well as describing the exact ways in which the children experience, respond, and express themselves by experiencing this musical treatment. It first discusses how children with autism do not fully engage in general social interactions or demonstrate clear expressions, but subsequently informs how improvisational music therapy is a popular method of treatment for specifically, children with autism. According to Kim et al, music therapy is described as effective intervention addressing fundamental levels of spontaneous self-expression, emotional communication and social engagement for individuals with a wide range of developmental (Kim et al 390). In addition, the process of the music therapy session is clearly described which includes musical and nonmusical behavior. Kim et al also mentions that the type of music therapy used is an use of live music for engaging clients to meet their therapeutic indicating that the music is not recorded or being played on a tape or compact disc. The article goes into detail about what is being examined when using improvisational music therapy, such as positive emotional expression, emotional engagement, and interpersonal responses. The last part of the article gives results from a study comparing the results of improvisational music therapy and toy play sessions on autistic children. The purpose of this study was to contrast the two treatments and measure the amount of joy and emotional synchronicity in each. The results provided good reason for the significance of music therapy and how it promotes emotional and motivational development in children with (Kim et al 389). Jinah Kim, from Jeonju University (Korea), Tony Wigram from Aalborg University (Denmark), and Christian Gold from Unifob Health (Norway) are the authors of this journal article. Kim is also faculty in the Department of Arts Therapy, College of Alternative Medicine at Jeonju University. The text is intended for the general audience and any person with the desire to study music therapy and the effects it has towards autistic children. The text is very clear and well written, explaining each factor that goes into the process of improvisational music therapy and how it is conducted. The article is being used to inform readers about the benefits and positive results music therapy has on children with autism. The document was published in 2009 from SAGE Publications that is based in the United States, and by The National Autistic Society, which is from the United Kingdom. The article relates to the topic because it provides reasons as to why music therapy works with a specific disability such as autism. Sausser, Shannon, and Waller, Raymond J. Model for Music Therapy with Students with Emotional and Behavioral The Arts in Psychotherapy, vol. 33, no. 1, 1 Jan. 2006, pp. 1-10. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.aip.2005.05..003. Accessed 18 Feb 2016. This journal article begins by defining the concept of emotional and behavioral disorders, (EBD) and listing interfering factors such as difficulty learning, paying attention, and anxiety. The article says, general, students with EBD are difficult to teach due to their inability to learn, general depressive state, and inability to form (Sausser et al 2). It goes on to analyze the characteristics of a with a serious emotional which identifies The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). According to Sausser and Waller, music therapy can be an outlet for self-expression, and can create motivation for releasing emotions, and overall self- worth. The text illustrates the principle behind music therapy and how it can relate to students with EBD and what benefits there are to make this claim true. It then discusses the impact of music therapy influencing communication and behavior in EBD students. Lastly, the authors introduce a claim made by music therapists and their need for a specified curriculum for EBD students. As said by Sausser et al, literature does describe the music therapy process within the public school having several rebuttals for the previous claim (Sausser et al 5). The text displays pieces of information to confirm that music therapy benefits EBD children, and to demonstrate how music therapy can benefit EBD students in schools through a nine-week curriculum specifically aimed for children with emotion and behavioral disorders. The authors say, therapy goals for students with EBD should be based on the special needs of the children, and music activities should promote concentration, teamwork, self-control, discipline, and an appropriately channeled release of energy and (Sausser et al 3). The authors of this paper are Shannon Sausser and Raymond J. Waller Ph.D, both in the Special Education program at Piedmont College in Athens, Georgia. The text was intended to be a guide, specifically to music therapists or educators, to explain how music therapy should be conducted for EBD students in an educational environment. The text is also convincing the reader that there is a technique in music therapy used for children with emotional and behavioral disorders. The text was published in 2006 by the Elsevier Publishing Company, which is located in Amsterdam. This article goes back to the topic because it explains the importance of music therapy programs in schools and how it affects children with disorders and the benefits of having a music therapy curriculum. Skeja, Ema. Impact of Cognitive Intervention Program and Music Therapy in Learning Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, vol. 129, no.5, 2014, pp. 605-609. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.12.433. Accessed 29 Jan 2017. This article journal describes a study in which children from the ages of 6-7 years old are put in an experimental group to research the impact of the cognitive intervention program in collaboration with music therapy and learning disabilities. First the article illustrates the characteristics of learning disabilities and how they are affected, then it describes the current study and methods used on the experimental group and the application of music therapy. It defines the cognitive intervention program as a standardized test. In article, she explains how the Cognitive Assessment System- CAS is a standardized test of cognitive abilities based on the PASS theory and was used to score differences between the experimental group and control group after music therapy and Cognitive intervention program was in affect. (Skeja 607). The experimental group goes through a variety of stages and the test results give the feedback on the influence of music therapy. Skeja says, on the findings of this study it can be suggested that interconnection Music Therapy with Cognitive Intervention Program enables children with learning disorders to be a step ahead in these four areas, since intervention in these areas is twofold and can cover weaknesses of each (Skeja 608). The argument the text made in this article is mainly analyzing whether the cognitive intervention program with music therapy receives better results compared to children receiving only cognitive intervention program based on the PASS theory, the Reading Enhancement The author of this article journal, Ema Skeja is from University of Tirana in the country Albania. She is part of the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University. The audience this text is directed to is anyone interested in learning disabilities and how music therapy can be an aid through having control and experimental groups. Also it aims to people who are fascinated with social and behavioral sciences. The text is describing a process where an experiment is created to prove a claim about music therapy and learning disabilities. This article would be used to teach about the effects of standardized tests and how using music therapy can positively influence children. The text was published in 2014 and came from Elsevier publication. Elsevier was formerly a small Dutch company and now has many locations worldwide, including its headquarters in Amsterdam. This passage relates to the topic because it is evident that music therapy enhances learning and effective in improvement of cognitive (Skeja 606). Wetherick, Donald. Therapy and Children with a Language Impairment: Some Examples of Musical Communication in Psychology of Music, vol.42, no.6, 2014, pp.864-868, Music Index, 10.1177/0305735614547716. Accessed 19 Feb 2017. Donald journal article discusses how music therapy affects children with language impairment, specifically Mixed Expressive-Receptive Language Disorder. The author opens by expressing the difficulties of having a language barrier because of the negative characteristics such as social interaction, emotional regulation and self- esteem. He explicates the effects of music therapy and how it can be an advantage to children with language impairment. He uses examples from a study that involves a small group therapy of five-year-old boys. The objective of the group therapy was to help increase fluency in interactions, encourage vocalization, decrease aggressive/frustrated behaviors and raise self-esteem (Wetherick 865). The author describes the sessions performed by the music therapist which included improvised drum conversations, kazoo vocalizations, musical/verbal narration of play, and emerging fluency/cooperation. Wetherick says musical interactions can help sustain communicative interactions without words, and can encompass resistive or evasive behaviors that could otherwise interrupt or negate The article concludes with the results based on the feedback from the children in the group sessions. According to the video analysis of the sessions, the outcome of the children showed a decreased in aggressive play and increased attempts at verbal communication and interaction during the music therapy sessions. The author, Donald Wetherick is affiliated with Nordoff Robbins Music Therapy in the United Kingdom. The text is an informative journal article that is aimed towards readers who are interested in learning about music therapy and the effects on children with a language barrier. This piece was published in 2014 by Sage Publications, which is based in the United Kingdom. This source relates to my topic because it gives an illustration of how music therapy improves the social skills of children with disorders, specifically Mixed Expressive-Receptive Language Disorder.