Peterle 1 Dylan Peterle Professor Ricketts ENC 1101-011 January 25, 2017 How effectively does the NFL prevent CTE? Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is the term used to describe a neurodegenerative disease. This is a condition has been recognized by the National Football League (NFL) due to its frequency amongst players such as Mike Webb, Frank Gifford, and many others. CTE is becoming the signature football disease, affecting player during and after their time in the NFL due to brain trauma experienced during their career. The symptoms of CTE include aggression, depression, anxiety, suicidal thoughts, and eventually progressive dementia. This predicament is a serious one as multiple retired players who have suffered from CTE have gone on to endure further debilitations such as mental hazard and in some of the most extreme cases suicide. One would think that a professional sports organization would take this matter extremely seriously yet the NFL had previously done next to nothing to protect players. Instead they worked to clear their organization of all responsibility in the matter. It was only after the suicide of Terry Long in 2005 that widespread controversy surrounding CTE began to reach the publics attention. It has taken years for the NFL to acknowledge the fact that the sport they regulate is linked to a deadly brain disease. While countermeasures and precautionary steps have been taken to protect players, the question remains as to whether the NFL is doing enough to prevent CTE. The NFL recently created new rules designed to limit head injuries by prohibiting all players to strike another player in a Peterle 2 defenseless position in the head or neck. In addition, the NFL is also investing in new helmets such as the Zero1. These small changes are helping players stay concussion free but the question remains what more can the NFL do to prevent CTE. Bailes, Julian. What Is  Brain Injury Research Institute. BIRI, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.protectthebrain.org/Brain-Injury-Research/What- is-CTE-.aspx Bennet I. Omalu, M.D. and Julian Bailes, M.D were some the first doctors to diagnose professional football players with CTE beginning in 2002. They have been conducting studies with athletes to see if they can detect CTE earlier on in their athletic career. The Brain Injury Research Institute (BIRI) designed a webpage with the help of Dr. Bailes to inform the public about CTE, symptoms, and how they diagnose patients. Their website (2017) explains how CTE affects the brain of people who have suffered from multiple concussions throughout their life. Over time patients suffering from CTE will lose brain mass and remaining tissue will deteriorate. Symptoms include loss of memory, difficultly controlling erratic behavior, and dementia as well as those symptoms previously stated. The Brain Injury Research Institute is an organization that studies the short and long term impact of brain injuries. It was established in 1966 by a group of doctors and made headlines in 2002 while evaluating a former athlete Mike Webb who died from conditions caused by CTE. The Brain Injury Research Institution now works with football, hockey, boxers, rugby athletes, and military personnel in order to study CTE more in-depth. Peterle 3 Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) in a National Football League Player: Case Report and Emerging Medicolegal Practice  Omalu, Bennet, M.D. 2010. Journal of Forensic Nursing, Wiley Online Library, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. In 2002, Dr. Bennet Omalu discovers CTE in the brain of deceased football player Mike brain. By 2003 the NFL was trying to cover up the scandal by discrediting Dr. Bennet research. After more incidents of CTE occurred and more studies were put into place people started to believe Dr. Bennet Omalu research was credible. By 2012-2013 the NFL has finally made changes to help lower the amount of concussions players receive. An article by Dr. Omalu titled Traumatic (2010) includes a timeline starting from 1994 and ending in 2013. It gives a few examples of some bad hits including Tory Aikman, Mike Webb, and a career-ending hit on Steve Young. This source provides the basis of what my research question is based on: the way the National Football League handles a mental disease that is directly correlated with the sport they regulate. The article provides a timeline of discovery, the initial findings of its effects, and most importantly, documents how the NFL has responded to the disease over the course of nearly two decades. I have chosen this source specifically for its direct relevance to my research topic. This source is credible because it comes from PBS.org. PBS is a private nonprofit corporation that was founded in 1969 which specializes in providing accurate research to the public. PBS makes it their goal is to inform their audience about everyday events in life and is ranked the number one educational media brand and number one in public trust. Peterle 4 Foster, Tom. The helmet wars: athletes in the U.S. suffer 3.8 million sports-related concussions each year. While helmet makers dither with small improvements, Swedish scientists have built something that could protect us  Popular Science 2013: 50. Academic OneFile. Web. 4 Feb. 2017 This article begins with stories from the NFL and how players were receiving season and career ending hits. This article goes in depth, explaining what exactly a concussion is and how it affects the players. The article goes into the different helmets scientist and engineers have been working on including the Riddell 360, Schutt Ion 4D, and many others. Scientists explain why these new helmets are more enhanced than other helmets being used in the NFL. These new helmets include new state of the art features like lining, extra padding, and a light weight more protective shell. They hope to improve safety throughout the NFL reducing the number of concussions in a regular season. This article is crucial for my paper because it is about engineering new helmets and how they are designed to protect NFL players. They have a list of helmets designed to protect the head in a more effective way. Scientist and engineers have paired up together to create the safest helmet the NFL has ever had. This source is credible because it comes from Popular Science a bi monthly magazine. Their articles are generally about science and technology subjects, and have won them over 58 awards including American Society of Magazine Editors. Gibeaut, John. Thrown For A Loss: Retired Players Sue, Claim NFL Hid Brain Damage  ABA Journal 97.11 (2011): 29. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Peterle 5 This article was about retired NFL players suing the NFL because the organization was not forthcoming regarding brain damage information. It starts out by mentioning a tight end that died at the age of 69 and who suffered from dementia for over ten years. Since then many other retired players have sued the NFL hoping for a collective bargaining agreement. All the complaints gathered in this article show that the NFL ignored studies of brain injury information. The NFL claimed to be studying the effects of brain damage since the but, it was not until 2010 when released information about the NFL knowing that serious blows to the head could cause dementia, encephalopathy, memory loss and related conditions. This article is useful because it provides actual court cases to build my paper. These cases show how retired NFL players having problems from the concussions they received. Finally, it ends by saying the NFL knew it was a problem and that they igored it for sake of profits. Now the NFL is working with players and officials to make football a safer game. The author John Gibeaut is credible because of his experience of working with so many different news outlets. Gibeaut was a reporter for The Tampa Tribune, Sarasota Herald-Tribune, the Niagara Gazette, and the City News Bureau of Chicago. He earned his J.D. and B.A. in journalism and French from Florida State University and Ohio State. Abreu, Marcos A. Comarite, Fred J. Spradley, Brandon D. Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) and Former National Football League Player Sport Journal; 2016 pp1- 12. 18 Feb 2017 This article was about how CTE affects the brain, affected players, and how the NFL plans to reduce the numbers. It first discusses the effect of CTE and how the disease affects the neurological portion of the brain. It goes into how people with CTE suffer some as serious as suicide. It explains how Dr. study influenced the NFL to do something about CTE. NFL Peterle 6 players have been donating money to brain bank research in hope to make the game safer and protect their health. This article is credible because it was published by The Sports Journal. The Sports Journal main goal is to post scientific journals addressing issues in sports. It is recognized by the United States Sports Academy for the outstanding scientific journals they release. It is helpful for my paper because it shows that players are taking the initiative to donate their money to better understand CTE. It also shows how CTE affects brain, to the point where they want to commit suicide. DiSalvo, David. Is The NFL Doing Enough To Prevent Brain Trauma? Probes For  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. http://www.forbes.com/sites/daviddisalvo/2015/11/16/60-minutes-probes- what-the-nfl-is-doing- to-decrease-brain-trauma-from-head- injuries/#3741908a31ba This article goes into detail about the steps the NFL is taking to prevent CTE. One step is the NFL has given thirty million dollars to the National Institutes of Health. They also created more rules to the sport so a player does not tackle using his head. Also, designing new helmets to reduce the severity of big hits. They are trying to create a CTE test so doctors can tell if a player has early signs of CTE. This Forbes article was a featured story on 60 Minutes. 60 Minutes is a debuting program broadcasted on the CBS television network. The author David DiSalvo is a credible author because his work has made appearances on Scientific American Mind, Forbes, Time, Psychology Today, The Wall Street Journal, Slate, Salon, Esquire, Mental Floss and other publications. This material will work well for the paper because it explains the plans the NFL has to prevent CTE.