Quirk 1 Travis Quirk Ms. Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Gun Control Gun control is one of the most controversial issues affecting the United States today. More, and more often there are shootings and massacres such as Columbine in 1999, Sandy Hook in 2012, the Tuscon movie theatre shooting in 2011, and San Bernardino in 2015 just to name a few. Everyone has heard the slogan: guns kill people, people kill people. But often times that brings forth the question how did these people get the guns in the first place, and how can we prevent future incidents like this from happening? There are many organizations that lobby congress to either support gun control or lobby against it. Two of these organizations are, the Campaign to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV), and the National Rifle Association (NRA). The Campaign to Stop Gun Violence wants a better background check system to prevent criminals, and the mentally ill from purchasing guns. The NRA wants to protect the second amendment rights of law abiding Americans. The efforts of the Campaign to Stop Gun Violence, and the NRA should be combined to create a system that implements a better background check system, to prevent criminals, and the mentally ill from buying guns. The NRA is a pro-gun association that is devoted to firearms and hunting safety, to enhance marksmanship skills of those participating in the shooting sports, and to educate the general public about firearms in their historic, technological and artistic (NRA). The organization was first established in 1871 by Union veterans with the goal to promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific . After World War II the NRA Quirk 2 changed its focus to the education, and training of the hunting community(NRA). While the organization is still not in favor of background checks for gun sales, they do not oppose it as much as they did in the past. They even gave support to a deal that would increase the penalties for illegal gun sales, and trafficking. The NRA also support heavy penalties on instances of gun violence, but they take a strong stance on blaming the person not the weapon (Grant 1). There are many organizations pushing for stricter gun regulations, one of these organizations is the Campaign to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV). The CSGV is a group of national organization that arose after the 2011 Tucson shooting. The CSGV mission is fix the background check system for gun purchasers and close loopholes in the law that allow criminals, drug abusers, and the severely mentally ill to gain easy access to (CSGV). The CSGV also supports policies, and technology that allow law enforcement to more efficiently trace gun crimes, and combat the flow of illegal weapons into communities, along with technologies to create better childproofing systems for firearms. They also fund research into gun violence, and victimization to better educate the community about the issues. (CSGV). In the past few decades views on firearms have changed drastically according to Michael Dimmock the president of the Pew Research Center. In the almost 50% of Americans wanted a handgun ban, today however support for a handgun ban is so low, that the implementation of a handgun ban would be Banning other weapons such as assault weapons has higher support among the American public but is deeply divided in the parties. With over 70% support from Democrats but almost none from Republicans (Dimmock). With Republicans controlling congress as they do now it is unlikely that any ban on any kind of firearm ban will happen in the next two years. This leaves background checks as the Quirk 3 next best way to regulate guns. Since the guns themselves cannot be regulated, who is allowed to have them is the next best thing. One of the biggest concerns is gun safety. They run many different classes on safe gun handling, and even have a program that tells kid what they should do if they see a gun in an unsupervised situation(NRA). This concern with gun safety is shared by the Campaign to Stop Gun Violence they fund research on how guns can be made safer, and how law enforcement can keep communities safer.(CSGV) This shared view should serve as a jumping off point for the organizations to work together to make America a safer place when it comes to guns. The best way to do this, and for both the NRA, and the CSGV to fulfill their mission statements, is to form a joint task force to lobby congress to pass a more efficient background check system that prevents criminals and people with extreme mental illnesses from having access to firearms. When a gun sale is made at a licenced dealer they run a background check on the buyer. This background check is run through a federal system, and prevents criminals, and the mentally ill from buying guns. One of the loopholes in the current system is that at gun shows are considered private transactions, so a background check is not required. Some states do have their own laws that require checks in such cases, but federal law does not mandate (Welsh). This loophole puts guns into the hands of people that a regular background check would not allow. One of the Campaign to Stop Gun main focuses is to close these loopholes in the background check system. (CSGV). While the NRA does not support background checks they have been less vocal in fighting them recently. One of the main focuses is to promote safe gun use.(NRA). Endorsing this background checks will take guns out of the hands of criminals. The NRA and foster the Second Amendment rights of all law-abiding Quirk 4 Criminals are not law abiding citizens, they have broken at least one law, and in doing that they have lost the support from the NRA to own a weapon. Those who have been deemed by the court as mentally ill may not have broken a law, but due to their disorders they may not be stable, and may act irrationally. The NRA needs to see how giving mentally ill people weapons can result in problems like it has many times in the past. For instance the shooter in the Tucson movie theatre, and Sandy Hook elementary were both mentally ill. This is why background checks are needed in every single guns sale whether it be at a gun show, or thought a dealer, to keep guns out of the hands of people who can not safely handle them. However most of the people who go to these gun shows are law abiding citizens so for people who want to wait for a background check to be run at a gun show they should be able to get a background check previous to the gun show, this would save time for both the sellers, and the buyers, and make sure no one is getting a gun who be allowed to own them. Gun control is one of the most controversial issues in society today, and in order to stop tragedies from occurring the NRA, and the Campaign to Stop Gun Violence need to work jointly to come to an agreement on background checks. This system will make sales at gun shows safer, and more regulated, and allow people who can pass a background check to get there guns in the same amount of time. Work Cited Grant, David. deal on background checks: Biggest gun control win The Christian Science Monitor. 10 April 2013. Accessed January 24, 2017. Quirk 5 National Rifle Association. A Brief History of the NRA at the National Rifle Association, 2017, home.nra.org/about-the-nra. Accessed January 25, 2017 Pew: Partisan Divide On Gun Ownership, Bipartisan Support On Background  Weekend Edition Sunday, 19 June 2016. Literature Resource Center. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. The Campaign to Stop Gun Violence. Statement of Principles at the Campaign to Stop Gun Violence, 2012, campaigntostopgunviolence.org/principles. Accessed January 25, 2017 Welsh, Teresa. there be Universal Background Checks for Gun U.S. News. 31 January 2013. Accessed January 26, 2017.