Anoos !1 Matthew Anoos Instructor Rouisse ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Compromising with Stem Cells Stem cells are defined as undifferentiated cells of a multicellular organism that are capable of giving rise to indefinitely more cells of the same type, and from which other kinds of cells arise by differentiation. (Safina) In terms it gives doctors the ability to help people who have suffered from an injury that cannot heal on its own. Most of these injuries would pertain to the heart or the brain. However, stem cells are a topic of controversy because of the of the way they are extracted. Stem cells com from embryos, so in order to have enough embryos to study it would require a surplus of stem cells. This has become an issue because a lot of research has to be done in order to understand stem cells, and many any people have an issue with this because it is seen as a waste of life for scientific research. Stem cells have been criticized for being an immoral practice due to ethical reasons. Most of these accusations have been made by religious groups. There main reason that religious groups protest the idea of stem cells is because they believe that life begins at the moment of conception. The most efficient way to extract stem cells is through embryos. Researchers and religious groups in the past have wanted to have the other group completely shut down but as a compromise could come to the agreement to limit how much stem cells are used per year. The main advocate against stem cell research are religious groups. This is because they believe that the moment of life starts the moment conception occurs. Since this is what they Anoos !2 believe, using embryos as stem cells to further the advancement of scientific research would be against how they view life they believe that embryos are protected by the same laws that would protect a fully grown human. Some examples of religious groups that do not support stem cell research would be Buddhism, Catholicism, Judaism, and Islam. For Buddhism, they have a prohibition against harming or destroying others. Another teaching of Buddhism is the pursuit of knowledge. This has created a divide between people within the religion. Some believe that destroying life is against everything that they have been taught. Other believe that seeking the knowledge in order to learn about stem cell research goes with what they have been taught. With the knowledge that they have attained they can use it to end suffering that some people may come across.(PewResearch) In Catholicism, they have the same belief with their anti-abortion belief. However, they support adult stem cell research. Adult stem cell are similar to embryonic stem cells but differ in the amount that can be extrapolated at one time. Adult stem cells are much more difficult to extract and do not produce the same amount as the amount that is extracted from embryos making it a much slower learning process.(PewResearch) In Islam, there has not been an official ruling on what the stance is that they believe in, although it is very similar to how Buddhist view this issue. Some believe that since the embryo does not have a soul, there is no life in it so it is perfectly fine for the research to take place. Others believe that since it can be considered as murder then it is morally wrong to believe in a practice that condones the activity.(PewResearch) The organizations that agree and advocate for the research of stem cells are mostly the scientific community along with many universities. Some examples include ALS Anoos !3 Association, Duke University Medical Center, Genetic Alliance, Harvard University, and International Longevity Center. (Terzic)There are many more universities and organizations that agree with the practice and they all believe in it for the same reasons. They want to advance scientific knowledge and help thousands of people who have suffered from injuries and who are on the verge of death. Both of these organizations are almost on the opposite end of the spectrum with what they believe in. The entire scientific community is an advocate for the further of stem cell research, whether it be through embryonic or adult research. Certain religions are against it because they believe that it is essentially taking a life away. A compromise between these two opposing parties is difficult because of how they view the opposing party. One option is that a limit for the amount of embryos used is created. The way this would work is that every year a limit is set detailing how much embryos can be used for the research of stem cells. Religious organizations that oppose stem cell research would be giving up the fact that stem cell research is going to be done regardless of their stance on it but the have the assurance in knowing that there is a limit making the information that scientist gather much more valuable to them, which could hopefully speed up the process because they make the information they gather more valuable. Scientist would be giving the ability to have unlimited embryos but still have the ability to conduct their research. Finally, the fact that communication between religious groups and researchers have not been productive it is in the best interest that has a compromise both groups come together so that actual progress can be made between the both of them. If both groups were able to come together then they might be able to force government officials to create policies that can satisfy both Anoos !4 parties. This would mean that scientific research could be accomplished while appeasing the religious community. This progress could change the entire medical field by giving the opportunity to live to people who were thought to not have a chance at living because of the condition they were born with or had a bad accident. Word Count:1,187 Anoos !5 Works Cited Safina, Dina. An Overview on Human Umbilical Cord Blood Stem Cell-Based Alternative In Vitro Models for Developmental Neurotoxicity. Chichester, England 2005. Terzic, Andre. Stem Cell Therapy for Heart Failure: Ensuring Regenerative  Sciencedirect.com. Elsevier Inc, 28 Jan. 2014. Web. 2 Oct. 2016. Khanabdali, Ramin, et al. Research Update: Harnessing The Secretome Of Cardiac Stem Cells As Therapy For Ischemic Heart  Biochemical Pharmacology (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 2 Oct. 2016. Ata, Melek. of Erythropoietin and Stem Cells on Traumatic Brain ScienceDirect. May 2016. The Stem Cell Debate: Is It  The Stem Cell Debate: Is It Over? N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Nov. 2016.  Stem-cells. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Nov. 2016. Organization Supporting Stem Cell  http://www.lifeissues.org/2000/11/organizations- supporting-embryonic-stem-cell-research/. N.p., n.d. Web.