MacRae !1 Hannah MacRae Professor Gocinski ENC 1102 15 January 2017 How Hungry Are You Really? About 1 in every 9 people are hungry and malnourished, roughly 795 million people out of 7 billion that live among us (Hunger Statistics 2015). Children, men, and women, from developed and developing countries, suffer each day from not having access to food. The United States being the third largest producer of food for the entire world should have some to spare (Ross 2015). Monsanto food company is an American multinational company that promotes agriculture and biotechnology to produce their crops. It was one of the first companies to introduce genes into plants as well as patent their own DNA for their genetically modified seeds. The Food and Agriculture Organization promotes healthy, safe, affordable food as well as allowing undeveloped and developing countries have access to food supply. Monsanto Food company works towards inventing a more sustainable way for food to be produced as well as making a profit off of their patents. Although they have different agendas they can come together with their similar mission statements of reducing world hunger to find a compromise. The Food and Agriculture Organization is recognized worldwide for their devoted efforts towards depleting world hunger and malnutrition as well as working towards a sustainable future. The FAO not only works towards reducing the number of those who suffer from not having regular access to nutritional food but by spreading knowledge about hunger and poverty around the world. By educating the public about those who live in rural poverty and suffer from hunger and malnutrition, they create an army of supporters that help them work towards their main goal of reducing hunger. The FAO actively works towards their mission by sending help to MacRae !2 countries that need it most and bring them necessities that they lack such as; animals, food, water, vaccines, etc. The FAO has recently begun a new project in the horn of Africa seeking for immediate help as they have been suffering from consistent lost of harvests due to drought, they also struggle to keep their livestock well and productive (Clover 2013). According to the FAO, close to 12 million people across Somalia, Ethiopia and Kenya are in need of food assistance, as families face limited access to food and income, together with rising debt, low cereal and seed stocks, and low milk and meat Face Food As the horn of Africa is in an urgent state of survival the FAO has stepped in to provide them with food, water, and dependable livestock. The FAO also asks for immediate help from developed and developing countries in sparing them necessities. This is just one of many projects that the FAO has strategized to help reduce world hunger. Meanwhile, Monsanto Food Company is an agriculture company that produces genetically modified seeds and herbicides for farmers to make production more sustainable and profitable. Their goal is to mass produce their products by using using less resources, and making more of a profit. According to Madeline Ostrander, a journalist for national health, patents the DNA of its genetically modified plants, which gives the company enormous control over the US food system By patenting the DNA of their genetically modified seeds they eliminate most of their competitors and made it so most farmers had to depend on them for their crops. By patenting the seeds they invent they remove all possibilities of anyone buying or using those seeds from anyone but Monsanto themselves. This eliminated all of their competition in the market resulting in them being the only corporation to carry certain GMO seeds farmers demand. By doing this they have control over majority of the MacRae !3 worlds production of food because of how many GMO seeds they have patented. Monsanto has become the worlds leader in their genetically modified seeds as well as patenting common crop seeds (Mercola Health). Monsanto mainly strategizes for new techniques and biotechnology that can help them exceed their goal of improving agriculture while moving towards a more sustainable future and profiting from it. Monsanto has also done their part of good deeds, they have worked with the AATF, African Agricultural Technology Foundation, to help those suffering from droughts in Sub-saharan Africa by donating their technology. They have collaborated together to develop a drought resistant seed called to the people of Africa with the WEMA, Water Efficient Maize for Africa, partnership. The genetically modified maize seed has helped the African people to harvest their corn that been affected by their severe droughts Lives in Although the Food and Agriculture Organization and Monsanto Food Company have different agendas their main mission is to provide people with what they need. Monsanto Food company has already shown past initiative of helping reduce those who are suffering in Africa from hunger and malnutrition. They have used their technology to develop a miracle such as the seed. The Food and Agriculture Organization recently began their own project in the same area to spread awareness and ask for immediate help from outside countries as they experience loss of harvest and livestock once again. Both of these organizations, although different and driven with alter motives have already come together separately to help the same country overcome some of their hardest times. They have both been out in the field working in Africa to deplete hunger and malnutrition, which is where their common ground takes place. The FAO and Monsanto have prior knowledge and experience of how to make goals such as reducing MacRae !4 hunger and malnutrition to actions.They have common grounds and goals as they both continue to make a positive impact in the world in different ways. If an organization as big and well known as FAO and an organization that controls most of the worlds crop production come together they can achieve greatness; they can reduce the amount of women, men, and children suffering from hunger, malnutrition, and lack of access to nutritional food in undeveloped countries. If they strategize together they could develop more seeds that are drought resistant other than maize, they could make wheat, soybeans, etc. If they were to develop more drought resistant seeds the horn of Africa could still depend on a lively harvest to help them survive and push them towards reviving their country. As both organizations have made compromises with other organizations in the past to work at the same goal of reducing hunger they can also come to one. For instance, since reducing world hunger is already a common goal shared between the FAO and Monsanto there is a compromise to be found with both organizations benefiting. As Monsanto continues to be the leader of GMO seeds and gain profit from various patents on common crops they have more than enough to spare. FAO works very actively to do what they can and provide food, health, and livestock to those in need, but they cant do it all by themselves. With help from Monsanto the Food and Agriculture Organization could greatly use their resources such as their technology and surplus of crops and knowledge when it comes to working towards their main goal of reducing hunger and providing people with nutritional food. By donating some of the crops that Monsanto harvests each year to FAO they not only will be staying true to their mission statements but they will receive tax deductions from their charitable contributions but they also get recognition of working with a charitable organization, such as MacRae !5 FAO, to boost their status in the market. According to the new changes to the tax incentives, who are at the 10% cap on charitable contributions can now enjoy tax benefits for donated food up to 15% of their adjusted gross income (Feeding America Now prior to the changes of the tax incentive farmers can donate more of their crops and receive more tax deductions, which can be up to 15% of their gross income. In summation this means that farmers and organizations can end up recovering more money in tax breaks when donating more of their harvest. If Each of the organizations benefit from the compromise, not only are they both continuing their mission statement but the FAO gets more help on helping reduce hunger and provide necessitates to those who have access to any and Monsanto receives tax deductions allowing them to profit more! In conclusion, having the FAO and Monsanto put aside their differences and focus on their main mission of reducing hunger and famine they can achieve real positive change. The FAO having goals of minimizing world hunger and rural poverty by providing undeveloped countries with food, water, shelter, vaccines, etc and Monsanto having goals of developing new strategies to increase agriculture with less resources, reduce world hunger, and profit more they have more in common then they know. They have both worked very hard to actively make a difference around the world, they have both worked in the same area of sub-saharan Africa in order to reduce the suffering they have experienced due to droughts. Monsanto has already developed drought resistant seeds which has made the harvests in Kenya survive the long, hot seasons. They both have prior knowledge of the suffering in Africa and around the world, Monsanto having more than enough crops could donate a portion each year in regards to reducing the suffering of hunger. They complete this noble deed without benefiting MacRae !6 from it, which they would receive tax deductions for donating their crops to a charity, such as the Food and Agriculture Organization. MacRae !7 Work Cited Clover, Jenny. security in Sub-saharan African Security Review, vol. 12, no. 1, 2013, Accessed 27 January 2017. 2016. PDF.http://healthyfoodbankhub.feedingamerica.org/wp-content/ changes.pdf. Accessed 27 January 2017. Mercola, Joseph. Mercola, http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/ 2010/11/11/how-monsanto-controls-the-future-of-food.aspx. Accessed 27 January 2017. of People Face Food Shortages in the Horn of FAO, http://www.fao.org/news/ story/en/item/468941/icode/. Accessed 27 January 2017. Monsanto Company. Lives in YouTube, 24 April 2014, https:// www.youtube.com/watch?v=BV7SpCNzE84. Accessed 27 January 2017. Ostander, Madeline. GMOs Help Feed a Hot and Hungry Nation, vol. 299, no. 9/10, p. 23-27, 2014, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/ pdfviewer? sid=8873371e-6940-4c7f-95a9-0a35bf6e78b8%40sessionmgr102&vid=16&hid=103. Accessed 27 January 2017. MacRae !8 Ross, Jean. 4 Countries That Produce The Most Investopia, 6 October 2015, http:// www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/100615/4-countries-produce-most-food.asp, Accessed 29 January 2017. WFP. World Food Programme, https://www.wfp.org/hunger/stats. Accessed 27 January 2017.