Zakhary 1 George Zakhary Ms. Bianca Hernandez ENC1102 13 February 2017 Universal Healthcare in the United States The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Enroll America, and Medicare/Medicaid are three organizations that are committed to maximizing, educating, protecting, and ensuring the population of the United States. Although the idea of Universal Healthcare seems to be impossible in the United States it can be implemented with the assistance of stakeholders like the ones listed above. All over the world countries like Sweden, Germany, and Japan have constructed healthcare plans that covers all its citizens while providing them with very low monthly premiums. The goal of the FDIC is to protect consumers and educate them on compliance with fair lending laws. Enroll America is striving to maximize the number of Americans who retain and enroll in any type of health coverage under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Medicare/Medicaid was created to ensure financial security and health to current and future generations of Americans. These three organizations share the same goal which is to enroll Americans in health insurance plans. The following stakeholders strive to ensure Americans with affordable health coverage plans. These three stakeholders can join organizations and in turn fund each other thus making them financially stable and have a greater impact. Achieving universal healthcare requires the combination of stakeholders to work together to gain more power and have their political voice heard by government officials. The three stakeholders would not literally join and weld into one organization but merely they would be allies and jointly manage expenses to make more of an impact in the United States. This also Zakhary 2 involves distributing resources, especially human resources for health, to match the needs of the population. However, these multiple stakeholders share similar goals/viewpoints among each other but lack communication when coming together to find common ground. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation describes their mission statement by stating, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is an independent agency created by the Congress to maintain stability and public confidence in the financial system by: insuring deposits, examining and supervising financial institutions for safety and soundness and consumer protection, making large and complex financial institutions resolvable, and managing receiverships By stating that their vision is to maintain public confidence in the financial system of our nation shows that there is an issue with it. With the rising prices of monthly premiums there has been a drop of confidence from consumers with health coverage plans. Therefore, the FDIC promotes consumer protection and safety for a better balance in expenses between households. The FDIC works with health insurance companies to give the general population a reasonable and reliable health coverage plan. Thus, linking in the general goal of insuring and covering more people living in the United States. Enroll America shares similar goals with the FDIC and if the following two stakeholders were to assist each other, they would gain a stronger Enroll America describes their vision as, America works with more than 6,700 partners in all 50 states and the District of Columbia to create cutting-edge tools, analyze data, inform policy, and share best practices in service of its mission: maximizing the number of Americans who enroll in and retain health coverage under the Affordable Care Act (Enroll Enroll America works under the Affordable Care Act to provide healthcare for all socioeconomic classes. Many health coverage plans today are extremely expensive especially for low-income households. Enroll America Zakhary 3 works with a multitude of organizations to ensure more people with healthcare. The FDIC states on their website that takes a coalition. And the FDIC is committed to supporting organizations and community leaders with a shared commitment to making health coverage enrollment an institutional reality in every community in America If Enroll America and the FDIC combined organizations to enroll more people living in the United States with healthcare, it would benefit both stakeholders. People would gain more trust in the financial system and Enroll America would be working towards their goal which is insuring the American People with affordable plans. Medicare and Medicaid are two government programs that both work to provide health care to US residents. The main goal of Medicare is to promote, and ensure financial security and health to maturing (medicare.gov). Medicaid is very like Medicare but works to provide healthcare to low-income people. The following two stakeholders have grown drastically over the past five years and is growing at a rapid pace. Medicare and Medicaid has provided healthcare to maturing and low-income Americans all over the nation under the Affordable Care Act. With the support of the FDIC and Enroll America more Americans can enroll in healthcare and trust government programs more. If the following three stakeholders joined together to create one unified organization, it would be extremely effective in enrolling Americans with affordable and reliable health coverage plans while regaining trust in government organizations. Around the world many countries have achieved and implemented a universal healthcare system due to organizations joining forces to gain strength. In countries like Sweden and Germany more people have health insurance and monthly premiums are only a fraction of the cost of American plans. Universal healthcare is achievable and is due to organizations not joining together. If these three stakeholders joined together they would be Zakhary 4 unstoppable. The United States is lacking a healthcare system that is unified and can be effective for the population including all socioeconomic statuses. Nearly 10.4 percent of Americans were uninsured in 2014 (healthcare.gov). That is nearly 33 million American who are lacking health coverage. Lower income people are struggling to receive healthcare due to the extreme monthly premiums that insurance corporations charge. With a unified healthcare plan, monthly premiums can get lowered and more of the American people will be covered under an affordable and reliable health insurance plan. The United States health care system has improved over the past decade but still is lacking its full ability. Unlike other countries around the world who have one uniform and universal health care for the whole population, the United States does not have one uniform health care plan but multiple. In countries like Switzerland and Germany healthcare is universal and covers everyone but in the Unites States nearly 10.4% of the population still lack health care (FiveThirtyEight). Although within the past decade the US government has put in plans like ObamaCare that has opened healthcare up to everyone it still needs some improvement to cover the general population rather than low-income households. The United States has so much potential and the ability to create a health care plan that covers the whole population. Stakeholders like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Enroll America, and Medicaid/Medicare play an essential role in the future of healthcare in America. If the following three stakeholders join they will have a greater effect in enrolling more Americans while working towards their individual goals. The idea of Universal and affordable healthcare for all socioeconomic classes is possible in America and can be achieved if organizations like the three stakeholders work together to achieve the main goal of providing security and health coverage to all Americans. Zakhary 5 Works Cited Dicken, John E. of Health and Human Services: Solicitations of Support For Enroll GAO Reports (2014): 1-11. Business Source Premier. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. FDIC Quarterly. [Electronic n.p.: [Washington, FDIC, 2010 University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Our  Enroll America Our Mission Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Rosenthal, Meredith B., et al. for Performance in Medicaid: Evidence from Three Natural Health Services Research 51.4 (2016): 1444-1466. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Rother, John. of the Agenda: Stem the Rising Cost of Generations 40.4 (2017): 30-37. AgeLine. Web. 23 Jan. 2017 Spithoven, Antoon. Influence of Vested Interests on Healthcare Legislation in the USA, 2009-2010. of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe Inc.) 50.2 (2016): 630-638. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.