Tillman 1 Tillman, Simone Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102, Section 17 12 February 2017 Sexual Education in Schools Sexual education in America is a very disputed topic. Organizations seem to not be able to decide over the type of sex education in schools. The two biggest curriculums are abstinence- only and comprehensive sex education. The Medical Institute for Sexual Health (MISH) is an organization that works to get abstinence-only programs into schools. The Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States (SIECUS) focuses on distributed uncensored and updated information on anything sexual-health related. A collaboration between the curriculum supported by SIECUS and MISH can result in a more educated and more prepare student population in the United States. The Medical Institute for Sexual Health is an organization that dedicated to aligning and disseminating scientific data that promotes optimal health and (Sexual Health for Life). Their goal is to solidify families by promoting healthy relationships. They give out information packets, hold conferences, host parent workshops, and talk to government officials to work towards their goal of helping wellness and health. They believe that parents are an important factor in sexual education, so they work to inform and train parents in becoming good mentors in the subject as well as creating programs for children at schools. Their programs have a strong focus in understanding STDs/STIs and on avoidance through abstinence. Unlike many other abstinence-promoting organizations, opinions are from a more scientific Tillman 2 view. Instead of supporting their choice of abstinence with morals and religion, the MISH organization dedicates their programs to supporting abstinence to avoid sexually transmitted diseases. According to MISH, is not outdated or old fashioned but very (Sexual Health for Life). The organization is not completely against anyone that does not partake in abstinence, but they still promote it as the (Zeiler) method in place. The Sexuality Information and Education Council for the Unites States is an organization that was formed to families, educators, and policymakers access to fact-based sexuality information through publications, websites, trainings, and myriad other (Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States). SIECUS works to be a source of unregulated and regularly updated information on sexuality for the community. This organization supports a comprehensive sexual education curriculum. Comprehensive sexual education is the approach to provide young people with complete, accurate, and age-appropriate sex education that helps them reduce their risk of HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and unintended (Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States). SIECUS also works to inform children about other aspects of sexuality, including but not limited to sexual rights, abortion, orientation, and gender equality and equity. Their programs focus on giving students all the information for any and every possible question they could possibly have about sexuality. These two organizations have made it obvious that they have different views and methods. However, the organizations truly just want their future their children to be safe against avoidable issues that are a possibility with sex. Whether that be through abstinence or through comprehensive safeguards and knowledge in the opposite case, both main goals are for children to avoid some of the unnecessary diseases and health Tillman 3 risks that may come with sex. The organizations have to merge, they just have to acknowledge each other. They each have extensive knowledge to pass down and together, they could reach even more people. In his book, Sex and HIV/AIDS Education in Schools, Douglass Kirby wrote: The weight of evidence also suggests that sex education programs in general, and especially some specific programs, can increase the use of condoms and other forms of contraception when young people do have sex. Not surprisingly, those programs that emphasis delaying intercourse are more effective in achieving that end, while HIV education programs, which emphasis reducing unprotected sex, are more effective in achieving protected sex. (403) He found, through his research, that every program was successful in some way. Abstinence programs worked to delay the age that teenagers had sex and the HIV education programs worked to increase the rate of protected sex. As proven by their communities, both MISH and SIECUS have worked very well despite having different methods and things to teach. Therefore, a combination of the two knowledge would lead to both a delay in intercourse and an increased rate of protected sex over unprotected in individuals who then do proceed in intercourse. Instead of just promoting abstinence or instead of ignoring that option, the two organizations should combine their ideas in a program that includes both of their efforts. They should actively promote abstinence as the only sure way to avoid sexually transmitted diseases and they should also pass on comprehensive sexual education knowledge for those who do not go the abstinence route. This way, both options are equally present and the option and education is available to every student. They could also both work to get each state to require teachers to take some sort of training before being able to teach sexual education to students. According to a Tillman 4 study led by SIECUS to analyze the effectiveness of each sexual education guidelines, states mandate training as a prerequisite for teaching sexuality education. Forty-one states do not have (SIECUS 6). More knowledgeable teachers will give students better sources of information in schools. With the combining of these two messages, more organizations can follow their lead to create a more knowledgeable student population. A great compromise would have both programs represented and available in every school. Sexual education is important. People need to know about their bodies. There should be no question whether or not safe sex is taught in schools. It is not acceptable that there are people in America who know where kids come from, yet they can still participate in sex. It is not reasonable that some people can go their whole lives without knowing what sexually transmitted diseases are. It is inadmissible that anyone does not understand the different ways those STDs or STIs are transmitted. It is not all right that the only thing children are taught about their body and its functions is to be ashamed of it. It goes past having the It becomes a matter of teaching students their anatomy and what goes on in their body, so they can be comfortable in their skin and not ashamed of themselves for normal bodily functions the school deemed unimportant. Tillman 5 Works Cited Kirby, Douglas. And HIV/AIDS Education In Schools: Have A Modest But Important Impact On Sexual BMJ: British Medical Journal, vol. 311, no. 7002, 1995, p. 403. JSTOR. Accessed February 2017. Sexual Health for Life. Medical Institute for Sexual Health, www.medinstitute.org. Accessed January 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States. Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States, www.siecus.org. Accessed January 2017. SIECUS. Unfinished Business: A SIECUS Assessment of State Sexuality Education  (1993): ERIC. Accessed February 2017. Zeiler, Alean. The Linacre Quarterly 81.4 (2014): PMC. Accessed February 2017.