Reigle 1 Connor J. Reigle Instructor Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Toward a Recovery of Our Veterans During my research about the conflicts in the Middle East in the past several decades, I kept seeing testimonies and articles about how combat veterans often suffer psychologically from their experiences on the battlefield. The most common condition amongst them is Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), and far too often these veterans suffer to the point where they take their own lives. According to the United States Department of Veteran Affairs, 22 veterans commit suicide every single day (Rothschild 23). These men and women that leave their loved ones too early are often treatable, but claim to not get proper help that they need from the Department of Veteran Affairs. There are many reports on the news several times a month about a veteran who took his/her own life and the family attempts to sue the VA for not helping beforehand. It has been proven that early intervention is most effective in treating PTSD, and that the treatment of this disorder did not develop properly until the Vietnam War (Glass, Jones 12). In this paper, the possible neglecting of veterans will be further examined and it will be determined what can be done to lower this extremely high number of suicides. How can veterans be properly treated for PTSD? Reigle 2 Works Cited Rothschild, Babette. The Body Remembers: The Psychophysiology of Trauma and Trauma Treatment. New York: Norton, 2000. PDF. In book, she goes into explicit detail about everything there is to know about trauma, the psychology behind it, and how to treat it. In the first chapter, she addresses Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder among combat veterans as one of the most common forms of PTSD, along with domestic violence and sexual assault. Rothschild calls upon studies done by previous doctors and psychologists as evidence to her claims that trauma is easier to treat the sooner the better. She has several cases in this book that include interviews with veterans suffering from PTSD and their experiences trying to be treated, as well as fighting it within themselves. With this book having these cases of veterans who get the treatment they need, it is visible that there is a solution to PTSD amongst veterans. They need to be treated as soon as they show symptoms, such as night terrors or involuntary flashbacks, or immediately after deployment if possible. Babette Rothschild, MSW, LCSW, has been a psychotherapist for forty years, author of 8 Keys to Safe Trauma Recovery and the best-selling The Body Remembers, and member of the International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies. Being one of the best in her field for nearly half a century, she commonly gives lectures and professional trainings around the world. Glass, Albert Julius, and Franlkin D. Jones. PSYCHIATRY IN THE U.S. ARMY: Lessons for Community Psychiatry. U.S. Department of the Army, 2005. PDF. Psychiatry in the Army: Lessons for Community Psychiatry is a book written by two U.S. Army Colonels who were also doctors for the army. The book provides an extensive history of Reigle 3 the treatment of trauma during every American conflict from the Civil War to the conflicts in the Middle East. These two army doctors dedicated this book to the purposes of informing the public, as well as uniformed services, about the beginnings of military psychiatry, the rationale of principles of combat psychiatry, and psychiatric lessons from their military experience, with Glass focusing on the historical parts and Jones focusing on the medical parts. Colonels Glass and Colonel Jones of the United States Army published this book in 2005 during the conflicts in the Middle East, which is the conflict that our youngest veterans today suffer PTSD from. Their extensive papers on the history of the discovery and treatment of the psychiatric trauma provides evidence that we did not always know that psychiatric trauma was existent amongst our soldiers, and how this became such the problem that it is today relatively recently. Both Colonels, now retired, worked in the Office of the Surgeon General, were their Division Psychiatrists during deployments, and have saved hundreds of lives by properly treating the psychiatric trauma that comes with combat experience. Lembcke, Jerry. PTSD: Diagnosis and Identity in Post-empire America. Lexington Books: Lanham, 2013. PDF. PTSD: Diagnosis and Identity in Post-empire America is a book recently published by renowned Vietnam War veteran Jerry Lembcke. He uses his firsthand experience in combat to discuss what having Post-tramautic Stress Disorder is like, as well as getting some of his colleagues to comment on it. Lembcke writes about his travels around the country, going to different VA hospitals to talk to veterans. Calling it an on the he accused the VA of often neglecting these veterans if they ask for psychiatric help, or put them in a waiting list that takes years to get through. Reigle 4 Being a Vietnam veteran who suffered from PTSD himself, Jerry Lembcke earned a sociology degree and wrote a famous book about the media portrayal of the troops coming home after the Vietnam War and being hated by the masses, called The Spitting Image. He spent the early 2000s researching on the modern day treatment of PTSD, specifically in veterans, before writing his book PTSD: Diagnosis and Identity in Post-empire America. Lembcke is well known amongst the veteran community for being a rights activist a voice for those who heard. This book directly addresses my thesis statement and provides a firsthand testimony to the problem addressed. Hinton, Devon E. Culture and PTSD. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, 2015. PDF. Culture and PTSD is a book written by Doctor Hinton at Harvard University last year that includes numerous case studies regarding or involving Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. There are a diverse amount of cases, with many different kinds of PTSD and their origin covered, as well as the cultural impact of PTSD and vice versa, as well as the theoretical background of post-traumatic stress disorder, multiple historical perspectives of PTSD, and cross-cultural perspectives, such as PTSD among combat veterans and victims of war. This book covers all possible angles of this psychiatric condition and is one of the most informative of my selection of resources. Dr. Devon E. Hinton, M.D. is an Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Department of Global Health and Social Medicine Affiliate at the Harvard University Medical School. Dr. major clinical and research interests include the culturally sensitive assessment and treatment of PTSD and panic disorder in traumatized refugee and ethnic minority populations. He has served as a principal investigator on numerous studies examining the phenomenology and treatment of PTSD, panic attacks, and panic disorder in Southeast Asian and Reigle 5 Latino populations. Dr. Hinton has been the Principal Investigator on studies funded by the National Institute of Mental Health on developing culturally sensitive treatment of traumatized refugees. Genoways, Ted. The Price of  Virginia Quarterly Review 84.4 (2003): XIV-3 This issue of the Virginia Quarterly Review investigates aspects of the ultimate price of the current, United States-led conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is widely believed in the United States that the military conflict in the Middle East is coming to a close. Unfortunately, however, the war is an enduring reality for hundreds of thousands of American veterans and their families. According to the statistics, returning combat veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan are particularly vulnerable to drug and alcohol abuse, depression, and suicide. A recent study by the RAND Corporation suggests that the nearly a third of the 3 million combat veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan will suffer from depression, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or some type of traumatic brain injury. The stories of some Iraq veterans and their ongoing occasionally losing or lost struggles to cope with the memories of what they witnessed or did during active duty are contained within this issue. Institute of Medicine and National Research Council. PTSD Compensation and Military Service. Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2007. The scars of war take many forms: the limb lost, the illness brought on by a battlefield exposure, and, for some, the psychological toll of encountering an extremely traumatic event. PTSD Compensation and Military Service presents a thorough assessment of how the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs evaluates veterans with possible posttraumatic stress disorder and determines the level of disability support to which they are entitled. The book presents a Reigle 6 history of mental health disability compensation of military personnel and reviews the current compensation and pension examination procedure and disability determination methodology. It offers a number of recommendations for changes that would improve the fairness, consistency, and scientific foundation of this vital program. This book will be of interest and importance to policy makers, veterans affairs groups, the armed forces, health care organizations, and veterans themselves.