Crawford 1 Chloe Crawford Instructor Missler ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Animal home or prison? Animals in captivity tends to be a topic that has a lot of controversy. Through animals being captivated, yes we gain knowledge, we can experience exotic animals up close, and can even be an aid to the animals endangered or extinct list. However, that is only one side of the topic. The other side includes the confined spaces which make up for the lifetime home, some animals even suffer with severe anxiety and depression disorders, and a neglect for their freedom. PETA (People for the ethical treatment of animals) is one of the biggest stakeholders that supports animal freedom. According to PETA are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other Any Zoo will disagree with that statement. state to provide an educational lesson and exotic experience for the guests that visit their zoo. According to PETA, zoos are an animal prison while call them a home to all animals; with the two being so widely known a compromise desperately needs to be made. How do we know how much space an animal needs when we compare it to a habitat that is limitless? Researchers might say an animal needs a certain amount of space based on assumptions, however nothing can be proven. hard to say how much space an animal needs, but easy to recognize when an animal have enough space. This is the problem with captivated animals in zoos, the spacing. This research article studies the walking behavior of zoo elephants we can see how confined small spaces effect the health and well-being. Elephants are equipped to walk long distances. A wild elephant on average walks from 3.0- Crawford 2 12.0km each day. While zoo elephants walk on average 5.3km a day, due to spacing and feeding schedules. While the range for wild elephants is huge we must keep in mind the many factors wild elephants have that captivated elephants have. Researchers used anklets and attached it to 56 adult female African, and 23 Asian elephants. Researchers concluded that Zoo elephants walk only for their needs, their main source and reason for animals to be walking. Zoos have a set schedule for feeding and the elephants are aware of it. They know when and where they are getting feed, so researchers made another variable (more diverse feeding regimens) to see if it would affect the walking distance for elephants in zoos. Zoo care takers changed the location of the food, the animals had to go and search for their food which they used to doing. Researchers concluded that the elephants that had diverse feeing regimens walked on average 1.29km more than the elephants on the regular and predicted feeding schedule. Making their schedule similar to the elephants in the wild by having to walk and search for food made the elephants walk more however the spacing will always be a problem and factor. While might not have enough space for the animals some do focus on the happiness of their animals. In a recent article called Keeping zoo animals happy the Pubelo Zoo spent a day focused on making toys for their animals. Children, and family members were able to come and spend the Sunday to make toys for all the animals at their zoo. This is a common thing that a lot of do for their animals well-being and happiness. Some of the toys were so simple but just provided much more happiness for the animals. A simple tire is common to find in the elephant exhibit, or even a simple rope on a branch for the monkeys is a common toy that like the Pueblo and San Diego Zoo have. Despite some efforts PETA tends to disagree with what zoos are doing. Crawford 3 Peta refer to as PETA is against animals being captivated, and the organization is doing all that they can to save and protect animals captivated since 1980. PETA states how zoos replicate nor come close to replicating the natural habitat. In this article PETA states all the positive efforts that claim to be doing but how accurate is it? claim to provide information and education for the people that come and visit however not much to observe from an animal when not in its natural habitat. An example are birds, most birds at zoos have their wings clipped so they cannot fly. When an animal in the proper living conditions, nor can do or perform their basic performance (like flying for a bird). The animal will act different when its needs met, or when kept alone when in the wild it would be in herds or pods. According to the article Zoos: Pitiful Prisons are closely confined, lack of privacy, and have little opportunity for mental stimulation or physical exercise. These conditions often result in abnormal and self-destructive behavior, known as While PETA believes that zoos are a pitiful prison, they might not realize that zoos do a lot in conservation and have saved a lot of animals from going extinct. In a recent article written by conservation biologist James Borrell, he mentions eight reasons why zoos are good for conservation. Borrell mentions how helped save 39 different animal species that would have been completely extinct if it for captivity, the golden lion tamarin which is an animal that is no longer critically endangered because of many zoos conservation efforts. we learn about wild animals in captivity can help us manage and conserve them in the Borwell (9). help with the reproduction rate and increase the populations for many animals that are nearly extinct or on the endangered list. Zoos have not only helped the 39 animal species that been extinct but they also help the plant species from going extinct as well. Some Zoos search for species that are struggling in the wild, and set Crawford 4 up policies to captivate animals and be an aid for them. One Zoo that does this is the Zoological Society of London. According to the zls.org Zoological Society of London an international scientific, conservation and educational charity whose mission is to promote and achieve worldwide conservation of animals and their The Zoological Society of London participated in over one hundred and sixty of conservation program policies which have help many animals who would almost be critically endangered or even extinct by now. Now a compromise that I am proposing is to turn into animal sanctuaries. This compromise will provide animals more space, and their basic animal rights. Both PETA and agree that once an animal is captivated it cannot be returned into the wild. So releasing all the captivated animals would be the solution to PETA however, once an animal is used to their basic needs being met by animal care takers they create a reliance for them which realistic in the wild. why shutting down expanding each old exhibit into a big sanctuary will give these captivated animals a taste of freedom that they deserve. Likewise, a bigger area will create a space for the animals open and less reliant on the care takers. These sanctuaries will be built over the zoo and expanded into the areas surrounding the zoo property. In an article called Five Freedoms of Animal Welfare are by Clare McCausland basic animal rights as welfare and mentions how these rights are overlooked by lots, of zoos, and farms. In my compromise I would include these basic rights and welfare for the animals. welfare is sometimes understood as the view that while nonhuman animals have an interest is not suffering, this and other interests may always be overriden by the rights and interests of By cutting out the care and reliance captivated animals have on humans we can now have their basic needs taken care of mostly by themselves. By having an open and bigger area for the animals they can have the freedom to express their normal behaviors Crawford 5 and be fully capable of doing so since they have space. PETA can fund for the sanctuaries for the animals and it can be on the property. The Zoo will turn into a sanctuary for the captivated animals and the zoo workers can still keep their jobs and educate the public from a more educational standpoint, now that they can observe the animals in an adequate habitat. The zoo can still focus on the animals and their conservation efforts. Zoos will still get money by charging people to visit the sanctuary, and PETA can provide the animals the taste of freedom that they deserve. While both PETA, and Zoos are so widely known and accepted it makes it nearly impossible for either side to win, which is why there needs to be a compromise. By following my compromise, both stakeholders, while they might need to make some sacrifices they will be getting what they want. By creating animal more sanctuaries, the world and the animals will have major benefits. By providing us more credible information on these exotic animals, and by providing the animals their rights and a better life. Crawford 6 Works citied Borrell, James. Eight Reasons Why Zoos Are Good For  Biologist 63.5 (2016): 9. Academic Search Premier. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Holdgate, Matthew R., et al. Walking Behavior Of Zoo Elephants: Associations Between GPS- Measured Daily Walking Distances And Environmental Factors, Social Factors, And Welfare  Plos ONE 11.7 (2016): 1-17. Academic Search Premier. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Keeping zoo animals  Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, CO) 2016: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. McCausland, C 2014, Five Freedoms of Animal Welfare are Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics, no. 4, p. 649. Available from: 10.1007/s10806-013-9483- 6. [14 February Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used-entertainment- factsheets/zoos-pitiful-prisons/>.