Moir 1 Alexandra Moir Ms. Alison Missler Composition 2 Section 44 7 February 2017 Project One Final Draft One of the leading dairy producing areas in Florida is Okeechobee County, situated next to Lake Okeechobee in the Greater Everglades Ecosystem. In February of 2016, after a season of torrential rain caused the lake to overflow, Florida Officials made the call to dump Lake waters into the Gulf of Mexico (ThinkProgress 2016). The issue with this is that local industries have been polluting the lake with an array of chemicals, making the water toxic, and as it flows into the Gulf, it will then pollute it as well. This small body of water has an immediate effect on the economy and the environment throughout the state of Florida, since it is built around tourism. The Florida Dairy Farmers is an organization that represents dairy farmers across the state of Florida, including some of the farmers that work around Lake Okeechobee. Dairy is such a large sector of economy, and one of the largest in the United States, the mission is to enhance the image of the industry with the help of education and marketing (FloridaMilk, and Solodev). The Everglades Foundation is an environmental group focusing on the wellbeing of the Greater Everglades Ecosystem, which consists of an area stretching from Orlando to the Florida Keys (Everglades Foundation). If the Everglades Foundation would work together with the Florida Dairy Farmers to help reduce the amount of pollution that runs into Lake Okeechobee, they could reduce the amount of polluted water that flows throughout the water bodies and ensure the economic stability of both the tourist and dairy industries. Moir 2 Florida Dairy Farmers is the primary organization responsible for promoting dairy throughout the state of Florida, representing more than 130 farming families. Recently, the Museum of Science and Industry partnered up with the FDF to highlight and showcase the value that dairy possesses, the CEO of MOSI, Molly Demeulenaere, said is a key component of our economy, and proper nutrition is an important message point that is incorporated into many of our exhibits, so a natural fit to work with the Florida Dairy Farmers to bring more educational content to the (FloridaMilk). This is a funded organization works to enhance the image with a goal of increasing milk and dairy product sales statewide via consumer marketing and (FloridaMilk, and Solodev). They also house a smaller group within named the Dairy Council of Florida, which gives consumers reliable, researched information to ensure that dairy is being portrayed accurately. The FDF focuses on six main issues the those being Cow Care, Dairy Quality, Safekeeping Farms, Modern Technology, Making the Grade, and Environmental Sensitivity. Within Environmental Sensitivity, the organization discusses their efforts towards alternative energy using manure, along with maintaining air and water quality. Dairy farming provides numerous economic benefits to the Florida farming community. In a journal published in 2015, it states that dairy sector is crucial to world economy, currently being one of the most competitive and influential sector in food with the United States being the second largest producer/exporter of milk (Oliveira, Jonas da Silva, et al. 2015). If the association were to make improvements to the farming methods already in place, it could become more economically beneficial and allow farming methods to be more efficient. An example of profitable innovations in the dairy industry would be the use of genomics to increase breeding Moir 3 values, and should, in theory, reduce the amount of inbreeding in cows (Silva, Marcos V.B., et al. 2014). It is too soon in time to determine whether the amount of inbreeding does decrease. On the opposite side of the spectrum, the Everglades Foundation, founded in 1993, is a non-profit organization that focuses on restoring and protecting the Greater Everglades ecosystem. They receive most of their profits through contributions, which mostly goes towards scientific research and developing a greater understanding of the Greater Everglades Ecosystem. Their mission is reverse the damage inflicted on the ecosystem and provide policymakers and the public with an honest and credible resource to help guide decision-making on complex restoration (Everglades Foundation). This foundation reaches out to its partners, contributing more than $1.2 million towards restoration efforts, however, they do not just join with other environmental organizations, but non-traditional ones as well. (Everglades Foundation). One of the environmental impacts is that the manure from the cattle farms are often kept in open lagoons where manure settles. Over time, bacteria naturally treat the manure so the farmer can use it as fertilizer on crops used for cattle feed. However, the problem with this method is due to excessive rain, the lagoons overflow and the manure that has been already applied to the crops runoff. The chemicals from the manure then get in the waterways surrounding the farm, which in this case just so happens to be Lake Okeechobee. The eutrophication of Lake Okeechobee has been accelerated over the last few years due to excessive amount of phosphorus loading coming from the land from practices, with research indicating that large phosphorus quantities originated from beef cattle ranches and dairy farms (Hiscock, Jeffrey G, C. Scott Thourot, and Joyce Zhang 2003). Eutrophication can cause algae blooms Moir 4 which block light from reaching organisms that may need it to photosynthesize, it also could remove any oxygen from the water, creating a a spot where there is no life. A collaboration between Florida Dairy Farmers and the Everglades Foundation would be efficacious because of the common ground in between. Both groups have an interest in the environmental aspect of the craft. The farmers want to ensure that the cows have a plentiful amount of clean drinking water, so that they produce quality milk and stay healthy (FloridaMilk, and Solodev). The foundation wants to ensure that the Everglades Ecosystem is clear of all cattle by-product, so that the species native to the environment have clean water to thrive in. Nearly one million people visited the Everglades National Park last year alone (United States. National Park Service 2016), and since tourism is the number one industry in the state, providing approximately $67.2 billion in direct economic impact in 2011(Florida Governor Rick Scott). Clean, beautiful water ways are essential in maintaining a high functioning state economy. The Everglades Foundation could provide the Florida Dairy Famers with a step-by-step plan to help reduce the environmental impacts that their industry has on the water systems. The first step would be to address what they could change in their practice to reduce the overall amount of pollution in the waterways. For example, a study done in Vermont suggests that vegetative buffers are to be used to help filter runoff between source areas, such as manure applied fields, and sensitive areas, i.e. waterways (Kominami, Hisashi, and Sarah Taylor Lovell 2012). Then, the Everglades Foundation could monitor the amount of phosphorus in Lake Okeechobee to see whether the percentages have gone down yearly. Finally, the Florida Dairy Farmers could invest in newer technology that could reduce the amount of fertilizer used on crops or new methods of alternative energy. Moir 5 This type of compromise, where two organizations work together to solve a problem, has occurred in the past, which is why this compromise is assured to work. In 2012, the Bel Group, a multinational cheese company, collaborated with the World Wildlife Fund, an international environmental organization, to reach a common goal: the impacts on the environment linked to milk (Bel Group). With that goal in mind, they set up smaller aims to get there. First, they wanted to better understand the impact that feed composition had on the environment and how with manipulating that, they could find a more sustainable mix. After they did that, they identified which plants had the greatest environmental impact when used as cattle feed, and those were soy and palm. Bel Group is aware that environmental impacts do not only occur within the process of feed, however, they recognized that it is a key component to achieve sustainability. Still today, the teamwork between these two organizations is going strong because they both shared the common goal of reducing impact on the environment. If the Everglades Foundation would work together with the Florida Dairy Farmers to help reduce the amount of pollution that runs into Lake Okeechobee, they could reduce the amount of polluted water that flows throughout the water bodies and ensure the economic stability of both the tourist and dairy industries. By doing so, they could prevent algae blooms and potential dead zones from occurring all over the waterways in Southern Florida. Moir 6 Works Cited Bel Group. Bel Group - Bel and WWF towards a sustainable dairy  Http://www.groupe-bel.com/en. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Evergladesfoundation.org.  Everglades Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. FloridaMilk, and Solodev. Florida Dairy  Www.floridamilk.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. FloridaMilk. MOSI Partners with Florida Dairy Farmers to Educate Visitors on the Dairy  Florida Dairy Farmers. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Governor Scott Applauds Tourism  Florida Governor Rick Scott. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Hiscock, Jeffrey G, C. Scott Thourot, and Joyce Zhang. Phosphorus Use Relationships For The Northern Lake Okeechobee Watershed,  Ecological Engineering 21.(2003): 63-74. ScienceDirect. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Kominami, Hisashi, and Sarah Taylor Lovell. An Adaptive Management Approach To Improve Water Quality At A Model Dairy Farm In Vermont,  Ecological Engineering 40.(2012): 131-143. ScienceDirect. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Oliveira, Jonas da Silva, et al. Fair Value: Model Proposal For The Dairy  Agricultural Finance Review 75.2 (2015): 230. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Silva, Marcos V.B., et al. The Development Of Genomics Applied To Dairy  Livestock Science 166.Genomics Applied to Livestock Production (2014): 66-75. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Moir 7 ThinkProgress. Florida Officials Drain Lake Full Of Water To  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 08 Aug. 2016. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. United States. National Park Service. Stats Report  National Parks Service. U.S. Department of the Interior, 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.