Mahmood 1 Ahmed Mahmood Kristina Rouisse Composition 2 9 January 2017 Gun Control America has been facing problems because of the right to bear arms which is the second amendment to the united states constitution. other nation has had more mass shootings in the past 15 years than the U.S. There are also more guns per capita in the U.S. than in any other guns per 100 (The Hub). The United States of America currently leads the world in gun ownership, mass shooting and act of terror is an opportunity for liberals to push gun (The Federalist). Every citizen in America should feel safe and protected, it is important for every human to feel safe and everyone has the right to feel safe. Organizations like The Brady Campaign want to forbid guns to make a safer America and cut the gun deaths in half by 2025. Both the National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign do not want crimes and murders happening because of guns. However, The National Rifle Campaign defends the second amendment and educates the youth about gun control but does not want to forbid it. Therefore, both The Brady Campaign and the National Rifle Association must agree to a compromise which is to have strict background checks for people that want to have guns and educate people about guns so that guns fall in the hands of people with bad intent. The Brady goal is to cut the number of united states deaths for guns in half by the year 2025. They do not want people dying from murders and crimes done with a gun in use. They have three strategies to stop the wrong people from having guns. These strategies are mentioned in their website a policy focus to Finish the  so that life- Mahmood 2 saving Brady background checks are applied to all gun sales; (2) to Stop Gun  the 5 percent of gun dealers that supply 90 percent of all crime guns; and (3) to lead a new national conversation and change social norms around the real dangers of guns in the home, to prevent the homicides, suicides, and unintentional shootings that happen every day as a (Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence). The Brady Campaign has already managed to decrease the gun deaths from these strategies. They do not want people with bad intent to obtain guns so that there be any deaths happening from guns. America 8 out of 10 firearm suicides among adolescents are committed with a gun belonging to a family (The Brady Campaign), that is why they have a Suicide Proof Your Home campaign to inform parents how to reduce the risk of youth suicide in their home. However, they struggle to do so because of other organizations that support having guns and want people to have guns. The National Rifle Association is an organization that has a primary goal which is to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific  (NRA) according to a magazine editorial written by Church who is a Union veteran that co-formed the organization. They promote interest in the shooting sport to the youth by having rifle clubs at major military academies, colleges, universities. They are the leader in firearms education with 125,000 certified instructors now train about 1,000,000 gun owners a (NRA). Though this organization does not do any background checks for guns because they believe that background check systems do not stop criminals from getting firearms. They defend the second amendment rights and work on educating people about gun control. However, people still misuse the guns which has been a problem to this organization and that is why they have had several federal penalties for firearms misuse. The National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign do not have similar goals to achieve, but they still do share and have some similar interests. Both organizations want to Mahmood 3 decrease and reduce the gun deaths happening as much as possible and do not want people to misuse guns in any way. The Brady Campaign wants to expand a brady background checks and effective anti-trafficking policy so that guns can be kept away from people with bad intent. The national Rifle Association has the Eddie Eagle GunSafe program which educates kids that if they see a gun they be near it and should tell a parent or a grown up (Eddie Eagle Program). They also have other safety programs that are by more than 125,000 NRA Certified Instructors and Range Safety Officers nationwide, reaching over one million program participants (NRA). The Brady campaign also want to make legal action to decrease the number of deaths from guns like stopping bad apple gun deals, defend effective laws, and overturn dangerous laws. In order to have fewer gun casualties and guns not being in the hand of people with bad intent both the organization need to come together and create a back ground check for people that want to have guns. The Brady Campaign should hold the back ground checks, if they pass they can have a gun. The back grounds checks will look for people with past criminal records or people with mental illness. In that way, both organizations will benefit since there will be less bad people with guns. Back ground checks prevented more than two million convicted felons and other prohibited purchasers from buying (Coalition to Stop Gun Violence). People with bad records will likely not try to buy a gun when they know there is a strict back ground check. The two organizations should also get together and make a new better program to educate the youth and people about guns. They should both educate the youth on how they should not touch a gun and should tell a grown up if they see a gun. Also, educate grown-ups about the dangers of guns and how to use them for the right situations and times. The National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign both impacted gun control significantly and have made changes to the laws to the right to bear arms. However, they both Mahmood 4 want people to be educated about the subject and want less people to die from guns. To ensure this, The National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign should work together to make strict background checks for people that want to buy guns. If there are strict back ground checks for guns, people with criminal records and with bad intent will have a hard time trying to obtain a gun which will lead to less bad people having guns. They should also get together and make programs to educate the youth and grown-ups about gun control. They can teach people about the risks and dangers of guns. That way, the two organizations will benefit and less people will die and guns will not be easy to obtain for people with bad intent. There will also be more people educated about guns and they will know what to do if there is a gun around them. Word Count: 1177 Mahmood 5 Works Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Universal Background  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NRA  NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Program, Eddie Eagle Eddie Eagle  NRA Explore Eddie Eagle. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4 Major Problems with Gun Control  The Federalist. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. By Greg Rienzi / Published Feb 8, 2017. Guns in America: Facts, Figures, and an Up-close Look at the Gun Reform  The Hub. N.p., 12 Oct. 2016. Web. 10 Feb. 2017.