Sugawara 1 Mei Sugawara Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 12 February, 2017 Influenza Vaccination Recently, taking influenza (flu) vaccination starts to be common. Most people take flu vaccination yearly or seasonally in order to avoid catching flu. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) claimed that influenza is a serious disease which can lead people to death. They recommended that it is necessary to be vaccinated every year when it comes to flu season which is usually October to May in the USA. However, there are some arguments about risks of taking flu vaccination. Dr. Collignon from the Australian National University (ANU) said people who had been vaccinated seemed to have twice the risk of getting flue compared to the one who had not (Mercola). Likely to what Professor Collignon siad, Dr. Daunuta Skowronski who is expert at the B.C. Centre for Disease Control (BCCDC) stated that people who got flu shot seemed to be more likely to get infected with the pandemic virus than the people who had not receive a flu shot (Mercola). Because of this incompatible recommendations, CDC, alongside Dr. Collingnon from ANU and Dr. Skowronski from BCCDC, should come up with the solution to recommend people who catch flu naturally to have post treatment for flu Sugawara 2 instead of taking flu vaccination in order to protect people from getting flu illness. The CDC, an organization in the USA, works 24/7 to protect Americans safety and health and to prevent diseases which start from both America and foreign countries. They also encourage communities and citizens to fight for disease by providing health information which cause people to suffer from expensive and dangerous health threats. CDC was originally named Communicable Disease Center when they first started on July 1, 1946 in Atlanta CDC Its first mission was to prevent malaria from spreading across the nation. After they took root deep in the south part of the USA, founder of CDC, Dr. Joseph Mountin, kept promoting public health issues and trying to be responsible to other diseases CDC Thereby, CDC became one of the major operating component of the Department of Health and Human Serves and be recognized as a health promotion organization. They provided some benefits of taking flu vaccination which can reduce flu illness, visits and missed work and school due to flu. In addition, they claimed that thousands or ten thousands of people have died from flu-related causes every year. However, this may include the cases of death caused by flu vaccination, poor post treatment and undeveloped medical environment. Dr. Peter Collignon, from the ANU Medical School, specialized in health especially in infection diseases, influenza, swine flu and antibiotic related diseases. Dr. Sugawara 3 Daunuta Skowronski is the clinical professor who is expertized in influenza, emerging respiratory viruses and vaccine-preventable disease. She has done about 80 researches related to immunization and vaccination, especially in the field of flu (doximity). Dr. Skowronski is supervising some flu related experiments at BCCDC which provides health treatment services to people who have diseases. BCCDC has a national leadership in public health and tries to protect people from getting disease by detection and prevention. University of British Colombia(UBC) accepted the agreement of establishing UBC Centre for Disease Control (UBC CDC) with BCCDC in order to provide a comprehensive approach to public health. Both Dr. Collignon and Dr. Skowronski proved in researches that flu vaccination cause harmful side-effects or flu illness. Dr. Collignon also showed a benefit for getting flu once when the people were not being vaccine. Those people who naturally catch flu can get natural virus which protect them from not only one virus but also similar virus. Flu vaccination which people get seasonally or yearly can protect them from only one type of flu virus. For example, if you take vaccination for Influenza type B, you cannot prevent catching Influenza type A because you only have an antibody for Influenza type B. Moreover, there is no guarantee that people will not get flu even if they get vaccine. However, Dr. Collignon and Dr. Skowronski should agree with the fact that flu vaccination can reduce Sugawara 4 the possibility of getting flu and ease the symptoms after people get flu. As Dr. Collignon and Dr. Skowronski were researching about flu vaccination, they came up with a conclusion that people should not take flu vaccination. They warn people strongly through their researches, not to take flu vaccination. Although CDC and those stakeholders who oppose with flu vaccination have opposite attitude towards taking flu vaccination, they have one thing in common. It is to protect people from health threats and encourage them to be aware with diseases. Therefore, CDC and the doctors who do not support flu vaccination should come up with a compromise which is to recommend people to be cautious about catching flu and to take post treatment after they actually catch it. As reported by CDC, flu and the common cold are both respiratory illnesses but they are caused by different Some people think flu is a type of disease, but it is just a type of cold. Thus, people can try their best to prevent from catching flu by washing their hands, gargling and staying away from people who caught flu. According to Mayo Clinic, people who caught flu will need nothing more than bed rest and plenty of fluid to treat flu usually Sometimes, doctors will give patience antivirus medicine such as, Tamiflu and Relenza. These medicines will ease the symptoms or prevent from serious illness. Also, it is said to be good to take vitamin when people are having flu (Griffin). Sugawara 5 Hence, it is clear that flu will rarely cause some serious illness or death. CDC should put its effort into announcing people not the need of getting vaccine, but the need of post treatment. Dr. Collignon and Dr. Skowronski should do their best to publish some specific post treatment for people who caught flu naturally. By being cautious about catching flu and having post treatment, people do not have to worry about getting flu illness. The fear of getting flu is eroding mind. Recently, people think they have to take flu vaccination due to its popularity. The major reason why flu vaccination became popular is due to the media and advertisement. People often see media talking about the importance of getting flu vaccination, and they think they should get one because people around them are getting one. A lot of companies started to provide the opportunity for their employees to get vaccine. In addition, flu vaccination became to be a Public health officials are trying to make billions of dollars from pharmacy sales of flu (Alton). People are ignorant of how cheap the first price of flu vaccination is and how sellers are trying to impress them to get it. Sellers are selling flu vaccination using the fear of catching flu, not by considering about health. As CDC recommends, it is important to prevent from catching flu. However, there will be some disadvantage coming along with advantage. It is essential to research by themselves and Sugawara 6 to know the pros and cons of getting flu vaccination beforehand. People should consider carefully what is necessary for them and what is not. Do not be swayed by the opinions of those around you. Your right decision will make your health bright. Word Count: 1218 Sugawara 7 Work Cited CDC BC Center for Disease Control, The British Columbia Centre for Disease Control, Web. 27 January. 2017. CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 26 April. 2016. Web. 27 January. 2017. Alton, Lori 10 reasons to skip the flu Natural Health 365, Natural Health 365, 15 November. 2015. Web. 11 February. 2017 Versus Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 11 August. 2016. Web. 27 January. 2017. M Skowronski, doximity, Web. 11 February. 2017 Peter Australian National University, Australian National University, Web. 27 January. 2017 Daunuta Skowronski, MD, UBC Experts Guide, The University of British Colombia, 10 June. 2010. Web. 27 January. 2017. Griffin, Morgan. Cold and Flu WebMD, WebMD Feature. 29 December. 2010. Web. 11 February. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 9 December. 2016. Web. 27 January. 2017. Sugawara 8 Marcola, Joseph. Flu Vaccine INCREASES Risk of Serious Pandemic Flu Mercola Take Control of Your Health, 18 September. 2012. Web. 27 January. 2017 Influenza(flu), Mayo Clinic, 20 October. 2016. Web. 27 January. 2017. We CDC BC Center for Disease Control, The British Columbia Centre for Disease Control, Web. 27 January. 2017.