Aljahwari 1 Elias Aljahwari Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 11 February 2017 Gun control in the United States Of all the strong and controversial topics out there on the news, gun rights and gun regulation are most certainly at the top of the list. After mass shootings in Orlando, Virginia Tech, Aurora and others. According to a recent CNN poll, the American people are closely divided on the issue of guns. The NRA (National Rifle Association) is an American non-profit organization that stands for guns, and the right for every American to own a gun. On the other hand, Everytown for gun safety, is a movement of Americans working together to have less need for guns in our communities. The NRA and Everytown for gun safety are going to work hand in hand in order to create new ways to make it more challenging for criminals to get their hand on a firearm. There is a basic argument around gun control: does having more or less guns around makes us safer? The answer to this question would lead to many controversial arguments. On the government website of they have a strong slogan against the current president, and against the NRA. NRA spent 30 million dollars to elect Donald Trump and they will expect to get what they paid This is written on the home page of their website alongside a picture Aljahwari 2 of President Trump and Vice President Pence. This organization is determined to stop Donald Trump from making America a more dangerous place to live in. Having more guns can only lead to more violence. In their perspective, adding more guns is not going to stop gun violence and mass shootings. On the other hand, the NRA wants every American to have a gun in their house. From the perspective, if each person out there had a gun for protection, mass shooting could be stopped they there even happen. The NRA is the oldest civil rights organization in the United States, with more than 5 million members. The NRA endorsed a presidential candidate for the first time in 1980, backing Ronald Regan, who is pro guns. 12,000 Americans are murdered with guns every year a rate more than 20 times higher than that of other developed countries. The number of non-fatal shootings has increased. Because we have not enacted common sense gun policies that will save lives, we have not reduced gun violence in America we have just gotten better at saving the lives of gunshot wound This quote discusses their point of view and how they feel about the current American gun policies. They are extremely enraged because of how many innocent people are getting shot in this country. Everytown for gun safety is a demanding group, and they will not back down. For them and the NRA to co-exist together, there will have to compromise from both parts. Right now, if any US citizen wants to purchase a firearm, it is easier than ever to do. So first things first, buying a gun can not be this unchallenging. There will be more security and background checks in forced by every gun story around the country. Buying guns online will also be prohibited. are buying guns online: 1 in 30 would-be buyers on Armlist have prohibiting criminal Aljahwari 3 records. Armlist hosted an estimated 790,000 firearm ads in 2013. At this rate, the website likely to put at least 25,000 guns into criminal Armlist.com is an advertisement website mainly selling firearms. Allowing the public and everyone with access to a computer to buy a gun online and have it delivered to them with minimal background checks is wrong. Criminals can get their hands on guns effortlessly. Right now, we have a huge problem in this country; any person who wants a gun can get one. To some people, that might be a good thing, but it has turned into an immense problem. There are too many guns out there, and there were obtained legally. vast majority of guns used in 16 recent mass shootings, including two guns believed to be used in the Orlando attack, were bought legally and with a federal background check. At least eight gunmen had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their The quote from the New York Times discusses the fact the most mass shooting gunmen obtain their guns completely legally. So what does that tell us? We are providing criminals with their murder weapons legally. That can not be the case anymore, Everytown for gun safety is determined to make it as challenging as possible to obtain a new gun, and the NRA wants to keep it the way it is. But both groups will have to make comprises in order to have agreeable terms. Public responsibility could be extremely effective if each and every gun owner takes full responsibility of their gun and keeping it locked in a safe at all times. If Nancy Lanza had locked her rifle, her son Adam might not have have killed her and 26 first grade students at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Another example is the Virginia Tech attack in 2007, when a student with Aljahwari 4 mental health issues purchased two handguns legally after breezing through backgrounds checks. After that he killed 32 people in the University. The killer was obviously a disturbed induvial, this sort of mental history should disqualify someone from purchasing a firearm. Background checks only occur when a gun is purchased from a licensed dealer. If a buyer has the money, and knows that they pass the check, they can buy weapons from any private seller, since they are not required by law to run the check. People who pass the background checks are usually felons or induvial with mental illness. The NRA wants to achieve a successful compromise with Everytown for gun safety. Both of these major organizations care about the safety and protection of the American People., and both of these groups recognizes that they are too many people getting shot out there. Which is why the NRA has agreed to prohibit buying guns online. The NRA and Everytown have also collaborated to provide a new device that will be available in every gun store around the country. This new device will have all the American information alongside a calculator. This device will allow the seller to know some information about the buyer. When the customer shows his or her Identification, the device is going to show a rating next to their name, the ratings go from 1 to 10, 10 being a very high risk customer. If the the customer is a 6 or higher, then he is considered high risk, and the gun store will not sell him the gun. The meter is calculated by jail time, mental health, and any prior incidents that the buyer has encountered. The NRA and Everytown for gun safety are two major organizations in their fields. Gun rights and regulations are extremely crucial; this topic is highly controversial and talked about a lot by the media. Which makes it very delicate, because there are two sides who might be angry if you say the wrong thing. Reaching a clear and smart compromise is all the two groups want to Aljahwari 5 do. Every person living in America has something at stake here. The NRA is welling to compromise a lot in order to make America a safer place to live in. The main goal for both these groups is to lower crime rates and mass shootings. I expect that this issue will be still as controversial as it as today in 10 years. Aljahwari 6 Work Cited http://www.cnn.com/POLITICS/pollingcenter/polls/3374 http://everytown.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/U.S.-Gun-Violence-Trends.pdf https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/10/03/us/how-mass-shooters-got-their- http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2013/01/29/gun-control-violence-hearings/1875975/ http://www.gunviolencearchive.org/