Hill 1 Cameron Hill Professor Alison Missler ENC1102 29 January 2017 Fishing for Middle Ground Since being on earth, people have fished in some type of form. Fishing has greatly developed from a survival method, to an enormous industry in the United States. With advancements in fishing gear, lead poisoning to the environment has become a problem that the Center for Biological Diversity wants to end. However, dependent on lead, specifically in fishing weights, Bass Pro Shops wants to continue selling the material to add to its revenue. To compromise, the Center for Biological Diversity will allows Bass Pro to continue selling lead products, if Bass Pro looks for future alternatives and funds habitat protection programs. Founded in 1989, the Center for Biological Diversity has been leading the fight in environmental protection. Although they cover all aspects of the environment, fishing has appeared quite often. According to an article located on the Center for Biological website, the Environmental Protection Agency denied a request to ban toxic lead fishing gear from being used. Although they failed to successfully push reform then, they are continuing the fight to ban lead from fishing. According to that article, the main reason that the Center for Biological Diversity wants to ban lead, is because it and harms millions of wild birds and other animals every year and endangers public Cleary Bass Pro does not want to endanger the public or the wildlife it relies on for business, but do they fully understand the results of lost lead? Waterbirds like swans, or ducks, ingest pebbles on purpose as it helps their Hill 2 digestive process (Levit). The Center for Biological Diversity understands that people do not intentionally mean to improperly discard their tackle, as those fisherman share a similar passion for wildlife as does the Center for Biological Diversity. Although fisherman care about the surrounding wildlife, most realize the consequences that occur when a bird digests a lead sinker. Birds that swallow a lead sinker soon have trouble digesting food, dealing with cold weather, and avoiding predators due to muscle spasms and loss of balance that make them easy targets (Levit). To help keep wildlife that shares the same environment as fish safe from lead, the Center for Biological Diversity would like to enact a complete ban on lead fishing tackle. Bass Pro Shops, founded by John Morris in 1972, has 92 stores and counting between the United States and Canada. According to there website, Bass Pro wants to inspire people to love, enjoy, and conserve the great outdoors. After recently buying Cabelas, Bass Pro is now undisputedly the biggest outdoor chain store. According to forbes.com, Bass Pro brought in 4.5 billion dollars in the 2015 fiscal year, making it the largest private company. As for the Bass Pro stores located here in Florida, fishing brings in the most revenue. A ban on lead, especially in Florida, could deeply hurt Bass Pro. According to the Florida Sportsman, on lead fishing tackle at the state level can negatively impact both anglers and the In addition to sinkers, many lures contain lead. If they were to be banned, stores including Bass Pro could see a drop in revenue as they scurry to figure out how to adapt to the new regulation. Bass Pro has also seen a threat in the hunting department because environmentalists have protested for lead bullets to be banned. As an alternative, copper could be used, but comes at a much higher price (Meadows). If Bass Pro had to switch from lead to copper, there revenue would decrease, and workers might have to be fired. Bass Pro wants to continue to produce its products at the lowest Hill 3 prices possible while keeping the quality high. Lead allows Bass Pro to make the most revenue while supplying outdoorsman, specifically fisherman, with the best gear possible. In order to find a conclusion, both stakeholders must find common ground. Bass Pro, the outdoor supergiant, and the Center for Biological Diversity have more common ground than they may realize. Although Bass Pro is a company that focuses on turning a profit, they also have a need to pay attention to the environment. Without a healthy environment, no one can enjoy fishing, hunting, and camping. It is very important that Bass Pro makes the environment a top priority, hence, why preserving the environment is in there mission statement. Looking at the other stake holder, the Center for Biological Diversity, they too have a common interest with Bass Pro. Part of their mission statement is to allow further generations to experience wildlife and its beauties. This includes experience through outdoor activities in which Bass Pro supplies. Both stakeholders can find their common interest and form a compromise. The ideal compromise would be that Bass Pro can continue to sell lead products, as long as they donate a reasonable amount of their profits to help stop habitat loss. The greatest threat to plants and animals is habitat loss (Williams). By fighting habitat loss, wildlife will be preserved and Bass Pro will receive a higher demand from customers because of the preserved wildlife. Once BassPro can find a healthy but efficient alternative to lead, they can make the switch. species are being lost today because of what happened a century ago (Williams). Not only will Bass Pro be helping wildlife, they will also be helping future wildlife. By donating to habitat loss programs through sales profit, Bass Pro will help the Center for Biological Diversity succeed in its mission statement. Hill 4 It seems at this point that both sides can stop debating, and focus on the proposed compromise. Both stakeholders have an outstanding compassion for the environment, and will help make it better for future generations. The Center for Biological Diversity will continue on its quest for environmental protection while Bass Pro will continue to inspire people to love, care, and preserve the great outdoors. If both stakeholders come together, the environment can be preserved, and outdoorsman can experience the great things it has to offer. Hill 5 Works Cited Us , BPS Direct, www.basspro.com/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/CFPageC?storeId=10151&catalogId=1005 Pro Shops on the Forbes Largest Private Companies , Forbes Magazine, 2016, Florida Sportsman Newswire, The Ban On Lead Fishing Florida Sportsman. 15 March 2013 floridasportsman.com/2013/03/15/stop-the-ban-on-lead-fishing-tackle/ Accessed 14 February 2017 Levit, Joe. Weight & switch: a Massachusetts teenager educates anglers about the unforeseen consequences from lead fishing  World , 16 Mar. 2009, p. 12+. Academic OneFile ,go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE %7CA195324756&it=r&asid=6ade65a8e7a54703bc2369732865b8c1. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Meadows, Robin. in Ecology and the Environment , vol. 10, no. 4, 2012, doi:10.1890/154-9295-10.4.172. Miller, Jeff. Rejects Ban on Toxic Lead Fishing Gear Agency Refuses to Address Preventable Poisoning That Kills Millions of Birds, Wildlife Every Center for Biological Diversity, 4 November 2010, Mission: Saving Life On Center for Biological Diversity www.biologicaldiversity.org/about/ Accessed 14 February 2017 Williams, Caroline. New Scientist 224.2991 (2014):40-42. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 14 Feb 2017