Ohnmacht 1 Tyler Ohnmacht Theodosiou ENC-1102 2/15/17 Ridesharing and Taxis, A Look at Common Ground There are over 50,000 taxi drivers in New York, and for years they were one of the main modes of transportation for the people of New York. They have been protected by their union, the New York Taxi Workers Alliance (NYTWA). In recent years, the once untouchable taxi industry has been fighting another transportation service. These transportation services are ridesharing companies like Uber and Lyft. Ridesharing services have come out of nowhere to challenge the taxi industry for their place as one of the top means of transportation in New York. Uber, which is one of the most popular ride sharing apps, currently has about 30,000 drivers working in the city (NextCity.org). Due to the way Uber operates, having their drivers employed as independent contractors oftentimes allows them to have cheaper fares and more drivers on the road when compared to the taxi companies with which they compete. As a result, these two companies regularly butt heads while competing for the business of New commuters. However with some slight changes to the local legislature mostly to the outdated taxi regulations, these two branches of transportation could have a healthy amount of fair competition between them. On the whole, this would benefit the consumer most of all. The New York Taxi Workers Alliance (NYTWA) is a union that works for the taxi drivers of the city. Their mission statement is for justice, rights, respect and dignity for the over 50,000 licensed men and (NYTWA.org). On their website the NYTWA calls the Ohnmacht 2 taxi industry a in an effort to show how overlooked taxi drivers can be in the grand scale of the Even though there are nearly fifty-thousand taxi drivers in the city, there are only roughly thirteen thousand taxis. This is because there are a limited amount of taxis allowed on the road by law. In order to be a legitimate taxi in the city of New York one must buy a taxi medallion. In David paper and the Persistence of Market he gives a brief explanation of how taxi medallions work saying taxi medallion authorizes a given automobile to operate as a taxi within a given area. Historically, cities have sold a limited number of medallions in order to restrict the number of (Gabel 529). Limited medallions of many problems that the NYTWA has echoed in their protests of Uber. Another business tactic that the NYTWA classes as unfair is about employees only needing personal insurance. NYTWA plans to protest Uber and Lyft lobbying groups on Uber and Lyft are lobbying for a bill that would allow their drivers to have lower insurance standards than taxis. The NYTWA stated that this an example of Uber trying to the insurance coverage, lower the premium, the higher they can charge on the This point is also noted by Gabel when showing why Uber rates are usually lower than taxi costs, saying is able to provide services at a lower price, in part, because its drivers are subject to less regulation. . .yellow cab drivers are required to carry expensive commercial, rather than personal insurance and to obtain a license. . drivers and cars, on the hand, are exempt from these (Gabel 529). With Uber being able to provide services at a cheaper rate without the NYTWA being able to compete due to outdated regulations they feel they are not being justly represented. As a result the NYTWA is pushing for deregulation of the taxi industry, or more strict regulation placed on Uber. Ohnmacht 3 Uber is a ridesharing service based out of California. It emerged in San Francisco in 2010. On their website Uber claims it was founded when Kalanick and Garrett Camp had trouble hailing a cab. So they came up with a simple a button, get a (Uber.com). In the past seven years Uber has blossomed into much more than the original idea. On their website Uber states their original intent was to just have a few black cars in metropolitan areas, has now turned into the biggest competitor to the taxi industry. They have gone beyond just giving rides in cities like New York, Uber can now also deliver food to customers. One of the challenges Uber faces in landscape is being noticed as a legitimate transportation service. Even though they are often seen as better than the traditional taxi, Uber still faces some challenges in the transportation industry. In a case study done in Barcelona showing what would happen if the government managed on demand transport like Uber or Taxis, Uber was found to be more cost efficient with the report saying is the same for both taxi and car sharing services, with a supply of 53 veh/km2 , but with a three times higher unitary cost for the taxi (Cuevas, Estrada, Salanova 164). This means that if there were 53 vehicles per square kilometer it would be three times less costly to use Uber than taxi services. Studies like this one show the viability of Uber in major cities. Companies like Uber also promote competition within the industry. If ridesharing had not taken off, the taxi industry would have never tried to reform itself. Uber brings an essential part of capitalism, competition, and forcing the taxi industry to better itself to stay in business. Although it is not always great for the taxi industry, it is altogether better for the consumer; thus the competition Uber brings benefits the customer. Ohnmacht 4 Although these two stakeholders are seemingly at odds, there is a for them to come together to find common ground and compromise. They both focus on transporting people, in this case around the city of New York. The NYTWA wants to keep taxi workers employed, and make sure they are paid and treated fairly. Uber is entirely focused on maximal ease of use and convenience for the customer. Overall both stakeholders have to focus on efficiency, convenience, and fair treatment for their workers. If both stakeholders worked together they could guarantee the proper changes are enacted to ensure the best future for both of these groups. The solution needed is a change to the local legislature. In an article written by Katie Barglind in the Wisconsin Law Journal, she points out that the state of Victoria, Australia has a compromise between the local taxis and Uber. She points out the two major aspects of the Victoria reform to reduce or eliminate restrictions on the supply of taxis that limit choice and increase prices for consumers; (2) while ensuring that technological change that can benefit consumers is not (Barglind 725). A similar compromise could be used between these groups in New York City, if Uber and the NYTWA protested certain regulations they could achieve reform that would allow progress, but still allow competition. Achieving this would require reform of section 59 of the New York City legislature. This section of legislature limits the number of taxi medallions as well as the law requiring taxi cab drivers to have commercial insurance (NYCA). These two laws need of the most reform according to the NYTWA. As a way of reformation, these laws could be changed to include ridesharing services under their guise. In article she mentions how Colorado became the first state to regulate ride sharing services, making drivers register with Public Utility Commission, and have the proper one dollar fee was also placed on Uber to Ohnmacht 5 facilitate the changes (Barglind 715). The Colorado example is a bit much because it does not allow Uber to be any different, it essentially just makes Uber another taxi company. Instead a fee could be placed on Uber trips instead and that fee would be paid by Uber but could be in part passed to the customers, however they would be allowed to keep their privileges of having cheaper insurance. A fee similar to this was implemented in Victoria at two dollars per trip and is pointed out by Barglind in her paper (Barglind 726). If Uber were to be would then be entirely legitimized as a mode of transportation by one of the most major cities in the United States. This most likely help them settle other cases of unrest in other places like Nevada where Uber is currently banned, and could also set a standard for other states that currently have no regulations on Uber. Uber in order to offset the extra cost caused by the taxation could potentially retain exclusive rights to use autonomous cars once companies like Tesla have them road safe. Uber has already expressed its interest in autonomous vehicles and so, if they were to have driverless cars they would benefit by generating more profit. Uber would also be able to provide stiff, but fair competition in this scenario. This exclusivity would also most likely help taxis as well. The switch to autonomous cars would surely be intimidating for some, those that do not wish to embrace the change can choose to use a taxi. If both groups came together to lobby New state legislature it would be entirely possible for them to convince the state senate to reform section 59 of New legislature. Because of the sway that both of these groups have over transportation in the city it is within the best interests of their lawmakers to make all parties involved happy. All in all both the NYTWA and Uber have the best interests at heart for their consumers, even if neither stakeholder is perfect. Although these groups will always be in competition with Ohnmacht 6 one another, it does not mean they cannot work together. With cooperation between these groups their combined influence over the transportation industry could lead to reforms that shape how we commute for the generations to come. Ohnmacht 7 Works Cited Barglind, Katie. Innovation, Technology, And Transportation: The Need To Address On-Demand Ridesharing And Modernize Outdated Taxi Regulations In The  Wisconsin International Law Journal 33.4 (2016): 701-727. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Katie Barglind graduated from Wisconsin Law University. She was published in the Wisconsin Law Journal noting the importance of the need to reform the taxi industry. She graduated in 2016 and is the US consulate to Germany. I chose this source because it echoes the points in my compromise almost perfectly. Cuevas, Victor, Miguel Estrada, and Josep Maria Salanova. Management Of On-Demand Transport Services In Urban Contexts. Barcelona Case  Research Procedia 13.Towards future innovative transport: visions, trends and methods 43rd European Transport Conference Selected Proceedings (2016): 155-165. . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Cuevas works at the Center for Innovation and Transport. A research company which is based in Spain focusing on how to improve transportation in Spain. This is not the first time he has been published in the Transportation Research Periodica. The Association of European Transport peer reviewed this study. Hire NYCA. 59. 4-48. 2010. Web. I cited this source to show that the laws mentioned are in New York legislature. Gabel, David. Uber And The Persistence Of Market  Of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe Inc.) 50.2 (2016): 527-534. Source Alumni Edition . Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Ohnmacht 8 David Gabel graduated with a Ph.D in Economics at Wisconsin University. He is now a professor in Ethics at CUNY Queens College in New York. This point shows what is currently wrong with the taxi industry that the NYTWA is trying to change. Mondon, Marielle. NYC Numbers Reach New  Next City . N.p., 08 Oct. 2015. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. I used this source to have a representative number of Uber drivers in the paper. New York Taxi Workers  York Taxi Workers Alliance . NYTWA, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This source is valuable to my paper because it is the website of one of my stakeholders. Our Trip  . Uber, n.d. Web. 17 Jan. 2017. I chose this source because it is a primary source of information about one of my stakeholders.