Goubrial 1 Mariam Goubrial Janie Gill ENC1102-077 22 January 2017 Mass Incarceration of Drug Offenders vs. Drug Treatment Therapy In June 1971, President Richard Nixon had declared the official on Today, this proposal has been taken into questioning. Organizations such as the Drug Policy Alliance view incarcerating individuals under drug charges and sentencing them to prison are unnecessary ways to solve the issue. They believe rather than throwing drug abusers in jail under lengthy sentences, the government should put them into treatment programs to help them break their addiction. Although this may be a good solution for some, the Republican Party does not agree. The Republican Party believes that stricter drug law enforcement is an efficient way to prohibit drug use. A solution that could benefit both sides of this argument is therapeutic drug treatment for first time offenders and if offenders are convicted again, they will be sent to a correctional facility. The Republican Party firmly believes that using stricter law enforcement policies will cease the use of drugs within society. According to the Republican views website, believe in using stricter enforcement as a deterrent to drug use and drug-related crimes. They believe that jail time must be used as a deterrent for drug use, and that it will also increase support for grants to assist with drug testing in They wish for prosecutors to aggressively detain drug users and sentence them accordingly. President Donald Goubrial 2 Trump also shares similar beliefs as it is claimed that strongly against drugs of all time, and supports stricter sentencing and more law enforcement power going towards the war on (Republican Views) In the article Programs And The Real Costs Of Policing by Rachel A. Harmon, she explains the costs of the programs that enforce current drug violation laws such as the Byrne JAG Program. Federal dictums have given authorization to these programs and agencies to fund local policing departments to enforce incarceration. She then explains how such programs are always changing and expanding. They no longer just provide money, they also provide equipment and power to law enforcement to fulfill like the war on drugs. (Harmon 884) This point of view is understood because of safety concerns and also the effect drugs have on society and the economy. Organizations such as Drug Policy Alliance disagree with the belief that prison or jail will straighten out drug offenders acts. The Drug Policy Alliance just society in which the use and regulation of drugs are grounded in science, compassion, health and human rights, in which people are no longer punished for what they put into their own bodies but only for crimes committed against others, and in which the fears, prejudices and punitive prohibitions of today are no (Drug Policy Alliance) They believe that drug abusers should be given therapeutic treatment for their actions. They also believe that prison is a harmful solution to drug use and only makes prisoners rebel more. According to the Drug Policy Alliance website, 84% of drug violation arrests made in 2015 were for possession only. (Drug Policy Alliance) In the article Our Drug Laws Have Failed and What We Can Do about It: a Judicial Indictment of the War on Drugs by Andrew P. Morriss, he reviews a book written by Judge James P. Gray about how the drug laws have failed our system. Judge Gray claims that the drug laws Goubrial 3 drugs more dangerous to drug (Morriss) He also believes that in the future drug laws will be viewed the same as Jim Crow laws. (Morriss) In spite of these opposing views on how to approach drug violation crimes, both stakeholders want to benefit to drug violators. The two purposes is to determine how the drug violator is treated based on his/her actions and they share the goal that the drug violator will not commit the crime again. The federal Republican Party believes that individuals that convict such crimes should be incarcerated on lengthy sentences. They believe that this will protect the drug violator from drugs and protect society from the drug violator. In opposition to this approach, the Drug Policy Alliance seek to better the lives of the individuals who have drug issues. They believe providing these individuals with therapeutic treatment and care will give them an opportunity to change their lifestyle and give them a second chance rather than a federal record. The proposed solution for these two stakeholders is to offer drug treatment to offenders. If the drug offender does not comply to the treatment, he/she will be sent to a correctional facility. In the article Drug Treatment Court As A Form of Restorative Justice by Andrew Fulkerson, Fulkerson proposes a recently founded solution to the mass incarceration of drug offenders. The drug treatment court was first started in Miami, Florida in 1989. The drug treatment court provided acupuncture, treatment, counseling, educational programs and vocational programs to offenders because they had noticed that current policies implied now are ineffective. (Fulkerson, 254) Fulkerson then explains how the drug treatment court works- offenders are first detoxified and must go to counseling. After counseling ends, offenders must go to an aftercare program. During the whole treatment phase, offenders must always take Goubrial 4 consistent drug tests to prove that they are clean of drug use. If the drug offender does use drugs during his/her treatment course, he/she must repeat one or more of the phases of treatment. (Fulkerson, 255) Fulkerson explains that the difference between the traditional prison/jail system and the drug treatment court is that the drug treatment court understands that relapse will happen. They understand that the offender will be tempted to take drugs again because addiction is in fact a disease. Although they understand this, they must give some sort of punishment time to the offender. Fulkerson states sanction for a positive drug test in some drug courts is the least amount of punishment necessary to reduce drug use and criminal behavior (Dorf & Sabel, 2000). This level of sanction is called (Hora et al., 1999, p. (Fulkerson, 255) The drug treatment court would be a good solution for these two stakeholders- the federal Republican Party and the Drug Policy Alliance. Drug offenders are given treatment and a second chance to regenerate into society. If they do not comply and use drugs again, they will be sent to a correctional facility. This satisfies both sides because it is implying both of their strategies into one solution. Drug offenders should not be sentenced long prison or jail time because of these actions but given a chance to regenerate and work on bettering themselves. Although there may be some problems accompanied with this solution such as the costs of this treatment, the government may avoid paying billions of dollars on federal prisons and jails but rather spend it on these treatment facilities. The Republican Party should also view drug abusers not as criminals, but as people who are imprisoned in the jails of addiction. Works Cited Goubrial 5 Drug War  War Statistics Marijuana Statistics Mexico Drug War Deaths Drug Policy Alliance . Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Fulkerson, Andrew. The Drug Treatment Court As A Form Of Restorative  Contemporary Justice Review 12.3 (2009): 253-267. Search Premier . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Harmon, Rachel A. Federal Programs And The Real Costs Of Policing  York University Law Review 3 (2015): 870. . Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Morriss, Andrew P. Why Our Drug Laws Have Failed And What We Can Do About It: A Judicial Indictment Of The War On  Review 1 (2002): 137. AcademicOneFile . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. RepublicanViews.org.  Views . 19 Oct. 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.