Anand 1 Dhruv Anand Mr. Bob Botkin ENC-1102 28 January, 2017 Hunting has played a role as sport for a very long period of time now. In the old times, rich people of United Kingdom used to hunt animals to show how courageous and brave they were. They used to hunt lions and use them as decoration on their walls of houses whereas today, most of the people do hunting for recreational activity and for business purpose. One of the best examples is African elephants; they are killed for their tusks which are mainly used in making jewelry. Many endangered species are on the verge of extinction because of hunting. Extinction of any species is going to effect the whole ecosystem because every species plays an important role in maintaining the balance of the ecosystem. Hunting as a sport and for fashion purposes should be banned because it is not worth taking an animal life for a useless purpose which is not going to give great benefit. For the people who hunt for sport, it is just a source of entertainment but for the animals, it is their lives. Killing an animal just to show how brave the person is should be banned. Their lives are much more important than these things. Hunting as a sport have other consequences to human beings because it is very dangerous as hunters have no safety in a forest when they are going to face a wild animal. Many people and hunters lose their lives while hunting because some of the wild animals are very dangerous. Hunting have been very popular among rich people as well as the hunters and poachers who are hired by the business which deals with jewelry made from animal parts and other fashion items. The owners of the businesses make a lot of profit by selling stuff made from Anand 2 animals skin and other body parts because the price of the jewelry or other things are set high by the owners of businesses but hunters and poachers get low wages which is unfair to the hunters as they do all the hard work in hunting the animal. On the other hand, rich people do hunting as their hobby. Killing the animals is just a source of entertainment to them. The main reason behind hunting by rich people is to show other people that how brave and courageous they are. Rich people pay a lot of money for killing wild animals. To show how strong and powerful they are, rich people buy wild animals lives with their money. Other than this, Hunters kill different kind of endangered species just to experience something new. H.W Wilson mentioned that Knowlton who is a hunter claimed that a hunter. I want to experience a black (2). This shows that for some of the hunters, it is just a new experience. Black rhino is considered a endangered because there are only 5000 black rhino left in this world, 1700 of which are in Africa. They are mainly killed for making ornaments. People are also interested in participating in animal auctions where people spend a lot of money to buy the animal and the highest bidder gets the animal. Auctions are usually held for endangered species because they are more popular and only few are left in the world. On the other hand, wildlife conservation organizations are against hunting because no human being has any right to take other living creature life just for entertainment or for fashion. The president of the Safari club international, Jon Wemple clearly states that am reminded of the importance of preserving our hunting heritage...my generation left it better for my father than he had inherited at the turn of the century. This was a time, when buffalo, elk and other species were nearly lost. The true conservationists (hunters) stepped up to the plate. Visionaries like Theodore Roosevelt, Gifford Pinchot and Aldo Leopold put us on course for what we enjoy 5).This shows that wildlife conservation organizations has played a Anand 3 very important role over thousands of years in protecting the wildlife species because they know that hunting for sports or for fashion is inefficient as it clearly shows animal cruelty. In 1901, the president Roosevelt designated millions of acres of national parks where hunting was banned to protect the endangered species from extinction. Government as well as conservation organizations has played a vital role to ban hunting and protecting the endangered species because they know the consequences of hunting especially for the sports and for fashion. The government should work on providing more wildlife sanctuaries and national parks for protecting the endangered animals where as rich people and hunters should understand the consequences of killing an endangered species just for fun and for fashion. The best thing government can do is to ban hunting of endangered species for recreational and fashion purpose because those species are very rare as they are on the verge of extinction. Endangered species gives many different benefits to rich people as well as hunters like hunters, poachers or rich people hunt those endangered species for their own benefits as hunting going to benefit them in different ways like hunters and poachers can sell those dead endangered species to business which deals in animal made stuff and make profit out of it, for rich people who is hunting for entertainment hunting of endangered species will be a new experience because those species are rare. The ban on hunting of endangered species will force the people to stop killing endangered animals and with the help of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, the endangered species can get their population out of danger of extinction. Peter A Lindsey mentioned that illegal killing of a radio-collared lion, by a trophy hunter in government took appropriate actions against the hunter as well as wildlife conservation organizations protected the babies and the family of Cecil the lion. This was one of the best example which shows that government is taking actions to protect endangered animals and how hunters were Anand 4 killing endangered animals illegally for their own benefit. Wyatt Smith described that five months after death, in an effort to make it more difficult for hunters to bring lion trophies into the United States, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) officially extended the protections of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to the African This demonstrates that government take different actions in favor of protecting the endangered animal species. They started taking serious actions because the African lion was on the brink of extinction. In Africa, life after the death of Cecil changed. Lindsey Parker claims that governments posed by the need to fund vast wildlife estates and provide incentives for conservation by communities in the context of growing human populations and competing It means government is changing their strategies to make as much funds as they can make for protecting the endangered animal species. Animal rights Activists also plays a very important role in protecting the endangered animals. Beckie Elgin states that rights activists are employing a new set of tactics to thwart hunters from taking down wolves, bears, and other (6). This proves that activists are against the hunters who are hunting innocent animals for their own benefits. Animal rights activists have also lodged protests against the hunting of endangered species. Beckie Elgin also tells that In 2014, the Wildlife Defense League, founded by Tommy Knowles, helped create and sustain a road blockade to keep non-Native hunters out of an area in northern British This explains that different wildlife conservation organizations are giving their best effort to protect the endangered animals and to ban hunting because every species has their own different role in the ecosystem. Therefore, hunting is irresponsible as recreational activity as well as for fashion. Anand 5 Work Cited Shoot To  Earth Island Journal 29.1 (2014): 4-5. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Elgin, Beckie. Hounding The  Earth Island Journal 30.4 (2016): 30-36. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lindsey, Peter A., et al. Life After Cecil: Channelling Global Outrage Into Funding For Conservation In  Conservation Letters 9.4 (2016): 296. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Simon, Alexander. Against trophy hunting: a Marxian-Leopoldian  Monthly Review 2016: 17. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Wyatt. Endangered Species Act Or Extradition?: Protecting Foreign Species In The Aftermath Of The Cecil The Lion  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 18.1 (2016): 55. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.