Rainey 1 Kiersten Rainey 02/09/17 Ms. Basil SolarCity Vs. B.P. The controversial discussion over whether solar energy or fossil fuels is better has been going on for decades now, and the United Sates is trying to decide whether solar energy is as efficient as it sounds. Two companies that have a stake in this topic are British Petroleum (BP) and SolarCity. BP is a company that produces oil, and most people would know it as their local gas station. SolarCity is a company that was just recently purchased by Tesla and makes solar panels for many different day to day things. Many environmentalists and anyone that believes in global warming believes that fossil fuels, like the company BP produces, are harmful to the environment and want only the use of solar energy or other forms of To keep these two companies up and running while keeping the planets healthy, they need to come to a solution like that idea of putting a cap on carbon emissions, to prevent any further global warming, or at least slow the rate of it down. This carbon cap, would put a limit on how much carbon each person or company can put into the atmosphere, and if this limit is exceeded that person or company would be fined. To explain this problem more in depth, the fossil fuel industry has been in high demand for decades now due to advancements in technology that require fossil fuels. Due to recent world economic success, the worlds Carbon dioxide or CO2 dioxide that planes, cars, factories etc., produce, thought to be harmful to the emissions were at a record high in the year 2010 (Cambridge Dictionary)). Economic success was excellent for our country and the Rainey 2 world, however environmentalists and scientists who studied climate change knew it was an issue that was only going to get worse (Glen Peter et al. 2). It was evident that when GDP rose, CO2 emissions increased even faster, and this problem has yet to be resolved. CO2 is harmful because, there is natural CO2 in the environment and the burning of fossil fuels alters the natural carbon cycle, leaving an excess of carbon in the atmosphere which can lead to potential global warming Fossil fuels are appealing to consumers because they are significantly cheaper to purchase for everyday use. BP does assist in the flow of money in economy, and that economic catalyst would be hard to replace. The first stakeholder that could be impacted by the carbon cap would be BP because they rely on the consumption of gasoline and oil to stay in business. This cap would not shut the business down, however, it would simply limit the consumption or burning of oil. BP is a major contributor to the United economy. mission statement says that energy BP produces not only keeps America moving but it also helps drive the American (BP we BP is the largest oil company to the United States. day, BP sells 50 million gallons to our valued consumers via more than 7,000 BP-branded retail locations across the United (BP We If this company were to be shut down it would hurt the U.S. economy. The idea of a solar energy and a renewable resources world sounds wonderful to many people, however there are many different factors that go into this more than just making solar panels. According to John Turner, the author of A Realizable Renewable Resource Future, many people think that alternative energy sources are very expensive upfront and are not worth how much they cost. This mentality is the same for consumers; 76.4% of Americans drive cars to work, one could imagine how much they drive on a daily basis (McKenzie 1). Most of the cars run on gasoline, more than likely gasoline provided by BP. If that resource is taken away it Rainey 3 would anger many of those car drivers and force them to get rid of their gasoline powered cars, and not everyone can afford brand-new automobiles. Altogether, it would be worse to get rid of fossil fuel usage and more specifically, oil. The second stake holder is SolarCity; they would also be affected if there was a cap placed on CO2 emissions. Their solar technology has had some of an effect on the world, and has been adopted by many as a source of energy in homes and businesses. Environmentalists would be pleased with the carbon cap as well, their whole mission is to the and make the world cleaner, and solar energy is an all-natural source that does not put any carbon into the environment. SolarCity and Tesla just combined forces to create a new product, solar cell roof shingles. This new product would provide enough energy for a home and pool and even an electric powered car. SolarCity has many different products, offer a portfolio of alternatives that can be customized to address your specific Some of these products include solar panels on a large scale for big companies and solar stations for homes and pools. One perk that SolarCity prides themselves on is the physical appeal of the solar roof shingles. goal is to have solar roofs that look better than a normal Musk (Tullo 2). These options are important because consumers find their products appealing and in order to sell a product, consumers need to like it. Overall, SolarCity has a vision to improve the quality of life for people on Earth and provide as much energy as possible in the most efficient way. In years past, legislation has been proposed to try to reduce greenhouse gases such as CO2 in the atmosphere, more specifically the Kyoto Protocall was a piece of legislation proposed by the UN framework Convention on Climate Change 1). This was a global effort to reduce carbon and other harmful gas emissions, however the United states decided not to participate. The Senate refused to ratify it and so did George W. Bush (Mistrick 1). This was Rainey 4 one attempt to compromise with the carbon cap and the U.S. refused to conform. A solution that would benefit the wants and needs of both parties (B.P. and SolarCity) would be to put a cap on carbon dioxide emissions per person. The capping method is already being used in the European Union (Yale Environmental 360) and is an excellent idea that should be adopted by more countries in the world, especially United States who according to the Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for 16% of the worlds carbon emissions. Putting a cap on the CO2 emissions would be the most realistic solution to reducing carbon and other harmful gas emissions into the environment, and it gives consumers the option to switch over to solar or keep their cars if they cannot afford the complete solar lifestyle. It will keep the fossil fuel industry like BP, up and running without hurting their profits. Outlawing fossil fuels would be far too drastic at this point in time. Another way to prevent this potential law from being pushed aside like nothing is demanding payment for any carbon overages, similar to how phone companies demand money for data overages. When money is on the line people tend to listen more, because money drives most people. After careful examination of both sides of this issue, the problem with carbon emissions is far too dangerous to ignore. This cap on CO2 emissions is the best option to keep both parties happy. BP, is a company that contributes significantly to the United States economy, and it would be detrimental to cut them off. Putting a cap on carbon prevents BP from going out of business as well. SolarCity will benefit from this and possibly sell more solar panels in the process, while making environmentalists happy as well. Both groups bring positive things the United States, and getting rid of one would be more harmful than helpful at this time. Compromising is an important aspect of life and everyone should know how to, even these large multi-billion dollar companies need to know the value of compromise. Rainey 5 Works Cited: Carbon Emissions Definition in the Cambridge English  Carbon Emissions Definition in the Cambridge English Dictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 09 Aug. 2016. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. McKenzie, Brian. Who Drives to Work? Commuting by Automobile in the United States:  Census Bureau Aug. 2015. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Mistrick, Janine. Kyoto Protocol: Good Intentions, Failed  Pensive Thoughts and Frivolous Musings. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Feb. 2017 Sebastian, and Hermann E. Ott. The Kyoto Protocol: international climate policy for the 21st century. Springer Science & Business Media, 1999. Overview of Greenhouse  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Peters, Glen P., et al. Rapid growth in CO2 emissions after the 2008-2009 global financial  Nature Climate Change 2.1 (2012): 2-4.. Piscitello, E. Scott, and V. Susan Bogach. incentives for renewable energy development: proceedings of an international Vol. 391. World Bank Publications, 1998.) Web Jan. 25 2017 Putting a Price on Carbon: An Emissions Cap or a  Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies , n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Solutions for  Utilities Overview SolarCity. SolarCity, 2017 Web. 08 Feb. 2017. Tullo, Alexander H. Tesla to launch solar  (2016): 15-16 Turner, John A. A realizable renewable energy  Science 285.5428 (1999): 687-689. Rainey 6 What We  Bp.com. B.P. , 1996-2017. Web. 08 Feb. 2017.