Joyce 1 Shannon Joyce Professor Erika Staiger ENC1102-016 29 January 2017 Teacher Tenure Teacher tenure, in grade schools, is a policy which prevents teachers being fired due to reasons unrelated to their educational practices. Tenure is earned over numerous successful years in the profession, making it more difficult to fire more experienced teachers, who are often paid more. Teacher tenure guidelines differ from state to state, each with their own guarantees and restrictions. While supporting teacher tenure, the National Council on Teacher Quality ensures that each educator put into the education system is not only effective, but also a positive influence on students and their ability to learn. They do not only advocate for the students, but also guarantee that every teacher has the opportunity to put forth their best effort. Teachers who have tenure are more likely to experiment and improve their teaching styles because they are not as afraid of losing their job On the other side of the issue, The New Teacher Project (TNPT) is opposed to tenure. The New Teacher Project believes that all injustice and inequality in the education system must be eliminated, to ensure the success. Not only the elimination of these instances, but The New Teacher Project also works to advance the policies practiced in each classroom Teacher Although the National Council on Teacher Quality and The New Teacher Project have opposing ideas on the issue of teacher tenure, both organizations are focused on ensuring that the students may effectively learn. To achieve this, a compromise must be reached. During evaluations, teachers who are not seen as effective would be provided with one year of training and support. This would benefit both organizations, as the Joyce 2 teachers who did not improve after the training would possibly be fired, leaving their positions available to teachers with less experience. The National Council on Teacher Quality and The New Teacher Project disagree on the topic of teacher tenure, but find common ground in children receiving the best possible education. The National Council on Teacher Quality has a mission statement, which explains their goal child deserves effective teachers and every teacher deserves the opportunity to become They show their stance on the issue at hand, and the research they have conducted to back up their position. This will not only verify their position, but will also show what is important to them regarding teacher tenure, which will be used when developing the compromise between the two stakeholders. New Teacher mission is to end the injustice of educational inequality by providing excellent teachers to the students who need them most and by advancing policies and practices that ensure effective teaching in every Teacher The New Teacher Project shows the issues that they have with teacher tenure, and how they plan to fix it. The New Teacher Project recommendations for fixing teacher tenure include: the tryout period and tie tenure to performance, hearings should be more efficient and focused on interests, and the professional stakes for teachers- but stop tolerating any instances of egregious (Rebalancing Teacher The common ground between these opposing organizations is their goal, as both organizations strive to create an effective learning environment for the students by ensuring their educators practice successful teaching techniques. This similarity is crucial in the development of an operational compromise, that benefits both the National Council on Teacher Quality and The New Teacher Project. Joyce 3 During evaluations, teachers who are not seen as effective would be provided with one year of training and support. This would benefit both organizations, as the teachers who did not improve after the training would possibly be fired, leaving their positions available to teachers with less experience. The proposed compromise has previously been suggested in California. During evaluations, teachers who are not seen as effective would be provided with one year of training and support. This would benefit both organizations, as the teachers who did not improve after the training would possibly be fired, leaving their positions available to teachers with less experience. The Vergara v. California court case, in which the court the fundamental, Constitutional right of every student to learn from effective teachers and have an equal opportunity to succeed in v. The goal of this case was to a system good for both teachers and v. by implementing a reward and punishment system, in which the effective teachers will be kept, while the ineffective teachers will be held accountable. The compromise reached in this court case will be very beneficial in the essay, as this is a real-life situation, where one can see the consequences, whether positive or negative, and how the students, teachers, and others were affected. The compromise is not exact to the one mentioned in my paper, but it will be helpful to note the areas that must be adjusted in the education system to reach such a compromise. For this compromise to work, there must be factors set into place. One, for example, being the occurrence of set guidelines for satisfaction ratings during evaluations, and what makes a educational practices unsatisfactory, rather than satisfactory. Another factor that must be considered is teaching department. To ensure a level playing field for all educators, this compromise would affect each teacher equally, no matter their department or teaching background. Importantly, a timeframe must be set in place for granting tenure. A recommended timeframe that Joyce 4 would be able to coexist with the compromise is eighteen to twenty-four months, which would not only give the teacher enough time to get acquainted with their profession, but it would also be little enough time to not poorly affect as many students. Overall, this compromise would ensure an effective teaching environment for both students and teachers. As mentioned before, the National Council on Teacher Quality and The New Teacher Project may have opposing ideas on the issue of teacher tenure, but both organizations are focused on ensuring that the students may effectively learn. To achieve this, the compromise reached includes teachers not seen as effective would be provided with one year of training and support. Therefore, this agreement would benefit both organizations, as the teachers who did not improve after the training would possibly be fired, leaving their positions available to teachers with less experience. This would not only benefit the organizations, but it would also achieve their goal of creating an effective learning environment for students, leading to positive outcomes for everyone. Joyce 5 Works Cited National Council on Teacher Quality. N.p, n.d. Web.27 Jan. 2017. www.nctq.org/districtPolicy/ourApproach/supportingResearch/index.jsp?sectionId=17. Teacher The New Teacher Project. N.p, 9 Sept. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. www.tntp.org/publications/view/rebalancing-teacher-tenure-a-post-vergara-guide-for- policymakers. v. Students Matter. N.p, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.studentsmatter.org/case/vergara. Jacobs, Sandi. Improve Tenure With Better Measures Of Teacher  Phi Delta Kappan 6 (2016): Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Kahlenberg, Richard D. Teacher Tenure Has A Long History And, Hopefully, A  Phi Delta Kappan 6 (2016): Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.