Mwaliko 1 Brian Mwaliko Professor Erika Staiger English 1102 9 th February, 2017 Who stands to benefit after Brexit? On Thursday June 23 rd 2016 the world was hit by a shockwave of surprise after Britain decided to leave the European Union, this staggering event was immediately defined as Brexit. The British government firmly holds on to its goals and core beliefs associated with the exit from the union. mostly benefits from the immediate cost saving as the country would no longer contribute to the unions budget as in 2015 they gave a net contribution of 8.5 billion Euros to the (The Week Junior Magazine) The stake holder group mostly affected by the exit from the union are the European Economic Area workers. The European Economic Area workers were highly encouraged under the clauses to move across member countries for employment opportunities. Several producers took advantage of this and were able to cut production costs by hiring these workers that would work for low wages. Although they are threatened with unemployment as Britain is no longer a member of the European Economic Area. The rising unemployment would catalyze the economic decline that the country is facing, depicted by the falling of the exchange rate. However, this can be remedied by reviewing of the laws, to allow free movement of the workers which would in turn boost productivity and economy. Even though the odds seem to be against the British government, the advantages that it accrues are highly substantial. Apart from the seclusion of the annual contribution, the government would be able to push back on restrictive union policies such as the immigrant laws, Britain could see its authorities choosing to lower existing tariffs, benefiting businesses. Britain would also be Mwaliko 2 able to broker its own trade deals with member and non-member countries, negotiating to serve its interests more suitably and beneficially. This flexibility has not been available to the British government under the one-size-fits-all approach of the European rules. (Surbhi) Leaving the European Union will allow Britain to re-establish itself as a truly independent nation with connections to the rest of the world but remnants fear that Brexit will result in the country giving up its influence in Europe, turning back the clock and retreating from the global power networks of the 21st century. Brexit would bring some clear-cut advantages, said The Economist before the referendum. The UK would regain control over fishing rights around the , for example but it concluded that the most likely outcome would be that Britain would find itself a scratchy outsider with somewhat limited access to the single market, almost no influence and few . Britain will remain a member of Nato and the United Nations, but it may be regarded as a less useful partner by their key ally, the United States. The American government said it feared that the European Union referendum is a dangerous gamble that could unravel with disastrous consequences for the entire . (The Week Junior Magazine) European Economic Area workers on the other hand have been greatly affected because many employment rights that originate from the European Union have become ingrained in modern day British employment practices and are now taken for granted by employers and employees alike (Jay Simon). This has led to huge panic among many producers who highly depend on the low wage labor that is provided by the mobile workers. Whilst not legally required, in the current environment of political uncertainty and economic volatility, employers should initially consider taking steps to reassure the workforce that it is as and there is no immediate impact, either on their rights to work in Britain or elsewhere, or on their employment Mwaliko 3 terms or rights (Jay Simon). Although this might seem an easy concept that the business could emulate, not wholly dependent on the businesses as they are run under the British jurisdiction. To prevent a loss of key staff, businesses that rely heavily on the European Union market access may also wish to address speculation by employees as to possible restructuring measures or a relocation out of Britain. Relocation would be the last phase although with the threatening loss of the free movement of capital that business enjoyed as businesses within the country were exempted from paying taxes under the policies, it would seem a more appropriate action to take that would be highly advantageous to the workers. there are rumors that up to 100,000 jobs could disappear as a result of Brexit have inspired Brits to flood the immigration websites of both Canada and New (huck magazine). With older workers, more shielded from the recruitment freezes suggested in a recent Institute of Directors survey, the pain is likely to fall hardest on younger workers trying to get their feet on the lower rungs of the career ladder. With the European Union giving the impression that they will make an example of Britain to stop other members defecting, opportunities to escape to elsewhere in the Union could become scarce for young British workers who could have a whole new set of hoops to jump through to work abroad. (huck magazine). The position of European Economic Area workers currently living and working in Britain are dependent on the deal eventually struck with the European Union. The principle of freedom of movement is regarded as fundamental by even the more dovish of the European Union leaders, who have indicated that it will be a condition of the country retaining access to the single market going forward. However, with concerns over European Union migration credited as the biggest contributor to the vote to leave the European Union, it may be politically difficult for the government to accept free movement in its current form. (Jay Simon) Mwaliko 4 The system of immigration restrictions and permissions that will apply to the workers if future deal with the European Economic Area does not allow free movement of international mobile workers into Britain is currently uncertain. The Government could extend the existing points-based visa system to apply to European Economic Area and Swiss nationals and, as part of this, could bring into force the existing, but inactive, tier three category for unskilled workers. Alternatively, there could be an entirely different regime. (Jay Simon) As a compromise both shareholders could come up with transitional arrangements in place to allow European Economic Area nationals currently living and working in Britain to remain. These transitional arrangements should revise immigration laws and create new work Visas that would allow the European Economic Area workers to continue living and working in the country. British Prime Minister Theresa May has been reported as making statements indicating that the status of International mobile workers currently in Britain is not guaranteed, this could be viewed with a degree of skepticism as a potential gambit in anticipation of the European Union exit negotiation. (Jay Simon). The advantage of this compromise is that the British government would benefit as the economy would improve due to increased business confidence, and the value of the pound would stabilize. European Economic Area workers would benefit highly as they would not be forced to leave their areas of employment or succumb to any discrimination as a result of immigration laws. However, there is limited cause for alarm at this point: whatever form the future immigration arrangements between the British government and the European Economic Area take, it is in all interests to maintain an administratively workable framework for the payment and collection of social security charges in relation to cross- border workers. Certainly, any outcome involving the free movement of persons will inevitably involve coordination on social security matters. If the British government does not accede to the Mwaliko 5 European Economic Area agreement or negotiate its own agreement with the European Union like Switzerland has, it would still be open to the British government to negotiate bilateral state by state arrangements on social security matters similar to the reciprocal arrangement between the British government and the United States government. or the double contribution convention between Britain and Canada. (Jay Simon) In conclusion exit from the European Union is still a developing issue that is still under much deliberation. Apart from the sudden implications that came about after the decision such as a fall in currency, the new prime minister Theresa May, has a lot of plans that would secure the economy. This would definitely change the stake goals and core beliefs over time and they would be able to draw at a compromise that would not only satisfy their goals and core values but also elevate them creating Economic development. Mwaliko 6 Works Cited CEPS. CEPS. 2016. 27 1 2017. <https://www.ceps.eu/publications/brexits-consequences-uk- %E2%80%93-and-eu>. huck magazine. 10 ways Brexit could affect young people. 27 June 2016. 29 1 2017. <http://www.huckmagazine.com/perspectives/activism-2/10-ways-brexit-affect-young- people/>. Jay Simon, Davies Philip,Reid Melissa. Brexit: implications for  Employee Relations Law (2016): 15. Document. Surbhi, Jain. Market Realist. 29 July 2016. 28 January 2017. <http://marketrealist.com/2016/07/uk-chose-leave-eu-businesses-stand-gain-lose/>. The Week Junior Magazine. The Week. 27 June 2016. document. 9 February 2017.