Homayoun Kamalimoghaddam ENC 1102 Mrs.Erika February 5, 2017 When picking our cleaning products, make up cosmetics or our everyday basics, do we even stop and think about what product are we using? We could be advocating animal brutality and not even notice it. Using animals in research, to test the safety of instinctive products and medical advancement. A research by Cruelty Free International and the Dr. Hadwen Trust indicates that, least 115 million animals may be used in experiments worldwide each year (Cruelty Free Many research facilities and companies are exploiting animals for their own advantage all around the world. Regardless of the benefit that human beings gain from these experiments, the pain, the cruelty, the torment and deaths of many animals is not worth the human benefits. There are multiple stakeholders involved with animal testing issue and those include scientists, the organizations that exploit animals and animal rights activists. However, there has been a controversy between animal rights activists, whose main purpose is to support animals in danger and scientists who exploit animals for research advancements and testing for safety of products about whether it is right to use animals for experimentation. These two stakeholders share utterly different views on the animal experimentation topic but also share a common ground. Therefore, it is possible for these stakeholders to come to an agreement, where both sides are satisfied and animals are not hurt as much during this process. There are always different perspectives to each side of the story, thus these stakeholders definitely share different views and have particular reasons on why they experiment on animals or why they protect animals. Firstly, their aims are completely unlike, which brings out the answer of why they what they do. Scientists may be experimenting animal for several reasons, such as testing makeup cosmetics to indicate the safety in order to deliver products of the highest safety and quality and most importantly to improve healthcare and medical advancements. This is evidently demonstrated through organizations such American For Medical Advancement (A.F.M.A). This is a not-for-profit organization that focuses on ameliorating healthcare by improving research and also endorses biomedical research and the procedure of medicine based on analytical thinking and current comprehension of science. By studying animals and using scientifically feasible research approaches, they are trying to bring safe and effective drugs to market faster and cheaper. Even though most scientists are concerned about the ethical issues of this topic and even attempt to minimize the pain that these animals suffer and diminish this process, they consider animal experimentation an essential procedure to scientific advancements. AFMA shares a similar viewpoint as it focuses on biomedical research that is financed with aim of developing therapeutic care for patients. Despite the fact that animals can legitimately be used for in science, and also not scientifically worthwhile, AMFA suggests that animals can be useful for many technical endeavors, one being the tradition dissection in pre-college biology classes to learn about the anatomy. AFMA clearly stated on their website, that this organization is not part of an animal right group. Therefore, they do exploit animals for further medical advancement and their only objective is to bring in faster and cheaper drugs and curing patients. However, it is specified on their website that, intersects with the animal protection movement in certain areas and on certain issues (American For Medical This means that AFMA experiment animals but they do approach an animal protectionist if there seem to be a certain drawback. On the other hand, there are those stakeholders that are absolutely against the idea of animal experimentation. Unlike those who believe that animals may be successful for better medical advancement, they suppose that animals are not ours. There are many organizations that support this idea that animals should be protected from all danger, one of them being People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). This organization is the largest animal right activist in the world, with more than 5 million members. PETA emphasizes not only on the animals that suffer in the laboratories but also the ones that suffer in the food industry, in the clothing trade and in the entertainment industry. In sum, they protect animals in every way possible as they work through public education, research, special events, animal rescue, and protest campaigns because they preach that, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other way (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Consequently, the mission of these two stakeholders are instinctive as one believes that animals can be used to improve health care whereas the other believes that animals are not ours and they should not be violated. Having two different stakeholders with completely different opinions on the same topic might bring out the idea that these two stakeholders may never have a common ground. What might they possibly share similarly when they both have such instinctive perspectives on the same issue? The answer to this question is simple and that is to change and improve. AMFA experiments animals in order to ameliorate health care with the hopes of bringing better and more effective drugs to the market in order to cure the patients. On the other hand, PETA works through every possible way from education to campaign protests in order to keep the lives of many animals safe and protected. Their mission is extremely different yet very much the same. What they share in common is that both of these stakeholders are attempting a change in this world, both of these attempts for the better or worse. Although AMFA hurt animals during this process, they are making a change in the medical and clinical industry. Similarly, PETA protects animals even though throughout this process many industries are shut. Another aspect that they share in common is that they both try to minimize the pain for the innocent animals that are in the hands of humans. AFMA stated that they intersect with animal protection movement in certain areas and on certain issues, which is similar to the mission of PETA as their whole intention is to protect animals. Hence, these two stakeholders share a common ground even though they are very much unalike. Having two stakeholders that share extremely different yet very much the same missions is problematic because no matter how much they have in common, they might be with each other. Therefore, at the end of the day, there must be a result where both sides are contented. In this case there is an organization whose aim is to improve healthcare and medical advancement by animal experimentation, AFMA. While on the other hand, there is an organization whose main purpose is to protect animals, as they believe that animals are not ours, PETA. In order for both of these stakeholders to achieve their purposes, they need to compromise. In order for both stakeholders to be satisfied one compromise would be that the people involved in each argument reduce their demand and change their opinion on certain aspects of the process. The organizations that practice animal experimentations can reduce the amount of experiments they do on these poor and innocent animals and instead look out for other options. Our world is revolved around technology nowadays, thus organizations such AFMA can replace animals with technologies for the sake of a better health care and medical development, which leaves organizations whose aim is to protect animals pleased as they can protect animals in safety and peace. Furthermore, if it is necessary for an organization to test on animals, they shall attempt their best to minimize the pain and torture on these animals and also approach other organization such as PETA in order to prevent sorrow. In conclusion, the multiple stakeholders involved with the issue of animal testing include the scientists and organizations related, and the animal right activists and organizations related. These stakeholders share different yet similar missions regarding the issue of animal experimentation. mission is to develop a better, more effective healthcare, and medical advancement, another mission is to protect animals in four areas, in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in the laboratories and in the entertainment industry. However, they also have a common ground, which is to make a change in this world and also come to an understanding that animals do feel and therefore minimize the pain and suffering of millions of animals all around the world. Lastly, these two stakeholders, regardless of the odds, can come to a compromise where both sides are satisfied with the situation and no animals shall be harmed during this process. Works Cited Cruelty Free International. Facts and figures on animal testing . Cruelty Free International, n.d. American For Medical Advancement. Animal Protectionists. American For Medical Advancement, n.d. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals . PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals , n.d.