Lowman 1 Micaela Lowman Professor Luce Composition 1 28 January 2017 Affirmative Action in College Admissions Affirmative action is a program that is put into place to help those who have been historically discriminated against (for example, women and minorities) so that they have the same access to certain things, such as jobs and higher education, that those who have not been historically discriminated against have. Affirmative action, otherwise known as is an executive order that was created on March 6th, 1961 by president John F. Kennedy. Since then, affirmative has been an extremely controversial subject, especially when it comes to higher education. There are many arguments against affirmative action; the most popular argument is that affirmative action reinforces racist, sexist, and stereotypical ideas. Another argument against affirmative action is that it eliminates meritocracy and instead replaces it with a race system and rewards people based off of their racial identity instead of their achievements. The United States government typically tries to not side with anyone, instead they try to . The most famous affirmative action cases are Fisher v. Texas, Grutter v. Bollinger, and Regents of the University of California v. Bakke. These cases have set certain requirements on affirmative action in higher education, but there are still a lot of disparities on the issue. Affirmative action is involved in many different social issues, such as the work place and higher education, but what is its exact role in college admissions and how does this affect college students? Lowman 2 Industrial & Labor Relations Review. Apr 2005, Vol. 58 Issue 3, p416-434. 19p 5 charts, 3 graphs. The question of this article is whether or not the elimination of affirmative action would affect highly qualified minority applicants. Two professors of Economics, one from the University of California-Berkeley, and the other from Princeton University, wondered whether or not the lack of affirmative action would have an impact on universities. Two states, California and Texas, eliminated the use of affirmative action from 1996-1998. Professors David Card and Alan B. Krueger observed the relationships of the diversity of the school and those who were admitted by studying the SAT scores that were sent into the schools by applicants. From their studies, the two professors found that the amount of minorities that were actually being admitted into these elite schools fell anywhere between 30-50% less than it was before the removing of affirmative action in admissions. Minority representation in the freshman classes at those schools drastically declined. This affects college students because they might be dissuaded from applying to a certain school. A student who is a minority might look at a school and see that it lacks diversity, which will cause that student to not apply. Card and Krueger also observed that the amount of students who were sending their scores before the removal of affirmative action was around the same amount of those who sent their scores after affirmative action was eliminated. Cegler, Tyler D. Targeted Recruitment of GLBT Students by Colleges and  (2012): n. pag. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. <http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ992984.pdf>. Affirmative action is not just limited to women and racial minorities. Affirmative action is also applied to sexual minorities. This has not always been the case, however. The application Lowman 3 of affirmative action to GLBT peoples is a recent trend. Some universities, such as the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Southern California are actively recruiting GLBT applicants. There are also organizations that have recently formed so that more schools are open to the idea of recruiting students based off of their sexual identity. The emergence of this trend is very recent.. Students are not asked on applications to identify their sexual orientation. Most universities try to recruit GLBT students by advertising GLBT friendly school policies and rules. By recruiting GLBT students, higher education institutes are hoping to create an even more diverse student population. The recruitment of GLBT students helps colleges to become more diverse. When universities recruit GLBT students, their student population becomes very unique and special. Having GLBT students at universities makes everything seem more open-minded. Usually, GLBT students are discriminated against, so for them to be recruited to certain schools is a change from history. Review of Economics & Statistics. Long, Mark. Nov2004, Vol. 86 Issue 4, p1020-1033. 14p. 5 Charts, 2 Graphs. This article from 2004 talks about a replacement for affirmative action. Since the program is so controversial, many people have tried to make systems that could replace it but still serve the same purpose. In this article, it talks about the While race can not be the sole factor that decides whether or not someone gets accepted to college, it can certainly play a part in the admissions process. Race can help students get accepted to colleges, but it can not be the only reason the student got accepted. When certain universities eliminated affirmative action policies, many people were searching for a replacement. What they came up with is a Lowman 4 system, meaning students in the top whatever percent (usually decided by the school, i.e the top 5% or 10%) would be accepted into the university. This system affected students greatly. Many minorities do not have the same opportunities as caucasian students do, so they were not being accepted into universities with the new system. Students not discriminated against have better circumstances-- they have more opportunities for things like tutoring and money, which help them become successful in school. Because students in the minority did not have the same opportunities, they fell behind in school and eventually were not able to get into the same colleges that they could before the affirmative action was removed. Without affirmative action at these schools, the student population became less and less diverse. Education Policy Analysis Archives, Moses, Michele S., Yun, John T., Marin, Patricia. v17 n17 Sep 2009. 38 pp. This article talks about affirmative action and whether or not 10 more years of the program is enough. The authors of this article look at past court cases and they determine whether or not affirmative action is still needed based off of the decisions in those court cases. Along with the court cases, they also look at current legislated and the enrollment requirements for certain universities. The Supreme Court in recent years has laid off of the civil rights cases, including those pertaining to affirmative action. This will really affect students and college admissions in the future. Without the affirmative action policy, many students will not be accepted into the very competitive universities. There is still an imbalance between certain groups, and the affirmative action policy helps those discriminated against. Without it, many schools will not be as culturally diverse as they have the potential to be. Lowman 5