Raymond 1 Joel Raymond Professor K. Luce ENC 1101 1/21/2017 The Cost of Higher Education The cost of higher education has been a regarded issue for many aspiring college graduates in recent years and deserves the attention of action or explanation. There are many supplementary factors to the gradual increase in tuition, a strive to provide more for students in some cases and poor fiscal uses and planning in others. Historically state colleges were meant to be an affordable means of higher education with an appraisal anywhere from $200-$5000 yearly only 3 decades ago regardless of residency, now as many post-secondary students are aware this number has been drastically amplified. We can attest this amplification to other historical events that caused this inflation, the question now is how do we reduce this price rise and return to an affordable quote for state universities? Graglia, Lino. High Costs And  Academic Questions 24.2 (2009): 181. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Jan. 2017. A detailed account of the rise in student tuition and its causes as it pertains to well known law schools across the nation. The article begins with a personal example of how costs were more affordable a generation ago and continues by establishing several reasons for this surge in price, some more reasonable than others. The author goes on to contribute more of this cost to a colleges need to stay financially relevant as an employer, providing a salary that is competitive to real world field occupations in order to attract the very best educators. As the article comes to a close it narrows its focus to law schools specifically and how lawmakers and the American Bar Association attribute to the inflated rates of becoming a lawyer. This article was produced by Lino A. Graglia, a professor of law at the University of Texas School of Law, giving her a strong understanding of the inter-workings of universities and their asset Raymond 2 management. She also pulls relevant information from personal examples of tuition cost for both her and her children as opposed to today. This article gives us a detailed analysis of the reasons that universities are now charging such a high price for their services and education. With this information we can begin to understand where this increase in cost came from and what we can reverse to reduce them. Making college cost less; Higher  The Economist, 5 Apr. 2014, p. 11(US). Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA363785932&it =r&asid=dda80cf4eb50b21af74ab2945aa76f07. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017. The article begins with a few paraphrased quotations that describe the importance of education and continues with a detailed description of how different levels of education can expect to perform financially after college and how much it actually costs them. Furthermore, the article provides a statistical analogy for the inflation rate of college tuition as opposed to the US economy and how much faster it is growing (fourfold). The author contributes the next portion to efforts put forth against rising educational costs, such as a default rates on student loans that if passed have severe repercussions for the university but they continue by suggesting that this is not enough and rather than having a school step in if students hit a certain point they should have actual liabilities for unpaid student debts. The author closes by posing the idea that taking this step toward higher education is the first large decision in a young life and the government should do everything to make sure it is the proper decision. This article, from The Economist, is written with several references to studies and policies that are extremely relevant to the topic at hand such as reports by research firms and federal policies. The author gives background to the underlining question posed in this paper, how do we reduce the cost of higher education? It first discusses what is already taking place to reduce the burden of collegiate costs on students but then goes a step further and expresses the authors opinions as to what other policies should take place in order to reduce these fees. Raymond 3 Thelin, John. Why Did College Cost So Little? Affordability And Higher Education A Century  Society 52.6 (2015): 585-589. Academic Search Premier. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. The article first addresses the historical research question: Why did college cost so little? In order to answer that question the editorial introduces a piece of literature that comprises the financial summaries of institutions in the year 1910: Great American Universities, by Edwin Slosson. The author gathered information from this literary piece and was able to assess the cost ratio between students and institutions from 1910. The average student paid the equivalent tuition of $5000 and the average college expense per student was equivalent to nearly $2000 past what tuition covered meaning that colleges of the time were racking up debt by the thousand. The next page went over the drawbacks to the deficit tendencies of low tuition. There were few if any proper advising or studying centers on early campuses and little to no financial aid offered that seen as a loan to be repaid in the future. In continuation the article suggests where universities were able to fund their liabilities, through philanthropic activities, federal grants and legislative policies such as those provided to agricultural colleges for research and experimentation that was able support universities. In conclusion the answer the author poses to the original question of this article is that the reason college costed so little was because they provided so little. This article was authored by John Thelin, a research professor focused in the history of higher education and public policy giving him an outstanding ethos in the subject. Not only does the author embody his own credibility but he also pulls from another reliable source, the novel Great American Universities by Edwin Slosson that gives a detailed account of the financial situations of several American universities. The article achieves a deep historical relevance to the subject matter at hand by focusing on the early institutions of America and their financial situations over a century ago. The article also gives context to the reasoning behind the low costs of college and why they have risen as time goes on. Raymond 4 Reindl, Travis J. To Lift The Veil: New College Cost Studies And The Quest For The Perfect  New Directions For Institutional Research 2000.106 (2000): 89. Education Source. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. To Lift the Veil: New College Cost Studies and the Quest for the Perfect Formula is an editorial on new college cost studies, or more clearly congressionally formed organizations dedicated to developing an answer to the effects of increased tuition for higher education. The first page imparts the idea that there is an ominous vail that shrouds the reasoning behind these surges in price. The second page goes in depth on one of the college studies conducted in the late by a federal organization in response to the rapid increases associated with the cost of higher education, a few of their recommendations proposed a strengthening of institutional cost control, improving public accountability and information, as well as (on the federal side) a deregulation of higher education. The next several pages express what data these organization were collecting and how they aimed to utilize it. One theory presented in this work is that increasing costs of higher education as opposed to other commodities is due productivity failing to maintain a pace similar to the resources necessary for higher education. The paper concludes by stating that the analysis of the cost of higher education is a process in which new discoveries come to light at each visitation of the problem and that policy makers should recognize each of these lessons as they present themselves. The content of this work shows its credibility through its substance, within the text is reference to several federal organizations created in the late to form concepts around the rapid inflation rates of higher education such as the NCCHE, CCP, and CCS. The relevance in this paper pertaining to the research question is that it introduces the present framework surrounding institutional overheads. This document familiarizes its readers with current or recent legislation regarding financial policies of universities.