Chen,1 Mengshan Chen Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 7 February 2017 Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, also named PTSD, is a mental health issue that some people develop after experiencing a life-threatening event, such as possible death, serious injury, or sexual violence. Since PTSD usually occurs in soldiers who come back from the war, the US department of Veterans Affairs website has a sub-area named PTSD: National Center for PTSD. It can help the public understand PTSD scientifically and promote improved treatment of PTSD. They believe that PTSD is curable. On the other hand, MyPTSD is a website of PTSD Global Peer Support Community, which is a place that PTSD sufferers can talk together and help each other. In contrast, they state PTSD is treatable instead of being curable. Also, there are many articles on the website and they can help sufferers understand and overcome this disorder. However, both MyPTSD and US Department of Veterans Affairs face the same problem: the symptom may come back even if sufferers complete the whole treatment. Because of this problem, MyPTSD and US Department of Veterans Affairs conclude a compromise that both of them should be aware of the truth that only a small group of people will be recurrently suffer from PTSD instead of every sufferer. First of all, MyPTSD is a forum community for PTSD sufferers who come from all over the world work together to defeat this disorder. In this website, sufferers can find a great many of articles which are about PTSD. Those articles include the reason of PTSD formation, symptoms Chen,2 of PTSD and how to help themselves to defeat PTSD. Moreover, sufferers can find several different methods from those articles to overcome the disorder. This website not only has many articles, but also it is a forum. By using the forum, sufferers can raise a question at home, then they will get the answer without leaving home. Also, they can talk with other sufferers, sharing experience and relating with other sufferers who are experiencing the same disorder as them through the forum. For helping sufferers be positive, MyPTSD sets activities on the website. In addition, if healthy citizens want to help sufferers, they can donate money through the website (MyPTSD). However, there is a research result which shows 60% will completely recover with no further symptoms; the next 35% have a varying level of recovery from full recovery that takes years, to partial recovery; the remaining 5%, approximately, will have what is deemed life-time (MyPTSD). Therefore, PTSD absolutely can be treatable because the recovery rate is about 80% (MyPTSD). However, healing trauma is removing the negative stigma instead of forgetting it. is a neurologic formation within the brain. Once it occurs, it be undone according to current neurology (MyPTSD). Thus, the conclusion is that the PTSD is treatable but not curable. The second stakeholder is the PTSD: National Center for PTSD, which is a sub-area of the website of US Department of Veterans Affairs. It is a government organization which uses research, education, and training that can help stricken veterans to defeat PTSD or others trauma scientifically. Also, the public can understand PTSD through this website. The center was built in 1989. the foremost leader on PTSD and others trauma in this world. The National Center for PTSD has six goals and objectives. The government wants the public understanding PTSD scientifically and supporting the global war on terrorism. Also, the government will offer PTSD education for researchers and clinicians. Furthermore, the government will promote improved Chen,3 treatment of PTSD. In addition, the government will manage veterans and advance their emergency medical response capability (PTSD, National Center for). There are two sections on the website. The first one is the public section, which is created for veterans, their families and friends and the general public. It can allow family and friends to know the disorder, then they can help the sufferer overcome it. Another one is a professional section, where psychologists and other helpers of PTSD sufferers can visit this section for searching useful materials (PTSD, National Center for). In addition, this website offers a lot of other resources which can help to cure or understand PTSD. However, this website only teaches sufferers how to deal with PTSD, but it mention the problem that symptoms may come back even if sufferers complete the whole treatment. Both MyPTSD and the National Center for PTSD focus on the treatment of PTSD and they find several therapies for PTSD sufferers. The cognitive therapy is the therapist helps the sufferer understand and change how he thinks about his trauma and its  (PTSD, National Center for). The exposure therapy is talking about the trauma with the therapist, then sufferers start to control their thoughts and feelings. Moreover, there is group therapy which is several sufferers sit together in a house and talking about their trauma with others (PTSD, National Center for). In addition, MyPTSD and National Center for PTSD both mention the relationship about sufferers and their family and friends. MyPTSD states that sufferers should tell their family they have PTSD and explain what is PTSD and what the trauma which caused it  (MyPTSD). Since PTSD sufferers are quick to blame another for what may be their own problem (MyPTSD), friends and family members can learn how to help the sufferer. After that, they will understand and tolerate the sufferer. Thus, sufferers can manage their emotions better. Chen,4 For the compromise, both MyPTSD and the National Center for PTSD should agree with the research result that symptoms may come back since even if the sufferers complete the whole treatment, a small group of people will still suffer from the symptom of PTSD. Symptoms of PTSD includes sleep problems, physical pain, flashbacks of battles, exaggerated anxiety and startle  (Daniel Schacter). In the article named Sleep problems and physical pain as moderators of the relationship between PTSD symptoms and aggression in returning veterans, authors Adam LaMotte, Casey Taft and Robin Weatherill point out that sleep problems and physical pain are common for veterans (LaMotte, Taft, Weatherill). From the article named Is There a Cure for PTSD is reviewed by a board-certified physician, the author Matthew Tull states that treatments for PTSD can reduce and even eliminate many symptoms of  (Tull). However, treatments for PTSD cannot erase memory of those  (Tull). In addition, in the article named PTSD Curable versus Treatable, the writer also points out that the recovery rate is 80%. Also, The remaining 5%, approximately, will have what is deemed lifetime  (MyPTSD). That means a small group of sufferers will suffer from symptoms of PTSD in their whole lives. They cannot even stop to see their therapist. Of course, those people return to their normal lives anymore. Therefore, treatment can only help sufferers control over their lives from the symptom of PTSD, but possible that symptom of PTSD can recur. However, the National Center for PTSD mention this problem. All in all, both MyPTSD and the National Center for PTSD focus on the treatment of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Even though they have different opinions on whether PTSD is curable or not, MyPTSD and the National Center for PTSD should both agree with the truth that recurrence may be an issue for a small number of sufferers. However, even being one of the Chen,5 sufferers who are dealing with recurrence, sufferers should manage those symptoms, staying positive and living happily. Word Count: 1235 Chen,6 Works Cited LaMotte, Adam, Taft, Casey, Robin Weatherill, Eds. problems and physical pain as moderators of the relationship between PTSD symptoms and aggression in returning Psychological Trauma: Theory, Research, Practice, and Policy, Vol 9(1), Jan, 2017. pp. 113-116. PTSD Curable versus  PTSD Complex PTSD Information Articles Community Forum. N.p., 23 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PTSD, National Center for. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD: National Center for PTSD Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Schacter, Daniel L. Psychology. New York, NY: Worth Publishers, a Macmillan Higher Education Company, 2014. Print. Tull, Matthew. Is There a Cure for  Verywell. Verywell, 07 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.