Trisha ! 1 Trisha Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 12 February 2017 Protection of Abused Farm Animals Animals have been used by humans time and again for some or the other purpose, be it testing new chemicals or for food. Most people thinks that these things are pretty much normal as it happens every day and on a very large scale. What people tend to forget is the amount of pain and suffering that these animals go through when they are being tested upon or being slaughtered in the slaughterhouses. Just because these animals cannot speak, that does not mean they do not suffer or go through pain. PETA is an American Animal Rights Organization which is based in Virginia and is led by Ingrid Newkirk. This organisation takes care of all the animals that have been abused or have suffered a lot of pain. PETA has a motto to stop the use of animals for all the purposes because they believe are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA). PETA does not want the use of animals at all for any purpose and wants to stop the use of animals which differentiates it from other organization, Mercy for Animals. Mercy for Animals, which also takes care of animals especially farm animals, states that the suffering that these animals go through should be reduced. Since one wants to stop the use of animals completely and the other wants to reduce the use of animals they have conflicting views. Due to their conflicting views, it becomes difficult for these organisations to protect these animals. PETA and Mercy for Animals should both consider to Trisha ! 2 negotiate a compromise which is to come together as a team and work as one organization rather than working individually so that they can protect more of these animals while also promote their individual goals. PETA is an animal rights organisation which works towards the protection of animals. This organisation takes care of all types of animals that have been abused in any way. This organisation has a motto and suggests that everyone should go vegan which is that people should completely stop using animals and animal products. They have taken many initiatives by putting up information, posters, banners and have held campaigns in order for people to understand that pain that the animals go through. PETA also does a lot of undercover work, for example, they send their staff undercover into factories or farms to see how animals are being treated and how they would save these animals. PETA opposes the no-kill movement and according to its most recent filing with The Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS), PETA euthanized 81 percent of the animals that ended up at its shelter. According to VDACS, PETA took 3,017 animals into its shelters in 2014, of which 2,455 were euthanised, 162 were adopted, 353 were released to other shelters, and 6 were reclaimed by their original owners (Wikipedia, PETA). Despite all of these achievements, since PETA does not collaborate with other organizations it is not able to fulfil its purpose. Mercy for Animals is a non-profitable organisation that is responsible for the protection of farm animals and promotes compassionate food choices and policies. This organisation helps in protecting farm animals. It has done a lot of research on these animals and has gotten to know the poor condition of farm animals in the farms and slaughter houses. This organisation like Trisha ! 3 other organisations has done a lot of research in animal abuse and has also done a lot of undercover investigations in farms. This organisation has spread awareness among people and wants the help of the government in order to reduce the pain and suffering of these animals and also improve the living conditions of these animals. It started its research and found out the poorly maintained conditions in which the animals are kept, and found how horribly the animals are being treated by the people who are supposed to take care of them. In order to accomplish their goals, they need the support of other organisations. PETA and Mercy for Animals both have the same goals, which is to protect animals except that PETA does not want animals to be used in any way and Mercy for Animals want to reduce the usage or animals. Both of these organisations want to protect animals and secure them because no one deserves to be ill-treated. They both have come up with new ideas to save animals and how they could increase awareness among people so that they know what to do. Both these organisations want people to become vegans as they want the suffering to reduce and eventually stop. These organisations are holding up campaigns and are also wanting people to not only stop eating but also not use the products like bags and clothes which are made by skinning these animals mostly alive. The issue is that people do not understand what pain these animals have to go through and in order for people to understand the pain, these organisations hold up campaigns and try to spread awareness. They show people the ugly truth behind the slaughter houses and farms wherein they mistreat these animals. All these organisations want is to protect these animals so that they can lead a very happy life. Trisha ! 4 To change the conditions of these animals and to make sure that these animals get their rights, PETA and Mercy for Animals should come together to work with one another. Instead of debating as to way is the best in order to save these animals, they should work together as one organization and by doing this they will be able to protect more and more animals. It is not really possible to completely stop the usage of animals when it comes to food as it would affect the food chain but what people can do is at least stop the use of animal skin or fur made things like clothes, bags or shoes. Since people do not know much about all of this, PETA and Mercy for Animals should create advertisements together and show the poor conditions of these animals. Also, they should show people ways to eat a balanced diet without the use of meat (which is go vegan). Since one organisation wants to stop the use of animals and the other wants to reduce, both of them will have to come to a conclusion and move together on it. This way, there can be an improvement in the conditions of animals and also better ways can be found to protect these animals. If they follow each other and discuss all the steps they can take to save animals, they would be able to have a better and improved environment. If these animals stay protected they will be able to lead their lives in a better manner and this would benefit and Mercy for Animals individual goals as well as serve the purpose of these organisations. Word Count: 1333 Trisha ! 5 Works Cited Cavalieri, Paola, and Peter Singer. The Death Of The Animal: A Dialogue. New York: Columbia University Press, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Scully, Matthew. A case of compassion: one act of mercy invites us to reflect on the suffering of  National Review 2016: 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sluszka, Dorothy. Animal Farm: The Move Towards Progress And The Slide Towards Dystopia In Farm Animal  Cardozo Journal Of International And Comparative Law. 24.(2016): 423. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sollund, Ragnhild. Expressions Of Speciesism: The Effects Of Keeping Companion Animals On Animal Abuse, Animal Trafficking And Species  Crime, Law & social Change. 55.5 (2011): 437. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Trisha ! 6 Yates, Roger1, roger.yates0708@gmail.com. Criminalizing Protests About Animal Abuse. Recent Irish Experience In Global  Crime, Law & Social Change. 55.5 (2011): 469-482. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.