Alexis Campisi Professor Uddin Composition 1 1/31/2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is the process of using a living animal subject for experiments and tests on products later to be used for humans, or pets. The idea of poor defenseless animals being used for experiments is enough to make anyone shudder, however despite animals have been used for generations to yield better results on treatments. Animals recently are being used more and more for testing cosmetics like shampoo companies, or even makeup companies. There have even been accounts of animals being used in useless experiments to see how chocolate affects blood vessels and blood pressure. Because of these cruel and unusual experiments, other differing opinions are becoming more popular. In place of using animals for cosmetic and beauty reasons, could animals be used only to better extend the research of different cures and medicine? 1. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Original Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For  European Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article by Silvio Garattini written in 2016 is a journal written about how animal testing is the best way to find new treatments and cures. While explaining how animal testing is good, it still shows how and is at work in all animal testing. Working with animals can be a good thing, but still prove to be unethical in testing these products on humans when they have only yielded good results on animals. This Article relates back to my research question because of the nature of the question is. This article is explaining animal testing and new treatments directly in relationship to my research question, while still asking the question if the transfer between animal and man This article is a good research tool for anyone to use if basing their research only on the medicinal values of animal testing, and the author does a great job of explaining and teaching the reader all about what is needed to know. 2. Murnaghan, Ian. Background and History of Animal  Background and History of Animal Testing. N.p., 6 Jan. 2017. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article by Ian Murnaghan is about the background and history, as well as the future of animal testing. It shows that animal testing is fraught with controversy and differing opinions on the matter. It explains the history of testing on animals, that even resulted in a ban in Britain in 1998. It then moves on to the attack and backlash on researchers that practice testing on animals, and finally ends with the future of animal testing where it says that while everyone wishes for a positive alternative, the animal activists going to be able to shut down the entire animal testing way. This article shows the history and future of animal testing and is very reliable. The author shows the research done through the information and sourcing in his article, even using a story about how an animal activist placed a bomb under a researchers car. He mentions PETA as well as other groups who stand against animal testing. Still, the author makes his own bias point clear about how they completely wipe out animal testing from the planet