Fish 1 Mason Fish Professor Krista Townsend ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Direct-to-Consumer Drug Advertising: the Compromise In 2012, drug companies spent over 50 billion dollars on drug advertising (Kennedy- Tucker). The topic of drug advertising has been long debated because of the wealth of information or misinformation which is provided to the consumer. On one side of the argument, drug companies fully support advertisements because they often make more money from them. On the other side of the argument, health organizations argue that advertising is harmful to the consumer in several ways. Two stakeholders in this issue are Mylan and the World Health Organization. Although they share very different viewpoints, through common ground, a compromise can be made to better society as a whole while still satisfying the needs of both companies. Mylan is an international pharmaceutical company which posts billions of dollars in revenue annually. Although they are not one of largest pharmaceutical companies in the world in terms of revenue, their global presence especially in the realm of generic medication alternatives is especially tremendous. Mylan has been infamous in the recent past for the controversy related to the prices of the EpiPen, a life-saving medication which combats anaphylaxis and other symptoms of allergic reactions (McElrath). The World Health Organization (WHO) was founded in 1948 as a plan set up by the United Nations following World War II. Their goal as an organization is to work with governments and other health professionals to create a healthier Fish 2 future for the entire world (World Health Organization). In this way, they are concerned with diseases, aging processes, air and food safety, vaccines and medications, including medication advertising. In the United States, prescription drug companies spend an average of $5 billion dollars every year on direct-to-consumer drug advertising. This kind of advertising is one which is centered on reaching the patient directly, rather than health care professionals. As stated by the World Health Organization, the United States and New Zealand are the only two countries where this type of drug advertising is legal (Ventola). Their disdain for this practice is evident in the various bulletins posted within their website about the detrimental effects of it on patients, doctors and overall health. On the other hand, Mylan spent over $43 million dollars in advertising just for the EpiPen alone in 2015 (Ventola). They spend money on advertisements because their money is returned back to them and then some. Despite their opposing views on direct-to-consumer drug advertising, a decrease in advertising could be possible through incentives for drug companies to remove their ads. In this way, the WHO and drug companies such as Mylan can both be satisfied while also promoting the health of all consumers. One advantage of drug advertising to Mylan is economical. Analytical research shows that every dollar spent in drug advertisements yields between two to four dollars in profits for the drug company (Ventola). Since 2009, the demand for the EpiPen has increased 67% due to increase in drug advertising (McElrath). This is simply one extreme example of how drug advertising has benefitted Mylan. Since they produce so many other drugs as well, the benefits to their company are seen across the board. Prescription drug ads have also helped remove stigmas associated with diseases which were previously never talked about. One such example of this positive effect is with the case of Fish 3 Cymbalta, a commonly prescribed antidepressant drug. A study performed showed that individuals who watched an advertisement about the drug were more likely to empathize or offer help to a patient struggling with mental illness (Corrigan et al.). Because Mylan produces Duloxetine, the generic formulation of Cymbalta, this benefit is one which Mylan considers as a positive side-effect of drug advertising. The World Health Organization has a very different stance on drug advertisements. On their website, an article was posted which explains in detail their stance on the topic. The WHO states that should not generally be permitted for prescription drugs or to promote drugs for certain serious scheduled narcotic and psychotropic drugs should not be advertised to the general drug advertisements should not be directed at (Bowen et al.). By giving this information on drug advertisements, the WHO solidifies their stance against them. In general, they recommend that direct-to- consumer drug advertisements should not be used at all for any prescriptions, and especially in the case of serious conditions, for narcotics, or to children. The World Health Organization defends their point by mentioning how drug advertising has also been shown to decrease the potential health and well-being of patients. Because ads are not heavily regulated, manufacturers are only required to state the dangerous side effects (sometimes death!) of their medications with illegible print and a speaker whose words are too fast for human ears to decipher. In this way, patients can be misinformed leading to confusion or unnecessary fear (Wilkes et al.). Although completely opposed on this topic, the WHO and Mylan do share some common ground. Both organizations need funds to do what they do, whether or not the WHO explicitly makes a profit as obvious as Mylan. Also, both organizations are concerned with the health of Fish 4 patients, albeit for different reasons. The WHO stands for international patient health with the goal of improving it and Mylan creates products which can help accomplish this goal. As stakeholders in the topic of direct-to-consumer drug advertising, both Mylan and the WHO have monetary and personal risks associated with rendering these ads completely illegal. This is why a compromise would be better suited to filling the needs of both companies while also putting in mind patient health and wellness. In order to avoid passing legislation which is often a lengthy and tedious process, a system of incentives can be created in order to influence drug companies to pull their advertisements off of the air. Along with these incentives would be an increase in education for patients to warn them about misinformation and inform them about cheaper drug alternatives. Since legislation would ultimately be required to completely get rid of drug advertisements, a compromise could decrease some of the harmful effects of drug ads since not all drug companies would agree to remove their ads. The system of drug representatives who bring samples to offices is already in place. By allowing drug reps to bring advertisements for drugs which include more information about the drug as well, patients can receive more education and drug companies can still advertise to consumers. With more education given to patients they would become more aware of the harmful effects of direct-to-consumer drug advertising (Kennedy-Tucker). Because of this, some companies may choose to withdraw their ads from the public or else face discrimination from patients who have now been enlightened. This education would be provided through paper or electronic literature provided to doctors. This could be shown on a screen within the office or other health care facility or handed to the patient directly. Drug companies would be encouraged to advertise in this way because patients could still view the advertisements of drug companies, but only in a controlled environment where questions and concerns could be directly addressed Fish 5 in the office. These advertisements would also be much cheaper or possibly free, but still yield patient views. Through this compromise, Mylan and other drug companies can move away from advertising incomplete information to uneducated patients while still making money. At the same time as this, our society can move further away from direct-to-consumer advertising and toward a healthier future as proposed by the World Health Organization. Fish 6 Works Cited Bowen, D., and Williams, G., and Mann, S. (2000). for the Regulatory Assessment of Medicinal Products for Use in World Health Organization. Retrieved from <http://apps.who.int/medicinedocs/en/d/Js2218e/> Corrigan, P., and Kosyluk, K., and Fokuo, J., and Park, J. (2014). does direct to consumer advertising affect the stigma of mental Community Mental Health, 50(7). Retrieved from <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24488184> Kennedy-Tucker, P. (2014). Advertising of Drugs and Health Care Seeking Welden University. McElrath, K. J. (2016). Advertising: Is Big Pharma Going Too Drug Safety News. Retrieved from <https://drugsafetynews.com/2016/08/30/unbranded- advertising-big-pharma-going-far/> Ventola, L. (2011). Pharmaceutical Advertising Therapeutic or Pharmacy and Therapeutics, 36(10). Retrieved from <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3278148/> World Health Organization. (2009). drug advertising under Bulletin of the World Health Organization, 87:2009(8). Retrieved from <http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/87/8/09-040809/en/>