Mahmoud, 1 Mentalla Mahmoud Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 Jan. 21, 2017 Set Your Own Standards Nowadays, standardized testing are playing a major role in crucially picking a student destination. Standardized tests have been always there since the 200 B.C, but what marks the differences between the early times and nowadays, is their ability of evoking strong and crucial reactions have increased. Back then, colleges were linear with scores and it was a much easier process. While the trend of colleges setting high score on admission tests increases, less students are able to accomplish their dream and get into their dream field and university. Although some people believe that standardized tests are created in a way in which it meets the standards of an average student capabilities, yet there are so many external factors as well as internal factors that can have a strong impact on the performance of students in such tests. Also, not all students will have the same interests and thus not all of them will show strengths in all areas. Instead, each will have strengths on certain areas that they will probably be able to show off their skill at that specific area in the standardized tests, this clearly demonstrates the unfairness of these tests. Zwick, Rebecca. Fair Game?: The Use of Standardized Admissions Tests in Higher Education.RouteledgeFalmer, 2002. This book clearly demonstrates the true definition of standardized tests and how they have changed over years. This book is so related to my topic since it explains how sometimes these tests could be unfair not only within the same group of people/ethnicity but also it could be unfair for other people of different ethnicity. Moreover, Zwick stated that neither standardized Mahmoud, 2 testing nor academic criteria should be used while making admission decision, she believes that there are so many other factors that could play a role in such decision. And this is why this book is so related to the topic discussed in this paper because of its all vivid information and arguments about banning standardized testing or just not using them for college admission. Zwick, Rebecca, the author of Fair Game?: The Use of Standardized Admissions Tests in Higher  is the is a Professor Emeritus in the Department of Education, where she worked from 1996 to 2010.Zwick completed a National Science Foundation project in which her research team developed and evaluated instructional materials to help educators to better interpret standardized test results. She also explored the effect of high school quality on the predictive validity of SAT scores and high school grade-point average. Zwick served on technical advisory committees for the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), the Programme in International Student Assessment (PISA), and the SAT. Analysis: Pros And Cons Of Standardized Testing In Public Schools And Its Effects On Teaching And Learning. n.p.: National Public Radio, 2000. Literature Resource Center. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This article inform readers not only about the pros and cons of standardized testing but also it analyzes the effects of the situation on both the society and the students. It clarifies the serious consequences that result from having the admission tests a  for colleges admission. This article will be so helpful when writing about this issue because the author argues that admission tests should be optional due to the fact that not an accurate measurement for the success of a student. The author also mentioned that if students pass these tests, the probability of them dropping education is extremely high which will result in them being poor, homeless and committing crime. Thus, the author mentioned that the ministry of education Mahmoud, 3 should reconsider this topic and re-evaluate it and take into consideration the consequences seriously. Talk of the Nation was a talk radio program based in Washington D.C.,produced by National Public Radio. It focused on current events and controversial issues. Sievertsen, Hans Henrik, Francesca Gino, and Marco Piovesan. Fatigue Influences Performance on Standardized Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 113.10 (2016): PMC. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. In this article authors emphasize a concept called Cognitive  ,a feeling of mild to extreme mental exhaustion which can last anywhere from several hours to days and is often felt as a rebound effect after experiences with stimulants. These feelings of exhaustion can potentially include a sustained sense of suppressed mental clarity, emotional instability and agitation alongside of specific subjective effect components such as thought deceleration, information processing suppression, thought disorganization, depression, irritability and anxiety. This article explains the connection between cognitive fatigue and standardized testing by clarifying how tiredness could really affect scores. Authors have done this by creating a study to prove that having breaks and untimed tests are two important factors that need to be taken into consideration when assessing a performance on any of the evaluation or standardized tests. Studies results have shown that when students have continious breaks it enhances their performance and when students are untimed during tests they feel less stressful and thus they perform much better. Mahmoud, 4 Hans Henrick was a professor at the Niels Bohr Institute at the University of Copenhagen.He was the founder and subsequently co-editor of the scientific journal Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research . Francesca Gino is a behavioral scientist, she deals primarily with humane action and often seeks to generalize about human behavior in society. Marco Piovesan studied human behavior at University of Copenhagen, an associate Professor in Behavioral and Experimental Economics, he is also the co-director of the Centre for Experimental Economics (CEE) in the University of Copengahen. Nauert, Rick . Standardized Test Score May Not Correlate to Higher  Psych Central News. Oct. 06, 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://psychcentral.com/news/2013/12/12/standardized-test-score-may-not-correlate-to- higher-iq/63200.html>. I have chosen this article because it relates to my topic since it explains that there is no correlation between standardized test score and high IQ scores. It states that such tests are only designed to measure the knowledge and skills that a student acquires in school. Psychologists call this crystalized . Thus, schools or students that gain high scores on standardized testing are missing in someway what is called the fluid , the ability to analyze abstract problems and think logically. So what is concluded from this article and its findings and researches, is that schools will mostly focus on nourishing the crystalized intelligence in order to perform professionally in standardized tests. As a result, students will graduate having only a specific part of their brain nourished and strengthened while they will be missing other components that will be essential for their future work and study life. Dr. Rick Nauert has over 25 years experience in clinical, administrative and academic healthcare. He is currently an associate professor for Rocky Mountain University of Health Mahmoud, 5 Professionals doctoral program in health promotion and wellness. Dr. Nauert began his career as a clinical physical therapist and served as a regional manager for a publicly traded multidisciplinary rehabilitation agency for 12 years. He has masters degrees in health-fitness management and healthcare administration and a doctoral degree from The University of Texas at Austin focused on health care informatics, health administration, health education and health policy. His research efforts included the area of telehealth with a specialty in disease management.