Fernandez 1 THE RIGHT TO DEFEND ALEX FERNANDEZ UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA Fernandez 2 The 21 st century has unfortunately been marked by many mass shooting across the United States. What was once a rare occurrence has suddenly become a threat that is all too real for many citizens of our country. Columbine, Virginia Tech, Sandy Hook, San Bernadino and Orlando are all testament to the dangers mass shootings pose today. The debate for gun control has long raged, but these recent shootings has brought the issue into national spotlight with college campuses being one of the main fighting points. The question of should guns be allowed on college campuses has been asked many times, with immense support and protest on both sides of the argument. College campuses have unfortunately been the target of recent mass shootings; therefore, some students and groups are advocating for the right to carry on college campuses. Two stake holders the National Rifle Association and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence both share a vested interest in this debate with differing opinions. Looking at both organizations views and goals the compromise of allowing professors, aids and adjuncts the ability to carry a firearm can be a plausible and valid compromise. The first group stakeholder in this argument would be the National Rifle Association or NRA. The NRA has championed for gun rights for its members for over a century. As stated on their website, the NRA is a non-profit organization formed in 1871 for the education of fire arms. (A Brief History of the NRA 2016). Over time as laws and the nature of firearms have changed, the NRA has evolved into an organization that advocates for gun rights (A Brief History). The NRA is always at the forefront of the battle against stricter gun control rights and the battle for carrying on college campuses is no different. Looking at their mission statement: protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such Constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use  (A Brief History Fernandez 3 of the NRA 2016). It is clear to see why they would support the right of an individual to carry a firearm on a college campus. In fact, in 2015 in the wake of a series of mass shootings, the NRA began to publicly advocate for the ability of individuals to carry on college campuses (Chris Cox Political Report: On Campus Carry, Only Begun To Fight). Their rational points back to their mission statement, that citizens in the United States have a fundamental right to protect and defend themselves under the 2 nd amendment. Under the constitution, the NRA believes that all individuals who possess a valid permit should be allowed to carry a weapon on a college campus (A Brief History). This viewpoint however is strongly contested by the second stake holder the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. The CSGV is another non-profit organization which is a coalition of 48 other organizations with the mission as stated on their website to reduce gun violence (About Us CSGV 2016). The coalition is a champion for gun control arguing on a variety of topics such as stricter background checks, magazine bans, assault style weapons and many more (About Us). The CSGV has long opposed the NRA as the ideologies of the two groups and their fundamental principles clash greatly. In terms of the issue of fire arms on college campuses it is clear to see why the CSGV would oppose an open carry policy. For an organization that aims for stricter gun control, allowing individuals to carry on a college campus would open up many risks in their eyes. Increasing the overall number of weapons only multiplies the threat of a college shootings as opposed to the benefits of limiting them. In fact, in 2015, while speaking on the issue a representative from the CSGV stated would I know if someone was lawfully using his or her drawn weapon? How would I be able to distinguish a guy with a from a guy with a How would law (Wisconsin Colleges be Badgered into Fernandez 4 Guns on Campus 2015). Allowing weapons on college campuses on the basis of self-defense in the eyes of the CSGV could pose many dangerous consequences. Despite the differences these two stakeholders hold towards each other, they do share the common ground of safety. Both organizations are champions of safety whether that be the NRA being a proponent of fire arm self-defense, or the CSGV aiming to restrict firearms in the hopes of reducing gun violence. Both organizations revolve around this premise of safety for their members. While the method to achieve, safety may be the different the underlying concept is the same. By adapting a compromise around safety, a solution that meets both organizations goals can be reached. Looking at both of these groups viewpoints, opinions a plausible compromise can be reached. It is very clear that the threat of mass shootings is a real one, with the college campus being one of the most vulnerable targets for perpetrators. In addition, college campuses and places of education in general have been targeted recently with mass casualties. In order to satisfy both groups my proposed compromise would be to allow with proper training, professors, adjuncts and or aids the ability to carry a low caliber fire arm on a college campus. The rationale behind this compromise lies in the statistics of mass college or public school shootings as stated in Bockler article School Shootings. Looking at the Virginia Tech shooting as well as Columbine, the murderers were both students at the university not faculty. In addition, from 2013-2016 there have been over 213 incidents of a weapon being discharged all of which the perpetrator being a student or former student (213 School Shootings In America Since 2013 Everytown Reserarch). The NRA has long argued that all individuals with a weapons permit should be allowed to carry on college campuses but the data proves that this may lead to more violence as the shooter has historically been a student (Bockler, N 191). However, by allowing Fernandez 5 faculty to carry another force multiplier in self-defense is added. Now looking at the CSGV by restricting the carrying of firearms to just specific faculty, you limit the amount of firearms on college campuses while adding a safer environment for the students of the university. Both organizations central goal is the safety and protection therefore this compromise manages to appease both groups without one group gaining an immense foothold over the other. While this compromise is not perfect, it manages to appease to the mission of gun rights guaranteed under the constitution and the CSGV goal of reduction gun violence. Looking at these two groups on opposite ends of the gun control spectrum, it is very interesting to see that they do share a common ground in the protection of individuals. While the NRA argues for self-defense through the carrying of fire arms and the CSGV argues for it through gun control, both sides aim to eliminate or reduce the threat of mass shootings. By finding this common ground and reaching a compromise that manages to cater to both sides without one giving up too much ground. The compromise is both plausible and realistic and is a step forward for both groups in the fight for gun control. The NRA gains ground in its fight for individuals having the right to carry and defend themselves with faculty gaining that privilege. Meanwhile the CSGV limits the number of weapons that might possibly be on a college campus while at the same time providing another source of deterrence against gun violence with faculty carrying. Fernandez 6 Works Cited About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Nils, Thorsten Seeger, Peter Sitzer, and Wilhelm Heitmeyer. School Shootings: Conceptual Framework and International Empirical  School Shootings (2012): 1- 24. Web. Chris W. Cox. Political Report: On Campus Carry, Only Begun To  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The Long, Shameful List of School Shootings in  EverytownResearch.org. N.p., 07 Feb. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Wisconsin Colleges Be Badgered into Allowing Guns in  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., 19 Oct. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.