Guzie 1 Brandon Guzie Kristin Rouisse ENC1102 29 January 2017 Legalizing the Herb Until the past decade, the legalization of marijuana was never even considered a plausible option. The emergence of the issue began when health benefits were discovered such as treating glaucoma and its ability to help stop cancer from spreading (Loria and Welsh). Leafly is a company that is doing all they can to end the prohibition of marijuana. The company seems at odds and their opinion goes against what used to be popular opinion. The NIDA (National Institute on Drug Abuse) continues to fight for marijuana to remain illegal. This issue is not going under the radar. An increasing amount of states are legalizing marijuana for medical purposes, and its recreational use seems inevitable. Even the presidential nominees were asked about their opinions on the subject multiple times. The fact is the issue is not going away, and major companies must agree on a compromise regarding the legalization of marijuana. Leafly and NIDA should do their best to reach an agreement by legalizing medical marijuana while strictly enforcing laws regarding the recreational and abusive use. The NIDA is an anti-marijuana company who represents a mass amount of people who do not believe that marijuana should be legal. The NIDA has released many articles explaining factors that support why marijuana should remain illegal. First off, marijuana users are more likely to consume nicotine. This eventually leads to an addiction of nicotine which is extremely unhealthy for the human body. NIDA studies have also shown that driving while under the use Guzie 2 of marijuana is more dangerous than drunk driving. A device also shows that marijuana is still detected in a breath two hours after their use. NIDA also published work regarding the issue of memory recognition after the use of marijuana. The experiment showed that monkeys who were not given THC had better recollection of a location after a delay rather than monkeys who were given a THC injection five days a week for twenty-seven weeks. Another NIDA study shows that marijuana users have a smaller orbitofrontal cortex, making it harder for users to stop addictive behavior. NIDA also questions whether the use of marijuana lowers the users IQ. No direct causation has been proved, but the correlation seems obvious Notes Article). Pharmaceutical businesses follow the NIDA and despise the idea of legalizing marijuana because it takes away from their profit while causing harm to the patient. For example, Insys Therapeutics is a pharmaceutical business in Arizona that is angry because marijuana takes the place of Dronabinol, which is a popular drug they sell. Insys along with other medical businesses are angry since medical marijuana can take the place of multiple drugs on the market, thus destroying their commercial trade and business (Berke). The DPA (Drug Policy Alliance) stands behind the NIDA with their stance as well. Their problem is not the legalization itself, but rather how people abuse the drug after its legalization. 2015, an estimated 2,139 people were jailed for marijuana offenses in California and another 4,389 people were jailed for Marijuana  offenses where low-level marijuana crimes were included in the sentence. a total of 6,537 jailed for marijuana in 2015, according to the DPA This goes to show that legalizing marijuana for medical purposes will not stop the abusive treatment of users. Young kids will always use the drug for non-medical purposes, but the real problem is, what can be done to stop the abuse of the drug? Guzie 3 On the other hand, the biggest pro-weed organization is Leafly. Knowing they are a major target for anti-weed companies, Leafly has many reasons for why they believe in the legality of marijuana. Medical marijuana has been a reason to a reduced number of sickness absences. This means that less people call out from work for sick purposes due to medical marijuana being on the market. Also, since the legality of marijuana, alcohol consumption has decreased as well as car accidents. These may not be directly because of weed, but people can not deny the coincidence. Another key factor that Leafly explains is that medical marijuana takes the place of many prescription drugs. Marijuana has many health benefits that makes it capable of acting as an alternative for several drugs. It is quite astonishing to think about how a plant can do so much. Another interesting fact that Leafly shows is that the amount of teenage marijuana users has not increased, but the use of alcohol and other drugs has decreased (Jikomes). This is weird to think about because this goes against the popular idea that legalizing marijuana will give incentive for more teens to start using. The best argument pro-marijuana companies have is from a medical standpoint. Scientific research shows many health benefits that come from the use of marijuana. First, medical marijuana has been proven to help treat glaucoma in the eye. Second, the THC in marijuana has been shown to help control and prevent epileptic seizures. Third, marijuana can be used to help cancer patients stop their cancer from spreading. These are just three of the many major health benefits that arise from the use of medical marijuana. The uses of marijuana are endless for medical purposes. It can also help patients that suffer from chronic migraines or anxiety (Loria and Welsh). The essential point is the drug has major upside if used for medical motives. Is there common ground between these major contrasting stakeholders? It seems as if they have completely opposite opinions about the legalization of marijuana, but they can meet in Guzie 4 the middle. no doubt in benefits when it comes to health problems, but the real issue seems to be the abuse of the drug. Even the DPA, a major advocate for the NIDA, lists reasons on their website why medical marijuana should be legal. Legalizing medical marijuana creates jobs and will ultimately save money because of the marijuana sales The big problem the DPA has with the legalization of weed is how strictly it is enforced. Legalizing weed for medical purposes does not change the truth that teens and young adults will continue to use the drug for recreational purposes. Common ground between these differing companies can be the legalization of MEDICAL marijuana while maintaining a strict stance against the recreational use. Medical marijuana should not be easy to get prescribed. Teens should not be able to lie and get prescribed for This will lead to too many irresponsible kids handling a drug that is capable of being used with abusive purposes. If this is mandated properly with stern, required tests for the prescription of medical marijuana then health needs of patients will be fulfilled while keeping weed out of the hands of abusive users. People need to stop being close-minded and realize the drug does have its positive traits. It is just how strictly the laws are enforced that will keep the drug from being a problem in society. In a society where new advancements are being made every day, people need to start benefiting from these breakthroughs. Marijuana has been scientifically and clinically proven help with a numerous amount of health factors. People will always bend the rules, but how can these rule-breakers influence whether the drug is legalized? Legalize the drug for proper purposes, and then strictly enforce laws regarding the issue to prevent the misuse of the drug. However, this is a lot easier said than done which is why this issue continues to be a controversy in the world today. Guzie 5 Cited Berke, Jeremy. an alliance fighting to keep marijuana  Business Insider. Business Insider, 04 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.businessinsider.com/companies-funding-anti-marijuana-legalization-2016-11. NIDA Notes Articles:  National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.drugabuse.gov/news-events/nida-notes/articles/term/135/mariju ana. Jikomes, Nick. 4 Promising Cannabis Studies and Research from  Leafly. N.p., 01 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.leafly.com/news/science-tech/promising-2016- cannabis-research. Loria, Jennifer Welsh and Kevin. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.businessinsider.com/health- benefits-of-medical-marijuana-2014-4/#it-can-be-used-to-treat-glaucoma-1. Marijuana Legalization and  Marijuana Legalization and Regulation Drug Policy Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.drugpolicy.org/marijuana- Word count-1371 (everything)