Barr1 Mary Barr Bob Botkin Enc 1102 12 February, 2017 Common Ground on How to Police the Mentally Ill In society, the institutional system that houses majority of the mentally ill has shifted from the mental hospitals to the prison system. Twenty percent of Americans in jail and fifteen percent of Americans in prison are diagnosed with having a mental illness; leaving 356,000 mentally ill people in the legal system (Swanson). The issue that surrounds this shocking numbers is whether incarcerating the mentally ill is an effective solution after they have committed a crime. The division of this situation falls among police officers whose sworn duty is to protect the community and the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) who advocate for the well-being of the mentally ill. Police officers are the first ones to arrive on the scene. They dictate how the interaction between law enforcement and the suspect will go and whether the suspect will be arrested or sent to a hospital. The NAMI was built with the purpose to raise awareness, advocate and provide programs for those who have a mental health issue. While the police and NAMI disagree on the process of the assessment and interaction with mentally ill suspects, the frequency of the mentally ill who are incarcerated needs to be reevaluated. Police officers are civil servants who enforce the law and help keep the community safe. Along with this job, police officers must not only use what they were taught in the academy, but they must rely on their instinct to make split decisions while they are in the field. Many officers say that their main goal when arriving on the scene is to assess the situation, identify the threat and de-escalate the situation; this will help them ensure the safety of the victim or victims. These steps can sometimes become complex when the suspect has a mental illness. Once they are on Barr2 the scene, the decision as to whether a suspect is taken to be booked or goes to the hospital to receive treatment is solely up to the officer. This can sometimes be hard when an officer is not educated enough to identify the behaviors and symptoms of a mental illness and therefore classifies the person as being in a state of inebriation or hostile. In the heat of the moment, when things are chaotic, and there seems to be an immediate threat to someone or the community police officers will do anything to protect the community. For example, police officers were dispatched to a New York convenience store after a strange man was seen walking around; doctors diagnosed this young man as having autism 300 Tragedies that might have been prevented if New York State made better use of ). When police officers arrived on the scene the man was still walking around, talking loudly, and appearing as if he was looking for something. The police officers approached him and the man immediately tensed up and tried to run from the police; the police shouted for him to stop and when he did not they tackled him and took him to the local jail for booking. The immediate response to the officers coming close to him is a characteristic of people with autism, and because he has autism he was not able to properly process what was happening. Police officers not being able to identify these simple characteristics will oftentimes cause them to believe the person is being defiant and trying to escape the crime scene; this one factor has contributed to nearly 2 million people with a mental illness processed in the system each year People with Mental This is very essential, because most times those with a mental illness are unaware of the wrong doing they are committing. In the academy police officers are taught state laws, criminal investigations, patrol procedures, firearms training, traffic control, defensive driving, self-defense, first aid and computer skills; among all these skills there is not one that helps to educate them on mental illnesses and how to interact with people who suffer from those illnesses. When there is a lot of Barr3 pressure/responsibility and not enough education on a subject, a proper decision cannot be made; when the outcome of these decisions affects life it is imperative that the proper education is being received. The second stakeholder involved in this situation is the National Alliance on Mental Illness also known as NAMI. NAMI is accredited as the largest grass root organization dedicated to enhancing the lives of those with mental illness and their family. Their main goal is to make sure that people who have a mental illness can live in society successfully, with equal rights, protect funding for treatments/services and educate others on mental health These goals are implemented to help create an environment where those who have a mental illness can feel safe and live a normal life like everyone else. NAMI has a great attachment to the interaction seen between police officers and those with a mental illness. When people who have, a mental illness are arrested, generally because they are labeled a danger or threat to the community by the police officers. A police narrow awareness on the common behaviors of those with a mental illness will have them label the suspect a threat, and not a person who is unaware of their actions, scared or unable to process what is going on appropriately. This mentality is breaking down efforts to dismantle stereotypes of the mentally ill as being violent or dangerous. The jail system in most situations will cause a symptoms to become worse because the individuals are not receiving the treatment and services they need to help control their symptoms. When a person is, schizophrenic and suffers from hallucination, placing them in solitary confinement after committing a violation is counterproductive (PBS, director). The time they spend by themselves, the bare walls, and the inability to go anywhere, will feed their hallucinations and the hallucinations will become more frequent. People who suffer from hallucinations have a hard time separating the hallucinations from reality and if Barr4 untreated they begin to interpret the hallucinations as their life. Contrary to if they were taken to a mental institution they would have been able to get treated and receive the services needed to control their hallucinations and realize when they occur and separate it from real life. NAMI stands behind their firm position, that law enforcement should undergo more training, as while as county and state leaders, and that suspects should have the options to go to a mental hospital. To help fulfill their wishes in this situation, the National Alliance on Mental Illness started a campaign, challenging counties to reduce their number of people with mental illness in jails. Their end goal is to collaborate with law enforcement to educate and train them on how to deal with people with mental illness. A mental illness, also referred to as mental disorder, is classified as a wide range of conditions that affect mood, thinking and behavior Health These conditions sometimes make it hard for individuals to communicate with others, processing information properly or interacting in a setting with a lot of people. A mental illness is a result of genetics, environment, lifestyle, and biological changes in the body. The most abundant mental illnesses are depression, anxiety, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, post- traumatic disorder, schizophrenia, autism, and personality disorders. The most common arrest of those with a mental illness are those who have bipolar, post-traumatic stress and personality disorder About Mental Illness and Because of their symptoms people with a mental illness are sometimes unaware of their actions and cannot properly process them. This means that jailing people with a mental illness does not fix the issue that lead to them being arrested. To satisfy both police officers duty to protect the community and the National Alliance on Mental Illness mission, education on the subject should be a part of the academy and written policies should be established on how to handle these situations. Making mental health a part of Barr5 the academy will ensure that police officers are educated on the matter and know the common behaviors of each illness. By doing this officers learn to decipher when a suspect is potentially battling a mental illness. When officers have these skills, they are more capable of diffusing a situation, by knowing how to talk to suspects and getting an understanding of what is going on. They will learn to recognize when a suspect who has autism is confused and scared and not a hostile suspect. Written laws will ensure there is a solid foundation on what to do and if they are violated there will be repercussions. The written law will guarantee that police officers know the standards and responsibility they must uphold. The idea of imposing the laws will show the police officers how important and crucial rectifying this problem is. Barr6 Works Cited About  National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/About-NAMI. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. An Exploratory Study of Pennsylvania Police Perceptions of Dangerousness and Their Ability to Manage Persons with Mental Illness. SageJournals, journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1098611103258957. Accessed 1 Sept. 2004. Facts About Mental Illness and  Mental Health Reporting, edited by The School of Social Work, University of Washington, Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. Jailing People with Mental  National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/Learn- More/Public-Policy/Jailing-People-with-Mental-Illness. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Lamb, Richard, et al. The Police and Mental  The Police and Mental Health. Psychiatric Services, ps.psychiatryonline.org/doi/abs/10.1176/appi.ps.53.10.1266. Accessed 1 Oct. 2002. Mental Health  National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/Learn- More/Mental-Health-Conditions. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. PBS, director. The New Asylums. PBS, 2005. PBS Frontline, PBS, www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/showsasylums/. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. Steadman, Henry J., et al. Comparing Outcomes of Major Models of Police Responses to Mental Health  Psychiatric Services, 1 May 2000, ps.psychiatryonline.org/doi/abs/10.1176/appi.ps.51.5.645#/doi/full/10.1176/appi.ps.51.5. 645. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Barr7 Swanson, Ana. A shocking number of mentally ill Americans end up in prison instead of  The Washington Post, 30 Apr. 2015, www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/04/30/a-shocking-number-of-mentally- ill-americans-end-up-in-prisons-instead-of-psychiatric- Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. 300 Tragedies that might have been prevented if New York State made better use of  Mental Illness Policy, mentalillnesspolicy.org/kendras- law/mentalillnesstragedynys.htm. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017.