Turaniczo 1 Elisha Turaniczo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 9 February, 2017 Effect on Self Image The topic of effect on the women and young girls of today is a very important topic. Media has caused the major problem of having eating disorders and girls no longer look in the mirror and are completely satisfied with what they see. There are two companies that show women in very different ways, essentially they have the same goal to sell their product but they approach that goal very differently. Secret and Aerie are two lingerie companies that are prime examples of companies that can affect how a woman looks at herself. While Aerie tries to show a woman that she can be beautiful in her own skin with models of all shapes and sizes, Secret, shows a bunch of models that have basically the exact same body types as each other. The idea of media having an effect on the self-image is ever changing. Companies such as Aerie and Secret could work together by reducing the use of photoshop and showing their models in their natural state, which could help girls look at themselves and be happy with what they see. The Aerie is the lingerie company closely associated with American Eagle. Aerie has done a wonderful job of promoting positive self image for young girls, trying to make it clear that females should be happy with their bodies The models used in advertisements for this company are girls of all shapes and sizes. The #AerieREAL campaign that was established in 2014 (Refinery29) has not only impacted the women who shop for their product by making them see themselves in a better light, this campaign has raised product sales. The #AerieREAL Turaniczo 2 campaign was one of the first of its kind, where the models are not photoshopped in the time where more retail stores used that method all the time. The company usually sells lingerie, but recently started using the same method for their swim apparel. They have a program called a fit guide that essentially lets the customers see what bras look like on differents sized models. Aerie also partnered with the National Eating Disorder Association (Refinery 29), which is a big deal because showing models who are photoshopped to be anorexically skinny can make girls think that they need to starve themselves to be beautiful. On the contrary, Secret does not use the sort of approach that Aerie does, even though the two companies have the same goal, which is selling lingerie to consumers. Secret has models that are all of the same, super tall and super skinny, but the reality is photoshop is a big thing for their company. It is well known that Secret is a very popular brand, but it can also have a negative effect on how girls look at their bodies. With models that are photoshopped to look like what society today would call which is totally unrealistic. Little girls look at those models and feel that they need to look like that to be considered beautiful, leading to girls living with eating disorders and altered self-image. For Secret main goal is to sell as much product as they can. They only show girls that are tall and skinny with big boobs. The problem with that is they could end up losing more than they gain because women will come into their store to shop and find something that looks amazing on the model, try it on, and end up not buying it because it does not look as good on them as it does on the model. Not only does Secret affect the physical appearance, they essentially promote that girls are things not people, using derogatory terminology on some of their products. (Huffington Post) There are many different instances when the people in charge of the photoshopping for the company have made errors in their pictures, for instance when Turaniczo 3 Secret has made several attempts to make things look better such as one of their models to have a bigger chest, they only photoshopped one of her breasts so they were lopsided. Secret Photoshop Fail) The point in which each of these companies meet with similar goals, like all clothing companies alike, their main goal is to sell their product. Although each company may take a different approach at how to do that, at the end of the day all about profit. Each and every company tries to be bigger and better than the other guys. The fight to make it to the top of the food chain is unbelievable, they will do anything they possibly can to make their product more appealing to the consumer. The two companies could in fact come to a compromise, or mainly Secret could learn a little something from Aerie. If Secret were to pair up with Aerie and work the campaign of supporting healthy self-image for girls of all ages, their sales would sky rocket. Instead of making young girls worry about the idea that they cannot be successful if they do not have a body that is considered ideal by society. According to Huffington Post in an article about Secret of young girls do not pursue things that they are most passionate about in life because of body Secret could start using less photoshop on their models and show young girls what their models actually look like. They could begin by hiring models, even though being plus sized is often equivalent . Secret could also take the path that Aerie has and partner up with a foundation that raises awareness about eating disorders, and they could also promote female independence and make sure that women know that they are strong, beautiful, and were not created to please a man. While Secret can benefit more by pairing up with Aerie in their campaign to raise the awareness of effect on young self-esteem, Aerie could also benefit so much Turaniczo 4 from the pairing as well. Secret is one of the biggest lingerie companies out there, so for Aerie to be able to work alongside Secret would be a massive climb up the power ladder for their company. The lives of both producer and consumer has the possibility to be made amazing with just a few changes. If Secret were to change the fact that they photoshop their models like no other, and go along with what Aerie does in their #AerieREAL campaign, where they have models of different sizes and shapes, not only would they change how girls around our nation look at themselves their sales numbers would increase by tenfold. Delete photoshop, not the natural body of models. Turaniczo 5 Work Cited Colon, Ana, March 10 2016 1:00 AM, Fashion Lingerie, and Photo: Courtesy of Aerie. #AerieREAL Proves That Body-Positive Ads Can, In Fact, Spike  Aerie Lingerie Sales Up - Body Positivity. Refinery 29, 09 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Krupnick, Ellie. Secret Photoshop Might Have Rendered Model Lopsided (PHOTO,  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 25 May 2011. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Newsom, Jennifer Siebel. The Problem With  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 05 Apr. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Style Magazine, and Health Ma. Secret Photoshop  The Huffington Post. N.p., 25 May 2011. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.