1 Cheyanne Wells Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 20 Feb. 2017 Vaccines and the Link to Autism Autism Spectrum Disorder is a disability that one in 68 people have, and the numbers are growing. The problem is that the cause is unknown so there is a lot of speculation as to how people happen to obtain it. Scientists are working to find a cause so they can possibly find a cure, but also so the mystery behind it will go away. The main theory that is thrown around is that having your child vaccinated can cause autism, but does it actually? Autism Spectrum Disorder is a very mysterious thing, but with more research and education hopefully it be as threatening in the future. Dr. Wakefield, AJ, et al. Ileal-lymphoid-nodular hyperplasia, non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental disorder in The Lancet. 28 Feb. 1998 This article was written in 1998 and has since been retracted because it was discovered to be false information. This article is the first one that started the argument that vaccines and autism are directly linked. It states that eight out of the twelve children tested had autism because they were vaccinated as children. Eleven of the test subjects were male while one was female, and the findings state that these children were and after exposed to certain situations developed gastrointestinal and development problems, the main one being Autism Spectrum Disorder. This article is very crucial to the topic given that it was proven to be false. The above article is what first started the ongoing argument of the link between vaccines and autism. 2 This article was later found to have been falsified and was retracted, but the damage was done. To this day there are still parents that refuse to vaccinate their children for fear of them getting autism when it is not a contract able disease, autism is simply a disorder and something a child is born with. The article does not take into consideration that the problems could have already existed and just be preset to start showing themselves at a certain age, as autism is most commonly diagnosed at the age that vaccines are administered. Dr. Johnson, Michael D. Issue: Mandatory Childhood Human Biology: Concepts and Current Issues. 8 th Edition. Pearson. 2017. Pg. 2. This article states that all fifty sates have laws in place that mandate that vaccinating your children is mandatory, but all fifty states have exemption policies in place. Vaccinations have been successful in helping to get rid of almost all possibly fatal communicable diseases but with a rise in people deciding not to risk their child getting autism the numbers might soon rise again. The article also makes the assumption that celebrities, because of the disproven article in the backing this movement of non-vaccination are a big reason why this is still happening. Regular people are more likely to listen to a celebrity on Oprah equipped with a sob story than they are to science and reasoning, and this might pose a real threat. This article is important to the topic because it not only brings up the article previously mentioned, but it also brings more factors into the debate. It brings up the role celebrities play and explains why people might be more susceptible to that knowledge rather than real science. It also states why vaccines are so important, having prevented almost all of the most fatal communicable diseases, including but not limited to, polio, smallpox, and measles. 3 Knopf, Allison. do not Cause Autism: Pediatricians Fight Back Against Anti- The Brown University Child and Adolescent Behavior Letter. 27 Jan. 2017. This article explains how pediatricians are trying to counter the arguments of parents that are listening to the anti-vaccine Parents hate to think they are making a decision that will negatively impact their lives, and so the threat of having a child on the spectrum can seem a scary thought. Those parents who get convinced by the anti- vaccine crowd are not taking into account the possibly fatal consequences of not vaccinating their children though. The vaccines the parents giving their children prevent diseases that at one time were potentially fatal, but with the rise in people not vaccinating their children we are likely to see a direct correlation in deaths caused by those same diseases. When you think about the search for answers with the vaccine and autism debate you often only think about those two things. Sometimes it can be easy to forget the people that see the effects of it the most, pediatricians. This article helps sow their view on the whole thing. Some believe that opinions are very important when considering this topic because they understand the potential that the diseases that could be prevented can pose. Price, Christofer S. and Infant Exposure to Thimerosal from Vaccines and Immunoglobulins and Risk of Pediatrics. Oct 2010. Vol 126. Issue 4. The article talks about the experiment conducted to see if ingredients in vaccines are found to correlate with autism. The scientists used scientific method to find out whether their test subjects showed that there was a link between the two. It was found that there was not a link and that vaccinations did not make it more likely for a person to have autism. 4 This article is important to the paper because it shows, with scientific evidence that vaccines do not cause autism or even make it more likely for a person to be on the spectrum. The scientists used interviews, diagnosis, and medical documentation to find out the background of each test subject to find whether there was any linkage. The end result is what research seems to be finding that a lot of the actually science based articles agree on, that vaccines do not cause autism. The Mayo Clinic Staff. and Conditions Autism Spectrum mayoclinic.org. 3 June 2014. This article gives the definition for Autism Spectrum Disorder. ASD is a neurodevelopmental disorder that causes impairments in a ability to communicate and behaviors. The word spectrum refers to the fact that the symptoms of the disorder vary so much between each person. The article also states that the rise in the number of people diagnosed may be because of better detection, or just a rise in cases. Autism was previously treated with a trip to the asylum so many people did not want to diagnose their children and damn them to the horrible conditions. Now people with ASD are better understood and accepted. This article is important because it gives a little background knowledge on Autism Spectrum Disorder and its symptoms. Without this some people might not understand as well the argument against vaccines and the worry that parents get when the possibility that their child might have Autism emerges. It is very important to understand the weight of Autism Spectrum Disorder. Suddenly your hopes and dreams for a child will most likely not come to fruition and they will end up living their entire lives not able to care for themselves. The 5 other possibility is that they just have some minor social setbacks. The extents of the effects vary with each child and there is no way to know what will happen until the child grows up.