Rodrigo Caldas Prof. Uddin ENC 1101 02/01/2017 Introduction: This paper will argue that sending an occupying military force back to Afghanistan would open the cause more harm than good. This will be accomplished by first covering the humanitarian services that the military provided while conducting operations against the Taliban. Form the construction of infrastructure like schools and hospitals to providing food and water to people across the land. Then by explaining what is covered by the International Humanitarian Law (IHL), citing examples of specific violations that were documented throughout the war against terror, such as the abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib prison by the military and the torcher methods of interrogation which included waterboarding and sleep deprivation conducted by CIA operatives and military interrogators, and discussing the long-lasting effects of these violation to the Afghanistan and American population. Finally, by listing some of the atrocities committed against U.S. troops, for example the live broadcasts depicting the beheading of U.S. military personnel and civilian contractors who were captured. As citizens of the world we expect that even countries at war abide by the articles of the Geneva Convention that cover the treatment of Prisoners of War. The Taliban and the Afghan people, whom they threaten with executing their families, have shown a complete disregard for the IHL which led the U.S. people, NATO and the rest of the world to ask for more strict regulations concerning war crimes and for violators to be held accountable for their actions. These arguments illustrate why the U.S. should not send an occupying Military force back to Afghanistan. Source 1: Forsythe, David P. The United States And International Humanitarian  Journal Of Human Rights 7.1 (2008): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In United States and International Humanitarian David Forsythe reviews the US and its adherence to the International Humanitarian Law(IHL). Beginning with the Vietnam war and My Lai massacre, the United States increased its focus on complying with the IHL (also known as the laws of war). All that changed with the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington on 9/11. From those attacks to about 2005, Bush and his Administration reversed the progress the US had been making and downplayed both IHL and international human rights law specifically with regards to the treatment of enemy prisoners. The U.S. view toward IHL has been and is still being debated, with the Bush Administration being challenged both judicially and congressionally. The information provided by United States and International Humanitarian illustrates the neglect to human rights that was commonplace in the war on terror during the Bush Administration. An account of the disregard for the IHL during the creating of policy and procedures regarding military operations in Afghanistan and the interrogation of prisoners of war is also given. This sets the stage for the issues that arose from sending an occupying force to Afghanistan. This information relates to the topic by depicting some of the human rights violation that occurred in the initial military occupation of Afghanistan. David Forsythe holds a Ph.D. from Princeton University, was one of the Gladstein Visiting Professors in the Human Rights Institute at the University of Connecticut in 2007 and the Fulbright Senior Research Chair in Human Rights and International Studies at Copenhagen in 2008. He is the author of over 100 publications on different aspects of International Relations. Source 2: Farrell, Brian. Application Of International Humanitarian Law By United States  Penn State International Law Review 28.2 (2009): 177-197. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In of International Humanitarian Law by United States Brian Farrell reviews the influence of IHL in US courts and domestic law. The US Supreme Court recognizes the law of war as being part of international law. However, few of the cases involved individual rights that discussed humanitarian law. In a recent case, the Court used humanitarian law to cancel the assembling of a military commission at Bay. The Guantanamo military commissions are military tribunals authorized by presidential order, then by the Military Commissions Act of 2006, and currently by the Military Commissions Act of 2009 for prosecuting detainees held in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps. The Court refrained from addressing the relationship between domestic law and IHL, or stating if the Geneva Conventions are judicially enforceable. The information provided by of International Humanitarian Law by United States illustrates how IHL plays a part in American law. It demonstrates the evolution of IHL in US Law and shows examples of Supreme Court cases before and after The Bush influence. This information demonstrates how the Bush administration circumvented the IHL to pursue its goals in the war against terror. This information relates to the topic by depicting how the government skirted around the IHL with creative language that allowed for Human right to be ignored. Brian Farrell holds a Ph.D. from National University of Ireland, Galway, 2013. He directs the College of Citizen Lawyer Program and is an associate director of the Center for Human Rights. He is the author of over 20 publications ranging from Human Rights, International Law, Criminal Law and Wrongful Convictions. Source 3: Nanda, Ved P. Preemptive And Preventive Use Of Force, Collective Security, And Human  Denver Journal Of International Law & Policy 33.1 (2004): 7-15. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In and Preventive Use of Force, Collective Security, and Human Ved Nanda reviews the role the U.N. currently plays in the determining the appropriate conduct of war, especially in its articles 2(4), 2(7), 51 and chapter VII of the U.N. Charter. These articles cover the relevant norms, the structure and mandate of the U.N. Security Council. The primary responsibility of the U.N. Security Council is to maintain international peace and security. However, the legal standards on the use of force remain vague. It is self-evident that the international community is not yet ready to accept restrictions on the use of force. Until recently, war was a valid instrument of national policy, and so states routinely settled international arguments with military force. The information provided by and Preventive Use of Force, Collective Security, and Human argues the need for U.N. approval for use of military force as a means of settling arguments between nations. It also distinguishes between preemptive and preventive use of force in providing national security. This information relates to the topic by providing restrictions to military actions, which do cover the U.S. opting to send troops back to Afghanistan. It expands on the Human Security and how it needs to apply to all of Humanity. Ved Nanda is an Evans University Professor and Thompson G. Marsh Professor of Law. He holds a B.A. and M.A. from the Punjab University in India. He is the founder of the Ved Nanda Center for International and Comparative Law which hosts programs for the lawyers, students and community participants as well as promoting scholarship in the field of international law. He has over 20 publications since 2009 concerning International law and human rights. Source 4: Haysom, S and Jackson, A 2013 need to love Civil-Military Relations in Afghanistan, Stability: International Journal of Security & Development, 2(2): 38, pp. 1-16, DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5334/sta.by. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. In need to love Civil-Military Relations in Haysom and Jackson chart the evolution of the civil-military dialogue in Afghanistan from 2002 until 2012. Drawing on interviews with a range of staff of aid agency, military, and donor organizations who were present in Afghanistan in this period as well as audits, official guidelines, and other written documents, this article provides an overview of the development of stabilization approaches in Afghanistan and the strategies aid agencies pursued in response, the trajectory of mechanisms for structured dialogue. Lastly, it identifies several implications that can be drawn from this experience for aid agencies, NATO, and troop contributing nations. Stabilization in foreign policy, military strategy, and development aid assumed significantly greater prominence after the events of 9/11. Such approaches were antagonistic, especially in Afghanistan where troop contributing nations (TCNs) to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) sought to use development and reconstruction activities to challenge the Taliban and enhance the legitimacy of the Afghan government. The information provided by need to love Civil-Military Relations in illustrates the need for aid regarding the necessities of life for the people in Afghanistan. The article covers the evolution of humanitarian services in Afghanistan during the U.S. occupation. Although it does discuss how the military took the opportunity of providing aid and made it part of its strategy to demonize and discourage support for the Taliban, the aid provided to the people of Afghanistan was welcome and essential in maintaining life in the war-torn country. Simone Haysom is an independent researcher and writer who specializes in analysis for the international development and humanitarian sectors. She is currently a Research Associate at the Humanitarian Policy Group at the Open Data Institute in London, she has several years of experience conducting fieldwork and facilitating policy discussion in conflict-affected countries. She has published widely on topics ranging from forced evictions to protection of civilians during conflict.