Elkadi 1 Carina Elkadi Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 January 27 2017 Innovation and Its Hazards Modern day is a time of endless possibilities. With the invention of the internet, phones, and other forms of artificial intelligence, it seems there is nothing mankind cannot do. Although cell phones keep people on task and connected to work, school, and loved ones, they have not been around long enough to show their long term effects. First world countries are still exploring the different ways in which modern electronics can be used, and there is much left to learn. But just as there is much good to be discovered, researchers do not know the extent of damage these devices can do to human minds, bodies, and lifestyles. Many studies have been done in an attempt to understand this damage, and results have not been inconclusive. The Association for Psychological Science has carried out studies that have proven that smartphones disturb sleep cycles and raise stress levels. Cell phones can even directly alter brain activity as the electrical impulses in the brain react to electrical currents (Wang). Companies such as Apple have contributed greatly to the spread and advancement of cell phones and have reaped many benefits, doubling their earnings and profits since 2011 (Egan). Apple and the Association of Psychological Science should work together to spread awareness on both the benefits of advanced technology and the negative effects of excessive cell phone use for a better educated public. Though Apple is the most valued company (Egan), it remains conscientious. Apple CEO Tim Cook shared settle for anything less than excellence in every group Elkadi 2 in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when wrong and the courage to (Think Marketing). Apple has been working to make its products safer for the environment by using greener materials and recycling in order to leave a smaller carbon footprint. It has also added new features to devices such as the Apple watch to make them accessible for differently abled users, and joined former President ConnectED initiative and donated devices to and improved learning in schools in need. Along with these efforts, Apple offers free workshops and youth programs to teach customers about how to use their products and further their tech skills (Apple). It has definitely proven itself as an exceptionally conscientious company with modern, forward thinking. The Association for Psychological Science (APS) is nonprofit organization dedicated to the advancement of scientific psychology and its representation at the national and international (APS). According to their website, their mission is promote, protect, and advance the interests of scientifically oriented psychology in research, application, teaching, and the improvement of human (APS). The Association for Psychological Science has over twenty-six thousand members, all of whom strive to make psychology a science that everyone can understand. The APS has also led initiatives that have created programs for the study of behavioral science, grants for students in the field of psychology, and funds for psychological research (Kraut). The APS and other independent researchers have discovered different adverse effects of cell phone use. The World Health Organization has stated that cell phones are possible human carcinogens that can increase the risk of brain cancer with excessive use (Wang). A study carried out in 2006 showed that radiation from a mobile phone changes the cerebral blood flow in the brain, causing a decrease in areas closest to the phone and an increase in other areas (Aalto et Elkadi 3 al.). Cell phone use has not been widespread for very long, and it is for this reason that researchers do not yet know the long term effects of exposure to their radiation. However, scientists have gathered that rate of MWR [microwave absorption is higher in children than adults because their brain tissues are more absorbent, their skulls are thinner, and their relative size is (Nelson). Though the APS is still conducting studies to achieve more conclusive results, surely one can agree that it is best to proceed with cellular phone use with caution, as long-term damage cannot simply be undone. Although Apple and the Association of Psychological Science seem to be on different sides, they both care about improving future. Apple believes in advancement through innovative technology, giving its consumers tools to better themselves and bring a positive impact to the world, while the Association for Psychological Science aims to further psychological research and contribute to the improvement of human welfare (APS). Healthy brains and advanced tools are a combination that can bring a great deal of improvement to all areas of modern society. Apple and the Association for Psychological Science have the potential to be great agents of change, especially if they work together. The APS could greatly improve human welfare by educating the public on how to use products such as the iPhone in a safer and smarter manner. If Apple worked with the APS on this campaign, they would draw more attention and credibility to it while also bringing Apple some very good publicity and definitely increasing demand for the products. The campaign will visit all state capitols. During this tour, the campaign will also air public service announcements on channels like PBS, Nickelodeon, and Disney, and other channels including CNN, and The Discovery Channel. Apple Awareness will be funded by Apple and APS fundraisers. The campaign will also have Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Elkadi 4 Snapchat accounts. With enough publicity, people who cannot attend Apple Awareness events can stay updated through social media. The campaign will also have fun but informational videos posted online so that phone users can still reap some benefit and increase their knowledge about the effects of excessive electronic use. Apple will work with Snapchat to have a sponsored story that can cover campaign trips to the largest capitols. It will also have its own filters. To get the youth more involved, Nickelodeon, Disney, and MTV will have online votes to decide which celebrities will visit each city. With the power of social media, the campaign will gain publicity in a very short time, benefitting greatly from the digital age and reaching those who truly need to be made aware of the harm it can cause. In the blur of modern fast-paced life, it is nearly impossible to live independently of artificial intelligence and its advantages. Cell phones have become the fifth limbs of human bodies, and most members of American society have forgotten how to function without them. While products like the iPhone bring a monumental amount of convenience to daily tasks, health and life expectancy are not things that should be traded off for it. It is imperative that generations do not allow future generations to discover potential health risks on their own, when it will be far too late to avoid them. As humanity moves forward and becomes more developed, people cannot become solely dependent on artificial intelligence Once society becomes more aware of the risks of digital dependency, the correct steps can be taken to further technological advancement and improve the of quality of life on a global level. The digital age is a time of great opportunity and all people need is the right knowledge and information to know how to make the most of it. (wc:1207) Elkadi 5 Works Cited Aalto, S., C. Haarala, A. Bruck, H. Sipila, H. Hamalainen, and JO Rinne. Mobile Phone Affects Cerebral Blood Flow in  Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism: Official IJJournal of the International Society of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 26 Feb. 2006. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Association for Psychological Science. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.psychologicalscience.org/about>.  Apple. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.apple.com/>. Egan, Matt. Apple Could Be First $1 Trillion  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, 17 Apr. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kraut, Alan G. Mortgaging  Mortgaging Future. American Association for the Advancement of Science, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Nelson, Roxanne. Children Face Highest Health Risk from Cell  WebMD. WebMD, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sleek, Scott. The Psychological Toll of the  Association for Psychological Science. The Observer, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Think Marketing. Have You Ever Read about Core  Think Marketing. Think Marketing, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wang, Rong. The Effect of Cell Phone Radiation on Your  Pong: Making the Case for Cell Phone Radiation Protection. N.p., 28 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Elkadi 6