Huang 1 Jiayi Huang Kristen Rouisse 02/11/2017 Solutions to an Unsustainable World One of the issues affecting the world today is energy. The world has grown massively in regards to industrialization, and so has the insatiable need for energy to feed these industries. As a result, different forms of energy have been used, and some have become controversial due to their effect on the world. Nuclear energy has been used in different developed and middle-level economies to satisfy their energy needs. However, production of nuclear energy requires nuclear reactors that have negative effects on the environment, especially in the areas where they are located. As such, different activist organizations have been developed to oppose the continuous development of nuclear reactors that are in charge of nuclear energy. In the U.S., the Nuclear Energy Institute is in charge of nuclear energy. Greenpeace is one of the organizations that is keen on protecting the people and the environment from the negative attributes of nuclear energy by advocating for better forms of energy. The Nuclear Energy Institute and the Greenpeace organizations have thus been at odds over the matter of nuclear energy. Therefore, a compromise needs to be reached by the two groups for more sustainable forms of energy so that brings a better result to the country. Due to the high demand of energy in the United States as a result of industrialization, nuclear energy has been seen as the most reliant form of energy due to the energy produced in the nuclear reactors. To oversee and control the nuclear industry, the Nuclear Energy Institute was formed in 1994 by merging four groups that dealt with nuclear energy: The Nuclear Division of the Edison Electric Institute, the American Nuclear Energy Institute, the Nuclear Management and Huang 2 Resources Council, and the US Council for Energy Awareness. The main role of NEI is developing policies on critical regulatory and legislative issues that affect the nuclear industry. It also acts as the voice of the industry before the government regulators, Congress, and other international bodies (NEI). Lastly, it is tasked with providing information that deals with the nuclear industry to the public and news outlets, among others. In general, NEI, therefore, serves as a body that represents the interests of the nuclear industry before the regulatory commission and the legislature, as well as influencing public policy. On the other hand, Greenpeace is an organization that has been at the forefront of opposing the huge reliance on nuclear energy. The organization has frequently accused NEI of greenwash(Greenpeace). Greenpeace was founded by Patrick Moore to show public opposition to various projects undertaken by the government and other institutions that were bad for the ecology in different areas. Since its inception, the organization has inception to drive public opinion in regards to the environment and has brought the issue of the environment to be the talking point of various governments. Nuclear energy has been one of the issues on focus by Greenpeace. The organization has been in opposition of the NEI due to the effects that nuclear energy has during production. Sustainable development has been the critical issue between NEI and Greenpeace. NEI has been focusing on the production of energy to serve the huge demands of the country. Currently, nuclear energy supplies about 20% of the electrical needs of the US (Savacool, p.1). However, the demand for energy keeps on going up and has been projected to increase by almost half from what it is currently. NEI wishes to revitalize the nuclear industry to meet the increasing levels of energy requirement. Additionally, apart from increasing energy output, NEI also wishes to reduce significant reliance on fossil fuels in the US. Fossil fuels are the highest emitters of Greenhouse gasses (Hong, Corey & Brook, p. 715). By increasing the levels of nuclear energy Huang 3 production, greenhouse emission can be decreased. Contrary to the move by NEI to drive public opinion that nuclear energy is necessary and is environmentally friendly, Greenpeace has viewed this move as Greenwash. A greenwash is a form of deception used in the promotion of the perception that the products of a certain institution or its policies are environmentally friendly (Guest Blogger). In greenwashing instances, the institution in question spends much money and time on advertising on their policies and products than on what is spent on practices that are environmentally sound. According to Greenpeace, NEI asks the public to increase its reliance on nuclear energy while ignoring the effects that nuclear production has to the environment including all the accidents related to nuclear production, the threats from terrorists, waste management, and the continued insurance of nuclear power by taxpayers from an inevitable liability (Savacool, p. 2955). In eyes, NEI has been running advertisements on television that are a complete opposite of the situation so as to influence public opinion on nuclear energy. These two stakeholders are yet to come to a solution. This can be attributed to the fact that NEI has adamantly refused to accept that the production of nuclear energy can have some devastating issues towards the environment especially dealing with waste disposal and in cases of accidents. Additionally, the lack of a solution has also been due to the resistance by Greenpeace to deal with consensus politics. The organization has a zero-tolerance policy and practices left- wing politics. Without consensus on the issue at hand, then progress cannot be made. It is, therefore, important that since the two organizations are to blame, then each of then be in agreement that consensus is the only way to move past the issue. The only middle ground existing between the two organizations is sustainable energy development. NEI seeks to keep on producing energy for the country while Greenpeace seeks to Huang 4 ensure that sustainable energy is produced. To reach an agreement, then a compromise has to be reached. As a compromise, alternative forms of energy need to be looked into. NEI should accept that its members should not invest on more nuclear plants and should instead focus on renewable forms of energy. Renewable forms of energy should be used since they are inexhaustible (Sorrell, p.77). These forms of energy include geothermal energy, hydroelectric energy, and wind energy. Additionally, extensive research should also be conducted on other renewable forms such as tidal energy. With such a compromise, then NEI and Greenpeace can work together to promote the development of a sustainable energy sector in the US. For instance, Greenpeace can use funds from public to fund NEI research on renewable energy systems, such as, solar panel, hydropower, wind turbine and so on. According to the research, solar and wind energy can generate energy faster and safer than nuclear energy. completes their 28 nuclear plants (many are already behind schedule), with an added capacity of 34 GW, they will have added more power from wind and solar in the same timeframe again, taking capacity factors into account (DeRosa Besides that, there are already some countries are using it and surely proved that renewable energy can be replaced by nuclear energy and brings a better result to the environment. In conclusion, when two groups hold different views about the same issue, then it is important that a middle ground is found that ensures that the differences between them are solved. NEI is the voice for the institutions dealing with the production of nuclear energy while Greenpeace is an organization that calls for sustainable development within each ecology. With the increasing reliance on nuclear energy, then NEI has moved to convince the public of the importance of nuclear energy through advertisements. On the other hand, Greenpeace has continued to call them out on what they refer to as greenwash. To prevent the back and forth between these two groups then a compromise has to be reached. Since both groups only defer on Huang 5 the form of energy, then alternatives to nuclear energy need to be found. Renewable forms of energy can be used to increase the energy production in the US. thus reducing the continued reliance on nuclear energy. Huang 6 Works Cited Guest Blogger. The Nuclear Energy Institute Green Washing Nuclear Power. Greenpeace.org. 2008. Web.11. Feb. 2017. < http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/the-nuclear-energy-institute- green-washing-nuclear-power/ > Hong, S. Corey, J.A. B., Brook, B. W. Nuclear Power Can Reduce Emissions And Maintain A Strong Economy: Rating Optimal Future Electricity-Generation Mix By Technologies And Policies. Applied Energy. 2014 Web.11.Feb. 2017. NEI. About NEI. Nuclear Energy Institute. 2017. Web.11.Feb. 2017. < https://www.nei.org/About-NEI > Sorrell, S. Reducing energy demand: A review of issues, challenges, and approaches. Elsevier. 2015. Web.11. Feb. 2017. Sovacool, Benjamin K. Valuing the greenhouse gas emissions from nuclear power: A critical survey. Energy Policy 36.8 (2008): 2950-2963. Web.11. Feb. 2017. DeRosa, Tom. Renewables vs. Nuclear: Do We Need More Nuclear Power? - Renewable Energy  Renewables vs. Nuclear: Do We Need More Nuclear Power? - Renewable Energy World. N.p., 28 Apr. 2015. Web.11. Feb. 2017. <http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/ugc/articles/2015/04/renewables-vs-nuclear-do- we-need-more-nuclear-power.html>