Theodoropoulos 1 Stefanie Theodoropoulos Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102.060 12 February 2017 The Use of GMOs in Society In society, people are often concerned if what they are consuming is truly organic. The problem is, food is now being genetically modified to improve the yield of products. GMOs (genetically modified organisms) have taken over the food industry like a global epidemic. As per the Institute for Responsible Technology, a GMO is the result of a laboratory process in which genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal (GMO Education). The main company that is for the use of GMOs is Monsanto. As said in their mission statement, Monsanto believes that should be embraced, never (What are GMOs). They use GMOs for the good of the people and their health. Against the use GMOs, the Organic Consumers Association believes that Monsanto is a and that they are threatening human health and the environment (Challenging). They have spent much time, money, and effort into running against Monsanto and trying to eliminate the use of GMOs. Monsanto and the Organic Consumers Association both believe in making the world more sustainable and improving the health of all the people in it. Thus, they should come together and make a compromise by agreeing on the use and labeling of GMOs. Monsanto is a company who believes in the use of GMOs and their positive impact on human health. Through the use of biotechnology, Monsanto genetically modifies a plant by picking and choosing certain good traits out of other plants and transferring them into the Theodoropoulos 2 genetically modified plant. Monsanto transfers genes using a common agrobacterium which performs the same process in nature (Biotechnology). This will help eliminate the bad genes and transfer the good genes into the plants. The reason that they genetically modify the organism is because it requires less farmland and also better withstands pests like bugs and weeds (What are GMOs). Monsanto has the approval of companies like the American Medical Association, Royal Society of Medicine, The World Health Organization, and the National Academy of Sciences. They all share the belief that GMOs have no health risks and will actually improve the lifespan of the earth and the people on it. All of the plants and products produced have to go through extensive approval processes before coming onto the market. Monsanto believes that the future of food supply will come from the use of GMOs and their benefits to society. The Organic Consumers Association have been fighting Monsanto for over 20 years. They have come up with many tactics and regimens on how to help end the use of GMOs and the companies using them. One of these tactics is a campaign called against This company promotes the belief that Monsanto and many other companies are for creating Agent Orange, PCBs, Roundup (glyphosate) and other toxins that threaten human health and the (Challenging). This campaign has sparked millions of people to become interested in what they are consuming and putting into their bodies. The people have finally realized that companies like Monsanto are basically dictating the American food and agriculture industry. As stated on the petition against Monsanto, to 90% of U.S. soybeans, corn, cotton, canola, and sugar beets are now genetically engineered and routinely inserted into human and animal foods with no labels or safety (Become one of the millions). The main point that the Organic Consumers Association is trying to make is that companies like Monsanto should be labeling their foods and informing consumers if they are genetically modified or not. Today, Theodoropoulos 3 countries around the world, including Australia, Japan, and all of the countries in the European Union, require genetically modified foods to be (GMO Facts). In reality, these pro-GMO companies are being suspicious by putting genetically modified food into the market without labeling it. This is what the Organic Consumers Association is trying to bring out to the public and make well known. Both Monsanto and the Organic Consumers Association want to help better the world and the health of the people in it. They both strive to be the best even though they both going in the same direction. Monsanto wants to utilize the use of GMOs and the benefits of extracting the good genes out of certain plants and transferring them into other plants to make a sort of The point of this is to help make the earth more sustainable and eliminate the bad genes that may harm health. On the other hand, the Organic Consumers Association believes that the natural way is the best way and would be the best for human health. They believe that the process of creating GMOs and modifying foods creates more hurt than help to the health of the humans on this earth. Overall, both companies are concerned with bettering the health of the human race and the steps needed to get there. A compromise needs to be made in order to start improving the conversation about GMOs. Both companies, Monsanto and the Organic Consumers Association need to understand that working together to improve the health of consumers will be much more beneficial than working against each other. They are not making any progress by bashing each other and trying to prove each other wrong. They need to come to a mutual agreement that satisfies both sides and promotes world health. They should meet in the middle by labeling every genetically modified food that comes to the market. This is a possible solution to both problems. That way Monsanto can still be one of the leading GMO producers and strengthen their biotechnology. Theodoropoulos 4 They can still work on their genetically modified plants and help with improving the yield of foods grown and the environment. The Organic Consumers Association can help inform all of the people about which foods are genetically modified. This will help the consumer decide for themselves whether or not they want to purchase or consume a food that has been genetically modified. This will help keep people out of the dark and strengthen the trust they have in American agriculture. Also, there can be an agreement that GMOs can only be sold in stores that are not labeled organic. Organic grocery stores should not be selling genetically modified foods because they are not truly organic. This will also help benefit the people against GMOs in that they can go to an organic grocery store and not have to worry about knowing whether the food is actually organic or genetically modified. In conclusion, Monsanto and the Organic Consumers Association should come together and make an agreement that will help benefit society. Genetically modifying organisms will definitely help improve American agriculture, but will not improve the health and lives of the billions of people consuming them unless they are properly labeled and made known. GMOs are not directly hurting society; it is the companies surrounding them. If these companies do not work together, society will not benefit from the use of GMOs and they will not reach their overall goal to improve the lives of the people living in this world. This is why companies like Monsanto and the Organic Consumers Association should work together to create a plan that properly addresses the impact that GMOs have on society and the benefits of it. Word Count: 1225 Theodoropoulos 5 Works Cited Become One of the Millions Against  Organic Consumers Association, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.  Innovations. Monsanto, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Challenging the Biotech  Millions Against Monsanto. Organic Consumers Association, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. IRT, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. GMO  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. What Are  Discover Monsanto. Monsanto, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.