Miller 1 Taylor Miller Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 5 February 2017 The Exposure of Syndrome Shouting profanity or hopping in an awkward way is what many people with Syndrome are perceived as, but it is far from true, Syndrome (TS) is a very common neurodevelopmental disorder. Many times it comes hand in hand with other disorders that may be more severe than itself. was first reported medically in 1825 in medical literature. But, TS was officially named in 1884 after Gilles de la Tourette. TS is a neurological disorder that is characterized by tics and certain action outbursts. Often times people make fun of those whom have it because the people with know how to explain it except for it an itch they have to Commonly people assume that they ultimately curse all the time and can get away with it, but that is far from true. Yes, the vocal tic is what makes their diagnosis instead of a simple tic, but it mean that they are vulgar people. Many people are not aware of the neurological disorder that many people have. Many children are diagnosed with it daily and live with it day to day. Some children will outgrow it as they get older and some will still have it as they are older. So, why should Syndrome be made more aware to the public and what is the best treatment the medical world offers for Syndrome? Deirdre et al. The Impact of Tic Severity, Comorbidity and Peer Attachment on Miller 2 Quality of Life Outcomes and Functioning in Syndrome: Parental  SpringerLink. N.p., 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The first source is about the severity of TS and how they deal with on a daily basis whether it is completing a simple or a large task in the say. This explains how it effects their quality on life and how the tics can effect what they do. is broken down into a simpler explanation and the background of the disorder and the comorbidity of the disorder itself within the article provided. This source is of help to the research question because it provides evidence of the impact of Syndrome on people living with the disorder based on tic severity. The information it provides will further back up the cause as to why it needs to be exposed more to the public since it has many expressional characteristics. The credibility of this source is that all of the authors are knowledgeable of the disorder and preform a study on the disorder that is demonstrated in the article. The article is gathered from a science business website that is credible for the reason that it runs as a scientific business website to the public. Ruth Wadman et al. Difficulties experienced by young people with Tourette syndrome in secondary school: a mixed methods description of self, parent and staff  BMC Psychiatry. N.p., 20 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The background of this source is that it explains the barriers one may have if they have the disorder. Explaining that it may affect how someone with may have a different Miller 3 learning curve than others. Along with the interaction of others and emotional stand points the individual may have in their secondary school years. This source will support the research question because it gives the insight into the secondary school experience and how the individual with syndrome learns differently and the way they interact with their peers. The credibility of this source is that it is all written by Dr. Ruth Wadman, who studied for her PhD in Psychology at the University of Manchester, and spent two years at Manchester as a post-doctoral researcher. She has a specialty in psychology and psychiatry. The website is BMC Psychiatry which is an open access, peer-reviewed journal that considers articles on on all aspects of the prevention, diagnosis and management of psychiatric disorders all aspects of the prevention, diagnosis and management of psychiatric disorders. Eddy, Clare M. et al. Neuropsychological aspects of Tourette syndrome: A review.  Journal of Psychosomatic Research 67.6 (2009): 503-13. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source is about the general facts of TS and helps evaluate the syndrome itself. It provides information on how works and how there are other confounding factors in such as the presence of comorbidity. This source also takes a look into the research of patients to try and see how the patients are impaired in ways that effect their anterior cingulate network within the frontostriatal pathway. This source is useful for the question because it analyzes patients with syndrome and examines how it affects them and the factors that plays in the syndrome itself. The article is from Sciencedirect which is a database of many academic and peer reviewed journals. Miller 4 The credibility for the journal is that the main author is currently working in the department of Psychology at the University of Birmingham in Birmingham, UK. She is a Senior Research Fellow at the National Centre for Mental Health. Cavanna, Andrea Eugenio. The Behavioral Spectrum of Gilles de la Tourette The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences 21.1 (2009): 13-23. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source is the first initial background about TS. It provides the beginning knowledge of tourettes syndrome and where it originated and how it got its name. It explains and goes into detail of how it appears in patients and how the stages of complexity, type, frequency, and severity of the tics and symptoms. It goes into the details of more than the other sources and more about the tics and and how they work. This source is beneficial to the research question because to goes through the parts of and the severity of the different stages and variations of The credibility of the source is that it is posted on The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences website. The author is Andrea E. Cavanna is Honorary Reader in Neuropsychiatry and Consultant in Behavioural Neurology at the Department of Neuropsychiatry, Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation NHS Trust. He is also Deputy Director for the MSc in Clinical Neuropsychiatry with a PhD from the University College of London. Kious, Brent M. Treatment-refractory Tourette  Treatment-refractory Tourette Syndrome. Science Direct, Volume 70, 3 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Miller 5 Treatment-refractory Tourette Syndrome is an article about how a TS patient should be treated given their tics and certain aspects of their severity of TS. It enables the doctors to properly approach the situation of treatment. This source discusses the different treatments that there is to offer for the disorder and goes into a bit of detail on how they asses to choose the treatment. The treatments vary dependent on the severity of the TS and how it effects the life so they are able to choose the best solution to help make it tolerable so they are able to live as close to a life as they can. The connection this source has to the research question is that is goes into the depth of the treatments they have to offer for TS. This opens the evidence of the treatments and how doctors need to choose the best route for the patient rather than a way to just subdue them in public. The credibility of the source on the webpage is that it is published as a volume as journal on the ScienceDirect webpage. The author of this source works at the University of Utah in the Department of Psychiatry. Along with the publishing of other journals on psychiatry. Kurlan, Roger.  ProQuest. N.p., 9 Dec. 2010. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Syndrome is no joke when it comes to their tics. This journal explains the depths of the tics and how they can get severe. It goes into depths of the struggles someone with goes through daily. It also observes a 9-year old boy who has had a 3 year history with TS and how they are going about on treating him for things like his hyperactivity that goes hand and hand with his TS. The relation of this source is how it explains the other things TS triggers and how the actions of has many variables and not just one. It explains the symptoms one may Miller 6 have as well. The credibility of this source is that is it published on a science website called ProQuest that holds many other journals. The author himself is a credited psychiatric author of many other journals and works in New England still on psyciatrics.