Kaytlyn Gill Comp 2 1/29/17 Insta Vs Real Beauty The amount of effect that social media has on young people today is outstanding. According to Adweek, an article on How many people use social media in this world, about 400 million people use Instagram. How much does one really care about the likes they get on a certain picture? This paper will touch on many reason why organizations such as The Dove Real Beauty Campaign believesInstagram should monitor what people post, how celebrities being correct role models, and the outcome of those thing with young woman in this world today. The Dove Real Beauty Campaign believes that the social media site, Instagram should put a stop to how they let celebrities and people in the spotlight portray themselves and work together with Dove to create something bigger than this, because it is not a true view on reality , young woman are getting depressed, and young woman are very insecure. The two stakeholders in this are Instagram the company and the Dove Real Beauty campaign. Lets first start out with Instagram. Instagram is a free online photo sharing and social network platform that was acquired by Facebook in 2012. Instagram allows members users to upload, edit and share photos with other members through the Instagram website, email, and social media sites such as Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Foursquare and What is ?) They have a motto on their actual Instagram website to share only photos and videos that are appropriate for diverse groups. Instagram is a great place to share photos and videos of your family if you are far away from them. also a great place to share funny videos. If used correctly Instagram can be very beneficial. Brands and companies use Instagram to market and promote. A lot of people also use it to promote their music. Friends use it to post their friends, and girlfriends/boyfriends, and even family. Instagram has so many positive uses. But The Dove Real Beauty Campaign says opposite and thinks things could definitely be monitored more. I do feel pressured to appear a certain way. I would hate for people to think: looks totally different in But I would never edit anything to make it not look like me. I definitely feel that I have to look as good when I go somewhere as I do on Instagram. I feel more pressure in real This is a quote from Lindsay Correia in Young Woman on Instagram and self esteem article written by Mahita Gajanan. This is one of thousands of girls who feel this way being on social media. Celebrities portray themselves as looking so perfect and having everything together on their Instagram profile, when in reality, Dove is trying to get young woman to beleive its not like that and impossible for it to be like that. Not only do celebrities do this but normal people who are just considered Instagram famous do this as well. As many rules as Instagram has, The people of Dove feel it should be against the rules to Photoshop pictures and post multiple pictures showing off your body. Kylie Jenner is the perfect example of faking it for the  She clearly has work done and she just continues to post provocative photos of her body and face making her admirers believe that is what they are supposed to look like. Young woman get insecure and depressed by looking at things like that. Moving along to the Dove Real Beauty campaign. The Dove Real Beauty campaign is a campaign for young girls and young woman to celebrate and embrace the bodies they were given and to feel confident and comfortable in the skin they are in. This was created in 2004 by Ogilvy & Mather. Ogilvy & Mather is an advertising company in New York, but started in London. Doves motto is, We believe beauty should be a source of confidence, and not anxiety. why we are here to help women everywhere develop a positive relationship with the way they look, helping them raise their self-esteem and realize their full  (Our Vision) This campaign today is featured on billboards, videos, commercials, and more. To get the real beauty to come out they interviewed many woman of different backgrounds and diversity. There are so many positive things that come out of the Dove Real Beauty campaign. For whoever joining this movement they will start to feel less insecure and more special about themselves. Although not all about physical looks this gives them the confidence they need to get through life with one less worry. The unrealistic images of what real beauty is can be ignored in this campaign. This campaign has gotten positive feedback from many talk shows such as Good Morning America, The Ellen Show, and The View. The models that are featured in the campaign on commercials and Ads got to do interviews on these different shows. Nancy Etcoff, is a Harvard psychologist , and she examined the campaign today and discovered women have described beauty so differently. This campaign has boosted young confidence since 2003. But sadly, the social media and the idea of what beauty is has changed a lot since 2003. These two stakeholders are Instagram and The Dove Real Beauty campaign. Instagram sends a whole different message than Dove does. Instagram allows people to show their bodies and unrealistic self to the world and their followers. The Dove campaign is created to get away from things like that. Dove followers believe the way some celebrities and people in the limelight use their social media can be fake. Photoshop is so apparent on Instagram and this campaign tried to get away from all of that. The Dove campaign has to work extra hard these day just because times have changed and social media has become much more popular and people of this generation depend on it more. Everyone bases things off of social media today. Instagram and The Dove Real Beauty campaign can work together on these problems. Instagram and Dove both have a common ground with this conflict. That is they would like to promote happiness and beauty. One can agree that no matter how you look at it, both are promoting happiness and beauty, just in different ways. Instagram can propose to all of the celebrities and popular people to join this campaign movement. They could put a stop to the use of Photoshop, and filters, and edits. If young woman see the people they admire on social media promoting and fighting for the Real Beauty campaign they will start to feel better about themselves. They will start to realize the unrealistic body type, hair, and face shapes are in the past. Young woman look up to these celebrities and look to Instagram as an escape and somewhere to build confidence. If one get the likes he or she feels they should have, they automatically assume they are ugly or not good enough. One begins to think the woman they are admiring get all of that attention, so something must be wrong with them. When in reality, not the case at all. Something that The Dove campaign could try to change about their program is to make it more about personality as well. The simple fact that Dove solely on physical beauty could be seen as negative to some people who see that as important. In conclusion, the way that celebrities carry themselves on social medias sites such as Instagram, to Dove followers, seems to be doing more negative than positive in this generation today. The Dove Real Beauty campaign can be a start for the celebrities to join in on, and everyone in some sort of limelight to start promoting beauty in a more positive not so intimidating way. These two stakeholders are at odds with each other but have an easy solution and can easily meet with common ground. Working together would benefit both of these companies. Instagram could receive more ratings and money for getting people on  to join in. The Dove campaign could get more followers and funding for the campaign. All for the young woman of the world to be happy and feel better about themselves. Works Cited What Is Instagram? - Definition from  SearchCIO. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Gajanan, Mahita. Young Women on Instagram and Self-esteem: Absolutely Feel  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 04 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. ANNO Our  Dove UK. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. ANNO A PR Case Study: Dove Real Beauty  News Generation Radio and TV Media Relations A PR Case Study Dove Real Beauty Campaign Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Instagram Help  Community Guidelines Instagram Help Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.