Michaela Hedderman Professor Townsend Composition II 12 February 2017 The Tipping Point for Gender Equity in Collegiate Sports Equity, which often becomes confused with equality, is defined as making it possible to provide with the full range of opportunities and while equality, is defined as the same starting line for (Caaws). Gender Equity is the process of allocating resources, programs, and decision making fairly to both males and females, and plays a large role in decision making for collegiate sports (Caaws). The U.S. Department of Office for Civil Rights through the Education Act called Title IX, mandates the inclusion of women in high school and collegiate sport in order to retain federal funding. Conversely, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) which generates 90 percent of its revenues from television and marketing rights fees, mostly from the Division I basketball championship, and the remainder from ticket sales, is reliant on maintaining this $800 million revenue stream from sports. In order to meet Title IX mandates, colleges and the NCAA are feeling economic pressures and threats to revenues and must now compromise to bring more funding and equity to collegiate sports. The NCAA, is a driven organization dedicated to safeguarding the wellbeing of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout (NCAA). Originally created in order to prevent death on the playing field (since football players in the early were dying of exhaustion, broken 1 Hedderman 1 limbs, and concussions during games and practices) the NCAA now functions as a general and administrative authority for and intercollegiate (Britannica). Even though the NCAA invests more than $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships to retain students at colleges, only two-percent of high school athletes are awarded athletic scholarships to compete at their desired college (Scholarships), and male athletes receive 36 percent more scholarships dollars than women (Feminist). The NCAA invests in sports, like basketball and football, since these investments produce the greatest revenue for both the colleges and the NCAA. The U.S. Department of Education for Civil Rights, or the DOE, established in 1957 and currently active to this day, ensures access to education and to promote educational excellence throughout the nation through vigorous enforcement of civil (OCR). This department has created titles prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability, sex, age, race and color discrimination. In relation to gender equity, the DOE created Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination. Before Title IX was created, only 7% of females were participating in high school sports and 2% of female college students were participating in collegiate sports (Feminist). Since Title IX was created, the number both men and women playing high school and college sports have increased immensely. Not only has the number of girls playing sports in high school increased from 300,000 to 2.7 million, the number of boys has increased as well, nearly four million participate in high school sports (Feminist). Even though there has been a remarkable increase in the participation of women and men, and girls and boys in both high school and collegiate sports from the mid 1900s, women and girls still face inequalities. While Title IX has boosted the number of females participating in sports Hedderman 2 drastically, over 400%, female athletes are still unequal compared to their male counterparts. Even though females hold majority over men and make up 54% of college students, females only make up 43% of college athletes (citation). Both the DOE and the NCAA, are stakeholders with opposing goals driven by money. The DOE through Title IX mandates nondiscrimination in sports in order for college to retain funding, which has prompted an increase in sports. The NCAA, however is funded primarily by television and marketing funds, which means it puts the investments of funds into the sports that draw the largest number of viewers, which are primary sports. While the DOE is looking strictly into equity in athletics and the NCAA is looking at playing sports at a collegiate level, they both share the same united goal of wanting athletes to participate in sports. These stakeholders were both created with a shared goal of wanting both men and women to become athletes. While their specific goals are different and may conflict often due to the inequalities in the NCAA that the Title IX act is trying to fight, compromises can be found within these two stakeholders in that they want to try and find athletes to play. A compromise that the NCAA would need to make for Title IX would be to make a greater investment in sports, by increasing the number of scholarships awarded to women, and by investing more television and marketing funding into creating sports. This may be extremely difficult for the NCAA, because in order to continue to maintain the current revenue stream, the NCAA needs to continue maintaining revenue generating sports, which means that more men ultimately get recruited than women. By refocusing current dollars, NCAA may jeopardize the revenue stream that enables the NCAA to continue to fund scholarships nationwide. Colleges are reluctant to eliminating non-revenue Hedderman 3 generating sports, since having a wide variety of sports draws students, and colleges rely on maintaining enrollment. Another compromise that the both the NCAA and colleges would need to make to comply with Title IX would be to create more teams or have more women than men on teams that both sexes play. Sports like tennis, basketball, track and field and soccer could create more spots for women in order to keep up with the Title IX mandate. Colleges across the country are currently attempting to create this exact compromise, which seems to be a long process in order to create complete equity. For example, Duke University states that is adding sports and taking  to ensure all scholarships allowed by the NCAA are awarded in non-revenue (Trahan). In addition, colleges should cut back on excessive spending on luxury athletic expenses for their revenue generating sports, like football and basketball and redeploy these funds across other sports and facilities. Florida State University in over $120 million in annual athletic though the school has spent it sports revenue on a football lounge and the kind of indoor facility that even the closest NFL team, the Jacksonville Jaguars, (Trahan). Colleges could use the revenue from their top grossing sports and redeploy these funds into equipment and resources. When these expenses are reinvested solely into the revenue generating sports, there is an instantaneous inequity for all other sports, especially for women playing the same sport. Currently Title IX has no limits on how revenue generated for sports is spent. Both the NCAA and colleges depend upon the income from revenue generating sports to fund facilities and costs in order to attract the best recruits and maintain funding with successful seasons and lucrative television advertising. While the goals of Title IX are imperative, these goals threaten the current foundation of college athletics and tipping the scale towards equity is a Hedderman 4 slow process. The NCAA and colleges would have to implement many layers of changes to be able to recruit more women, give more scholarships to the female athletes while maintaining their economic base. In order to achieve the purpose of gender equity in collegiate sports the NCAA and colleges need to coordinate efforts that enhance and elevate the contributions to sports, without significantly compromising their current economic base. As stated above, Title main goal is not to cut teams or decrease male opportunities in order to promote females. Instead, Title IX demands fair and equitable treatment for the disadvantaged gender in every way possible. While Title IX hinders the currently stable economic funding model of the NCAA, this institution is in the best economic position, along with colleges, to begin to invert the pyramid of economic funding to create a new focus on sports. As Anna Kessel chair of Women in Football describes: need marketing expertise and commercial investment to showcase the we need the industry to mirror the progress being made in sectors elsewhere such as finance, where the gender pay gap is being made public so that women are encouraged into an industry full of opportunities, not The NCAA has a huge untapped market available that is now just beginning to emerge. Marketing has a role to play in helping manufacture the superstars and role models that break through into the wider public (Drum). As Jo Tongue, CEO of Tongue Tied Media and former BBC presenter opines, have failed to see the value female ambassadors provide...While there is change in the marketplace, it is slow and brands have yet to capitalise on the real value available to them in the female sports (Drum). Hedderman 5 Ultimately the key to reaching compliance with the gender equity mandates of Title IX is to monetize and elevate the visibility and marketability of sports into revenue generating sports. Once sports begin to raise the type of capital needed to re-invest in the best recruits, larger programs, better facilities and higher scholarships, the tipping point towards self sustaining sports will achieve a better equity as required by Title IX. The NCAA and colleges need to re-define their marketing of sports with the same vigor, vision and passion that built their revenue generating basketball and football teams. Hedderman 6 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http:// www.ncaa.org/about>. About  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https:// www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/aboutocr.html>. Gender Equality in Athletics and Sports - Interesting Facts About Athletics, Sports, and Title IX - Feminist Majority  Gender Equality in Athletics and Sports - Interesting Facts About Athletics, Sports, and Title IX - Feminist Majority Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 09 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/student-athletes/future/scholarships>. The Editors of Britannica. National Collegiate Athletic Association  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 19 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.britannica.com/topic/National-Collegiate-Athletic-Association>. The Untapped Opportunity: Why Investing in Sport Can and Should Be a Priority for  The Drum. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.thedrum.com/opinion/ 2016/03/08/untapped-opportunity-why-investing-womens-sport-can-and-should-be- priority-brands>. Trahan, Kevin. Is the NCAA Undermining Title  VICE Sports. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. What Is Gender  Canadian Association for the Advancement of Women and Sport and Physical Activity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.caaws.ca/gender-equity-101/ what-is-gender-equity/>. Hedderman 7