Patel 1 Nishi Patel Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 19 February 2017 The Implementation of School Uniforms and its Effect on Students Across the United States Today, across the United States many schools have started implementing uniforms for various reasons. Many schools have adopted the use of uniforms because there seems to be a correlation between uniforms and the increase in performance within the school. So, then the question proposed is how does the implementation of uniforms affect performance within schools across the United States? The beginning of school uniforms originated from the United Kingdom during the reign of King Henry VIII in order to mark class and status. Since then, many schools did require uniforms, while others have a uniform, they allowed kids to wear whatever they want. As time progressed, this split is still seen across the country today, although schools are starting to implement some form of uniform. Many in favor of school uniforms say that uniforms allow students to focus more on their education rather than on their outfit and appearance (Gentile and Imberman 1-2). In addition, it has been widely accepted that the adoption of a school uniform prevents or decreases the likelihood of children being bullied about their appearance or the way they dress. In many communities and schools, gangs or cliques would determine themselves through certain apparel, colors, or any insignia, but school uniforms prevent that, making everyone look the same, uniformly. On the other hand, those who oppose to uniforms say that uniforms allow students to express themselves freely which makes them feel conserved at school, hindering their ability to focus on school (Harold and Knechtle 490). Many parents and families also argue that Patel 2 not only do uniforms restrict their creativity and self-expression, but they are having to pay for something they are against just so their children can be educated. School uniforms can be very costly, making it not easily accessible to many families, and causing great stress just to provide their children with a good education. (WC: 316) Brookshire, Attillah N. Impact of School Uniforms on School Walden Dissertations and Doctoral Studies, Apr. 2016, pp. 1-68. Scholar Works, doi:10.1177/ 019263659708159314. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. This following article focuses on the effects of school uniforms on a climate. By using the term it can be defined as the physical, social, emotional, and academic atmosphere of the school. A positive school climate influences the motivation to learn, encourage positive behavior and attitude amongst students and educators, and build stronger relationships and commitments within the school. A study was conducted to examine the impact of school uniforms on the climate (Brookshire 8). Within their study, Brookshire adopted Hierarchy of Needs to understand if uniforms do really improve positive student behavior. According to Brookshire, the five needs that Maslow founded: physiological, safety, social, self-esteem, and self-actualization are what a climate needs to provide to students and educators to be successful. In this study, two suburban elementary schools were observed, one school required uniforms and the other did not. Brookshire formulated two hypotheses to test within their study, the null hypothesis was that adoption of school uniforms has no effect on school and the alternative hypothesis is that adoption of school uniforms has an effect on school (Brookshire 10). 128 educators from both schools combined were sent surveys, 32 surveys came back from the school Patel 3 that required uniforms, and 30 from the school that did not require uniforms (Brookshire 44). From the study, the following findings suggested that having a positive school climate does encourage student learning. The school that had adopted school uniforms showed a higher correlation with the mentioned relationship. the focus is taken off school uniforms, the students are less distracted by what other students are wearing. This helps decrease behavior problems related to dress and puts the attention on (Brookshire 49). Walden University combines all their dissertations and capstone projects that are researched and written by their doctoral students and place it into a database known as Walden Dissertations and Doctoral Studies. The study article is actually a dissertation from Attillah N. Brookshire a doctoral student at Walden University. In addition, Brookshire is an author for Educational Administration topics and continues to work within that section of education. In order to from their dissertation and study, Brookshire also references many other journal articles and researchers, this allows strong background evidence that they are a credible source to rely on. (WC: 394) Brunsma, David L., and Kerry A. Rockquemore. of Student Uniforms on Attendance, Behavior Problems, Substance Use, and Academic The Journal of Educational Research, vol. 92, no. 1, 2010, pp.53-62. This journal article talks about the effect of student uniforms on a attendance, behavior problems, academic achievement, and also substance use. Multiple studies were conducted using the 1998 National Educational Longitudinal Study results to mock and help determine and analyze the results of the relationship between school uniforms and the previously mentioned variables (Brunsma and Rockquemore 55). There were many factors that were Patel 4 discussed in the article to make this study and research possible. The first variable tested was the effect of school uniforms on substance use, the results came out to prove that their hypothesis of schools uniforms could decrease substance use was unsupported by their results (Brunsma and Rockquemore 58). The second variable tested, was the attendance, their hypothesis was that school uniforms would increase attendance was unsupported as well (Brunsma and Rockquemore 58). The third hypothesis tested was that school uniforms would increase academic achievement, however, their hypothesis was unsupported (Brunsma and Rockquemore 58). And last but not least, they hypothesized that school uniforms would decrease behavior problems, but in fact, their results did not support their hypothesis (Brunsma and Rockquemore 58). The Journal of Educational Research is a popular, peer-reviewed, and a highly-respected periodical journal that publishes research from the field of education supplied from educators and more from the whole world. One of the authors of this journal article is David L. Brunsma, a sociology professor at Virginia Polytechnic University and Virginia Tech. He now holds a Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of Notre Dame. The second author, Kerry A. Rockquemore, also holds a Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of Notre Dame. In addition, she is the President and CEO of the National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity, an independent professional community. (WC: 292) Gentile, Elisabetta, and Scott A. Imberman. for Success? The Effect of School Uniforms on Student Achievement and Journal of Urban Economics, vol. 71, no. 1, 2012, pp.1-17. After many schools believed that if they implement uniforms, the academic performance Patel 5 of will increase, further research and studies were conducted. After looking into a dataset from a large, urban school district in the southwest region of the United States, some interesting discoveries were made. The end results showed that the adoption of school uniforms improved the attendance in secondary grades due to various factors, and was heavily bent towards female students (Gentile and Imberman 2). According to the authors, uniforms are helpful to the school in aiding to identify unauthorized individuals easily, promotes safety by removing opportunities for people to affiliate themselves with negativity such as gang insignia, colors, etc (Gentile and Imberman 1). Uniforms can also promote more respect and authority from students to their elders/authoritative figures, but that can also fire back, uniforms could also encourage students to rebel against elders or authoritative figures (Gentile and Imberman 2). Not only do uniforms affect the student and school in one way or another, but they also affect the families of students in that purchasing uniforms sometimes are much costlier than anticipated. This article is from the Journal of Urban Economics, a scholarly journal on various topics that relate to urban economics. This journal has a section that economic professors use school uniforms as an example to economics and its effect in a real-world example. Elisabetta Gentile is an economics graduate from the University of Houston and a degree recipient in public administration and international institution economics from Italy. She helped in creating this piece to show how what she studies and teaches, economics, actually comes in use in almost every day life, so she uses such examples as this research study to portray it. co-author, Scott A. Imberman is also an economics assistant professor at the University of Houston, who also is a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. In the past, and even today, he has conducted so much research on the economics of education. Patel 6 (WC: 337) Mitchell, Harold W., and John C. Knechtle. in Public Schools and the First Amendment: A Constitutional The Journal of Negro Education, vol. 72, no. 4, 2003, pp. 487-494. This journal article looks into one of the many arguments that are proposed by those who oppose the adoption of school uniforms within schools, saying that it goes against the 1 st amendment--taking away the freedom of speech (Mitchell and Knechtle 487). In addition, this article reviews many common arguments that are from opponents of school uniforms. One of the main arguments is that the uniforms prevent the children from expression and dressing themselves freely, as it places on cultural expressions of (Mitchell and Knechtle 488). A second argument is that families allowing school uniforms to intrude into their life allow state and local policies to disrupt their private family life (Mitchell and Knechtle 488). There are other arguments that revolve around the same opposing ideas, allowing room for many other common constitutional and morally wrong problems to be brought up. This source is very helpful in that it gives and provides evidence to the cons of school uniforms. It explores and explains the depths of each argument make it a very reliable and suitable source. This article comes from a peer-reviewed academic journal, Journal of Negro Education. One of the authors, John C. Knechtle is a senior lecturer of law at the University of the West Indies who has worked and dealt with areas of constitutional law and international human rights. The second author, Harold W. Mitchell is a graduate of Florida Coastal School of Law where he received his Juris Doctor. Since he finished his education, he has been working Patel 7 Law where he received his Juris Doctor. Since he finished his education, he has been working with law in all forms such as legal counsel and now vice president at Cape Cod Fox Shared Services. (WC: 291) Wilde, Marian. Uniforms Make Schools GreatSchools.org, GreatSchools, 19 May 2016, www.greatschools.org/gk/articles/school-uniforms/. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. This article gives a whole overview as to what uniforms are, why they are used, and the pros and cons of them. Uniforms are a set outfit proposed by a school that has to be worn by the students. different from dress code which is just guidelines and rules of what can and cannot be worn. According to the article, uniforms started being implemented in public schools due to the positive benefits Catholic schools that had uniforms shared. From the article, the following pros of school uniforms are that they encourage discipline, improve attendance, prevent cliques and gangs, and provide a sense of belonging to students. Uniforms also help students not fall into the peer pressure of having to dress a certain way and diminishes the economic and social barriers that exist amongst students in schools. On the other hand, the article states the following as cons of uniforms include violation of right of freedom and expression, make students targets of bullies from other schools that many not require uniforms, and provide a financial burden on families. The article talks about what research has to say about school uniforms in accordance with Virginia research. Her study concluded that from the 64 public high schools she reviewed for attendance, and graduation rates, she saw improvements that she expect. Draa saw that with school uniforms, there was an improvement in attendance, graduation, as well as suspension rates. Although she able to connect a relationship between school uniforms and academic performance/improvement. Patel 8 Great Schools is a national nonprofit helping parents learn and share resources, opportunities, and information to help provide their children with higher education. As this source may not compare to many of the other sources that are journal articles, this source is still as credible, helpful, and useful. Great Schools has trusted ratings and provides trusted school information provided from their many providers and employees. Additionally, GreatSchools.org is a Webby award-winning website from 2007. (WC: 327) Yueng, Ryan. School Uniforms a Good Fit? Results from the ECLS-K and Educational Policy, vol. 23, no. 6, Nov. 2009, pp. make a said Mark Twain, the way someone dresses can express a lot about themselves, and that is very true, does dressing a certain way can give you more authority or achievement. And that is the logic that goes behind school uniforms, that dressing in proper, studious attire can give an individual more self-respect and confidence (Yueng 847). Due to this mindset, a study was conducted to see if school uniforms do raise achievement by taking into account many variables. This study conducts its analysis based off of two strong and credible sources, the Early Childhood Longitudinal Study for Kindergarten Classes and the National Educational Longitudinal Study (Yueng 849). The variables that were taken into account were test scores, school size and location, poverty status, parental education level, religion, and the affiliations (Yueng 855). Although there were many variables, after following and controlling test scores and other variables, the results all came across with one conclusion. The conclusion was that there seems to be either no or very scarce evidence that uniforms in fact do raise achievement. It was found that students who attend schools with school uniforms actually do worse than students who attend schools without uniforms (Yueng 849). Patel 9 The journal Educational Policy, is a peer-reviewed, academic journal that explores the practical consequences of the field of policy decisions and its alternatives. Ryan Yueng, the author of this article is a Public Administration and Policy Ph.D. student from Syracuse University, New York. He also has a Degree in Public Administration and a Degree in Economic and American Studies. So from his educational background is strongly assumable that he is a strong, credible source to use this following article. (WC: 285)