Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 February 2017 The Not So Special, Special Education The teaching of children with special needs dates back to the late 1700s, however, back then the teaching of children with special needs was considered Special education is relatively new to the United States, and although new, in 2001 there were 5 million recorded students in the special education classroom. Nowadays many feel as though there are many flaws to the education system. In my research topic I am going to discuss the issue of Exceptional Student Education(ESE). There are many issues within this program in the education system but the one I am going to research is the problem in the gap between ESE teachers and the school system. Certain issues that this gap includes is the lack of supplies, communication, and time. This matter needs to be addressed and changed because teachers that have these issues become more susceptible to receiving anxiety and depression because of them. So in my research paper I will be trying to answer the question, what is the barrier between ESE classes and the school system? Karen Kilgore , Cynthia Griffin , Amy Otis-Wilborn & Judy Winn (2003) The Problems of Beginning Special Education Teachers: Exploring the Contextual Factors Influencing Their Work, Action in Teacher Education, 25:1, 38-47. Student 2 This article shows a three-year investigation done by the University of Karen Kilgore and Cynthia Griffin and University of Wisconsin- Amy Otis-Wilborn and Judy Winn, they looked to find the problem between exceptional student education(ESE) and the school board system. They found that ESE teachers do not feel as though they have the funding, support, or necessary instruments to properly teach students. The teachers expressed their feelings that although there were books provided, they adapted to the level that students were at. The teachers also felt as though they were not able to use their time like other teachers have to do all the necessary tasks in allotted time because of the lack of supplies and material for the school provides for the ESE program. Instead of using books that are provided, many of the pay for different programs and software that are better for their students. This article is a good source because it is peer reviewed by other teachers and by other professors. The primary authors are all professionals at high institutions, including the University of Florida and the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee which are both respected universities. The subjects they investigate are all teachers that are certified by the U.S. Department of Education. I plan to use this source because it shows why the teachers feel as though they are at a disadvantage creating a barrier between the system and the classroom. (WC: 239) McEachern, Adriana G. School counselor preparation to meet the guidance needs of exceptional students: a national study. (Counselor  Counselor Education and Supervision, June 2003, p. 314+. Academic OneFile, Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. In a study done by Adriana G. McEachern with conseling.org, they searched to see what differences students with disabilities needed. A research study was taken about how little some Student 3 schools did between counselors and disabled students and whether or not meeting with the parents of the disabled students and the counselor was required. This then correlated to how the student and parent felt about their ability to succeed and whether or not their accommodations were met. Many participants that did not have all their accommodations met felt as though they know about certain resources available to them. Whereas the schools that did require counselor meetings, the students were able to adequately prepare themselves for what was coming up and the parents knew about certain events and resources available to their student. This article was published in an academic journal that is peer reviewed by other counselors in an attempt to assist counselors on what is expected in their line of work when it comes to students with special needs. Adriana McEachern, the main author, has a Ph.D., LMHC, NCC, and NCRC, which gives her the credibility needed to make the arguments she is making towards the need for further counseling to students with special needs. This article could be used in my research paper to show that making a requirement to have students in ESE classes meet with a counselor frequently can improve the success for these students. This requirement is something that the school board would have to approve of to implement this requirement in schools. (WC:258) Skiba RJ, Simmons AB, Ritter S, et al. Achieving equity in special education: History, status, and current challenges. Except Child. 2008;74(3):264-288. This article shows the relationships between the different races of the students in the special education classes. In this article, Skiba tries to show that the amount of African-American students that are in exceptional education classes is higher than all other races. Skiba then attempts to argue that these students are misplaced into these classes based off of an economic Student 4 disadvantage that these students may have. This argument then goes on to saying that there may be a gap in the language barrier. Kidder and Rosner believe that there also may be a bias between the races because test scores are a factor that places students in their classes. These tests select which questions are included in the scoring and which are left out, the students that have lower scores are typically minorities. The article then goes on to say that another reason that these students are in ESE classes is because of the disadvantages they have in the classroom. Throughout the article different points are made for the misplacement of minorities in special education classes for the issues of attention deficiency/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), attention deficit disorder (ADD), and other learning disabilities. This article is a journal written by colleagues at Indiana University. The main writer Russell Skiba, who has a Ph.D. and is a professor in Counseling and Educational Psychology is an excellent source. I would use this to show that the school system could fault in that they do not use resources to help their students learn. The school board system could provide more resources to the students like interpreters that way the students that speak English as their first language could have someone that knows their first language to help with the tasks that are at hand. (WC:292) McLeskey J, Tyler NC, Saunders Flippin S. The supply of and demand for special education teachers. The Journal of Special Education. 2004;38(1):5-21. In this article, the supply and demand for teachers that teach special education is discussed and how the supply of teachers with the qualifications to be a special education teacher is lower than the demand for them. The cause of the supply being lower is due to the case load that the teachers undergo. These caseloads including the different forms that go into being a teacher with Student 5 special education. Many people become qualified to teach, however, many do not want to go into teaching students with special needs because of the amount of additional work that goes into becoming an ESE teacher. The trend of special education teachers transferring to general education has increased over the years due to these problems. The teachers then left in the special education classroom are not fully qualified in their positions. This is a never ending cycle of teachers leaving their position to become general education teachers, and then the rate of unqualified teachers in special education rising to almost 12%. This article was written by three researchers, one being James McLeskey from the University of Florida and the other two from Vanderbilt, Naomi C. Tyler and Susan Sounders Flippin. They were researching to see why there was a shortage of special education teachers. I would use this article to show that teachers getting their qualifications and the school board doing anything about it. (WC: 232) Ingersoll, Richard M. Who Controls Work? Power and Accountability in Schools. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2006. Print. This book talks about the control on the teachers. This book talks about the different influences teachers have while teaching material in classrooms. Like students, there is peer pressure felt among teachers and many of these pressures reflects in the classroom. These different reflections include the way a classroom is set up, which may not seem important but is actually vital to the way in which a student learns, the way the teacher teaches, and the material in which is taught. Another influence that teachers have comes from the school itself. When teachers know that there is an observation occurring, then some teachers may become anxious and either do worse than their usual self, or do better. This switch can be detrimental to the Student 6 teachers and students because a sudden change can interrupt the learning process for both teachers and students. This book also shows that teachers have to hit a requirement for what they teach, this then could motivate teachers to get work done faster. Which may seem like a good idea, however if teachers need to finish teaching by a certain time, they may skip or speed through topics that are vital to the learning process. Richard Ingersoll received his Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania in 1992. He now is the Board of Overseers Professor of Education and Sociology at his alma mater. He also is a main influencer in the No Child Left Behind Act, this makes him overqualified to write this novel. I plan on using this to show that there is pressure coming from others to teachers, this pressure then gets placed on the students to succeed. (W.C. 276) Odom SL, Brantlinger E, Gersten R, Horner RH, Thompson B, Harris KR. Research in special education: Scientific methods and evidence-based practices. Except Child. 2005;71(2):137-148. This article discusses what kind of research can be done inside of schools to improve issues in the school system as a whole, not just in the ESE classes. This shows that people have recognized that there are issues within the school board system and that these issues can be researched on. Also, looking at the publication date goes to show that there are still issues in the school system. This research, if done, can show what the problems are, and what possible solutions can be made to help the next generation of Americans be better. These scientific methods and evidence based practices show that they have recognized some problems, but not all of these problems have been resolved. Whenever more Americans read this article, the problems that are known will be shocking and need fixed. Student 7 This article is written by a group of researchers that have done studies and research on this matter. The facts given throughout the novel are proven through numbers. This article can be used in my paper to show that there are problems that others have recognized and have not yet been fixed. When using this I will use this source in my first paragraph to show that the issues that have been witnessed. (W.C. 209)