May 1 Jacob May Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101 01/29/17 Change Over Time of the Russian Perspective of History The study of history and the way we have studied history has changed dramatically over the years. Russian history has always been a controversy as it has never really had factual evidence to support many claims. A large majority have a general history of Russia but due to the Soviet Union taking over the country, much of its history was altered and many had to rely on outdated and not credited resources for much of Westerns view of Russia. Many of our modern historians have a more sympathetic view of Cold War Era Russia, compared to the view of post-world war two historians and mid-cold war historians. This may be due to politically reasons, like McCarthyism, or other reasons entirely, Communist Sympathy. With a new age in technology and the swing of liberalism across colleges, cultural Marxism has spread, and it would be interesting to see how this has changed views. The period being examined will be Pre-World War Two to near current time major historians with creditable knowledge on both Western and Russian knowledge. With this in mind, how has the perspectives of historians, specifically those focused on USSR information, changed over time from developing USSR(Pre-WWII) to Post-USSR(Now)? May 2 Beissinger, Mark R. Empire as Slavic Review. vol. 65 no. 2, 2006, 294-303. JSTOR. 19 Feb, 2017 Soviet Empire as shows how from an American perspective, specifically from a Princeton Director, how we viewed the Russian expansion and History in a more recent time where there are ample information compared to previous sources which had restricted knowledge. Much of the current knowledge is to an extent, as much of the history of Russia from Russians was changed and altered to fit much of the Communist ideology and philosophy. This source provides information of how the west views the Russian expanse, which is a hot topic in Russia as many debate if Russia conquered like the West did with their colonies or if Russia simply swayed many of the people they were subjects of the Russian crown. Mark R. Beissinger is a Princeton Director, of the Princeton Institute for International Regional Studies. position demands extensive knowledge in many subjects of history, his interest and position as a Professor in the Department of Politics shows his interest in regional history. His many publications surrounding his study of European history, further shows his extensive knowledge and academic background which support his credibility for the purpose and support for the paper. Khodnev, Alexander S. legacies of Woodrow Wilson and the League of Nations in World Affairs. Vol. 158 Issue 1(1995) 8-18. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 This source allows us a western perspective, on what many Americans saw that directly influenced Russian politics with the U.S. during World War One. It also describes a time of which the USSR was recently founded and was still forming. This is important mainly due to the May 3 fact that this newly formed country needed to make allies in an effort to survive. The newly found interactions with Woodrow Wilson will set the tone for all future interactions. This would later provide a hump future presidents would have to overcome as both parties would enter it with caution. It also shows us how the USSR treated many of the other Western countries, as the U.S. was the largest of them and would be the ambassador for all future interactions in the future. It focuses on Woodrow Wilsons actions toward this new government and how it influenced future interactions. The author has a doctorate and resides in Russia. This allows me to have another view of how the Russians felt with US actions toward them, and how these perspectives differed over time. Mckay, Ian. Anthropology, and the Concept of Labour / Le Travail. vol. 8/9, 1981-1982, 185-241. JSTOR. 05 Feb. 2017 This work will show how historians have changed their views of history, specifically with the change of how we as a society changed our views of nearly everything. Ian starts the debate between the and and how the influence of Marx has converted many social views over time. This source will grant the necessary material need to fully analyze the understanding of historians and their evolution of thought. This text was created later in time, but the information is still invaluable as it will set projects for the future and then we can compare to see if they came true. The author, Ian Mckay, is a known Canadian historian; one of the most popular of his area of specialties. focus is on Canadian culture and political history, his knowledge will point out biases of the time and will pin point shifts of change of historian perspectives of their worldly view. May 4 Pontikes, Elizabeth. Red: A Study of Stigma by Association to Blacklisted Artists during the in Hollywood, 1945 to American Sociological Review. vol. 75, no. 3, 2010, 456-478 JSTOR. 19 Feb. 2017 This article provides a clear American perspective of events that happened within America. This is known as the Red Scare, and it was a near purging of all who supported the Communists in American. Many actors in particular were targeted for their views and many were just accused with no credible evidence to support this. This attitude began after the end of WWII and started to brood the longer the Cold War progressed and really shot of when the USSR became a threat to American through nuclear arms. This started many witch hunts which ignited the powder keg that was American society at the time, McCarthy was the lead on detecting and detaining all communist sympathizers. Now this is important for research as it shows that during a good chunk of the Cold War, many of those who even thought of supporting the USSR, were sentenced as traitors and thrown in prison. The head author, as well as her correspondents, Elizabeth Pontikes specializes in business major in particular. However back ground in Political Science and her employment from the University of Chicago show her expertise with this knowledge. Shnirelman, Victor. by History or by Historians? The Peoples of Russia in School History History and Memory: Studies in Representation of the Past. vol. 21 no. 2, 2009, 40-110. JSTOR. 29 Jan. 2017 This source tries to tackle what history was missed in the which ignored teaching about the Russian peoples not just the ruling parties. It dives into describing May 5 nearly all cultures that are found in Russia, as well as dismissing information of these cultures. This information is important as it allows us to dive into a larger area to further study how our western historians viewed, or lack thereof, the people of Russia. This work also allows us to provide one side of the equation and will allow for another perspective onto the uncomplete history of Russia and its people. The author Victor Shnirelman currently lives in Russia and specializes on Nationalism, Politics of ethnicity, Social memory in Soviet and post-Soviet Russia. He is currently a Senior researcher of N. N. Miklukho-Maklai Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology at the Russian Academy of Sciences; this information shows that he has ample resources to create academia. This source may also be bias due to government censorship.