Coladonato 1 Sebastian Coladonato Bob Botkin Enc 1102 29 January, 2017 Wc. 1400 Smartphone stakeholders The topic that I have chosen to investigate is how cell phones are our society, encouraging simplemindedness. Two major business corporations who are involved in this situation are Apple and Android. These companies are the two major smart phone providers. Even though these companies both produce smartphones in an attempt to attract as many customers as possible, they produce completely different products with different objectives for their products. The shared aspects as well as the differences that these companies have benefit their business as well as create complications for the companies and their selling points. Apple is an international cooperation that makes total revenue of $46.9 billion and quarterly net income of $9 (Macro 1). Apple prides itself as being different from all others, which is why their slogan is Since Apple is also so proud in its product, it has made its products closed systems, meaning software system where the carrier or service provider has control over applications, content, and media, and restricts convenient access to non-approved applications or (Wikipedia 1). This quality means that any one individual, who does not work for Apple, cannot add to, take from, or otherwise alter in any way anything that Apple produces. Their products are what they are and come how they come. Apple also attempts to keep everything simple, allowing the users to understand their products easier, making their product less intimidating and more user-friendly. Over time, Apple has changed Coladonato 2 from a garage start-up to a household name, which is what makes them a stakeholder in this debate. Samsung is the other major stakeholder involved in this debate. Samsung is also a renowned international cooperation that produces smart phones and other miscellaneous electronic devices. Recently, it has topped revenue, as seen in an article stating: topped Apple on the Global 500 list with revenue totaling $178.6 billion, compared to $156.5 billion for the iPhone (Graziano 1). Despite their recent success, their success has not always been like that, as seen in the same article which stated: profit was more than double $20.6 billion annual (Graziano 1). Samsung prides itself in cooperation within the company in order to make the best product available, which is why their slogan is simply the word Samsung is different than Apple by the fact that its products are open systems. An open system is system in which the components and protocols conform to standards independent of a particular (Google 1). This quality indicates that the phone or device is legally customizable. Anyone is able to add to, delete, or otherwise alter the programming of their device. For example: an Android device can be routed, hacked, upgraded, or have an Apple OS installed on it. Samsung however produces a more product; they do not try to make it easier to access. By doing so they lose younger consumers but gain more technologically advanced users. Many people choose to use Samsung when they wish to customize and manipulate their devices. Because of Samsung allowing the user to change any aspect of the device in whatever way they wish, Samsung allows user feedback on how its users improved their devices. If Samsung observes a beneficial alteration in their product or a demanding issue from the feedback, they are able to amend the matter in the Coladonato 3 next update or next version of the device. interaction with its users is what makes it the second major stake holder. Even though these two stakeholders do produce similar items they still have many differences. One of the major one is the open and closed system. Apple is a closed system, meaning every single product they put out is what you get, no acceptations, so far this works out extremely well, but, according to Apples revenue compared to they might have to change. Samsung, the other stake holder, uses an open system, like I previously stated, an open system is a system where you can do many modifications to your phone to better it, and Samsung accepts it, better yet, they implore it. we know, iOS is an entirely closed system: you can only get (in the absence of jailbreaking your phone) apps that come from Apps Store. Android is much more open: there are multiple sources and you can load your phone down with software from anywhere you (Worstall 1), but, the differences stop there; new products are produced without headphone jacks, for, they are attempting to convert the users to use the new Bluetooth option by force, it seemed like a good idea but it really work to well. Consumers saw this as just another reason to switch to Samsung. Even though these stake holders have many differences, they also do have many commonalities. Both of these produce the best smart phones in the business without any competition from the other competitors. For example, even though this graph is out of date Coladonato 4 by a few years, it is still a very accurate representation of what is going in market. (yarow 1) These companies also produce similar products, They both try and produce a product that will capture the attention, and the produce them with new features quite frequently so that the users will continue buying more and more of their products because they are called new, which then allows Samsung and Apple to come out with a great margin of revenue. The new features that they produce are also quite similar, it is as if they plan it, always who can go slimmer, who can have a bigger screen, who can have a bigger camera, who can have better speakers, whose screen can have better quality, who has better battery life, and what phone has better performance. what they do over and over every single time they put out a new phone. Apple says 7 dramatically improves the most important aspects of the iPhone Coladonato 5 experience. It introduces advanced new camera systems. The best performance and battery life ever in an iPhone. Immersive stereo speakers. The brightest, most colorful iPhone display. Splash and water resistance.1 and it looks every bit as powerful as it is. This is iPhone (Apple 1). Androids new phone, the Samsung galaxy note 5, is said to have 5.7-inch screen gives you ample room to doodle with the S Pen, and while certainly bigger in the hand than the Galaxy S7, its curved back makes it easy enough to hold if you have a large grasp. I also got better use of split-screen multitasking and the camera on this beast of a (Swider 1). Apple and Samsung are both great companies, who make products that were not even in existence 3 decades ago. Though, they are still very intense competitors in this new age of technology. Both Samsung and Apple they have their commonalities, and their differences, along with their personal wins and losses that just naturally go into making and producing your own product. The most important and respectable aspect of these two amazing companies is the fact that they have great respect each other and have a heathy competition, and hopefully, in the near future, they could come together to produce a product, or products, that are just the perfect combination of the two products. Coladonato 6 Work cited Worstall, Tim. The Problem With Closed Apps  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 31 Aug. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. IPhone  Apple. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Apple Reports Fourth Quarter  Apple Newsroom. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Dan. Samsung beat out Apple on Global 500  BGR. N.p., 08 July 2013. Web. 13 Feb. Swider, Matt. 10 Best Android phones 2017: which should you  TechRadar. TechRadar The source for Tech Buying Advice, 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Worstall, Tim. Apple Explains Why iOS Need No  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 04 June 2012. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Yarow, Jay. Apple Has 53% Of The Smartphone Profits, Samsung Has 50%, Everyone Else Is Negative Or  Business Insider. Business Insider, 31 July 2013. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Closed  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Feb. 2017.