Francis1 Karelia Francis Professor John Williams ENC 1102. January 26, 2017. Affirmative action: Equal opportunity or reverse racism? action policies are those in which an institution or organization actively engages in efforts to improve opportunities for historically excluded groups in American ( National Conference of State Most publications and articles read have been in support of affirmative action but there were some that were strongly against it. As stated in my thesis, there are two sides to the debate with some organizations such as the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) that firmly believe that affirmative action is a means of diversifying a work or educational system by allowing oppressed group to enter while the Tea Party Movement (TPM) of conservatives believe that it is reverse racism by giving opportunities to minorities therefore decreasing the amount of white people allowed into a certain program. Both of these organizations may be able to agree on equal opportunity given to those who are equally qualified. One approach to appease both parties is that companies and colleges can begin a color blind process whereby applicant are hired based only on their achievements and qualifications versus hiring based on filling race requirements. One thing I noticed is that when people were interviewed about the issue at hand, they had very passionate answers on both sides but very little knowledge about what the true effects of affirmative action are. Some of them seemed to have had twisted perceptions just based on word of mouth and no actual research on how affirmative action even began. 1961, President Francis2 John F. Kennedy signed Executive Order 10925, ordering that federally funded projects take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, creed, color, or national  (CNN). Feb. 12. 1909, the NAACP is the oldest, largest and most widely recognized grassroots-based civil rights (NAACP) and vision of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is to ensure a society in which all individuals have equal rights without discrimination based on This is the main point of the NAACP being around. They seek to help everyone live in a society not ruled by racism, one that is accepting and allow for discrimination and degradation of anyone because of race. Affirmative action therefore stands up for what they believe in hence the tremendous support behind that law. The access to equal opportunities is one of the main objectives of the NAACP and so their objectives already align. They would just like equality in systems where there was traditionally no equality. The Tea Party movement was founded in early 2009 in correlation to the Obama Administration. This group believes in similar principles when it comes to equality. The main reason for their opposition seems to be because they think it is a hand out and an unfair advantage that white people simply cannot have access to. The belief is that minorities get a free ride from generous means-tested government programs, while working (Edsall and Edsall 1991; Glenn and Teles 2009; Schwartz 2009). It is an interesting debate because most supporters of this movement are predominantly white males. However, they do just want to see an equal level playing field where they feel like everyone has earned their place based on their work ethic and achievements but not because of being a minority. They want to Francis3 know that they are being looked at just as much as a minority and that just because of their skin color, they given a chance to shine in a workplace or classroom setting because there are already too many caucasians in that particular setting. Hence why some people view it as reverse racism as it oppresses qualified white people who have also worked hard and achieved the requirements for whatever job or school. This conversation tends to be one often held by democrats and republicans because of the opposing views on the matter. It really does go down to liberal vs conservative beliefs in most topics regarding race. Both sides are understandable but both sides could also use more knowledge on affirmative action. If affirmative action could be something that is modified to clearly state in the definition that it is the accepting of all people regardless of race and gender etc with equal qualifications then maybe there would be more support on the conservative side that tends to see things in a way that is causing them a disadvantage. If there is, however, a leveled ground for everyone then a lot of bias would not exist and everyone would be happy with the law being that way. If the law was formed in a way that was beneficial to all parties involved, then it would be a very different The best solution that has come about is the color blind policy that some businesses have already implemented basically goes like this. All submitted cover letters and resumes will be reviewed but every indicator of race shall be removed therefore only qualified applicants shall be given acceptance into the business place or the institution. This seems to be a solid fix to something that has been an ongoing debate within the United States. Some may disagree with this method simply because white people tend to be more likely to be rich and able to afford to go through better educational systems and therefore would make them obviously still the more Francis4 qualified candidate which may actually lead back to discrimination all over again. There is no complete fix to an issue as big as this one but this could be the first step in fixing such a problem until a more viable solution comes about. Francis5 Works Cited. 1. Legislatures, National Conference of State. Affirmative Action  Action Overview . N.p., 07 Feb. 2014. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. 2. Oldest and  . N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. 3. Arcenaux, Kevin. Wants to Have a Tea Party? The Who, What, and Why of the Tea Party Movement. N.p. . Web. <https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/aop-cambridge-core/content/view/49B1773A21C2 9819E071B702D619A7E7/S1049096512000741a.pdf/who-wants-to-have-a-tea-party-the-wh o-what-and-why-of-the-tea-party-movement.pdf>.