Daley 1 Patrick Daley Bob Botkin ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Lottery According to Merriam Webster, the meaning of lottery is defined as way of raising money for a government, charity, etc., in which many tickets are sold and a few of the tickets are chosen by chance to win In the United States of America forty-four of the fifty states hold lotteries, as do Washington DC, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. Among Americans there are few desires as ubiquitous as the dream of winning the lottery. However, since winning the lottery relies on chance and one has to contribute money in order to gain the opportunity of winning, many would contend that lotteries, though state-sponsored, fall under the purview of gambling. Thus, it should be taken into consideration whether lotteries are comparable to other forms of gambling and whether they should be regulated as such, or, due to the greater availability of access, be more strictly regulated than other forms of legal gambling. Certain organizations such as the North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries, would argue that lotteries are unlike gambling and would be quick to differentiate the two. Other organizations, such as the American Policy Roundtable, would argue that lotteries are just like any other form of gambling and would debate the good they purportedly do. The North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries or NASPL was founded in 1971 from three lottery organizations, and in its forty-five years of functioning has grown to encompass fifty-two lottery organizations in both the United States and Canada To The organization works to share lottery industry information and data among its member organizations, train lottery staff, and validate the importance of the Daley 2 lotteries as well as garner public trust in its organizations. They argue that lotteries bear very few similarities between other forms of problem gambling that lead to addictive and self- destructive behaviours. They also mention the purpose of supporting and funding education and other important institutions within their respective states. They also push for increased online and digital presence for lottery participation, saying that it will be more stringently regulated than other forms of lottery ticket sales because the data can be collected more easily (Myths, FAQ & History). On the other side of the debate are groups like Rethink Mississippi, which is an organization in one of the six states without a lottery. Sponsored by the Winter Institute for Racial Reconciliation, Rethink Mississippi is a group that collaborates with the Mississippi Center for Justice, which is a non-profit public interest law firm, and the Mississippi Economic Policy Center, which is a non-profit, non-partisan organization that does public policy issue research Rethink Rethink Mississippi promotes the availability of affordable and high quality education, wages, housing, and healthcare, fights to end the cycle of poverty and discrimination that plagues the state, and advocates meaningful, informed, well-researched public discourse as a means of addressing and confronting public issues Rethink Their view on the lottery is that it is an ineffective means of financing the government, that the benefits are oversold while the costs are underestimated, and that those in the lower rungs of society are most susceptible to the detrimental aspects of the lottery industry (McGraw, Jake). Indeed, some research into advertising in states that do have lotteries reveals that poorer groups are more heavily targeted by said lottery advertisements (Borg, Mary O., p. 24). They assert that the lottery is a form of gambling that poses the same risks of addiction and loss of wealth, but with worse odds and payouts. Indeed, a number of lottery participants fall victim to the problem gambling mentality, forcing themselves into deeper and deeper debt with the mindset that if Daley 3 they could just hit the big one, then it would make up for all the losses, even though in most cases they never hit the big one and keep on losing which ends up costing them their savings, their homes, and in some cases their families who bear the burden. Meanwhile, those investigating the subject have noted that in many of the states that have lotteries there have been widespread accusations of said states using lottery capital in place of state funding for education, instead of in addition to state funding for education (Last Week Tonight with John Oliver: The Lottery). Overall, Rethink Mississippi believes that their state, if not all states, should remain without a lottery, continue to use tax dollars to fund their educational system, and avoid exposing the lower echelons of society to the risks of problem gambling that they believe exist in the lottery. Though the two stakeholders appear to share very few views when it comes to the lottery, they do both promote funding for the educational system. In this regard, a possible compromise might be a ban on lottery advertising. At this point the money that would be spent advertising the lottery would be added to the amount set aside to be put into education funding. Because state legislators have proven themselves indifferent to school needs by diverting budgetary funds away from education anytime another source, such as the lottery, presents itself, it would seem that it is the goal of the lottery instead of the state government to enrich resources for education. Therefore, if the lottery administrators truly wished to enhance education, it would be their prerogative to withhold the amount made through the lottery, which has been set aside for education, until the state had already contributed its own part of the budget to its educational system. Thus, it would be ensured that the lottery is not simply replacing, but actually increasing the amount provided to the educational system. This would benefit the general public by enhancing the caliber of their education, would benefit the states by having a more highly-trained workforce boasting a higher quality of life, and Daley 4 would benefit the lotteries because better education leads to higher wages and less addiction, which means more capital to be responsibly spent on the lottery. The lottery is the center of an age old debate whether it is anything more than state sponsored gambling. Organizations such as NASPL would claim that it is the chance to substantially change your life for the better while contributing to education. Groups such as Rethink Mississippi would argue that it is the chance to substantially change your life for the worse by becoming a victim of problem gambling while taking tax dollars away from education. Though these views could scarcely be more disparate, it is clear that there is a focus on education. If this were made the focus of a compromise between the two, the solution could be not only achievable, but a great boon to all participants. Instead of predatory advertising, lotteries would hold states accountable for their backing of education before adding their capital to the mix. This would prevent legislators from being able to take money out of the hands of faculty, educators, and students. Better educated citizens would be less susceptible to the hazards of addictive problem gambling and would have greater access to higher paying employment, which means they would have a greater amount to spend on the lottery without the same strain on their budget. In these circumstances, win or lose, upward mobility would be provided to those who need it. Daley 5 Works Cited Borg, Mary O., and Harriet A. Stranahan. Lottery Advertising Exploit Disadvantaged and Vulnerable Business Ethics Quarterly, vol. 15, no. 1, 2005, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/3857666. McGraw, Jake. Why a state lottery is a bad idea Jake  Rethink Mississippi. N.p., 26 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About Rethink  Rethink Mississippi. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Week Tonight with John Oliver: The HBO. 9 Nov. 2014. Television Program.  Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Myths, FAQ & History NASPL. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Welcome to  NASPL Home NASPL. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.