Michael Hampton Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101 19 February 2017 CTE Annotated Bibliography In all my years of playing football I have never knowingly encountered or shared the same field with a homosexual football player. Some may say homosexuals should not be allowed to play football or maybe in some cases some players would refuse to be on the same team as a person who is homosexual and quit the team. But who is to say they are not good enough to play on the team because of their sexual preference? There are some positive factors of accepting a homosexual on a sports team. For example, the team can gain more respect for accepting a gay player, it shows a lack of bias and more maturity. Secondly, accepting a gay player can help change view. On the other hand, there are some negative factors like bringing negative media/social attention to the team, as well as teams picking unqualified players based on their sexuality. As football has not been traditionally accepting of homosexual players, what are some effects individual players and teams may experience by accepting a homosexual player? Bass, Jordan, Robin Hardin, and Elizabeth A. Taylor. The Glass Closet: Perceptions of Homosexuality in Intercollegiate  of Applied Sport Management 7.4. 2015. Web. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. In the article The Glass Closet: Perceptions of Homosexuality in Intercollegiate Sport it discusses an experiment that has been brought up in the U.S. examining college football players being homosexual. Head coaches were given a task to do, basically making a count of how many players, coaches, and administrators at their university are homosexual. Only one coach of more than 1,000 was identified of having the same sex partner. As of college players there not quite understanding when it comes to homosexuality. On the other hand social acceptance is increasing. Glass is credible because it appears in of Applied Sport Management . There were multiple authors who contributed to creating this journal including Jordan Bass, Robin Hardin, and Elizabeth A. Taylor. They are well- known writers who are respected throughout the industry. Blum, Sam. Why Professional Sports Still Has a Gay  Stone . 27 June 2016. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. Orlando tragic shooting night impacted all the professional sports teams. It impacted some in a positive way and some not so much in a positive way. Some of the professional teams acknowledged the Orlando massacre and paid their respects to the tragic event before starting their games. On the other hand, it took some teams a while to acknowledge and support the tragic event that took place in Orlando. Although teams and leagues may have been taking a positive step in support and connection to the LGBT community, there has been apparent hesitation to use associating language with the community that was targeted on the early morning of June . Professional Sport Still Has a Gay is credible because I found this source in Stone . Stone is known for its pop culture coverage and innovative thoughts. The author of this article has written for many others different magazines including Guardian, Rolling Stone, The A.V. Club, and Vice Sports. So because it is a form of media, the magazine has the power to portray teams in a positive or negative way. This can maybe change the way sport teams speak on this subject. Depending on the team behavior it can either strengthen or weaken the LGBT community. Gibbs, Lindsay. Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A In NFL Teams Not Signing , ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016, thinkprogress.org/michael-sam-says-coming-out-as-gay-played-a-huge-part-in-nfl-teams- not-signing-him-4cf478530e5f#.cxhgs3wsn. Accessed 12 Feb 2017. In the article Michael Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A Huge Part In NFL teams Not Signing it discusses the struggles he had playing in the NFL and teams accepting his sexuality preference. As Michael Sam came out as a gay football player teams in the NFL want anything to do with him. They want that kind of negative attention coming to their organization, so it was very difficult for him to get picked up by a team that would accept him. Michael Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A Huge Part In NFL Teams Not Signing is credible because I found this source in ThinkProgress is an American political news blog. It is a project of the Center for American Progress, a progressive public policy research and advocacy organization. The author of this article is Lindsay Gibbs, a freelance writer and the co-founder of the popular tennis blog the Changeover. Her tennis writing has been featured in USA today, Sports on Earth, Sports Illustrated, and etc.. She is also the author of the historical fiction novel The Tennis Nichols, James. Derrick Gordon: I Get A Fair Shot At The NBA Because The Huffington Post. 18 August 2016. Accessed 19 February 2017. In the article Derrick Gordon: I Get A Fair Shot At The NBA Because it discusses a openly gay basketball player named Derrick Gordon not being able to play in the NBA because he is gay. No matter how good of a player he is no NBA team would accept him just because he is gay. As he announced in 2014, Derrick Gordon was the first openly gay player in the NCAA. No teams wanted negative attention to their organization for accepting a gay player. Derrick Gordon: I Get A Fair Shot At The NBA Because is a credible source because I found it on The Huffington Post which is a very well known and reliable source. The Huffington Post is a left-leaning American online news aggregator and blog that has both localized and international editions. In July 2012, the Huffington Post was ranked #1 on the 15 Most Popular Political Sites list. The author of this article is James Michael Nichols. A gay writer who have also wrote multiple articles on homosexuals. Orth, Maureen. Out of the Locker Room, and the  New York Times, 30 Nov. 2003. Web. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. of the Locker Room, and the discusses former NFL player, Roy Simmons, and his life of being a hidden gay football player, and the relief about when he came out for the rest of of his life. Roy kept his furtive gay life a secret, but that last long. One day in 1992, years after he retired from the NFL he appeared on national television on with a former girlfriend to discuss what he never told her which was that he was gay. His family, friends, and former teammates were all in shocked and jaws-dropped. In 1997, Roy Simmons got the news that he was HIV positive. After that he became a positive voice to other gay members hiding their secret gay life to come out and not hide who they really truly are. Out of the Locker Room, and the Closet is credible because I found this source out of USF library as a peer reviewed journal article. The author of this credible source is Maureen Ortho. Maureen is a well-respected journalist for almost 40 years and well known throughout the journalism industry. New York Times is an American daily newspaper, founded and continuously published in New York City since September 18, 1851, by the New York Times company. New York Times has won 117 Pulitzer Prizes. The Brief History of Gay ESPN. 18 December 1998. Accessed 19 February 2017. In the article The Brief History of Gay it discusses a list of gay athletes from the to 1998. It specifically explains the sport each athlete played and the event each athlete went through. These certain group of athletes are the ones who was the first openly gay player to come out in their sport. The article is mostly about athletes coming out and making national headline sports news. The Brief History of Gay is a credible source because accessed this source on ESPN web page. There was no author available but ESPN is a very reliable and credible source. ESPN is a U.S.-based global cable and satellite sports television channel owned by ESPN Inc. ESPN is one of the most successful sports networks.