Brichner 1 Lilly Brichner Bob Botkin ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Should Animals be Kept in Captivity? The question of whether animals should be kept in captivity, like countless others asked, has many gray areas. The idea that animals are fascinating and should be kept in captivity to be viewed for human entertainment and education is one that has been held by the Busch Gardens and Sea World theme parks since their beginning. But more recently, they have been forced to change their ways since organizations like Big Cat Rescue have become popular with animal rights activists. The public no longer wants to see documentaries like where wild animals are being unethically treated and bred in captivity at the expense of human entertainment. Although these two organizations have something in common, a need for wildlife conservation. There is a compromise that can be made to still teach the public about wildlife, yet make their living situations less harmful to their health and their species. This solution is a concept called The common grounds for the argument that animals should or should not be kept in captivity is that as humans we have a right to know about the world around us, and this often leaves animals as inferior to us in the process. Although the opinion of the public is usually not in favor of how wildlife is treated in zoos, theme parks and circuses, record shows that animals in zoos and aquariums are protected under the American Zoo and Aquarium Association (AZA). Brichner 2 The AZA is one of the only organizations globally to effectively protect and care for the animals in zoos and aquariums across the country (Hutchins, 2003). Hutchins also goes on to explain that the reason why we see the public as disliking zoos and the way animals are kept in captivity is because the media portrays information that way (2003). This is especially true since the release of the Blackfish documentary in 2013. Although 2014 was a year of peak tourism for Florida, the home to Sea World and its parks, Sea numbers dropped by over a million per Steven W. Schoen in an article from the Journal of Florida Studies (2016). The Blackfish documentary exposed Sea World for their unethical treatment of the orcas (killer whales) that are the most famous attraction at their parks (Schoen, 2016). But, due to this documentary it seems that theme parks like Busch Gardens and Sea World are changing their perspectives on the wildlife they choose to keep in captivity. In 2016, Sea World made the announcement that they would discontinue the breeding of orcas in captivity and that their theatrical Shamu show would be completely done with by 2019 (Schoen). But this still begs the question of about all of the other animals kept in The public opinion of zoos and animals being kept in captivity has changed marginally over time; this is indicated in an article written by Randy Malamud, published in 1998. This was long after theme parks and zoos kept animals in cages and small habitats, but still shows the way the public viewed zoos as entertainment and educational services. In his article Zoos: Representation of Animals in Malamud states that we take these innocent animals away from their natural habitats and put them on display in a way created on our own (1998). This makes humans believe that they are superior to animals, and become less sensitive to feelings on constraint and pain, as we are free to roam ourselves but the animals we put in cages are not (Malamud, 1998). Although more recently, the media has covered animal rights activists Brichner 3 and animal friendly organizations a lot more. This is evident with the creation of organizations like Big Cat Rescue, a sanctuary for big cats who have been abandoned or abused by humans who thought that they could be kept as pets (Shani, 2008). Just like the effect that the Blackfish documentary has had, theme parks and public attractions that contain animals are being forced to rethink their treatment of wildlife. As mentioned in a journal article by Amir Shani, in order to make the treatment of animals in captivity ethical, education, entertainment and welfare needs to be incorporated (2008). How can this compromise of be included in the habitats of wildlife in zoos and theme parks? According to Robert Young in his book Enrichment for Captive the definition of this concept is making the habitats of animals in captivity more similar to their natural environments, or adding things that will make them happier like toys (2013). The first approach mentioned, making their environment in captivity emulate their natural home out in the wild, is known as a naturalistic approach (2013). Another approach to environmental enrichment is behavioral engineering, thought of by primatologist Robert Yerkes. He believes that placing certain types of machines or toys into a enclosure will allow them to develop habits of working and play time (Young, 2013). This allows for an cage or enclosure to be more appealing and entertaining, possibly taking away from the fact that maybe they in a place resembling their habitat. This will prevent wild animals from developing anxiety disorders from being isolated in small cages or enclosures (Young, 2013). Both of these approaches have been used at the Big Cat Rescue in Tampa, where they give the big cats enough space to roam and play, while giving the animals toys and places to climb as well (Big Cat Rescue, 2015). Brichner 4 The compromise of making animals in captivity more comfortable by adding environmental enrichment is the compromise to this controversial issue. Since the popularity of zoos and theme parks does not seem to be dwindling any time soon, it is up to the organizations that orchestrate these places of wildlife education and conservation. Although stakeholders in this argument like Sea World or Busch Gardens have managed to adopt more ethical standards of taking care of the animals in their parks, there is still a long way to go in making sure that all animals kept in captivity have the rights they deserve. Works Cited Brichner 5 Big Cat Rescue Is Caring for Big Cats and Ending the  Big Cat Rescue. N.p., 27 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Hutchins, Michael, Brandie Smith, and Ruth Allard. In defense of zoos and aquariums: the ethical basis for keeping wild animals in  Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 223.7 (2003): 958-966. Malamud, Randy. Reading zoos: Representations of animals and  (1998). Schoen, Steven W. Blackfish-ing for Buzz: The Rhetoric of the Real in Theme Parks and  (2016). Shani, Amir, and Abraham Pizam. Towards an ethical framework for animal-based  International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management 20.6 (2008): 679-693. Young, Robert J. Environmental enrichment for captive animals. John Wiley & Sons, 2013.