Mack 1 Elijah Mack Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 5 February 2017 Final Draft An important discussion in America today involves the correlation between economic status and success. It is undoubtedly true that in America there is a huge gap between the rich and the poor. With that being said how does socioeconomic status affect the success in teens? There are two sides to this widely talked about discussion. One side holds ideologies that economic status does not necessarily impact success in teens. It is undoubtedly true that income plays a role, but some would argue this role is insignificant. In contrast, the other side states that economic status has a huge impact on success in teens. Historically, people with higher economic statuses tend to live a healthier and more luxurious lifestyle than poorer people or people with lower economic statuses than them. They also usually live in safer environments and avoid more risky behavior than their counterparts. This is most likely because impoverished neighborhoods and bad environments have been found to invite deviant or risky behaviors. Schools in wealthier neighborhoods also tend to have better textbooks and materials, so it is possible that they might receive a better education than their counterparts. Thus, giving them a better opportunity of being successful than the less unfortunate. Berliner, David C. Our Impoverished View of Educational  Teachers College Record Vol.108, No.6, 2006, pp.949--995. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Mack 2 The main purpose of this source, is to inform readers who want to know how income can affect the success or performance of students. This article provides statistics related to school performance and poverty level, as well as an evaluation of the failure of school reform. (Berliner, pp.949-995) The information presented suggests that poverty is a key factor in academic performance. This article also includes a discussion about the assumption that the failure of the school system is because of downfalls in and their policies (cite, p 8), which I think is important to the topic as well. I chose this source because it analyzes the role of poverty in education, which affects the success and well being of teens. The author, David Berliner, does a good job of analyzing the correlation between the two. Berliner is highly credible author as he was once the president of the American Educational Research Association, and the Division of Educational Psychology of the American Psychological Association. This source is related to my topic because it gives me an insight to how income can affect the success of teens in the educational system. Browning, Christopher R., and Kathleen A. Cagney. Moving Beyond Poverty: Neighborhood Structure, Social Processes, and  Journal of Health and Social Behavior Vol.44.No.4 (2003): Pp.552. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. The main purpose of this source is to inform readers who want to know more about the structure and characteristics of different neighborhoods, and how they affect subjective well being. This source includes many statistics examining the relationship between average neighborhood income, residential stability, and health. The data that this source presents suggests different neighborhoods have a huge impact on success and subjective well being. The authors discuss Mack 3 their findings of the relationship between socioeconomic status and adult outcomes, including but not limited to mortality, heart disease, a number of chronic conditions, and self-rated health. (Browning and Cagney) Christopher Browning is an American historian and has written multiple publications on Nazi Germany. Kathleen A. Cagney is a professor at the University of Chicago, she has a Degree in Public Policy, a degree from Western Michigan University, and a Ph.D from Johns Hopkins University. She is highly creditable on this topic because she specializes in sociology. I chose this source because it provides me with information on how neighborhood structure affects subjective well-being. This relates to my topic because, teens only spend a fraction of their time in school, a large part of most time is spent in their neighborhoods. This analysis provides me with a good insight on how neighborhood structure might play a role in the success of teens. Cattell, Vicky. Poor People, Poor Places, and Poor Health: the Mediating Role of Social Networks and Social  Social Science & Medicine, vol.52, no.10, (2001): 1501-516. Web. The main purpose of this source is to inform readers who want to learn more about how income and social capital can play an important role in subjective well being. This source analyzes the link between socioeconomic status and affects on the well-being of people in society by studying factors of social capital like exclusion, enjoyment of life, and perception of inequality, which could be (Cattell) This source includes good qualitative Mack 4 research as it includes interviews and an in-depth analysis of two very impoverished areas, which provides me with firsthand experiences of people who have low socioeconomic status. Vicky Cattell, the author of this source, is a honorary senior lecturer at Queen Mary, University of London. She has taught about sociology and her research mostly focuses on poverty and how society works as a whole. This source is important to my topic because it helps me answer my question. It provides me with an insight on how social capitals such as perception and social exclusion might play a role in the success of teens. Diener, Ed, and Robert Biswas-Diener. Will Money Increase Subjective Well-Being?: A Literature Review and Guide to Needed  Social Indicators Research Series The Science of Well-Being 2009, pp. 119-54. Web. The main purpose of this source is to inform readers who want to know the correlations between income and subjective well being. This source talks about the relationship surrounding the amount of money a person makes and their well-being. This article reports that poorer nations have larger correlations between income and subjective well-being. The information in this article suggests that there is a connection between quality of life and income. It also suggests people have a greater chance of being unhappy in poorer countries. Ed Diener, the author of this source, is also the president of the International Society of Quality of Life Studies, and he has published over 300 documents. I chose this source because, it is highly credible, as Professor Diener is one of the most decorated Mack 5 psychologists in the field of poverty. This source is related to my topic because it gives me an insight on the effects income has on success. Kubrin, Charis E., and Ronald Weitzer. New Directions in Social Disorganization  Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency Vol.40.No.4 (2003): Pp.374--402. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. The main purpose of this source is to inform readers who want to learn about social disorganization theory and how the structure of neighborhoods affect crime and delinquency. This source examines how impoverished neighborhoods, structure of neighborhoods, and income affects crime rate. This is a good source because, it evaluates how different types of environments or neighborhoods produces various outcomes. This article focuses less on individuals and more on what types of settings are created, and whether these settings invite deviance. The authors talk about social disorganization theory, and define it as the between neighborhood structure, social control, and (Kubrin and Weitzer) I chose this source because it includes case studies done in impoverished neighborhoods and that is highly useful in my topic. Charis E. Kubrin is a professor of criminology, law and society at the University of Washington. Kubrin mainly focuses her studies on the effects of different neighborhoods, race, and violence. Kubrin also has her Ph.D. Ronald Weitzer is a professor of sociology and has a Ph.D from the University of California. He is also a criminologist, and has done many studies on minorities. This source is important because it relates to my topic and analyzes how the structure of neighborhoods in poor areas could affect teen success. Mack 6 Lombe, Margaret, Von Eugene Nebbitt, Aakanksha Sinha, and Andrew Reynolds. Examining Effects of Food Insecurity and Food Choices on Health Outcomes in Households in  Social Work in Health Care Vol.55, No.6, 2016, pp. 440-60. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. The main purpose of this source is to inform readers who want to find out more on poverty and how it affects health and subjective well being directly. This article talks about socioeconomic status and how it affects the health of poorer people in poverty. It includes data from the 2007-2008 National Health Examination Survey. It examines household food insecurity, food stamp take-up, and use of informal food supports are associated with health risk among low-income (Lombe et al) The information presented suggests that income plays a huge role in overall health. Margaret Lombe, the author, is an Associate Professor at Boston College School of Social Work, and is highly credible on the topic because she specializes in the field. I chose this article because it does a good job analyzing the relationship between nutritional health and income. This source relates to my topic because it analyzes how income could be affecting the health and success of teens.