Al Hadhrami 1 Al Mundhar Al Hadhrami John Williams ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Videogames and Violence The current gaming consoles are unlike the past where they had been developed extensively and examined by professionals so that the games have a positive impact in society. Since adults today have played Pong or Donkey Kong as children, video games have made considerable progress. On the other hand, harsh videogames can cause teenagers to act violently when their parent are not taking full control of what games their kids are playing. Almost all scholarly articles that researched videogames show how videogames can be developed and manipulated in a way that can cause a positive impact on society. However, in the end, the last question is not how videogames can be beneficial, but rather how to be able to control it in order to avoid any certain negativity on society. Infinity Ward, one of the best Call of Duty developers, believe in making the best version of Call of Duty where it can be so real as to having actual war weapons and advancing it to the 3 dimensional world. While American Psychological Association (APA) is against developing videogames such as Call of Duty, they believe it can cause a negative effect increasing violence. Even though there is a clear difference between virtual reality and reality, it can still effect their lifestyle and violence activity. Therefore, to integrate the stances of both companies, the age restriction should be strongly followed while parents should have the upper hand in what their kids are exposed to. In 2002, Infinity Ward, a worldwide American videogames developer located in Woodland Hills, California was established. The titles that were developed by Infinity Ward Al Hadhrami 2 have always been in the top chart, won over 200 game of the year awards, and was named the number one editor choice reward. Infinity ward is the original studio that was behind the success of the most famous videogame of franchise. The official Infinity Ward site states that, 2007, the studio released Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, a revolutionary title that set the bar for the modern first-person shooter and broke records with the fastest revenue generating launches of any entertainment This clearly shows how the company is developing and forced their high standards to the world. The primary goal of Infinity Ward is to the full image of experiencing virtual reality games with the highest ward site) while they believe in becoming the most passionate developer that can give their employees the best possible atmosphere to give their best to the company. Another part of their beliefs are by winning titles of of the award which can attract top talents from all over the world and boost their creativity in making every videogame. According to the article playing video games makes players greater video games that promote a high quality definitions can be helpful for teenagers to play more and develop their life by making more friends through the game and try to think wisely in any given situation with the ability to make fast decisions (212). This promotes the fact of Infinity Ward becoming a leading corporation for Call of Duty series because they are always improving their quality. American Psychological Association is one of the largest organizations of psychologists in the United States of America. Their fundamental mission of the organization is to protect and promote human life based on different science studies. In addition, the American psychological Association task is to issue policy statements on different social import like the APA position on psychology of abortion and human social illness. Their beliefs are directed by psychologists, organized by common topics, notified and guided those seeking help with issues that affect their Al Hadhrami 3 emotional wellness, family relationships, and professional lives. aim is to prevent any social problems that can cause any violence in the community, keep everyone by the safe side in the future, protect their people, and their society as a whole. This association considers that in order to receive optimal results, teenagers should strongly be watched and advised throughout their journey in life. In addition, their parents should have the upper hand to guide their kids to the right path. Norbert Elias argues in the Violence, Bodies, and Civilization chapter in the Violence and Society book that, there is a long term trend towards the pacification of civil society that is linked to the emergence of state control of the means of violence and the widening of the scope of the civil This argument presents how violence has a major role in society and how it has been affecting human civilization as well as the people around, their relationships, and their families. As much as there are huge difference between Infinity Ward and the American Psychological Association, they both share similar goals. At the end of the day they both aim to benefit people and help to create a happier atmosphere. Infinity Ward is trying to sell their video games in order for their customers to enjoy and have a great time. Similarly, the APA organizations are trying to do their best to avoid violence occurring in society. Although they are both in two different areas, their aim is to make everyone happy. The reason the two stakeholders have not come to a resolution yet is due to the differences in opinions. In order to solve this problem there should always be a limit to things. Video games may and may not cause violence and it all depends on the user, the amount of time the user plays video games, and the age of the user, which also plays a huge role. In order to fix this, there should be an age restrictions when it comes to customers purchasing the videogames (Ray 183). The restrictions should also be enforced and strict to avoid violence occurring. This way both stakeholders will Al Hadhrami 4 be satisfied and violence will be kept at bay. As a conclusion, videogames have been such a hit and will continue to grow towards the future despite the fact that people say that it increases violence. There will always be two sides and different opinions to everything and there can never be a situation where there is only one opinion. There will be people that will aid video games and prove how it has nothing to do with violence and there will be people who will completely oppose and state that it has the opposite effect to that. The restriction will in effect resolve the case and satisfy Infinity ward as well as the American Psychological Association. This way there would not be any conflict between the two but only success in the future. Al Hadhrami 5 Works Cited Psychology  Pardon Our Interruption. American Psychological Association, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.apa.org/>.  Infinity Ward. Infinity Ward Community, n.d. Web. 18 Jan. 2017. <http://www.infinityward.com/news>. Ray, Larry J. Violence & Society. Los Angeles: SAGE, 2011. Internet resource. Clark, Terry R, and Dan W. Clanton. Understanding Religion and Popular Culture. Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge, 2012. Internet resource. Norbert Elias . Does playing video games make players more violent?. London: Palgrave Macillian, Uk . 2016. Internet resource