Aloraimi 1 Mohammed Aloraimi Mr. John Williams Comp 2 Feb 13 2017 The danger of carbon dioxide the 20 th century, scientists have continually raised alarm over the constantly changing climate. Several centuries ago, dinosaurs existed in the world but today, none of them can be found roaming planet earth. Their death was probably a favor to the human race mainly due to the dangers they posed. Though this danger was done away with by their extinction, the phenomenon they cause was to later kill humans slowly or so would scientists assume. Coal is what was formed centuries after their extinction. Those who found it used it at first for domestic purposes until it was realized that it could lead to the industrialization. Greenhouse gasses emitted from industries, burning of fossil fuels and vehicle emissions are slowly degrading the ozone layer, a phenomenon that has come to be recognized as global warming (Meinshausen, 1161). As most people continue to exist oblivious to whatever that is happening in the upper atmosphere, subtle yet profound changes continue to take place here on earth and their effects are beginning to lead to a clear change in the to Zacharof organization, the facts presented concerning global warming are not convincing and the matter is becoming a political one rather than a genuine environmental concern. So that, the nations can do advertisement about that and Aloraimi 2 they can earn billions of dollars. For example, because of that issue, a movie has created talking about the end of the world in 2012 and they earned a huge amount of money. However, we are in 2017 and nothing happened but and versa the world has been developed in all kinds of sciences. In addition, the nation can use this issue in order to increase the tourism in a country by disseminating attractive climatic organizations strongly differ with the theories that have so far been presented. They believe that the extreme temperatures are a new occurrence on earth and scientists who claim increased carbon dioxide to be the cause are doing so for reasons other than concern for the future. They argue that there were times in history when temperatures were much lower than what is being experienced currently. The medieval climate was normal and phenomenal than climate yet CO2 levels were much higher then. This only means that global warming might have a lot to do with burning fuels after all. However, Meinshausen point is that the temperatures levels are in a continue increasing so that the environment will be affected. Thus, the people around the world will witness strong climatic fluctuation such as, hurricanes and the poles melting which can lead to the disappearance of the coast cities. This implies climate will get to be intolerable. On the off chance that there are expanded floods then food crops be created and neither would they be able to be delivered in the dry season (Coppock, Rob, 307). That means, the people will have less sustenance to eat and also the creatures will be also affected by these Aloraimi 3 human race should be concerned about global warming. Scientists believe that a specific date for a complete meltdown cannot be pinpointed. It could take decades to centuries before global warming overwhelms the world. In the meantime, scientists believe that something should be done to reduce emissions into the atmosphere. (Ioan, 58) categorically states that there is no doubt a commission was formed over a decade ago to deal with this problem. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was tasked with regulating the burning of fossil fuels in a bid to reduce greenhouse gasses. Government representatives agreed to work on reducing emissions in their respective countries by specific percentages. The Carbon Capture Storage (CCS) was proposed as a means of mitigating global warming. On the other hand, the technologies that adjust the global warming heating and face the climatic disturbances resulting from the harmful gasses. However, the engineering wants to put a molecule that reflects the sun rays in the atmospheric layer in order to reduce the earth temperature and cool it with a rapidly and cheaply, thereby considerably decreasing atmosphere related dangers. Adding to that, they want to plants a huge amount of trees so they apply more than a solution at the same time as a powerful blow against the global warming phenomenon. Thus, they can overcome this problem by the passage of conclusion, each scientist or expert uses complex methods to come up with predictions on how the future might be if gas emissions are not controlled. Major bodies and governments have expressed concern over the issue and changes are surely being experienced. A critical analysis of the facts presented, however, confirms one ugly truth; there is a worrying lack of consistently. Though many experts claim that the worst is yet Aloraimi 4 to come, they are not consistent with the information they give concerning the matter. Some claim that deforestation is bound to occur yet others claim that CO2 levels will actually lead to increased plant growth. These inconsistencies could only mean two things; either human is living with fear for misfortunes that will never come or that the worst is yet to come only that the magnitude is unknown as of Aloraimi 5 Work cited Coppock, Rob. Climate  Issues In Science & Technology 17.3 (2001): 19- 20. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 28 Jan 2017. Ioan, Bardescu, and Legendi Amelitta. Carbon Dioxide Emission Sources And Decreasing  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 180.The 6th International Conference Edu World 2014 Education Facing Contemporary World , 7th - 9th November 2008 (2009): 1122-1128. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2016. Meinshausen, Malte, et al. Greenhouse-gas emission targets for limiting global warming to 2  Nature 458.7242 (2009): 1158-1162. Web. 28 Jan 2017 ) Parson, Edward A., and Lia N. Ernst. International Governance Of Climate  Theoretical Inquiries In Law 14.1 (2013): 307. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Zacharof, Nikiforos, et al. Type Approval And Real-World CO2 And Nox Emissions From EU Light Commercial  Energy Policy 97.(2016): 540- 548. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. (https://www.deepdyve.com/lp/elsevier/type-approval-and-real-world-co2-and- nox-emissions-from-eu-light-pE7V0Cvpl4 )