Ashlyn Collins Ms. Ricketts ENC 1101- 010 February 18, 2017 The human body is connected in many ways, one of which is how the body transfers its mental toll into a physical toll. Mental strain can be as detrimental to the body as physical strain can be. There is a plethora of reactions body can have to lack of sleep, stress, mental illness and so on, ranging from feeling tired to becoming physically ill. Research on this topic ranges from current news to the (Thomas Freedom M.D) allowing researchers to look back and reflect on previous research. During this writing I aim to explore what some of the main causes of chronic headaches may be, specifically centered on migraines and tension type headaches (TTH) as well as the offered treatment options. Mental illness, sleep disorders, along with learning disabilities all seem to be pointing signs to taking not only a mental toll on the sufferer but also a physical toll on them as well. The question that will be explored during this essay will be whether or not there truly is a correlation between mental illnesses, sleeping disorders, learning disabilities along with other in relation to chronic migraines, and what treatment options are available to the sufferers. Alvin E. Lake III, PhD, and Joel R. Saper, MD, FACP, FAAN, Chronic Headache New Advances in Treatment Strategies, Michigan Head-Pain and Neurological Institute, AAN Enterprises, Inc. 2002, ovidsp.tx.ovid.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed February 18, 2017. In the scholarly journal of Chronic Headache there is an article titled New advances in treatment strategies which the article goes over several of the treatment options and discoveries of chronic headaches, migraines, as well as tension type headaches (TTH). As stated in the article, roughly four to five percent of the population suffers from chronic daily headaches (CDH) ranging from tension type headaches to hemicrania continua. All types of chronic daily headaches develop because of different reasons, but there are several preventative treatment options being developed and researched. Depending on the type of headache one suffers from the treatment options may range from antidepressants, muscle relaxants, serotonin antagonists, as well as other various drugs. The main treatment option that will be explored will be one of the treatment options for chronic migraines, which is the use of Sumatriptan. This medication is most effective on patients who not only experience the migraine headaches but also tension type headaches. Patients who respond to the Sumatriptan treatment suggests that there is an issue with the patients serotonin mechanism, being the root of the headaches (Alvin E. Lake, page s8.) The goal of this article was to explore the different types of treatment methods for several different types of chronic headaches; the author of this article was most likely aiming it towards medical professionals. The first listed author of this article, Alvin E. Lake III, has received his PhD from the University of Michigan in psychology; he focused on behavioral medicine and can be credited as a reliable source. This article related to my research question because it explored the treatment options for sufferers of chronic migraines along with other headaches. Deacon E. Harle and Bruce J.W. Evans, The Optometric Correlates of Migraine, The college of Optometrists, 2004, eds.b.ebscohost.com, accessed February 5, 2017. In this scholarly article, optometric correlations of the main purpose is to get across the point that there may be an aspect of migraine headaches that has to do with optometric. Errors of refraction, pupil anomalies, binocular vision anomalies, visual field changes, as well as pattern glare, have had many claims to being related to migraine headaches. (Deacon E. Harle and Bruce J.W. Evans, Page 369.) Migraines have many triggers, some being visual, environmental, as well as other external factors. There are many known triggers for migraines ranging from foods one can eat such as chocolate and drinks like coffee and red wine, but migraines can also be triggered due to hormonal changes. The external factors that can cause one to get a migraine can be anything from skipping meals, irregular sleep patterns, stress, heat, weather change, smells, light, or sound. In this article they explore the visual triggers that can cause a migraine in a sufferer. (Deacon E. Harle and Bruce J.W. Evans, page 372.) One of the main visual triggers discussed in this article was pattern glare, which are visual distortions that cause stress on the sufferer. This article seems to be aimed toward the general public so that people can learn more about the warning signs, causes, and effects of migraines to ones body. (Deacon E. Harle and Bruce J.W. Evans, page, 377.) There are two authors in this article, Deacon E. Harle, and Bruce J. W. Evans. This is a reliable article for this information due to the fact that it is an article straight from the institute of optometry. This article relates to my research question because it explores the reasons that one has the onset of a migraine. Jacob Genizi et al, Pediatric mixed headache- the relationship between migraine, tension- type headache and learning disabilities- in a clinic-based sample, the journal of headache and pain, 2016, link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed January 28, 2017. The scholarly article mixed headache- the relationship between migraine, tension-type headaches, and learning disabilities-in-a-clinic based goes over explaining that there could be a correlation between patients who have chronic headaches or migraines and mental illnesses as well as learning disabilities. Through their research they were able to conclude that children who experience mixed headaches were 2.7 times more likely to also have a learning disability than those who only experience migraines. Of those who were tested not only did they experience migraine headaches but 24 percent also reported experiencing tension type headaches. (Jacob Genizi, page 2.) Although correlation does not mean causation this article seeks to find proof that, in this instance, it does. The main goal of this journal is that the author wanted to be able to provide information to neurologists to give them the ability to identify triggers to these headaches in order to change the strategies of dealing with these headaches. The intended audience of this journal was medical professionals, trying to enable them to better treat patients with these conditions. This article, written by Genizi et al, is very recent being that it was published in 2016. Being that this article was published by the Journal of headache and pain the article is reliable because this is a well-known journal. This journal relates to my research question because it states that there could be a relationship between migraines and mental illness and learning disabilities as well as aims to discover what that relationship is. Marisa Change, MD, Alan M. Rapoport, MD, Acute Treatment of Migraine Headache, Techniques in Regional Anesthesia and Pain Management, 2009, www.sciencedirect.com.exproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed February 18, 2017 In this scholarly journal the main purpose is to allow doctors to have the tools needed to properly diagnose and treat acute migraines. Roughly twelve percent of the population is most western societies is effective by migraines, not only that but chronic migraines are ranked as one of the top twenty disabling disorders (Marisa Chang, MD, Alan M. Rapoprt, MD, page 9.) For migraines to be properly treated it is important that they be properly diagnosed. Although migraines are something many people can get, not everyone experiences them on the scale those with chronic migraines d. A migraine once every six months is much more manageable than that of someone who suffers from chronic migraines who is experiencing five or six a week. Once a proper diagnosis is made treatment may begin. Dealing with migraines is not an easy fix, there are several treatment paths to go down. It is very important that the sufferer takes care of themselves by avoiding their triggers, getting regular sleep, meals, as well as avoiding stress. If just this work then the next step is being prescribed medicine to take at the onset of the migraine combined with the previously mentioned treatment. If both of these fail together then medicine is to be taken every day in order to prevent the onset (Marisa Chang, MD, Alan M. Rapoprt, MD, page 11.) This is a credible source as it comes from the Regional Anesthesia and pain management. This journal connects to my research question because it goes through the steps of treatment after a diagnosis is made. Pasquale Parisi et al. Headache and attention and hyperactivity disorder in children: Common Condition with complex relation and disabling consequenses, Epilepsy and Behavior, 2014, www.elsevier.com/locate/yebeh, accessed February 5, 2017. In the scholarly journal and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder in children: Common condition with complex relation and disabling which was published in 2013, aims to uncover if there is a relationship between attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity disorder and headaches in children and if there is a correlation what the effects on the neurological development is. Of chronic conditions, migraines are the most common, accounting for 10-28 percent in adolescents and children (Pasquale Parisi et al. page, 72.) After much research it is unsure if there is a correlation directly between attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder and headaches, but it has been found that there is a correlation between hyperactivity, inappropriate behavioral symptoms and family related stress as well as academic related stress and frequent headaches( Pasquale Parisi et al. page, 72.) In relation to school related stress a study showed that of 150 grade school children with persisting headaches, 40 percent of them experience academic difficulties (Pasquale Parisi et al. page, 73.) This article is a credible source because it comes from the journal of Epilepsy and Behavior. This article relates to my research question because it relates hyperactivity disorder to migraines. Thomas Freedmon, MDm Headaches and sleep diorders, Disease-a-month, 2015,www.elsevier.com/locate/disamonth, accessed January 28,2017. This article was entitled and sleep Thomas Freedom M.D seems to be aiming to inform the audience that there is a very strong correlation between migraine headaches as well as headaches in general being related to sleeping disorders. Some of the most common sleep disorders associated with these headaches are insomnia, sleep apnea, as well as problems with ones circadian rhythms. Not enough sleep or too much sleep can cause one to suffer from a headache, yet going to sleep can stop the progress of a headache. (Thomas Freedmon, MD, page. 241.) The main point Freedom aims to get across is that there are a few warning signs that you may have a sleeping disorder, and these signs are the headaches one may be having. If someone is noticing that they have headaches after waking up, headaches shortly after waking up, or chronic daily headaches this could be your sign of saying there is something wrong. The author of this article, Thomas Freedom M.D, is a reliable source based off of his experience and the high title the article he is writing for holds. This article relates to my research question because sleep can be a large trigger for migraines.