Reem Al Balushia Composition II Mr. John William January 26, 2017 Animals face many issues nowadays. There are many factors that can affect and harm the animals. For example, the human factors may affect the animals in many ways. One of the factors is, the pollution that human cause. With the increasing in pollution in air and water it could cause many diseases and death for animals. In addition, cutting the trees in the forests led to disappear many kinds of animals because the trees are home of that kinds of animals. Not just the indirect affect, there is also a direct affect of human on animals. One of the direct affects is animal testing. With the increasing in the mass production and the increasing on focusing on the made products, the companies start to test their products before they sell it in markets. The way that they use for testing their products is the animal testing. In addition, not just about testing the product on the animals, but many huge companies use the real fur in making their clothes. In order to get a fancy fur, they strip the fur while it still alive. In addition, they use the animal testing in many biomedical researches. By looking to this issue, there are two stakeholders. One is the websites and organizations that fight for animal rights and try to save animal life by stopping animal testing. The other stakeholder is, companies, and brands like Chanel and Dove that use animal testing and the biomedical researches. To have a compromise that benefits both sides. The alternatives to animal testing should be provided. Also, sharing enough knowledge to stop using real fur and start to use the manufactured one. There are many people who give a special attention to the animals and they try to save the animals by many ways. In addition, there are many organizations that provide solutions and ways to protect the animals. These kinds of organizations are against the companies that test their products on animals. For example, the humane society of the United State is one of these organizations. According to society of the United to address the inhumane treatment of animals, the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) has developed into the largest privately funded animal protection agency. Employing lobbyists, scientists, attorneys, investigators, educators, and fund-raisers, the HSUS deals with institutionalized forms of inhumane exploitation of (Davis and Jennifer, 2015, p4). This organization is one of the largest organizations that fight for rights. The official website of this organization shows many companies that use animals to test their products. The logo of this organization is Keep animal testing out of your shopping In addition, they provide many information about the animals and how to save them. Also, they have a section for collecting donations to support the animals. They work with many shelters to find a good owner for the animals. One of my friends had an experience with this organization. She adopts a cat and they give her many rules in order to keep the cat save. They call her each month to ask about the cat to chick if the cat had the required injections. In addition, to encourage people to adopt a cat they give gifts for the adopter and free training for the cat. In addition, there are many other organizations that save the animals by different From Congo gorillas to humpback whales off the coast of Gabon, all life is worth conserving to the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS). The group, founded in 1895, works to protect wildlife and lands throughout the world and to instill in humans a concern about Company Profiles, 3) so this organization saves all types of animals because they see that these animals deserve a safe life. With the increasing in the mass production and the rules that the products should follow before sell them in markets, many companies test the products safety and a good thing to do for saving the consumers. On the other hand, the way of testing the products should not harm the animals because some companies test their products on the animals. In additions, some biomedical researches use the animals. According to it again: a new methods for testing metacognition in use of animals in biomedical research is a socio-scientific issue in which decision-making is complicated. In this article, we describe an experience involving a role-play activity performed during school visits to the Barcelona Biomedical Research Park (PRBB) to debate animal testing. Role playing games require students to defend different positions and permit participants to debate and reflect on their personal (Laia, Vanessa and Ma, 2015, p309-321). So this article shows that using animal for testing and experience is one of the most important issues. Also, they show that even the biomedical researches are done with many experiences and testing for the animals and these experiences could harm the animals. On the other hand, some companies see that using animal testing is something necessary for human safety There is an active debate in toxicology literature about the utility of animal testing vis-a-vis alternative in vitro paradigms. To provide a balanced perspective and add to this discourse it is important to review the current paradigms, explore pros and cons of alternatives, and provide a vision for the future. The fundamental goal of toxicity testing is to ensure safety in Mangipudy, Burkhardt, Kadambi, 441). This article is showing that some companies use animal testing because the safer way to protect the human. There are different views, thoughts and actions about animal testing. Some people disagree with this idea and the others do the testing on animals. By looking deeper into this issue we can see that there are some ideas that these stakeholders share. Some tastings are not to harm the animals, but to help them. So instead of using animal testing that may harm the animals, the organization that support-helping animals should provide some alternatives for animal testing. So by this way we can save the animals and do the important tests. According to Alternative to animal experimentation has long been a controversial issue with impassioned arguments on both sides of the debate. Increasingly it has become more expedient and feasible to develop new methods that avoid the use of animals. There is agreement on both sides that reduction and refinement of experiments on animals should be an important goal for the industries involved. Alternatives to Animal Testing, written by leading experts in the field, discuss the issues involved and approaches that can be (Hester and Harrison, 2006, p123). This article shows that animal testing is a serious issue. In addition, it has many views and discussions. They show that some alternatives must be provided in order to stop animal testing. On the other hand, this article focused on the safety for the chemicals and all products, but in order to test the validity of the products the alternatives of animal testing should be use. In conclusion, animal testing is one of the most serious issues nowadays. It has many stakeholders related to this issue. Some of them support the idea of protecting the animals and the example of that is humane society of the United State. This organization includes all the aspects of animals, their safety, how to protect them, collecting donation to support them and find a good place for them. In addition, they fight the companies that use animal testing by showing in their websites which of the companies test their product on the animals. On the other hand, there are many companies and biomedical research that use animal testing that may harm the animal, so to solution for this issue is to find a compromise that can benefit both sides and led to a great goal which is saving animals life. The alternatives of animal testing are the solutions and the compromises that can benefit both sides. References: Davis and Jennifer, Humane society of the United State. Organization, January 2015, p4. Hester and Harrison, Alternative to animal testing. Electronic resource, 2006, p123. Company Profiles, WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY, 2016,p3. Laia, Vanessa and Ma, play it again: a new methods for testing metacognition in animals. Animal cognition, March 2015, p309-321. Mangipudy, Raja, Burkhardt, John ,Kadambi, Vivek J., Use of animals for toxicology testing is necessary to ensure patient safety in pharmaceutical development. Regulatory Toxicology & Pharmacology: RTP, November 2014, p93-441.