Alondra Galvan Ricketts ENC1101 25 January 2017 Dance Movement Therapy and children with Autism Spectrum Disorder Dance movement therapy is used to help children with disabilities. This type of therapy is not as common as other therapies but is used to control the nerves in the body. Dance therapy is an expressive therapy that pinpoints on supporting the mind and the connectivity to muscle throughout the body. It allows the motor function in the brain to react faster and initiate control in certain parts of the body. The movement, positioning, and mirroring allows for children to engage properly with a therapist in a creative and amusing way. This therapy is used widely among children with disabilities but more or less on children with Autism Spectrum Disorder. This disorder affects the form of socializing and communicating. It also affects how a child interacts with others or how the child shows interest in activities. At the least, dance therapy allows for a child to be diagnosed before any major deficits occur. Dance therapy also benefits children who were misdiagnosed by aiming and perfecting their disabilities. It tests the ability to connect movement with interaction and also the ability to focus on movement and generate their own. Focusing on Dance Movement Therapy, how does this therapy style, specifically, affect or not affect children with Autism Spectrum Disorder? Baudino, Lori M. Spectrum Disorder: A Case of Journal of Dance Therapy 2, vol. 32, no. 2, 2010, pp. 113-129. OneFile . DOI:10.1007/s10465-010-9095-x. Accessed 29 January 2017. This article elucidates a true story of a six year old girl who is one of many children that are misdiagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. In the article it illustrates the beginning of her complicated life and what this little traumatizing childhood. Those traumatizing experiences enabled her to incorporate mal behaviors and led to her misdiagnosis. Spectrum Disorder is a common diagnosis for children who present impairments and abnormalities in development, social contexts, and communication and who seem to be disconnected from a wide range of activities and typical (Baudino 115). Lisa and many other children embody those symptoms from traumatic experience and use dance movement therapy to correct their motor coordination and socializing skills. Lisa engages in sessions every week and is presented activities in the three planes that are used to emphasize and define the movement of an individuals psycho-sexual stages of development. The three planes are horizontal, vertical, and sagittal. This article also incorporates the account of the instructor whom illustrates vividly the encounter with Lisa and her step-by-step approach on productivity. In the end, comparing symptoms to those of Autism Spectrum Disorder, the article emphasizes the importance of being able to use dance therapy to pinpoint the symptoms rather than attack the individual. Dr. Lori Baudino is a clinical psychologist who took dance movement therapy programs to multiple hospitals through the Andrea Rizzo Foundation. She is a certified dance therapist and has done lectures at universities, high schools, and organizational events. This article ties back to my topic about how one child was misdiagnosed and was affected with dance movement therapy. This is only one case of the many instances that dance movement therapy exerts possibilities among expression, physical, and emotional powers. The journal in which this article corresponds to is the Journal for Dance Therapy which highlights the most intriguing obstacles intervened by DMT and incorporates case-studies of real children. Brown, Corinna A. American Dance Therapy Association 44Th Annual Conference 2009 Research Poster  Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 32, no. 1, 2010, pp. 33-40. Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text . DOI:10.1007/s10465-010-9084-0. Accessed 19 February 2017. In this article it discusses multiple researches done on the effectiveness of Dance Movement Therapy amongst different clients with different illnesses. The first case study was formed on an adult who had gone through sexual abuse as a child. This purpose was to see if the researchers could use voice during Dance Movement Therapy sessions to relieve her stress and emotionally stabilize her. The second research project was an evaluation on patients with mental illnesses who had undergone dance therapy sessions targeting stress-reduction and coping skills. The next study was made on 7 females who had been hospitalized for anorexia nervosa. This study was mainly created for three things: collecting experimental material on the response with anorexia nervosa, to assess the movement preferences with each individual patient, and to improve the psychological health. next thesis study examined the definition of countertransference used in research and theoretical exploration in the field of dance/movement (Brown 37) Countertransference is the how a researcher reacts emotionally to the person they are studying. The next case study was done amongst the attunement between a toddler and their mother and pinpointed the idea of dance movement therapy on the attachment relationship. Dance movement therapy is not only made to intervene in a study by finding a diagnosis it is also meant to enhance the abilities through connectivity and expressions. All of these case studies revealed the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of dance movement therapy amongst different situations. Corinna Brown is a licensed psychotherapist in New York who has been dancing for 37 years. She is also a dance movement therapist that got her degree in Neo-Reichian psychotherapy and also studied in Addictions Certification Program in Long Island University. She is an assistant professor at the Pratt Institute and worked in the Bellevue Hospital and Montefiore Medical Center as a therapist. This article was posted in American Dance Therapy Journal which is all about the recent research and case studies done regarding all Dance Movement Therapy, it also holds some of the speeches done at the Annual American Dance Therapy Conferences. This article ties back to my research question because it embodies the essence of not only fixating dance therapy among autism disorders but also seeing how the therapy has affected other patients. Hildebrandt, Malin K., Sabine C. Koch, and Thomas Fuchs. We Dance And Find Each : Effects Of Dance/Movement Therapy On Negative Symptoms In Autism Spectrum  Sciences (2076-328X) vol. 6, no. 4, 10 November 2016, pp. 1-17. Academic Search Premier . DOI:10.3390/bs6040024. Accessed 5 February 2017 This article presents the deficits of Theory of Mind in Autism Spectrum Disorder and schizophrenia. The development of social cognitive is based on and This article depicts Autism Spectrum Disorder symptoms as a lack in verbal communication, interest in small objects and how they move, and also lack of motivation. Our minds stimulate our body movement and our thoughts creatively control the way our body moves. But to ASD patients the connections between brain and body gets interrupted, leading to distraction. An embodied approach to Autism Spectrum Disorder would be intertwining the influence of the mind to the body and the influence of the body to the mind. Dance Movement Therapy the role of motor movement and sensorimotor experience for mental states and as a medium for therapeutic (Hildebrandt 3). But this article stresses that mirroring and memorizing movement dig deep into the connectivity and motor skills to fully help the ASD patient. The author takes a further step and includes the process of getting the research study going. He depicts the study design, the recruitment procedure, the intervention, the clinical assessment, the sample, the missing data, the analysis, and then the results. To sum it up, he uses his sample to see the effectiveness and in-depth procedure of Dance Movement Therapy among subjects. At the end he proves his theory that the sample is too small due to some drop-outs but Dance Movement Therapy does reduce the negative effects of Autism in most of the subjects. Malin Hildebrandt, Sabine C. Koch, and Thomas Fuchs are professors at the in Germany. All the authors have a Bachelor of Science Psychology. Thomas is a Professor for Philosophical Foundations of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy and has and M.D. and a Ph.D. This article refers back to my topic by putting Dance Movement Therapy to the test through a sample and a research experiment. This article comes from the journal called Spectrum Disorder 2016 and the whole journal challenges and researches further known ideas and theories of Autism Spectrum Disorder which allows for the evolvement of finding more psychotherapies. Martin, Mary. Moving On The Spectrum: Dance/Movement Therapy As A Potential Early Intervention Tool For Children With Autism Spectrum  Arts In Psychotherapy vol. 41, no. 5, 2014, pp. 545-553. . Accessed 29 January 2017. This article digs into the mechanics behind dance movement therapy. Dance movement therapy was brought up to allow children with autism spectrum disorder to communicate in a way easier since it is not verbal. Children first learn to communicate nonverbally therefore taking a chance at using movement such as synchronization, rhythm, and mirroring allows doctors to diagnose a child with autism. interventions have the potential to provide a pathway to the integration of the motor and social/communicative functions that are affected in children with (Mary 349). This article goes through four phases which envision the actions of a dance movement therapist and how they approach the situation of a child with autism spectrum disorder. Phase one explains the way a therapist tries to establish a common ground and boundaries with the child. Phase two is described when the therapist connects with the child and encourages the child to try the movement. Phase three is a more advanced step which allows the child to develop body awareness and motor coordination. The last phase, phase four, takes the movement into more extremities, such as driving the child to use timing and rhythm. Those four phases allow for the success of this experimental therapy. The author is Mason Martin, a therapeutic instructor at SPECTRA Autism Center. Martin has a Bachelor of Arts in Dance from Oklahoma City University and a Master of Arts, and Somatic Counseling Psychology/Dance Movement Therapy from Naropa University. She also is a dance instructor at Bella Danze Artz, Mountain Kids, and Creative Dance Kids. Mary has also been an instructor for the Special Olympics Gymnastics. This source ties back to my research question because it highlights the main topic of what a session looks like for a child with autism and the early diagnosis of children with autism. This article is a part of a journal called Arts in Psychotherapy which initially explains how creative art therapies affect people and incorporates different opinions and research. Scharoun, Sara, et al. Dance/Movement Therapy As An Intervention For Children With Autism Spectrum  Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 36, no. 2, 2014, pp. 209-228. Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text . DOI:10.1007/s10465-014-9179-0 Accessed 19 February 2017. Scharoun illustrates how Dance Movement Therapy can be a feasible option for Autism Spectrum Disorder but is not the most effective. Autism is a very common diagnosis among children, 1 in 68 children are diagnosed. is a neurodevelopmental disorder that originates in prenatal brain development and continues throughout the (Scharoun 211). Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder are said to have impairments amongst judgement, language, and coordination. The article also states the idea that autistic children are prone to obesity due to their lack of interest in physical activity, which ties back to poor motor function and lack of social interest. Dance therapy is a safe haven for autistic children because it promotes inclusiveness and participation. Body Movement Scale introduced a means for dance/movement therapists to assess children with ASD based on non-verbal communication and body movements, and subsequently used this information to tailor an individual program to the suit developmental (Scharoun 214). This article also provides samples from real case studies of autistic children who were affected by DMT. After the intervention most of the children in the case studies accepted physical contact and developed a body image. Scharoun also implicitly discusses about the future of a new intervention that deals with Theory of Sensory-Motor Development. Although DMT allows for the psychological and physical abilities to evolve, more research among DMT will fulfill the potentials of this therapy. Sara Scharoun has a PhD in developmental psychology and neuropsychology from Nipissing University in Ontario, Canada. She has published 18 articles and has written 4 conference papers. The idea of intervening in a life before being diagnosed is a part of my research project and this article specifies the effects and real-life situations of this therapy. This article also comes from the Dance Therapy Journal which is focused on spreading Dance Movement Therapy and advocating how this therapy has affected certain patients and the outcomes of Dance Movement Therapy as a whole. Vincent, Susan, et al. Collaborating With A Mission: The Rizzo Foundation Spreads The Gift Of Dance/Movement  Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 29, no. 1, 2007, pp. 51-58. Provided Full Text Searching File . DOI:10.1007/s10465-007-9028-5. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. The Andrea Rizzo Foundation was created when a dance therapist died in a car accident. This article illustrates the life of Andrea, a woman who struggled with a neuroblastoma and her impact on dance therapy. Andrea personally experienced how dance therapy allowed her to regain some motor control and coordination. Andrea aspired to help children with special needs by using dance therapy, since she had been saved that way. The founders incorporate this program with the, widely-known, Ronald McDonald House to try and make a kid-friendly environment. The program creates a space where kids with cancer or special needs can express themselves and regain the social aspect of not living in the hospital. It is explained how this program induces in group projects in public schools to on-on-one sessions with hospital patients. The authors also inscript a detailed illustration of how a dance therapy session would go. Children with autism spectrum disorder have a harder time communicating; therefore this program allows for those children to engage with the in a nonverbal way, and shows children how to communicate in a more physical way. This is one successful foundation that ties back to the how dance therapy affects kids with autism. This foundation inputted a program at the Sloan-Kettlering Cancer Center. Dance therapy programs have been in some Northeast public schools also. The authors include Rizzo Tortora, Jocelyn Shaw, Jean Basiner, Christina Devereaux, Sharon Mulcahy, Mary Cartales Ponsini. This source ties into my topic because it emphasizes an actual foundation that is helping kids by using this dance therapy. This article is one of many articles all incorporated into the Journal of Dance Therapy which is created by the American Dance Therapy Association to research and analyze the newest findings of dance therapy and examine reports and case-studies of dance therapy in action.