Al Ibrahim 1 Ammar Al Ibrahim John Williams ENC1102 29 January 2017 The Effects of Social Media in Middle East Social media has taken a main role in daily socializing and communicating life. rare to find person who is not a registered user on any form of social media platforms (SMP). Years ago, most people used to use social media for a few purposes and the main one was communicating. After social media has taken over the world, people started to use social media for aims that differ from purely socializing. For example, businesses and organizations began to advertise using several different forms of SMP, and have shown success in recent years. WhatsApp is one of those platforms that became popular in the all world especially in Middle East. The majority of people in Middle East prefer WhatsApp to other chat apps for many different reasons. Middle Eastern Medical- Services Organization (MEMO) believes that people should limit their usage hours of social media because it causes many side effects for eye tissue, while WhatsApp company itself warn people about what doctors is saying. To integrate both organizations positions, using special screens would be a great solution for those who use devises for long hours. MEMO is a profit organization that offers a healthcare across many Middle Eastern countries. The main goal of this organization is helping people to stay healthy for long years by advising and taking care of them. This organization states that most adults in Middle East are unaware of the danger light devices that cause several issues for eye Al Ibrahim 1 especially while using them in darkness. It also believes a large percent of people care enough about eye issues because eyes usually get affected in long-term. People often get sight problems and feel those issues once they get around 40 years. MEMO has done a survey in order to prove the idea of long-term. The survey has concluded that around 68% of people in the Middle East start to wear glasses at age of 40 and above. According to MEMO 34% of adults are unaware of the potential dangers of blue light emitted from light-emitting diode (LED) and compact fluorescent light (CFL) to (Smick, Kirk 32). It states that every parent should take this as a serious issue and aware kids because large percent of kids spend many hours on using those devices, which bring harmful lights. Most of its members suggest, need to be more educated about the effects of dangers of harmful light on (Smick, Kirk 33). WhatsApp is an investment company that cares about its profits and getting more and more customers. It has many characteristics such as sharing document, phone contacts, voice notes, photos and videos, and location. The most thing people in Middle East like on this app is the ability of creating groups that can have more than fifty members. While normal phone messages are not free in most Middle Eastern countries, WhatsApp provides all these free facilities in very new model. Also, it provides free video and audio calls with a high quality service. A study that has been done at Imam Muhammad Bin Saud Islamic University in Saudi Arabia found WhatsApp is the most common app that students use to socialize, most app that students spend time on and most app text through. The same study concluded that, of students use WhatsApp application more than 20 times a Msfarah 80). Also it found, the Al Ibrahim 1 majority of students see WhatsApp can fit all ages not for adult only and it found 31% of the teachers at that university prefer whatsApp than other chat apps. WhatsApp and MEMO can be integrated their positions. MEMO worries about the harmful digital lights that come from devises especially with the increasing of social media users. WhataApp cares more about its profits and success. There are screens that reduce the amount of light-emitting diode (LED) and compact fluorescent light (CFL) that come from digital devices to not hurt the eye tissue. Since people spend a lot of hours on devices such as laptops and phones, these screens would be helpful to reduce the harmful because receive big amount of those harmful lights are dangerous for eyes and keep receiving them for long time could lack the eye vision gradually. So, those screens are very great solution for both organizations because it will reduce the danger of digital lights, so people will not be worried. These social media have become a main part of our daily life and none of us can spend a day without using any type of social media. SMP takes a lot of time from people and it becomes hard to find person who use any type of social media. Ideas about social media have changed and most people around the world became use social media for many different goals such as studying, marketing, and even working. These ideas have increased the hours that people spend on their devices, which could be not really good for eyes and brains. WhatsApp is a platform that gets popular in Middle East and makes people get addicted to. Using safety screens would be best solution for those who become very addicted to social media in order to integrate both organizations positions. Al Ibrahim 1 Work cited Jordan Journal Of Social Sciences 9.1 (2016): 75-92. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. L. J. Current status of the digital micromirror device (DMD) for projection television Proceedings of IEEE International Electron Devices Meeting, Washington, DC, USA, 1993, pp. 381-384.doi: 10.1109/IEDM.1993.347329 Middle Eastern Medical-Service Organization  Welcome to MEMO - Middle Eastern Medical-Service Organization (MEMO). N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Smick, Kirk. How To Educate Patients About The Dangers Of HARMFUL  Review Of Optometry 152.3 (2015): 32-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  WhatsApp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.