Al Moosawi 1 Majid Al Moosawi Prof. John Williams ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Morality vs Necessity: The promise of Compromise The use of tobacco is one of the worst and harmful behaviors that humans have developed. Due to the increased numbers of tobacco companies and their efforts to increase their sales, people have also increased their desire in smoking tobacco. In efforts to increase sales further, tobacco companies have recently begun marketing new electronic cigarettes. Electronic cigarettes are battery-powered devices which contain liquid nicotine, which is an addictive substance. This new device is marketed to be perceived as a cigarette that will assist tobacco users quit smoking, which appeals to smokers who struggle with smoking cessation for their health. Discrepancies in opinions between tobacco manufacturers and tobacco researchers have escalated in most companies. Incompatible goals between those concerned with profit and those concerned with health lead to the need to create alternative company objectives that favor all involved parties in order to minimize the level of conflicts. This can be achieved by implementing common programs or activities as an attempt of achieving common (personal and organizational) targets. In this study, we aim to analyze the stalemate between stakeholders in the cigarette firms pertaining e-cigarette and identify the company goals that could appeal to both parties. Al Moosawi 2 In this case, manufacturers and researchers differ in opinion regarding the use of electronic cigarette. While electronic cigarette manufacturing companies continue to market the e-cig as a safer and healthier alternative to regular cigarettes, research teams among have found reason to believe that the health advantages of the device have been exaggerated. Although there is increased stalemate about electronic cigarettes, the fact that substituting regular cigarettes with electronic ones does more good than bad cannot be ignored. There are many health advantages regarding the use of electronic cigarettes as compared to traditional tobacco smoking. In electronic cigarette, nicotine is usually delivered through vaporization and not through burning (which leads to inhaling toxic substances and smoke). In an electronic cigarette, the liquid nicotine is usually heated in an atomizer and evaporates. Through the inhalation of these vapors, the smokers receive nicotine. This liquid usually contains substances such as glycerol, glycol, propanediol, propylene glycerol among others (Farsalinos). These components are not undamaging, but not as harmful as the components contained in tobacco. Another advantage of electronic cigarettes is that the nicotine content is variable depending on what liquid you use. Because of this, a heavy smoker would be able quit his or her addiction by using less and less nicotine over time. Ideally, these smokers would eventually reach the point where they could use liquid with a minimal nicotine content, or none at all. A study revealed that 50% of the smokers who wanted to quit smoking reduced their cigarette consumption without withdrawal syndrome with the use of a nicotine inhaler, which operates identically to an electronic cigarette, noting stable levels of nicotine in their blood rather than increases (Trtchounian). Al Moosawi 3 However, despite electronic cigarette possessing some advantages, there is no direct evidence to prove that electronic cigarette actually assist in quitting nicotine consumption. In addition, the American Lung Association does not support the use of electronic cigarettes, as there are numerous health concerns to consider. Researchers argue that electronic cigarette companies will only market products with harmful effects due to a lack of regulation and their focus on making huge profits rather than caring for the health of their consumers. Additionally, nicotine remains addictive regardless of whether it is being vaporized or smoked, and due to the perception that e-cigarettes have fewer health risks, their rate of use might increase among smokers. Along with the false perception that e-cigarettes are a perfectly safe alternative, e-cigarette firms use marketing strategies that are aimed towards younger people, meaning that the health problems associated with their use could extend to the youth population. Researchers have found that electronic cigarettes have led to acute pulmonary effects as soon as five minutes after use, and as much as it reduces smoking desire, side effect can include increased impendence and oxidative stress on the lungs (Rasmussen). The Food and Drug Administration acknowledges that e-cigarettes contain substances that are harmful to human body, and for this reason, as well as those listed above, the FDA has been interested extending their oversight to the e-cigarette market to ensure that consumers receive standardly regulated products. Al Moosawi 4 These two stakeholders, the research team and the marketing team, had ought to come into agreement so as to improve the production and the quality of the product. The marketing team must be ready to advertise nicotine more accurately so as not to compromise health of individuals, and the researchers must consider maximizing the profits of the firm. Researches must concede in that, while still potentially harmful, electronic cigarette have led to reduced exposure to toxic substances, and are widely accepted as the best substitute for regular tobacco use. They must also realize that, because of the major shift from smoke to vapor, companies must market the e-cigarette as healthier in order to retain customers. This significant change in smoking method may reduce the market once they transform their focus from tobacco to electronic cigarette. They may loose a lot of customers because of this, and require a long period of time to recover the lost business (Palazzolo). However, researchers should not be made to focus on the advantages of electronic cigarettes, but rather they should continue to investigate the adverse effects of their use, especially those that are long-term. All the while, due to health concerns and a foreseeable increase in regulations on tobacco industries, marketing teams should not simply focus on what is most profitable to them and should consider the long term effects on their health. A stalemate partially created by one lack of morality is not one that can be easily justified. Researchers are not trying to benefit themselves, but are keeping in mind the health of the current generation and those to come. The primary goals of marketing teams is to Al Moosawi 5 maximize the profits of their company to benefit themselves, regardless of the means used to do so. That being said, marketing teams clearly understand that it can be very difficult to introduce a new and different product like e-cigarettes to the market. Flexibility from one product to another has historically been a major ordeal in the tobacco businesses, and not entirely dishonest to advertise the health benefits of electronic cigarettes, as nicotine alone has been proven to produce fewer side-effects than regular tobacco (Palazzolo). Both research crews and the marketing teams will need to compromise in order to work together so as to improve the brand. A perfect settlement is impossible considering the incompatibility of each goals, but each of the involved parties should be prepared to make efforts to reach a middle ground. The electronic cigarette firms should be honest and upfront concerning the ingredients that they use and the dangers that those ingredients pose so that smokers are fully aware of what they are consuming. health should be a main concern for any industry as hazardous as the tobacco industry. The research team should continue their research, but begin to focus on the long-term effects of e-cigarette use as well. In addition, they should recognize that most of their customers are aware of the dangers of tobacco and nicotine, and yet still chose to use them anyways. Consumers should be informed, but not influenced in their decision to use electronic cigarettes or not. This course of action will not perfectly meet the desires of either group, but it will still bring benefits to the welfare of both the community and the firm. They both want to focus on the maximization of the profit as well as better health for their community. It would be impossible to both maximize profits and maximize Al Moosawi 6 health, as both goals would be at opposite ends in the tobacco industry. In the end, however, the compromise will ensure that electronic cigarette sales become more ethical in terms of honesty about their contents, while still allowing the ability to market its advantages. This is an issue that will never be resolved until a perfectly healthy alternative to tobacco is discovered, but in the meantime, this should prove to be a decent solution for a product that itself reduces the dangers of smoking. Al Moosawi 7 Works cited Farsalinos, Konstantinos E., and Riccardo Polosa. Safety Evaluation and Risk Assessment of Electronic Cigarettes as Tobacco Cigarette Substitutes: A Systematic  Therapeutic Advances in Drug Safety. SAGE Publications, 5 Apr. 2014. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4110871/>. Palazzolo, Dominic L. Electronic Cigarettes and Vaping: A New Challenge in Clinical Medicine and Public Health. A Literature  Frontiers in Public Health. Frontiers Media S.A., 18 Nov. 2013. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3859972/>. Caponnetto, Pasqualle, Ricardo Polosa, Cristina Russo, Carmelo Leotta, and Davide Campagna. Successful Smoking Cessation with Electronic Cigarettes in Smokers with a Documented History of Recurring Relapses: A Case  Journal of Medical Case Reports. BioMed Central, 20 Dec. 2011. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. <http://jmedicalcasereports.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1752-1947-5- 585>. Fagerstrom, Karl O., John R. Hughes, Thomas Rasmussen, and Peter W. Callas. Randomised Trial Investigating Effect of a Novel Nicotine Delivery Device (Eclipse) and a Nicotine Oral Inhaler on Smoking Behaviour, Nicotine and Carbon Monoxide Exposure, and Motivation to Quit Tobacco  Tobacco Control. Smokers Information Center and Fagerstrom Consulting, 2 May 2000. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. <http://tobaccocontrol.bmj.com/content/9/3/327.full?cited- by=yesl9%2F3%2F327>. Trtchounian, Anna, and Prue Talbot. Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems: Is There a Need for Regulation? Tobacco Tobaccocontrol.bmj.com. Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, University of California, Riverside, California, USA, N.d., 7 Dec. 2010. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. <http://tobaccocontrol.bmj.com/content/early/2010/10/22/tc.2010.037259.abstract >.