Kellman 1 Abraham Kellman ENC 1102.003 Dennis 19 Feburary 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: Dignified death or Homicide? Brittany was a regular 29-year-old women; she had a home, a husband and a life until New 2014. After months of suffering from terrible headaches, Brittany went to a doctor and was diagnosed with brain cancer. She went through one surgery to remove her tumor, but it came back with a vengeance and the doctors gave her a prognosis of six months to live. She researched extensively for options to treat this cancer, but the only options that came up had side effects that would drastically reduce the quality of her life. Brittany even looked into hospice care, where she could live out the rest of her days; but, due to her cancers severity, she could have pain that would be resistant to even the strongest pain medications (Maynard 1). Brittany is like many terminally ill people in America and across the world; however, only 18 countries Figure 1 This is the most recent map from 2015 (Robinson 1). Kellman 2 (Figure1) in the world have legalized physician assisted suicide (Wikipedia 4). Due to the lack of access to this practice, organizations like Death with Dignity (DWD) were created. DWD believes that terminally ill people have the right to choose PAS because it minimizes suffering and expense. On the other hand, groups like Care not Killing, oppose physician assisted suicide due to the fact it infringes on rights and devalue human life. To satisfy the objectives of both groups, physician assisted suicide (PAS) should be performed only by doctors licensed to do so, and the act itself should be put in the patients hands who have gone through thorough psychiatric tests from a third party. According to the Education in Palliative and End-Of-Life Care for Oncology assisted (PAS) is defined as the act of a physician in providing the means for a patient to hasten his or her (6). This idea of legally killing oneself with the aid of a doctor or other qualified medical professional has led to a lot of controversy in the past two decades. The main argument against PAS is that good palliative or hospice care options are available and the stress of purposefully taking a life for a physician could be debilitating (Wilson 317). However, just as there is opposition there is support for the legalization of PAS, and this is where charities and organizations like DWD come into notability. DWD is a national charity organization with a main goal of allowing the freedom of all eligible terminally ill patients to decide how and when they choose to die. It also is in agreement with the majority of America, approximately 68 % Kellman 3 currently (Figure 2). It has a yearly budget of about $600,000 and, because it is a public charity, anybody in the USA can be a member (DWD). Dr. Keith Wilson is an associate professor and psychologist at the University of Ottawa (uOttawa). He conducted a study of 379 patients who were given six months or less to live. When asked whether they support PAS, euthanasia, both, or neither, approximately 63% of the participants supported one or both. About 26% believed neither should be legalized (Wilson 316). Their concerns are represented by groups like Care Not Killing. This organizations goals are to protect the doctors who do not believe in PAS, promote and better palliative care over PAS or euthanasia at all, and to ensure that the lives of the people who are really being considered at their full value. This organization brings together disability and human rights groups, health organizations and religious groups from around the world (Care not Killing). Figure 2 (Dugan 1) Kellman 4 These organizations are at complete odds on this very controversial topic, and in order to reach a middle ground a compromise must be proposed. Firstly, the act of physician assisted suicide must be legalized and allowed, however restrictions for who are allowed to perform and participate in the act would be enacted. Doctors who would like to be a part of the process must go through a vigorous ethics course especially designed for PAS and be tested upon conclusion, all in hopes of receiving a license that would allow them to actually prescribe the drug. Then the people who are considered eligible for this prescription must be legal, terminally ill with six months or less to live, and able to administer the drug. Lastly, only if the person decides to actually perform the act they must go to a licensed location turn in the prescription and take the drug within a private and locked location. Brittany was out of ideas and was getting very worried. Then as a last resort she looked into PAS and found what she was looking for. However, to actually use PAS she had to uplift her whole life and move to Oregon, where (PAS) was legal and live out her days until her suffering became too great. As of November 2014 Brittany passed away peacefully and without pain or overwhelming medical bills. This is the type of story and person that inspires and rives DWD to support PAS for all terminally ill patients (Maynard 1). However, Care Not Killing does have its own reasons for opposing PAS and in order to satisfy both of them a compromise was proposed. Proposed compromise was to legalize PAS for only mentally stable terminally ill patients and certified medical professionals are the only ones permitted to prescribe and host patients. Kellman 5 Work cited Dugan, Andrew. In U.S., Support Up for Doctor-Assisted  Gallup.com. Gallup.com, 27 May 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Education In Palliative And End-Of-Life Care For Oncology. National Cancer Institute, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Keith G.  Keith G. Wilson Brain and Mind Research Institute University of Ottawa. University of Ottawa, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Promoting Care, Opposing  About Us - Care NOT Killing - Promoting Care, Opposing Euthanasia - Care Not Killing. Care Not Kiling, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Robinson, Holly. Physician Assisted Suicide: A New Global Trend, or a Far Stretch for  Yale Global Health Review. N.p., 21 Sept. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Wilson, Keith G., et al. Desire For Euthanasia Or Physician-Assisted Suicide In Palliative Cancer  Health Psychology 3 (2007): 314. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.