Doran 1 Grace Doran Alison Missler ENC1102 February 14, 2017 Project 1 Final Draft College housing has changed drastically over the years. Before World War II, the majority of Universities were occupied by males only. Yet after the war, there was a large increase in female enrollment. Due to the social norms of the time, women were not allowed in male dorm rooms under any circumstances, and genders often lived in separate buildings on opposite sides of campus (Willoughby et al. 732). As the United States culture has developed, it has become normal for men and women to live in close quarters with each other. In most Universities, current policies allow both genders to live in the same building in rooms on the same floor. However, these policies do not allow for men and women to live in the same room. Some Universities are beginning to implement gender neutral rooms, yet most of these schools are concentrated in the Northeast, with none in the South. Organizations such as the Florida Collegiate Pride Coalition advocate for LGBT students, and are determined to implement gender neutral rooms in Universities throughout Florida (floridacollegiatepride.org). Yet conservative campus organizations such as Campus Crusade for Christ (Cru) do not approve of coed rooms as it goes against their beliefs (cru.org). In order to solve this issue, it would be a reasonable solution to implement gender neutral floors in Florida Universities. This method has worked for other Universities such as Duke, so there is evidence that it would be effective in Florida as well. Doran 2 Throughout the United States, there are hundreds of organizations that advocate for LGBT rights. In the state of Florida, FCPC was founded in 2003 at an activist conference held at the University of Central Florida. The organization works to bring different LGBT social groups together while encouraging Universities across the state to form a positive learning environment for LGBT students. One of the main issues that the organization focuses on is campus housing. As mentioned in Brett article from the of Gay and Lesbian Issues in Education, most Universities assign roommates of the same gender based on the gender at birth (78). From the perspective of FCPC, this housing arrangement makes it uncomfortable for homosexual students and students that no longer associate themselves with their birth gender. Additionally, the organization presses that this method of assigning housing is outdated and promotes a social norm that is no longer relevant in this modern era. Thus, FCPC proposes that Universities change their housing policies to make housing across the campus gender neutral. They also want Universities to at least offer LGBT students the option of having a single room for the same price of living with a roommate in order to properly address their needs. Other organizations such as Cru do not encourage Universities to change their housing policies. Rather, they do the opposite by suggesting the Universities keep their housing policies the way they are currently. As part of their evangelical Christian beliefs, Cru does not support males and females living together prior to marriage, so they are against gender neutral housing. Unlike the FCPC, housing preferences stem from their religious beliefs. As Christians, Cru does not support men and women living together before marriage as it can lead to sin. Gender neutral housing can cause other complications as well. A study conducted in 2012 surveyed 100 Universities across the United States, and found that only 16 out of those 100 offered gender Doran 3 neutral housing (Willoughby et al. 734). The article from which the survey results were published suggests that so few Universities have this housing option due to the increase in risky behavior by students in coed dorms (Willoughby et al. 735). Although coed housing has been proven to increase social skills, it also increases the likelihood of students drinking alcohol or being sexually active. For these reasons amongst others, Cru does not advocate for coed dorms. To further explain the conflict between FCPC and Cru, one must look at the religious aspects of the situation. From a conservative Christian standpoint, Cru is against men and women living together before marriage as well as homosexuality. FCPC is fighting for both of these causes. As advocates for LGBT students, FCPC views organizations such as Cru as hateful and ignorant. This comes from the misbelief that Christians despise homosexuals (Streza 427). Historically, Christianity has been somewhat intolerant of homosexuality and other sins. This fact alone tends to sway LGBT groups to resent Christianity (Streza 428). Essentially, the situation is made more difficult because each organization is not only against the stance on college housing, but on what the organization represents in general. In order for both parties to reach a compromise on the issue of on campus housing, it is critical that they set aside any preconceived notions they may have about the opposing side. Especially in this situation, preconceived notions are going to be the factor preventing a fair resolution. FCPC may immediately believe that Cru is going to be hateful of their cause because they are an LGBT organization. On the other hand, Cru may believe FCPC will not listen to their views because they are an evangelical organization. Yet not all evangelical groups disapprove of homosexuality, and being an LGBT citizen does automatically make one a non Christian. If both Doran 4 parties can acknowledge this middle ground, reaching a proper compromise becomes less challenging. A fair compromise to the issue of gender neutral housing would be Universities modifying their policies to allow this housing arrangement in some sectors of campus, but not entirely.The most practical method may be to set aside a gender neutral floor in every dormitory. Discernibly, both sides of the issue will have to sacrifice some of their preferences. For FCPC, they are not fully achieving their goal of making dormitories one hundred percent gender neutral. At the same time, Cru is not going to be able to withhold this new policy from being executed. With this procedure, students who prefer coed rooms will be able to have their desired arrangement without disturbing those who do not approve. This solution will satisfy the desires of FCPC as well as Cru by accommodating LGBT students without forcing the arrangement upon those who are comfortable with current housing policies. An article by Duke Sunny Frothingham supports this compromise by claiming that updated housing policies are necessary to meet the needs of all students (35). Beginning by designating gender neutral floors rather than rearranging an entire dormitory will be the most effective way of putting coed dorm rooms into practice in the state of Florida, as demonstrated by newest policies. Implementing gender neutral rooms in Florida Universities would be a large affirmation of the changing social norms in the United States. Years ago, it would have been unheard of for men and women to attend the same University, let alone share the same dorm room. Now, it is common for people of different genders to live in the same building on campuses. Allowing men and women to live in the same room would be the next step in our progression toward male and female equality, as well as LGBT accommodation. Based on current housing policies from Doran 5 Universities such as Duke, it is apparent that designating gender neutral floors would be the most suitable method for Florida Universities to offer coed dorm rooms while respecting the wishes of those who are against the arrangement. After all, Universities are institutions that are responsible for fostering the growth of young adults, and must thus accommodate a wide array of needs. No matter how one feels about this issue, it is clear that the evolving housing methods of Universities is reflective of the social climate within the United States. Doran 6 Works Cited Beemyn, Brett Genny. Making campuses more inclusive of transgender  of Gay & Lesbian Issues in Education 3.1 (2005): 77-87.  Cru.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Frothingham, Sunny. The Dormitories are Burning: Gender-Neutral Housing and Critical Trans* Politics in the Contemporary  (2014). Streza, Ciprian Ioan. Sexuality and its Deviations in the Post-Modern  (2016): 423-432. is Florida Collegiate Pride FCPC. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Willoughby, Brian J., Jeffrey K. Larsen, and Jason S. Carroll. The emergence of gender-neutral housing on American university  of Adolescent Research 27.6 (2012): 732-750.