Ghofran khoj John Williams ENC 1102 February14, 17 Homeless rights. According to Sara Chaganti are currently 610,000 homeless people in the United States and 7.7 million Americans at risk of becoming homelessness due to economic (Chaganti,1). Homelessness is called for people who do not have a home, but do we know what they feel? Do we know what they need? Homelessness has been an issue for a long time and many people have tried to solve this problem. People started to bring some solutions like shelters and going to these shelters to give them food. It is not bad solutions. It helps them just for a short amount of time and then they become worst and no home again. Even with these two solutions the homelessness rate still increase. The two kinds of People who can help to stop homelessness are businesses and organizations; on the other hand, these people have a big conflict between them. So they have to get together first and then they should help to stop the homelessness. Both of them want to stop homelessness but in their own ways. The question is, are they helping to stop homelessness or are they doing it just because they want to take benefit of it? The businesses believe that keeping homeless people away from them is the good solution and the organizations are helping them for just a period of time. Both groups have the same goal: to stop homelessness, which will decrease the number of homeless people. To solve this problem, they have to find solutions that satisfy both of them. There are lots of organizations are helping homeless. There are normal organizations that take money from businesses and then they help homeless. The other organization is a religious organization. There is an organization named Memphis organization. It is offered that sign up for the program will be asked to  a homeless family or individual and provide mentors to help transition them to permanent (Memphis,1). There is also some of the churches do shelters that just for one day. Homeless people have to be in a line for three hours to have a bed to sleep in it. Homeless people have to stay just one night and then they have to come in the next day and do the same process. The others that did not allow for them to sleep there, they will sleep in the street until the next day. Robert Hess It is not enough to simply take homeless people off the streets and hide them. The real solution is to address the reasons why they become homeless in the first If there are a children or kids with them, these shelters are not going to be helpful or healthy at all because many people sleep in the same bed. The children are going to go to many shelters and they will not have their own friends and society. This is going to harm both kids and adult. Some of the religious groups are doing the shelters just because they want to take the satisfaction from god, so because of their own benefit. The other group is the businesses. Some businesses want to stop homelessness on their own way and their own benefit. Many businesses live in the downtown, so they want to remove the homeless from there. They did an organization called NIMBY (not in my back yard). They give money to this organization to remove the homeless from the downtown. It is racism and selfishness. Then they show off as they are helping to stop the Homelessness. They want to just make the downtown or the place where they live, clear from homeless. Some organization cooperates with some businesses and theses businesses are helping the homeless people for a period of time and then they sent them back with no improvements and nothing that help them. For example, businesses give homeless people houses in very poor place and they live there for a period of time and then they sent them back to the street if they do not have money to pay the rent. The businesses and the organizations have the same goals. They all want to stop homelessness. They could do a company that employs homeless people. In this way, they are going to help them to get money and do the work for them. Businesses have to know where to put their money. There are some organizations pretend to give the money to homeless people, but actually, they take the money for themselves. So giving the money for trust organization and deal with them. Religious people do not like other organizations because they believe that they are taking the money for themselves, which is true for some of them. Religious groups and Organizations could solve the problem by making the Religions groups give money to the organizations to help the homeless. Organizations could give half of the money for the homeless and the religious groups could make events that make homeless like this religion like Muslims and Christians. This is the solution for Religious people to take the satisfaction and help the homeless people at the same time. They can do houses, community or a short-term rental subsidy use of short-term rental subsidy vouchers offers a new approach to addressing the housing needs of families facing (Mohan) for them, on the other hand, these homeless can help them by working in their company, in the church or mosque. There is another solution for these two groups could do. They could help homeless in their health. Give money for an organization that helps them in their health. James J mention, provides integrated medical, behavioral, and oral health care, as well as preventive services, to more than 11 000 homeless people. Services are delivered in clinics located in 2 teaching hospitals, 80 shelters and soup kitchens, and an innovative 104-bed medical respite James J, 3). Giving more money for this program is going to provide more help for homeless people in their health. In concluding, when someone wants to help other people, He or She has to do it for homeless not for taking benefit from it to them selves. Businesses can help stop homelessness by seeing what they need and then cooperate with the organizations to help them do it. They could do a very good job to help homeless and see what they need. Helping homeless live in a home and have a better life is going to be beneficial for homeless people first and then without taking their right, they will benefit other and all of them will be satisfied. Work cites Hess, Robert V. Helping People Off The Streets: Real Solutions To Urban  USA Today Magazine 128.2656 (2000): 18. Academic Search Premier. Web. 6 Oct. 2016. Memphis, Shelby County seek help for homeless from religious organizations.  Commercial Appeal (Memphis, TN) 2012: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mohan, Erica, and Carolyn M. Shields. The Voices Behind The Numbers: Understanding The Experiences Of Homeless  Critical Questions In Education 5.3 (2014): 189. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Oct. 2016. Meschede, Tatjana, and Sara Chaganti. Home For Now: A Mixed-Methods Evaluation Of A Short-Term Housing Support Program For Homeless  Evaluation And Program Planning 52.(2015): 85-95. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Oct. 2016. James J., et al. The Boston Health Care For The Homeless Program: A Public Health  American Journal Of Public Health 100.8 (2010): 1400-1408. Business Source Premier. Web. 9 Oct. 2016.