Hernandez 1 Juan Hernandez Alison Missler ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Ban Together to Compromise The fact that everyone needs blood to live is an obvious one, which is why it makes sense that there are blood banks and clinics where people are able to donate blood in order to assist those who are in need of it. Despite blood being a vital resource that is always needed by hospitals, there is an entire group of people banned from donating blood because of a generalization. In 1985 the Food and Drug Administration essentially implemented a permanent ban on, men who have sex with men (MSM), from donating blood because of the AIDS epidemic. The FDA feared the blood supply would be contaminated if MSM donated blood; however, in December of 2015, the ban was altered so that MSM are able to donate blood if they have not had sex with a man within a 12-month period. This change is a step in the right direction, but some in the gay community, like the Gay Health Crisis (GMHC), argue that this is still discriminatory and it is not enough; ultimately, they want the ban to be lifted completely. The best solution to this conflict between these two parties is if they compromise, and allow MSM to donate blood in a more reasonable time period while also keeping precautions in place stop the contamination of the blood supply. The FDA is a federal organization that was created to help protect public health from potential harmful substances. The Food and Drug Administration oversees the regulation of food, medical supplies, cosmetics, and tobacco products, etc. Blood and blood related products also fall under the large umbrella of authority, which is why they were the ones who Hernandez 2 implemented the blood ban. The reason behind the indefinite ban was to help prevent HIV/AIDS from spreading via blood donations from those who are at high risk of having it. There is still a MSM ban today because according to the website gay men are still more susceptible and have higher rates of HIV than other groups in the United States (HIV Among but the seems to understand what the gay community has been saying. In December of 2015 the FDA decide to change the life time ban into a ban of a 12-month period; they settled for a 12 month ban period because Australia has had a similar ban time since the year 2000, and has not report a drastic increase in contaminated blood since then (Revised Although the FDA now recommends the 12-month ban, according to their website, blood banks and other organizations that are involved in blood are still able to restrict MSM from donating blood; these organizations can have stricter guidelines than what is recommended by the FDA (Blood & Blood Products). Many people and organizations in the gay community, such as the Gay Health Crisis, are opposed to this 12-month ban period on MSM. The GMHC is an organization that is dedicated to fighting HIV/AIDS by helping those diagnosed with HIV/AIDS, and providing resources to public to prevent the spread of the virus. This organization had been around since the HIV/AIDS outbreak back in the 80s, and like many LGBT organizations is advocating for a better solution to the blood ban than the 12-month wait period (About Us). The reason for the removal of the ban is because they believe that is it discriminatory towards the LGBT community; an example they give of this on their website is that a monogamous gay man who practices safe sex is unable to donate blood, whereas a heterosexual male who has not had safe sex would still be able to donate blood (MSM Blood Ban). This ban does not take into account lifestyles or relationships status, and because of this it feels as though the ban Hernandez 3 implies that gay and bisexual men are promiscuous people who do not practice safe sex. Like in many other aspects of life, the LGBT community wants to be treated equally, and they believe this ban does not treat them equally because of their sexual orientation. Both sides understand why the ban was originally put in place back in 1985, but it has been three decades since it was put into place, and now more is known about HIV. During the there was a wide spread epidemic of HIV/AIDS among gay men, so in order to prevent transmission of the disease through the donation and transfusion of blood, a permanent ban on MSM was put into place. At the time this ban made sense since little was known about HIV/AIDS; there was, and still is, no cure for HIV/AIDS; contracting HIV and developing AIDS in the was almost a death sentence because there were few treatment options since so little was known about HIV/AIDS. Over 30 years later there has been some great progress when it comes to the detection, treatment, and prevention of HIV/AIDS; people are more informed about what HIV is and the ways that transmission of the virus can be prevented. In an article from the new England journal of medical science, Rethinking the by Chana A. Sacks, et al., it is stated that the risk of HIV being transmitted through the blood supply is in 1.5 (Chana A. Sacks, et al.). The FDA even states in its recent recommendations for reducing the risk of HIV, that HIV can be detected as early as 9 days after infection through RNA test (Revised Recommendations, pg. 9). The problem with the RNA test is that it is expensive to do. There are other tests which can detect HIV, which involve testing for antibodies, antigens, or both antibodies and antigens, and can either be done through a blood test or from oral fluid. According to the AIDS.gov website these tests are and can have results back in about half an hour depending on how it was done, but they have their own flaws; one being the time between infection and when HIV can be detected, if a test it done during this time it could Hernandez 4 show up as a false-negative when there is HIV; the earliest they can detect HIV is around one month (HIV Test Types). It seems that this window period is why the FDA decided to lower the ban time rather than completely lifting it; they are concerned about the risk, even if it is a small one, of contamination. The FDA has already come up with an idea that could allowed MSM to donate blood within in reasonable time period, and still take in account that window of time when HIV cannot be detected; pre-testing those who are at high risk of HIV before they give blood. The reason the FDA has not implemented this idea is because they believe it would be a to (Revised Pg.9), by this they mean that people would be discouraged from donating blood if they had to go through a lengthy and complicated process. In order to implement this type of system the FDA should team up with GMHC and other volunteer organizations to keep their blood donation system simple enough to allow for pre-testing before the donation of blood; the GMHC could assist with this new system by helping keep record of people who have come in for a pre-test and are currently eligible to donate blood, and by spreading awareness of how this system operates through their website. Though the donation process might be longer, it most likely would not discourage the gay community as they have been fighting for the ability to donate blood. If FDA requires both antibodies and antigens to be tested, the gay community would only have to wait around one month after having sex before getting tested, and a few days of waiting for labs results to donate blood. This compromise will require a lot of effort from both sides in order for it to succeed. Though it may require a lot of effort from both sides, helping the FDA create a system of blood donation in which pre-testing is possible, seems to be the best solution for both sides. MSM would still be screened before donating blood which should minimize the chance of the Hernandez 5 blood supply being contaminated. Although it is still targeting a specific group of people, the wait time will be significantly decreased, allowing MSM to donate blood within a reasonable time period. Hernandez 6 Works cited About  GMHC About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Blood & Blood  Blood & Blood Products. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. HIV Among Gay and Bisexual  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for HIV Test  Welcome to AIDS.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017.Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. MSM Blood  GMHC MSM Blood Ban. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products - Questions and  Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products - Questions and Answers. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products. N.p.: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administration, Dec. 2015. PDF. Sacks, Chana A.1,2, Robert H.3 Goldstein, and Rochelle P.2,3,4,5 Walensky. Rethinking The Ban - The U.S. Blood Supply And Men Who Have Sex With  New England Journal Of Medicine 376.2 (2017): 174-177. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What We  What We Do. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.