Torres !1 Alexandria Torres Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Deep Water Drilling Compromise In 2010, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill occurred in the Gulf of Mexico. Since the oil spill, ocean drilling has become a controversial topic. Organizations such as World Wildlife Foundation are fighting against companies such as BP, to end deep sea drilling in its entirety. Though WWF would like for ocean drilling to end this is not currently possible, as it is essential to economic growth. Ocean drilling is also used for research, some of this research even shows evidence to help understand global warming. Therefore, by increasing regulations on drill sites, a compromise between WWF and BP can be reached. Firstly, wildlife conservation organizations such as World Wildlife Foundation (WWF), believe that deep sea drilling is causing pollution within the ecosystems. WWF claims and gas operations could release many tons of harmful pollutants into the air and discharge dangerous chemicals into the the World Wildlife Foundation would like for ocean drilling to come to a complete end; though the organization understands that in this current age it is not possible for deep sea drilling to come to an end entirely. WWF also understands that to save the planet people must work together, the Director General of the World Wildlife Foundation states endures as a living discipline because it is inhabited by a magnificent collection of people. Only by working together can we create solutions to the most vexing problems we (WWF). Torres !2 British Petroleum (BP) on the other hand, was the cause of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico. After the spill, BP publicly announced: we made a commitment to help the people of the Gulf Coast recover from the Deepwater Horizon (BP). After the spill occurred BP had an investigation on what exactly caused the spill. After BP found what caused the tragic oil spill the company publicly announced that it was a well integrity failure, which was then followed by the loss of hydrostatic control. BP wrote We regret the impacts on the environment and livelihoods of those in the communities affected. We have, and continue to, put in place measures to help ensure it dos not happen (BP). After the spill, a total of 94,600 claims were paid by British Petroleum. These claims were to people and businesses harmed by the 2010 BP oil says Jennifer Larino a journalist from NOLA (Larino). Over 61 billion dollars was spent on restoration, clean-up, and claims by British Petroleum. Larino claims payments were $5.61 million as of July (Larino) just for business economic loss claims and resident compensation. BP has been apart of the oil drilling frontier since the 1950s, as well as participated in exploring the deepwater of the Gulf in the recent century. Though the company knows it made a mistake and understands that tighter regulations need to be put in place, it also is aware that the economy of the modern world also depends on it. British Petroleum and the World Wildlife Foundation, both understand that while ocean drilling can not entirely end in this current era, that something needs to be done about the effects of ocean drilling towards the environment in backyard. A compromise that benefits both BP and WWF is stricter regulations on deep ocean drilling. These regulations will include Torres !3 the use of Oil Spill Impact Models that were developed by oceanography researchers as well as the new regulations enforced by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. Furthermore, Oil Spill Impact Modeling is the study of how an oil spill will affect the area around it, as well as how the area would recover. One study by a group of researchers from the University of Florida took place after the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill, while another study by an Oceanographer Deborah P. French-McCay took place six years before the British Petroleum oil spill. The researcher from the University of Florida used a model like the one Dr. French-McCay created to help form to understand the damage that was created by the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Dr. French-McCay states vast majority of spill models are used to predict or hindmost the trajectory, weathering, and fate of our spilled on or near the surface of the water, with the purposes of informing spill response, performing contingency planning and evaluating the behavior and mass (McCay). There are two main models that Dr. French-McCay discusses, the Physical Fates Model and Biological Effects Model. The Physical Fates Model focuses on the physical damage done to the environment around the spill, based on the pseudo-components of the oil as well as the sediments around it. While the Biological Effects Model is more based on how the spill could affect the ecosystems around it. By using models like this oil companies could learn what precautions to take based on the area around them and the type of oil the company is drilling for. It has been proved that models like the one Dr. French-McCay wrote, help understand oil spills as the team of researchers proved. The team states thus warns of the enhanced vulnerability of already degraded marshes to heavy oil coverage and provides a clear example of how multiple human-induced stressors can interact to hasten ecosystem (Silliman). Torres !4 Also, regulations that were reformed by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill need to be strictly enforced. The reform as the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) states all facets of the offshore oil and gas program and cover components of its regulatory and overusing responsibilities as well as the promotion of a culture of the safety and investments in the latest scientific safety and (BOEM). The new regulations range from well design, using emerging technology, and improving safety of exploration, to help prevent or lessen the effect of a future spill. BOEM released that they increased the limit of liability or oil-spill related damages from $75 million to approximately $134 million for offshore oil and gas (BOEM). By doing this it encourages for oil companies to improve the safety of their oil rigs so that they do not have to pay even more money for the mistake that they made. In conclusion, by increasing regulations based on the new standards, BOEM released as well as using Spill Impact Models created by scientist the safety and effectiveness of ocean drilling. This will help make a compromise between organizations such as WWF and companies such as BP. WWF will have ocean conservation increase. While BP will still be able to make money as well as further study the ocean through deep sea drilling. Torres !5 Works Cited Horizon accident and  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http:// accident.html>. French-McCay, Deborah . Oil Spill Impact Modeling: Development and validation  (2004): 2441-456. USF Online Library . Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http:// onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1897/03-382/full>. Gulf of Mexico  Bp.com. BP, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. bp-us/commitment-to-the-gulf-of-mexico/gulf-mexico-restoration.html>. Jennifer Larino, NOLA.com The Times-Picayune. BP oil spill: Claims payments reach $5.6  NOLA.com. N.p., 03 Sept. 2015. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Oil and Gas  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http:// www.worldwildlife.org/threats/oil-and-gas-development>. Regulatory  Regulatory Reforms BOEM. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. < https:// www.boem.gov/Regulatory-Reform/>. Reforms Since the Deepwater Horizon Tragedy  BOEM. BOEM, n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <https://www.boem.gov/Reforms-since-the-Deepwater-Horizon-Tragedy/>. Silliman, Brian, Johan Koppel, Michale McCoy, Jessica Diller, Gabriel Kasozi, Kamala Earl, Peter Adams, and Andrew Zimmerman. Degradation and Resilience in Louisiana Salt