Yang 1 LingYi Yang Erika Staiger ENC 1102 2/14/2017 Experiment on Animals With the development of society, animals play increasingly important role in aspects such as scientific research, teaching, production, examination and security assessment. Scientists perform experiments on animals for different purposes and obtain distinct objectives. As a consequence, animal experiment has been given priority in fields regarding modern science and biomedical research. It can be noticed that numerous achievements of medical research projects give credit to animals experiments, without of which, it is not hard to imagine that physiology, pathophysiology, pharmacology could hardly make such astounding achievement. However, animal experiment has been heatedly discussed in recently years. Some organizations or individuals advocate that animal experiment should be prohibited while some others are against it. The Foundation for Biomedical Research and The Anti-Vivisection Coalition are typical organizations which hold different opinions towards animal experiment. However what both organizations compromise on is that animal testing for medical products is understandable and reasonable. And animal testing for medical products should be under control. Located in Washington, DC and as a non-profit organization, the Foundation for Biomedical Research is aimed at improving human as well as veterinary health which is thought to be led to by promoted animal research. Hence, this organization advocates in Yang 2 animal testing and has been dedicated to conveying the idea to a range of groups such as teachers, news media that it is necessary for animal testing in medical and scientific research. On the contrary, the Anti-Vivisection Coalition, located in United Kingdom, is a pressure group which takes action against animal testing. The action taken by it has aroused resonance from the public. The petitions launched by the group were aimed at persuading UK government into stopping funding the animal experiments. They hold the animals should not be tested for any purpose. Instead, they should be released. It appears that the goals of the Foundation for Biomedical Research and the Anti-Vivisection Coalition are incompatible, however both groups share common ground that they all intend to reduce the number of lives to be hurt. Though the Foundation for Biomedical Research and the Anti-Vivisection Coalition perform in almost opposing way, both parties still attempt to make contribution to the world and save more lives including those of human beings and animals. The FBR has witnessed the great achievement and benefit brought by animal experiment and consequently. For example, experiment on monkey is conducive to understanding the structure of some kind of virus like Severe Acute Respiratory Syndromes and thus figuring out Pathological phenomena, which can eventually help save more people. In addition, animal experiment could help human beings understand them deep and thus to protect them better. Besides, experiment on frog enables scientists to figure out the negative impacts of toxic gases in the atmosphere on amphibian. Under certain circumstances, animal experiment could help save lives of human beings who are diagnosed with certain diseases. The Anti-Vivisection Coalition campaigns against animal testing since it holds that Yang 3 animal should also be treated equally as human beings. Animals should be given respect and freedom as well. It would be unethical to kill animals or do experiment on them. The AVC tried to call upon authorities including European Union to forbid animal testing, United Kingdom Government to suspend funding animal experiments, Newcastle University to release animals in 2014. The final objective is to save more animals and to reduce the number of lives on the earth to be hurt though it realized that animal testing for medical products is able to offer the greatest hope of effective treatments for conditions such as cancer, multiple sclerosis, strokes and transplants. The FBR claims animal experiment is needed in the course of social development. While the AVC claims animal experiment should not be encouraged. However a compromise between the two can be reached is that animal testing for medical products could be conducted but need to be under good control. The reason why organizations including the Foundation for Biomedical Research and the Anti-Vivisection Coalition fail to come to a resolution is obvious. Changes taken place will make animals be the preferable choice due to high similarity between them and human subjects to figure out biological responses occurring. Mammals have a common ancestor, which means that our organs, circulatory system, endocrine system and nervous system, and so on in a similar way to run. Mouse DNA and human DNA similarity of up to 98%, chimpanzee is as high as 99%. Animals also suffer from a number of diseases, such as human beings, that are the most common type of insulin to treat diabetes. It may be more comprehensive to conduct experiments on animals rather than on human beings due to potentially dangerous side effects. Therefore, the World Medical Association in 1964 issued Yang 4 the Helsinki , requiring only after the animal test, in order to carry out human trials. These emerging changes and situations may force scientists to continue animal testing. People have to face more complicated situation and thus they are more likely to seek help from animals. Nevertheless, those who are against animal experiment will also hold sympathy for animals and are against animal testing. The Foundation for Biomedical Research and the Anti-Vivisection Coalition should establish common ground that animal testing for medical product could be encouraged but still need to be under control. Impacted by the organizations, countries have taken different actions regarding animal testing for medical product. For instance, Israel banned the import and marketing of cosmetics, toiletries or detergents that were tested on  in 2013. In 2015, New Zealand also banned animal testing. In 2015, Taiwan launched a bill proposing a ban on cosmetic testing on animals. Scientists or other groups of people who may have the right of animal experiment are seeking for alternative to animal testing(Hester, 2006). The FBR along with the AVC should advocate that on special occasions, animal experiments should be conducted and animals should be given sufficient respect. Based on the goals of the Foundation for Biomedical Research and the Anti-Vivisection Coalition and concerns they have, a solution could be feasible to meet goals of both parties and solve their concerns. Animal testing for medical products could be conducted but need to be under good control. This can help reduce number of lives to be hurt which including both human beings and animals(Hajar, 2011). To put it specifically, animal experiment can only be taken after enough consideration has been given. Besides the amount of animal experiment should be well under control and limited during certain periods. Every animal experiment Yang 5 should be recorded well so as to make it easier for organization to surveil. What is more, application form of animal experiment should be submitted first and then whether it can be proceeded or not is subject to the decision to government or local authority. This could well restrain the cruelty of animals and thus remove partial concern of the AVC. In addition, more attention needs to be paid to the process of conducting animal experiments. For example, animals which will be required in the experiment should be given clean and healthy surroundings. If they will remain alive in the whole process, then sufficient food supply such as water should be given to these animals. It means that the biological needs of animals should be met as well. Furthermore, if animal experiments need to be conducted for the purpose of figuring out certain virus to cure lives, organizations and individuals who are concerned need to take actions beneficial to the same species. For instance, they could donate money for these animals to establish more habitats and create welfare for them. In this way, many companions of those experimented animals could have more space and good environment to live for the rest of time. This could also be considered as kind of rewards that human beings granted to animals. In order to prevent improper animal experiment, relevant authorities should also be encouraged to set a series of regulations regarding animal testing to make sure that other organizations or entities can perform accordingly. On the other hand, organizations or individuals who benefit from animal experiments will be obliged and willing to make contribution to those animals as much as they could. On one hand, it seems what the FBR insists is right since essential animal testing for medical products saves lives. However on the other hand it also seems what the AVC claims Yang 6 is right since animal should also be given respect and their life should be cherished as well. Thus based on the current continuing changes, it can be concluded that animal experiment is indispensable. But the animal testing for medical products should be conducted properly and limitedly. This above solution could be workable since it will be easy for organizations and individuals involved to manage it. In the meanwhile, it is reasonable. Yang 7 References https://fbresearch.org/animal-care/ http://www.stopvivisection.org.uk/ Animal testing. (2014). Optometry Today, 54(4), 7. Hajar, R. (2011). Alternative to animal testing. Heart Views : The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association, 12(1), 39-39. doi:10.4103/1995-705X.81551 Hester, R. E., Harrison, R. M., Balls, M., & Royal Society of Chemistry (Great Britain). (2006). Alternatives to animal testing. Cambridge: Royal Society of Chemistry.