Stephenson 1 Kaylie Stephenson Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Animal Captivity Zoos have been around since the thus allowing people to view wild and exotic animals without having to travel the world (MacDonald). However, ever since zoos opened to the public, there has been excessive backlash. Some people and organizations, such as PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) believe it is wrong to remove animals from their native habitat and hold them captive. On the other hand, organizations like WAZA (World Association of Zoos and Aquariums) support and advocate for zoos and believe that zoos are actually an important part in the conservation process. Both PETA and WAZA believe and fight for the well being of all kinds of animals. However, by enforcing stricter regulations to ensure the animals are released to credible animal sanctuaries, both organizations will benefit. PETA will have to accept that animals are still held in captivity, but acknowledge that they will no longer be released irresponsibly or even killed. On the other hand, WAZA will have to change the way they release their animals as well as only support zoos and aquariums who follow these new regulations. PETA is the largest organization in the world that fights for animal rights. They have focused their work on four prevalent issues in the animal world: these include the food industry, the clothing trade, laboratories, and entertainment (PETA). However, they work on other issues as well. PETA fights for their beliefs through various different tactics. A few examples are through public education, cruelty investigations, research, legislation, and protests.They are also Stephenson 2 known for doing and saying what they deem necessary in order for the animal to benefit (PETA). PETA believes that Animals actors, spectacles to imprison or gawk at, or circus clowns. Yet thousands of these animals are forced to perform silly, confusing tricks... many of these animals even pay with their  (PETA). Clearly PETA strongly opposes the idea of animals being used for entertainment, especially in places like zoos and aquariums. PETA would prefer to eliminate of establishments like zoos and aquariums completely. Ultimately, they believe that animals should remain in their natural habitat. WAZA is an organization that supports, guides, and educates zoos and aquariums on how to conduct their business ethically and also teaches zoos on conservation (WAZA). Their mission statement is WAZA is the voice of a global community of high standard, conservation-based zoos and aquariums and a catalyst for their joint conservation action  They believe that by holding and breeding animals through establishments like zoos and aquariums, they are helping to conserve species. Conservation is extremely important, especially to animals who are at risk of extinction. In addition, they help represent zoos and aquariums in national and international assemblies. They bring about awareness through publications, the internet, media, and conferences. They also promote environmental education, wildlife conservation, and environmental research (WAZA). Both stakeholders advocate and care about the overall wellbeing and health of the animals. This is something that they can agree on and form a compromise around. A proposed compromise would be to enforce stricter regulations on where zoos can release their animals to after they are no longer suited for such environment. As far as releasing the animals, they should only be allowed to release them to animal sanctuaries (i.e. The Wild Animal Sanctuary, or very own, Big Cat Sanctuary). By strictly regulating where the zoos release their Stephenson 3 animals to, it will ensure that they are taken care of properly and safely. Animal sanctuaries take animals and often rehabilitate them if needed, as well as provide them with large natural habitats free of cages and concrete. They also provide animals who have been in captivity a new home where they can live out the rest of their days in an environment just like the wild. This allows them to have a new found sense of freedom without simply releasing them into the wild where they would not know how to fend for themselves. For example, Big Cat Rescue (a sanctuary in Tampa, Florida) rescues a majority of their cats from circuses and people who irresponsibly own them as pets (Shani and Pizam 683). These cats would not be able to properly function in the wild, therefor, the sanctuary environment is a great alternative. In addition, sanctuaries provide education on wildlife as well as entertainment. Rescued animals live out their lives in safety and comfort, and also serve as ambassadors to the visiting public for all of the animals who remain trapped in the animal-industrial  (Donaldson and Kymlicka 1). The animals give a glimpse into the consequences of captivity. This compromise would appease PETA because the animals would be given a chance at life outside of the zoo in a safe, professional, and ethical environment. This would also appease WAZA and the zoos because they would know that their animals are going to be happy and healthy and in good hands. In conclusion, common ground can be found between the two stakeholders and a compromise that would benefit both sides can be made. Since both stakeholders care about the well being of animals, enforcing regulations to ensure former zoo animals are released to animal sanctuaries will be beneficial to both organizations. This compromise is fair because both are required to give up something. In addition, it not only benefits the stakeholders but it also has a positive effect the overall health and well being of the animals. In the end, both stake holders are happy. Stephenson 4 Stephenson 5 Works Cited MacDonald, Anna-Marie. History of Zoos - Doc Zone -  CBCnews. CBC/Radio Canada, 10 Apr. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Waza. WAZA Is the Unifying Organisation for Theworld Zoo and Aquarium  WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Donaldson, Sue, and Will Kymlicka. Farmed animal sanctuaries: The heart of the  Politics and Animals 1.1 (2015): 50-74. Shani, Amir, and Abraham Pizam. Towards an ethical framework for animal-based  International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management 20.6 (2008): 679-693.