Raekwon Scott ENC1102.016S17 Professor Erika Staiger 14 February 2017 Should Division 1 Athletes Be Paid? The debate between whether or not the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletics Association) should be entitled to compensating Division 1 collegiate athletes for their performance is a topic that has been generating controversy amongst Division 1 athletes and the NCAA for many years. The NCAA believes that Division 1 athletes should not be paid for their participation in collegiate sports because paying division 1 athletes would negate the entire value of sports as part of an education. On the other hand, Division 1 Athletes believe that they should be compensated for their participation in collegiate sports, because they have time to get a job, and provide for themselves due to participation in their sport. According to a published article on Forbes.com, The NCAA is a multi-billion dollar business franchise in charge of overseeing the rules and regulations of collegiate sports. The NCAA is bringing in billions of dollars every year entirely from the performance of their athletes, and yet not even the slightest percentage of the profits is coming back to the individual athletes doing all of the work, and bringing in the money. names, and numbers are being put into merchandise such as shirts, sweaters, and even video games. If an name is being used to make a profit, the athlete deserves the right to receive some form of compensation from it. According to an article on the New Yorker by Ekon N. Yankah, the NCAA believes that paying Division 1 athletes is a grave mistake not only because it the disease but because it suggests that the only cure is to put the patient out of his misery. It fails, first of all, to recognize the value of sports as a part of The NCAA believes that if they start paying Division 1 athletes, then there would be no way to come to terms with a coherent amount to pay individuals throughout different sports. The NCAA argues that it be fair to pay a tennis player the same amount of money that they would pay a top football player, when football is usually bringing in much more money than tennis. Division 1 athletes believe that they deserve to be paid. They believe they are being mistreated and taken advantage of. They state that they are not amateurs, and because of this they do not have time to get a job, and they are also putting themselves and their lives at risk every time they participate in their sport. The NCAA is a multi-billion dollar business franchise, and it is widely known that the main purpose of any business franchise is to make as much money as possible, by any means necessary. Many college names are being sold, without their permission, and large profits are being made off of their image. names, and numbers are being put into merchandise such as shirts, sweaters, and even video games, without the permission of the athletes, and not even a slight amount of the profit being made is coming back to the athletes. If an name is being used to make a profit, the athlete holds the legal right to receive some form of compensation from it. Another primary reason why division 1 athletes argue that they deserve to be paid is because of the fact that many college athletes simply do not have time to get a job, and have the ability to secure a reliable source of income. According to (USAtoday), a study was conducted that found that the average division 1 college football player devotes an average of 44.8 hours a week to their sport, and that is not even including the time spent traveling. The level of intensity in which Division 1 Athletes compete in while traveling and competing is still relatively high, which leaves them extremely vulnerable to injury. College athletes are putting themselves and their lives at risk every single time they participate in their sport. In many instances if an athlete on scholarship were to suffer a grave injury while competing in their sport, majority of the time that athlete is going to lose their scholarship, and may even be forced to leave the institution they are attending. A compromise to this debate between the NCAA and Division 1 athletes that would be suitable for both parties would be through the implementation of need based stipends, that would cover the cost of basic necessities such as student fees, food, transportation, and basic school supplies. The NCAA uses a federal formula used for all student athletes and it is calculated by each college which is meant to make up the difference between a traditional scholarship that includes tuition, room, board, books, and fees, and the full cost of attending college. The extra cash the NCAA accumulates can be used for a variety of expenses ranging from transportation between home and campus, postseason travel for friends and family, summer pre-enrollment costs for recruits, computers and cell phones, and injury insurance. The discussion of whether or not division 1 athletes should be paid or not is a topic that has generated a lot of controversy for many years, and will probably continue to generate controversy for many more years to come. The NCAA believes that they should not have to pay division 1 athletes. While Division 1 athletes believe they are being taken advantage of and that they should be compensated for participation in their sport. The only way a to form a compromise that would be suitable for both parties would be if the NCAA decided to start implementing stipends across Division 1 sports for all athletes. Until then this topic will continue to be a topic that will continue to create controversy for many more years to come. Works Cited A Way to Start Paying College  NYTimes. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/09/sports/a-way-to-start-paying-college- Barbash, Louis. Pay or play: paying college athletes just fair to players; it could improve college  Washington Monthly 2013: 13. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Garda, Justin D. Paying College  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sanderson, Allen R., and John J. Siegfried. The Case For Paying College  Journal Of Economic Perspectives 29.1 (2015): 115-138. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Should Division 1 Athletes Get  Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. http://www.debate.org/opinions/should-division-1-athletes-get-paid Yankah, Ekow N. Why N.C.A.A. Athletes Be  The New Yorker. The New Yorker, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.newyorker.com/news/sporting- scene/why-ncaa-athletes-shouldnt-be-paid>.