Shtrom 1 Andrii Shtrom Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 January 28, 2016 Gun ownership in the United States Nowadays, gun control is one of the most discussed topics among organizations. The question is if guns were allowed, would they make people safer? There are two stakeholders that concern an issue of gun control. The first stakeholder is Brady Campaign and its main purpose is to ban guns in all branches. As for the second stakeholder, which is the National Rifle Association, its main goal is to support ownership among American people. The permission or abolition of guns is a highly controversial topic, as it involves one of the most fundamental American right to keep and bear arms, which is protected under the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution (Maltz, 14). For example, a person who has a gun decides to commit a crime, when at the same time person who is considered as victim with a permit can use a gun to defend himself. According to the National Rifle standpoint, handguns and rifles must not be banned from society and gun control laws must not infringe right to carry firearms or similar devices. NRA strongly opposes Brady statement that guns are very dangerous for people. Brandy Campaign states that America has a variety of issues concerning gun violence and there is an abundance of evidence showing an association of guns with a crime rate. However, the only way to prevent gun violence and find the compromise for this argument is to make sure that bearing of guns is legal and controlled by the government. The National Rifle Association was created in 1871 by the well-known Union veterans Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate, as they were anxious about the U.S. troops inability to demonstrate an adequate level of marksmanship (NRA). This stakeholder is still Shtrom 2 considered as a big organization with an amount of five million members. Furthermore, main goal is to allow shooting on the scientific grounds. The National Rifle Association strongly supports the Second Amendment, which protects the right of the people to have guns (NRA). Additionally, this association opposes a big number of companies that ban firearms or other similar devices. They consider, that people are able to use guns in a safe way, so gun permits should be allowed in the United States. The major key of NRA is to promote guns as means of shooting in sports, hunting, defense, etc. Nowadays, there is a high demand in weapons because it is an effective tool for people to protect themselves. The organization considers that it is wrong decision to follow gun control laws that completely ban firearms and similar devices because they believe that the level of crimes would not increase. Overall, The National Rifle Association is a powerful stakeholder, which promotes marksmanship as a type of an integral part of the United States of America. Their solution is to use weapon in a right and reasonable way without gun control laws that ban firearms. NRA suggests using guns in certain areas in order to avoid dangerous incidents. The second stakeholder is Brady Campaign, which states that America has problems associated with the gun violence. The Brady Campaign was created in 1974 by Mark Borinsky who has found this effective organization after being a victim of the robbery. Organization states that all types of guns and other similar devices should be banned in order not to let an ordinary citizen to have an access to any kinds of weapons because it could lead to many more issues. According to statistics, every third teenager from the poor area has been a witness of shooting (U.S. Department of Justice, 6). Additionally, gun violence can be identified almost everywhere and permission to carry a gun would increase chances of committing crimes. That is why the Brady Campaign still works on achieving their goals to ban handguns. Moreover, the organization also opposes terms of other stakeholders, which support the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Guns are dangerous and should be banned and taken from people who Shtrom 3 already own them because it is the only way to solve the issue of gun violence and not to increase the level of gun crimes (Maltz, Bovy, 3). According to all of the above-mentioned facts about the dangerousness of having a gun, this main mission is to decrease gun death by 2025. Stakeholder suggests its own solutions to the problem of gun violence, which is to change the gun policy and to control every weapon transactions (Brady Campaign). Additionally, the organization blocked around 2.5 million illegal purchasers, which is only an example of the progress that has been achieved by this powerful stakeholder. In conclusion, the Brady Campaign goes strongly against the gun violence and fights for the right to ban weapon in the U.S. The National Rifle Association and the Brady Campaign are the two stakeholders of great significance, which hold different point of views on the issue of gun control. solutions allow bearing of guns and using them in only defensive and scientific ways. However, the Brady campaign strongly believes and supports gun control and their goal is to ban weapons and consequently decrease the number of possible crimes. Their solution is to reduce illegal sales of weapons and change the gun laws in order to establish overall safety among populace. Many people consider that guns are extremely dangerous and only police and other people who work in the field of defense should have an access to the gun. It is dangerous because it depends on a person who carries a gun and his overall intentions. On the other hand, guns are safe and help humans to protect themselves. In addition, it is a very significant fact that criminals try to avoid armed citizens (Guns Owners of America). There is a few number of suggestions, which can help NRA and Brady Campaign to find the compromise to the issue of gun control. For example, gun areas can be created where people may have an opportunity to improve their skills in marksmanship like hunting, shooting activities, etc. To prevent gun violence among owners, the government should allow bearing of guns only for citizens who passed a great variety of shooting and psychological tests. Moreover, guns must not be issued or should be confiscated Shtrom 4 from people with crime records in their history. Guns can also be replaced with smart technology guns, but there is no guarantee that they will work in a right way (Graham, 15). The only way to prevent gun violence and find the compromise for this argument is to make sure that bearing of guns is legal and controlled by the government. Only U.S. government can change laws according to gun policies by controlling sales and criminal history of gun holders. In conclusion, the carriage of guns can be both safe and dangerous for the U.S. citizens. The problem of gun violence has become a major issue among the citizens of the United States of America. Moreover, it has its own advantages and disadvantages, which has been explained above. Taking everything into account, the gun control is a controversial question and both stakeholders, The National Rifle Association and the Brady Campaign, have their own perspectives regarding the issue. The common ground between these two organizations can only be found if the privilege of using a gun can be controlled by the governmental officials and representatives through the passage of gun laws in the safest way possible. Shtrom 5 Works Cited Bovy, Phoebe Maltz. Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of  New Republic. Phoebe Maltz Bovy, 10 Dec. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Gun Violence, Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Brady Campaign, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Department of Justice, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, October 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Exposure to Violence: A Comprehensive National Study, p. 6, U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, October 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 NRA  NRA About the NRA. National Rifle Association , n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fact Sheet: Guns Save  Fact Sheet: Guns Save Lives. Guns Owners of America, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.