Randy Wamsley ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Water Resource Use and Allocation of the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa (ACT) and the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) Water Basins As the United States grow and develop, conflicts arise in regard to natural resources, such as water. River basins do not follow political boundaries and the result is a power struggle to determine who has rights to use the water and how much. More often than not, the health of the natural systems is disregarded until the river is dry and the fish are gone. One such conflict is the water (floridawatercoalition). This conflict began in the 1990s with disputes over two river systems covering three states and still, continues today. Currently, The Georgia Department of Natural Resources needs water to support their growing cities and agriculture, while The Florida Department of Environmental Protection Agency is reporting degradation of the fish and wildlife due to a severe loss of water volume, also affecting their shellfish industry (dep.state.fl.us ). The Georgia Department of Natural Resources and The Florida Department of Environmental Protection Agency need sustainable, long-lasting water resources and they need to fairly distribute this water without detriment to the environment. By following existing legislation and developing alternative sources, a compromise can be reached to satisfy the needs of the environment and people alike. The water resource conflict originates with two major river basins; the Alabama, Coosa, Tallapoosa River basin (ACT) and the Apalachicola Chattahoochee, Flint River basin (ACF), as seen in the image below. In the congress charge the (atlantaregional) United States Army Corp of Engineers with developing and maintaining navigation on waterways, flood control, and hydroelectric power production. As a result, the US Corp of Engineers built numerous dams, one of which was at the headwaters of the Chattahoochee River, just north of Atlanta. This is called the Buford Dam and the result is Lake Lanier, which functions as a reservoir. Over the years, population have experienced rapid growth and required 705 million gallons of fresh water per day pumped from this and several other reservoirs, many of which are the same river system (tri-state-conservation-coalition). The trickle-down effect resulted in a severe loss in water downstream causing economic and environmental hardship in Florida. Any attempts to resolve the problem have failed. Legal battles have had no resolution and the Tri-State Conservation Coalition was formed to facilitate and oversee negotiations to settle the argument. The Southern Environmental Law Center (SELC) also oversees the dispute to ensure a final outcome that protects water quality and quantity, taking environmental needs into account (southernenvironment.org). Despite this, Georgia continues to use too much water. Not everyone is willing to cooperate. leadership failed to produce significant agreements with Alabama (also a stakeholder) and Florida (floridawatercoalition). The state of Georgia felt entitled to the water and was accused of having favor with the US Corps of Engineers, being allotted such an excess of the shared water supply (Chapman). They routinely left Alabama and Florida in a deficit. population boom and South Georgia billion dollar agriculture industry was very dependent on reservoirs and they had control of the source, the headwaters. The legal battle lasting over 50 years has been costly to the taxpayers and no solutions have developed. In 1991, the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) compact was underway but deadlines were routinely missed and extensions granted. In 2003, Georgia and hydroelectric companies cut a deal with the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers that granted Atlanta a lot more water from Lake Lanier( 65% increase); Florida and Alabama accused Georgia of secret deals. never had any intention to limit its water stated David Struhs, then secretary of FDEP (Chapman). Georgia later promised a minimum flow at the state line to protect endangered mussels, and sturgeon during droughts, but Governor Sonny Perdue refused to cap water use and was protecting cotton and peanut farmers who were digging wells in Georgia. Latest news revealed a current attempt to end the long argument resulted in failure. The Weather Research and Forecasting Act of 2015 would authorize funding for the National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration (NOAA) National Water Center to facilitate collaboration across water management agencies. It also would allow NOAA to purchase data from the private sector for seasonal forecasting and predictions (Fitz, 2016). This act could have benefited the stakeholders by aiding in the development of comprehensive water use plans and maintaining their supply with the aid of resources. It was not passed but is a good example of what action needs to be taken. A good solution must consider all aspects of the situation and the needs of the opposing sides. Existing Legislation of both the state and federal level must be adhered to. The solution must appeal to all the stakeholders, so they benefit equally. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection wants to protect and improve the quality of its natural resources, through long-term restoration, and maintenance (dep.state.fl.us). Florida needs enough fresh water to reach the Apalachicola Bay to sustain the million dollar shellfish industry. This ecosystem has been under severe ecological stress from saltwater intrusion and low volume river flows (Chapman). The Georgia Department of Natural resources wants to maintain quality and quantity of water (gadnr.org/natural). growing population and agricultural needs must be provided for. They are both charged by the EPA to maintain quality and quantity of the ACT and ACF river basins as to preserve the wildlife for future generations. A possible solution might involve the following: 1. Both states must maintain and update their comprehensive water plans routinely. 2. With help from the EPA and other agencies, determine the minimum requirements of water needed to restore and maintain the ecosystem in the affected region. This quantity of water must remain unaltered as to sustain the natural system. 3. Source alternative water supplies to ease the burden on the affected river basins and develop conservation methods. 4. The remaining quantity may then be divided among the states based on social and economic need; per capita, per acres of farmland, etc. This must be as fair as possible and also with growing populations in consideration. 5. Any and all excess of water must remain in the system. (Plan is similar to a proposal in Chapman, page 248.) This plan levels the playing field by charging the states with maintaining their respective environments and distributes water based on quantifiable needs. With comprehensive water plans, census data and projections, and other resources, Florida and Georgia authorities can state their specific needs and come to an agreement that is fair to all. If an agreement were to fail, as, in the past, the federal government needs to step in and mediate. No final deal can be made without the US Army Corps of Engineers approval (Chapman). Florida would benefit with the restoration of the Apalachicola Bay, as well as the local ecology. The return of fresh water flow to the gulf will replenish shrimping and shellfish industry, thus providing economic stability in the region. Several occurrences of drought in the past have proven that Georgia and Florida depend on the ACT and ACF river basins alone, they need other solutions. Desalination and reclaimed water could benefit by reducing the amount of water drawn from natural sources. With the development of similar conservation methods and alternative sources, the two river basins can be sustainable to benefit Florida and Georgia alike. Both the Florida Department of Environment Protection and Georgia Department of Natural Resources must know what impacts their water use has on the environment. The Coosa River (part of the ACT river basin) has seen mussels and 36 species of snails go extinct due to damming of headwaters. Large fish such as the Alabama Sturgeon are on the brink. Currently, there are 24 endangered aquatic species, 15 threatened species, and 4 candidate species awaiting federal protection under the Endangered Species Act in this river system (Chitwood, 232). Restoring river systems and maintaining their natural state is more critical than ever. As proven time and again, the impact and effects go unforeseen until it is too late, the destruction of natural systems tends to hit hard in the years to come. If we wish to keep a continuous supply, we must maintain the natural state of our water sources. Works Cited http://www.atlantaregional.com/environment/tri-state-water-wars. Accessed 8 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Dan. could be answer to Georgia-Florida water The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (2016). Web. https://chattahoochee.org/our-work/tri-state-water-conflict/tri-state-conservation- coalition/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Chitwood, Frank1. Who Owns Coosa River? Impact On The Tri- State Water Wars Muted By Private Ownership Of Riparian  Virginia Environmental Law Journal 34.2 (2016): 230-254. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 23 Jan. 2017. http://floridawatercoalition.org/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.dep.state.fl.us/mainpage/default.htm. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Fritz, Angela. A decades-long, tri-state water war killed a bipartisan weather bill last  The Washington Post (2016). Web. http://www.gadnr.org/natural. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.southernenvironment.org/cases-and-projects/tri-state-water-wars-al-ga-fl. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.