Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Good or Bad? Genetically- modified organisms also known as are widely used in society. Consumers deserve an informed choice about whether or not they should consume genetically modified organisms. Various companies have dedicated themselves to fighting including the Non- GMO project. The Non-GMO Project is a nonprofit organization committed to preserving and building sources of non-GMO products, educating consumers and providing verified non-GMO choices. This organization uses images to convey their message to shoppers across North America looking to educate themselves about By establishing ethos, pathos, logos and kairos, the two images found on The Non-GMO website represent the claim that they are the number one provider for non-GMO services. The Non- GMO organization was founded in 2007 by two grocery store owners. Located in Berkeley California, The Natural Grocery Company rallied campaigns asking manufactures if their products contained GMOS. The Big Carrot Natural Food Market also took part in this event and later developed a policy that prevented to be purchased by their company. Both grocery stores collaborated together and created the Non-GMO project Non-GMO Later on, the project expanded and became open to all stakeholder groups. The organization states, Non-GMO Project remains the market leader for GMO avoidance and one of the fastest growing labels in the retail sector. We offer North most trusted Student 2 third-party verification for non-GMO food and Non-GMO This shows that they still have the same vision. The website carries very few images because it is jam packed with information about However, the few images that it does contain represent the organizations main goals. The first image is in a grocery store and one can clearly see the seal of the organization printed on the brown paper bag on the shelf. The colors are not too bright which can set the viewer in a relaxing mood. The text is also written in white, which can be seen as pureness and wholeness which relates to the message. The words, project is North most trusted seal for GMO is used to persuade the audience. Non-GMO The left side of the background is blurred to bring more emphasis on the text. Also the words trusted is capitalized and enlarged unlike the rest of the sentence. The attention is also drawn on the right side of the picture where you can clearly see the organizations label on a brown paper bag. The message communicated to the audience is that their company is the one that should be trusted when it comes to GMO avoidance. Additionally, the rhetorical appeals can clearly be found in this image. appeals are how rhetoricians engage their (McKee 20). Logos, the appeal to logic, is used because most people get their groceries from the supermarket, so it makes sense that the image in the background is a shelf from a grocery store. According to Mckee, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). To establish ethos, the words are used to persuade the audience that their organization is the one consumers should trust. is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain Student 3 a desirable result, and then doing (McKee 41). Kairos is present because having all the brown bags labeled with only their seal, is a call to action that when consumers are shopping they should look at the bottom corner for the non-GMO label. Pathos is the appeal to emotion. Pathos was difficult to find at first but upon closer inspection it became clear that it is used in the background picture of the grocery store. By using a brown bag labeled with their seal, consumers can see that what they are claiming about their company is true. There is a distinct contrast between the first and second image. The second image is a group of people from the organization holding a sign with their label on it. Whereas, the first image is just of a grocery store containing no people. This sends a message to the audience that there are actually real people involved in this project. There are many different colors due to the outfits that people are wearing. Also the women in front is in the center holding a sign that instantly grabs your attention. There are also other women holding butterflies which is a symbol of the organization. There are not many eye-popping colors so this image is on the neutral side. The signs are what stand out to the viewer since its brighter than the rest of the picture. Similar to the first image, the embedded text is telling the viewer to purchase items with their label on it. The second image portrays the Non-GMO main argument that everyone should know what is in their food. The creator is establishing logos by using actual humans who are supporting the organization to hold up the sign of their organization. Credibility, or ethos, was established by using a huge crowd of people that are showing their faces and backing up this organization. Also, everyone is smiling in the photo which appeals to the emotions and in turn is using pathos. Kairos can be found from the sign that says for our which creates a sense of the viewer needing to complete an action. Student 4 In conclusion, The Non-GMO project uses the two images to represent their claim that they are the number one provider for north American consumers. Both images contained traces of logos, kairos, pathos and ethos to appeal to their audience and support their claim. Sustaining and creating the non-GMO supply chain is a crucial step of progress toward a secure, healthy food supply for the future. The mission page of their website clearly states, encouraging a non-GMO seed supply, we are supporting the restoration of traditional seed breeding and the right of farmers to save and plant their own seeds and grow varieties of their (The Non- GMO Project). (word count: 1,025) Student 5 Works Cited McKee, Jessica. McIntyre, Megan. Boston. Pg. 27. 2014. Print Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. The Non-GMO Project. The Non-GMO Project, 2007, https://www.nongmoproject.org/ Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1 https://www.nongmoproject.org/ Figure 2 https://www.nongmoproject.org/