Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Nobody Should be Without a Home Homelessness is a major problem in the United States, with over 600,000 Americans living without a steady roof over their head. The National Alliance to End Homelessness, which is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, has made it their mission to try to prevent, as well as put a stop to, homelessness in the United States (About Homelessness). The organization has multiple ways to try to spread the word of homelessness, using the internet as one of their main resources. Through the National Alliance to End Homelessness website, they are trying to build up strong resources to achieve their goal of ending homelessness in all states nationwide. The two images represented on the website depict the message of the seriousness of homelessness throughout America and what needs to be done to assist in ending homelessness by drawing upon the emotions of the viewer. The website depicts an image of a somber looking, youthful boy to represent the children of America in need, as well as a simple door and window, to show that the homeless do not need much, just somewhere they can call home. Due to the large amount of homelessness that exists within our country, The National Alliance to End Homelessness is reaching out to anybody that would consider taking the small steps towards helping to end homelessness. One of the main issues the organization is attempting to shine light on is the number of children that are living on the streets in the United States, which comes to around one homeless child out of every thirty under the age of 18 (About Homelessness). The first image shows a young boy looking cold and somber. By including this Student 2 visual image in their claim, the stakeholder is attempting to draw on the emotions of the viewer, as no child should ever have to endure life without a home. The second image represented by the organization is an animation of a simple door and window, with the wording Alliance to End strategically placed near the picture to represent the stakeholder and their aim of ending homelessness in America. The purpose behind this image is to remind the viewer that although simple and common, a door and a window seems like a luxury to the homeless, and if everyone does at least a small amount to help with the problem of homelessness, it will slowly start to reduce throughout the nation. Both images portrayed on the website share a common pathos. They both evoke emotions like pity and sadness of the viewer, persuading them into doing what they can to end homelessness, even if it is just simply donating (Hoffman 22). By using pathos to arouse emotions, the organization will be able to get a quick reaction from the person who sees the images. Once emotions are tapped into, they will be more likely to do whatever they can to help end homelessness because seeing a visual is much more effective than just reading about or hearing about the situation. The use of the images provided by the stakeholder inspire people to take action to help end homelessness by reflecting the concerns of the National Alliance to End Homelessness. It is widely known that homelessness is an issue throughout the country, as it is everywhere we look, from the internet, to the streets. When seeing images, and reading about how big of an issue homelessness is in America, as well as personal experiences from the homeless as portrayed on the website, a person gets an inside look at the details and hardships that come with not having a steady living environment. The organization uses rhetorical appeals to draw their viewer in and grab their attention, playing on the sympathy and emotions through pathos and then turning to Kairos, because homelessness is a major issue that needs to be acted upon Student 3 now (Hoffman 23). The longer one waits, the more homeless men, women, and children there will be in the United States. These people are most likely malnourished and in danger without having a safe shelter to stay in, and the longer one waits to help and respond to the matter of homelessness, the more danger these homeless lives will be in. Through the two images, the stakeholder does an admirable job of persuading Americans to donate or volunteer to end homelessness in the United States by convincing them that if they are going to help anybody, it should be the people in their own backyard. Every state in this country has homeless people, and we, as American citizens, should be doing everything we can to put an end to it. It is always more difficult to see children in trouble than adults because children have a sense of innocence, and experiencing something as harsh and depressing as homelessness can take a major toll on how that child perceives the world while growing up. By marketing a picture of a distressed young boy, The National Alliance to End Homelessness is strategically trying to make the viewer of the picture feel concerned and compassionate, persuading them to assist in ending homelessness in any way that they can. A window and door are normal household amenities to most, but when thinking about having these simple items revoked from life, it makes a person think about how these necessities are considered luxuries to over a half million people in the United States alone. No one should be without their own door and window, so marketing an image that shows these items was a brilliant tactic the organization uses to appeal to the sympathetic side of anyone who views the image. Both images plea to commiseration, which is the goal and purpose. As people start to feel selfish for taking what they have for granted when there are people out in the nation that have nothing, they will be more likely to crack open their checkbooks and donate to the cause of ending vagrancy or merely going out and volunteering to make a difference and help put a stop Student 4 to homelessness in the United States. Homelessness has been a major issue in America since the mid 1600s, and although it has changed and evolved since then, it is still a main problem and concern (The History of Homelessness in America 1640s to Present). The National Alliance to End Homelessness is putting their best foot forward to try to help the problem subside state by state. One tactic the nonprofit organization is using is visual rhetoric, by showing images that will hopefully persuade the viewer to do what they can to help put a stop to homelessness. The website pictured a distraught boy to bring dismay to the youth in America who are homeless, as well as showing an image of a door and window to remind the viewer that everybody deserves to have the simple necessities of having a safe shelter one can always go. (Word Count: 1159). Student 5 Works Cited About  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. The History of Homelessness in America 1640s to  Downtown Congregations to End Homelessness. N.p., 17 Mar. 2014. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.