Fiedler 1 Kelly Fiedler Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Spreading Awareness on the Dangers of GMOs GMO Awareness was created to provide people with a resource of news and information on genetically modified organisms (GMOs). The organization is dedicated to gathering current and informative knowledge, which communicates the dangerous effects GMOs have on human and environmental life. With the aim to help others in making smart, informed food choices, GMO Awareness also hopes that consumers will understand the significance of partaking in the fight against GMOs. Though a primary issue the organization addresses is the importance of awareness in the community, for a community without awareness increases the power of GMOs. In order to combat the lack of knowledge, GMO Awareness strives to be a source of information that provides clear and meaningful conclusions on their website. There, the organization displays striking images to prove their dedication to the cause and to capture their attention. By utilizing two images that contain effective visual elements and persuasive devices, GMO Awareness delivers a message on their dedication toward raising awareness on the risks that GMOs present. At the top of each Web page, an image (see Fig. 1) that serves as the banner clearly presents the purpose of awareness Awareness Figure 1 displays the name with a question as a tagline, and there is a large tomato that is pierced by a syringe Awareness GMO message is effectively conveyed through the visual elements of scale and color (Sheffield). In Figure 1, the text Fiedler 2 is considerably larger in scale compared to the rest of the content Awareness The difference in scale draws the attention to the text, and to further emphasize this text, color section is also utilized. is displayed in the color red on a plain white background, which increases the legibility and the distinction of the statement. Another piece of context within Figure 1 that utilizes scale and careful color selection is a prohibition sign over the text Awareness The probation sign, which is colored red and larger in scale, gains the attention. By uniting the two most prominent features in the Awareness image, the color red and scale emphasize the intended message. Even though the visual elements alone are persuasive, the utilization of rhetorical appeals are also present in Figure 1. One rhetorical device in figure one appeals to Kairos, which relies on the idea of timeliness and opportunity (Hoffman and Sawchyn 41). By stating the goal in the image, the importance of spreading awareness communicates the immediate danger of GMOs. The immediacy urges the viewer to seek information regarding the consumption and regulation of GMOs. If the viewer prolongs the search in knowledge of the issue, then the viewer and others in the community will continue to currently conduct risky decisions with food. Secondly, Figure embedded text appeals to GMO pathos, which is the ability to connect through the influence of emotion (Lee et al. 37). Within Figure 1, GMO Awareness boldly poses a question stated in red text that reads: wonder why food is being made and modified by the largest pesticide Awareness The question appeals to the feelings of fear, hoping to raise more concern on the danger and power of ignorance when it pertains to GMOs. Ultimately, the appeal to fear connects the audience to the important of GMO message. Through Fiedler 3 visual cues and rhetorical devices, Figure 1 demonstrates the fear and timely importance that supports the message of spreading awareness. To prompt viewers on becoming more involved in the issues surrounding GMOs, GMO Awareness promotes their mission through another image (see Fig. 2). Figure 2 displays a sea of angry protestors that carry picket signs carrying various messages pertaining to GMOs Against Monsanto in San Diego, California, May Although the crowd of protestors are the primary visual cue, the element of scale and text aid in creating visual appeal as well. Similar to Figure 1, scale is utilized to gain the attention, and in this case, the picket signs are larger and dominate the content in the image. The larger scale of the picket signs also aid in the effective visual cue of text, for the signs carry various messages on the concerns of GMOs. For example, one sign reads: Must Against Monsanto in San Diego, California, May The two visual elements of scale and text support the message of spreading awareness and accumulating knowledge on GMOs. Along with visual design, Figure 2 utilizes two rhetorical appeals to persuade the targeted audience. Pathos is the primary appeal in this image, for this rhetorical appeal connects to the emotion of anger and the feeling of justice. The scene of protestors in Figure 2 demonstrates the pathos that GMO Awareness is appealing to. A viewer, who connects to the feeling of anger, could understand the reasons GMO Awareness holds for the goal of promoting consciousness. Next, the second rhetorical device that is utilized is the demonstration of proving credibility through their authority (McKee and McIntyre 27). Observing the signs in Figure 2, it is reasonable to claim that the protestors are informed and current on the issues surrounding on GMOs. The authority provides a sense of credibility for the viewer. The viewer also gathers that large communities, as well as GMO Fiedler 4 Awareness, are credible due to the knowledge and ability to protest. The appeal to ethos is effective in encouraging others to inform and spread the dangers of GMOs, such as the crowd of protesters and the organization. Thus, Against Monsanto in San Diego, California, May further supports the message GMO Awareness advertises through the appeal to emotion and authority. By the inclusion of images with effective visual rhetoric on the website, GMO Awareness successfully establishes themselves as a strong voice against the use of GMOs. The images promote the goal while capturing the attention of their audience. A concerned consumer can gather the message that GMO Awareness wishes to convey through the two images. The visual influences encourage the viewers to further their understanding on the risks of GMOs and spread awareness in the community. Overall, GMO Awareness promotes their opposition of GMOs through influential images that support the importance of raising an awareness on the threats GMOs pose. (Word Count: 1,067) Fiedler 5 Works Cited GMO Awareness. 2011, gmo-awareness.com. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. Print. Lee, Kendra Gayle, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu. 2016. 37. Print. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu. 2016. 27. Print. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons, 23 Dec. 2013, writingcommons.org/index.php/open-text/information-literacy/visual-literacy/breaking- down-an-image/399-breaking-down-an-image. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Fiedler 6 Fig. 1. Awareness GMO Awareness, 2011, gmo-awareness.com. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Fig. 2. Against Monsanto in San Diego, California, May GMO Awareness, 2013, gmo-awareness.com/all-about-gmos/gmos-defined. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017.