Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Treating Those Affected by Depression Through Discussion The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance of Houston (DBSA) was founded in 1979 by several people suffering from depression and bipolar disorder. Since then, this organization has joined forces with the National Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance and has gained non- profit status. Their purpose is to provide support to not only those suffering from depression and bipolar disorder but to those who have been affected by it, such as caregivers DBSA Greater The main way that the DBSA goes about helping and treating those influenced or living with these diseases is by providing free and compassionate support groups. The DBSA also strives to educate the public and end the stigma of these mental illnesses. In order to achieve these goals the DBSA uses their website to promote their services by using not only text information but compelling images that contain many visual and rhetorical appeals. Every page on the DBSA website contains a different image such as (Figure 1) to help convey their purpose to the visitors of the website. Figure 1 sends a message of love and understanding at first glance. The eye is immediately drawn to the embracing couple as it is the largest component as well as being on the top of the text, making this the focal point. The bright color contrasted by the white of the text than brings the eye down to read the quote. The quote is Student 2 secondary to the image itself. The quote itself is a vital component in portraying the message through the use of rhetorical appeals. Between the visual composition of the image and the text there are several rhetorical appeals being used to convey the messages being communicated by the DBSA such as logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos. Pathos is the most prominent rhetorical appeal in the image. The emotional image of the couple embracing combined with the quote stating that they feed off of each other every is an emotional bonding experience. This show of emotion makes the reader feel that they too could experience this if they used the resources. Ethos presents itself through the quote, this couple uses this service so therefor they have the credibility to promote the service, which is only logical. Since this couple uses the service and enjoys it, it makes sense that they would recommend it to others and it would help them as well. Another rhetorical appeal present in this image is kairos. The text talks about how at every meeting they grow closer and experience all these wonderful things, indicating that you too could experience this at these meetings. This creates a sense of urgency and routine. Through all of these rhetorical appeals the DBSA conveys their success of the organization with just one image. They use several appeals both visual and rhetorical to convey that their small groups create a loving and safe environment to seek help. Not all of the images on the website include an image with such a blantant message, such as Figure 2. Some of the images included have no text at all although the message is still portrayed just as successfully. Through Figure 2 the DBSA wants to guide the viewer to the realization that they can and will be a helping hand. A few of the visual clues that are portrayed in this image include the two hands reaching from different points in the image to meet at a focal point in the middle of the image. This is a strong visual cue used to determine the Student 3 message. This focal point would be where the hands would connect, and the viewer can foreshadow that this is going to happen. Although there is no text included in the image the use of color helps greatly to separate the background from the foreground, making the hands the most powerful and prominent part of this image. All of these visual clues also carry rhetorical appeals. Yet again all four rhetorical appeals are present and strong in this image, with pathos being one of the most prominent yet again. Many people know of the phrase a helping which is exactly what this image embodies. This image showing someone needing help invokes in the viewer an emotional response that makes us feel that if we as the viewers need help that we can receive it from the DBSA. Although there is not any text in there is still the rhetorical appeal of ethos present. The aspect of the image creates a sense of credibility. If the viewer is on the website of the DBSA they have some background knowledge about the organization and that they are indeed qualified to be that helping hand to those in need. Much in the same way ethos is established so is logos. It is only logical that when you are suffering from a mental illness you should reach out to an organization that specializes in the treatment of those diseases. Kairos is another very strong rhetorical appeal included in this image. Needing help with a mental illness is often times a very urgent matter, if you do not reach out in time than it is quite possible that you may lose the battle. Despite the fact that there is no text in this image, and it is not very complex is composition it still possesses very strong rhetorical appeals to communicate the message that this organization is a helping hand for those affected by mental illnesses. The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance uses images very effectively throughout their website to provide an atmosphere of support and compassion. The viewers of the website Student 4 can comprehend that the organization is providing these loving support groups to those who live with depression and bipolar disorder just by viewing the images on their website. The DBSA is around to not only provide the services of free support groups but also to educate the public on these mental illnesses. This organization has worked tirelessly over the past several decades to ensure those who need their services will receive them free of charge. Thanks to this non-profit organization there is hope that fewer people in the world will lose their battle with mental illness and that the stigma surrounding these diseases may eventually disappear. (WC: 1062) Student 5 Works Cited DBSA Greater About DBSA Greater Houston /. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Moxley, Joe. Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. http://writingcommons.org/visual-literacy . Pack, Jenna. Down an Writing Commons. Creative commons, n.d. Web. 6 Sept. 2016. Prevention and Crisis Suicide prevention and crisis hotline. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1 http://www.dbsahouston.org/about-dbsa-greater-houston/ Student 7 Figure 2 http://www.dbsahouston.org/suicide-prevention/