Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 14 February 2017 The Help Towards the Treatment of Depression Depression effects about 6.9% of the entire United States population, which comes out the be about 16 million adults! With the number of individuals affected by depression, or any other major depressive episode, the treatment of it is very important. The ADAA, Anxiety and Depression Association of America, works as an astronomically important stakeholder for individuals who are effected by depression or anxiety, personally or just as a caregiver. The ADAA was started more than three decades ago as the Phobia Society of America, and has been expanding to help more disorders than just depression ever since. Their claim and purpose states that there are many different treatments for depression, but each one must be tailored to a specific diagnosis, but no matter what someone is going through help and a better day will come. Therefore, although most people believe that depression can just be solved with a little happiness and pills, there are actually a multitude of different treatment methods depending on specific diagnosis. Through the visual and rhetorical analysis of the information and images presented on the Anxiety and Depression Association of site one can identify this stakeholders claim, goals, and purpose of individualizing treatments for depression and anxiety to help create better day. The website presents very visually appealing and vibrant colors with menus that make it easy to navigate and enjoyable to look at, but still looks professional at the same time. Student 2 The site begins with two main tabs that are labeled consumers and professionals. Therefore, appealing to a target audience of either patients who need help, their caregivers, or professionals such as doctors or psychiatrists that might need more information about all the different treatment options available. All throughout the website and tabs they provide ample number of pictures which portray an upbeat energy to counteract the difficult topic. These images bring hope, pride, happiness, and understanding. Through the use of these pictures and colors the website creates a very visually appealing atmosphere that promotes their mission as a stakeholder. An image of pride and hope is exceptionally important when dealing with individuals who obtain such a low self-image. The image that comes up first when one visits the site is a man standing on what looks like a canyon with his hands in the air in a state of triumph. In the background is a beautiful orange and yellow sunrise. This picture creates a visual message communicating that one can make it through anxiety and depression, and that they will triumph and push themselves through the pain. Through this triumph to their success over depression they will make it to a new day, this new day is pictured by showing a sunrise. The sunrise image uses rhetorical analysis that speaks to one on a much deeper level that most do not realize until they really think about the image more. One of the easier rhetorical strategies present in this picture is the use of pathos. Pathos, or the emotional aspect of something, is used by appealing to the viewers to show happiness and a sense of pride and that triumph is possible over depression. Another strategy used, but a little harder to analyze, is logos. It is used by stating the fact that it is possible for someone to triumph through anxiety and depression. The next rhetorical strategy used was the use of ethos which appeals to the credibility of the source. Therefore, ethos was used when showing the credibility to the words on the side of the image which talk about Student 3 triumphing over depression by showing the person on the opposite side with their arms in the air. Lastly was the use of Kairos which was used perfectly in this picture. Kairos was shown in this picture by using the sunrise in the background, this implies that time will keep going and a new day will come where one will live without depression. From such a simple, but beautiful picture, comes so much thought when one just thinks about all the visual and rhetorical strategies that the ADAA used to promote their campaign of triumph over depression. With depression affected millions of people just in the United States alone the next image shown on the website shows this aspect. When one scrolls down further on the home page they are presented with an image that depicts multiple cartoon cities and computers, cell phones, and tablets connected to one another showing how one can talk about their issues with anyone, anywhere. This show the primary visual message of communicating that there is peer to peer help online for people with similar disorder to talk to each other, because there are people everywhere going through the same thing as someone else. This approach is one way that the ADAA states could be a form of treatment to help people cope. Visual cues are presented in this picture by using bright, happy colors showing the different cities and computers. The ultimate message that the visual cues help portray is that if someone who is suffering with depression needs to talk to someone about whatever they are going through they can talk to anyone, anywhere, because it is not just them going through it. Many rhetorical strategies are used within this image also so that the ADAA can help their campaign. Logos and pathos are both applied to this image in the same way. They show that technology can connect someone with anyone else going through the same thing anywhere around the world and that they are not alone. Another rhetorical strategy used is the use of ethos, by showing the credibility of ADAA and that no matter what someone is going through they will help that person. So, if Student 4 form of treatment requires them to talk out their problems with someone else this peer to peer communication is available for them. Lastly, Kairos is shown in this by showing the timeliness and endless connections one could have through this peer to peer support across the entire world. With the use of all these visual and rhetorical strategies the campaign and purpose of the ADAA is portrayed and communicated. As depression rates continue to rise within the United States the need for treatments becomes more and more prevalent. The ADAA, the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, discusses and works towards campaigning their purpose as a major stakeholder. Their purpose and goal states that there are many different treatments for depression, but each one must be tailored to a specific diagnosis to help and show that a better day will come. Through the use of visual and rhetorical strategies put into the colors, images, and information the ADAA perfectly portrayed their campaign and goal to discuss the issue of the treatment of depression in the United States. (WC:1198) Student 5 Work Cited Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Moxley, Written By Joe Moxley. Visual  Writing Commons. N.p., n.d. 21 Jan. 2017. Sheffield, Written By Jenna Pack. Breaking Down an  Writing Commons. N.p., n.d. 21 Jan. 2017. Student 6