Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Influencing People to Act Against Fracking Greenpeace is an organization created in 1971 by a group of activists who sailed from Vancouver to Alaska to protest U.S. nuclear testing Greenpeace has made significant success protecting the environment since then, and continues to grow in their impact on the actions. Greenpeace is in more than thirty different countries fighting issues involving the environment Some of the issues they have fought include; global warming, destruction of forests, ocean deterioration, and fracking. Fracking has become a major issue that Greenpeace is focused because of the effects it has on the environment. It is a process that breaks the rock formations deep underground to extract fossil fuels The process begins by injecting huge quantities of water with toxic chemicals deep underground to form a well Greenpeace is a leading independent organization that is dedicated to exposing global environmental problems through peaceful protest and communication and to promote solutions to those issues for a green future They are an organization that recognizes the damage done to the environment by fracking; and are dedicated to stopping its use. They have evidence linking the contaminated water from fracking to our drinking water and aquifers, in addition to evidence linking fracking and the increased number of earthquakes Greenpeace uses volunteers across the globe to campaign effectively in many different cultures and areas of the world, and to maintain a website that educates others about Student 2 their mission Greenpeace uses various images with persuasive appeals and coercive designs to effectively send a message that fracking is a destructive and harmful process and should not be used as an alternate source of energy. One image (see fig. 1) that appears at the top of their main page regarding fracking relays an influential message using various design elements An image is considered effective because of the arrangement of the elements in the image (Pack 345-351). This arrangement includes the location and scale, the typography of the text, and the selection of color (Pack 345-351). In this image (see fig. 1) viewers can notice that the image consists of dark colors except for the bright orange and yellow colors of the flame in the top center of the image. This drastic difference in color places emphasis on the importance of the flame. The human eye scans an image from left to right and from top to bottom so the location of the flame, in the top center, catches the eye quickly (Pack 345-351). The scale of the flame is considerable since it makes up most the image; which emphasizes the importance of the flame. These design elements chosen are influential and effectively portray the message Greenpeace is trying to instill to viewers. In addition, the visual appeal of this image correlates with the rhetorical, or persuasive, appeal of the image. This image strongly portrays the ethos, or the credibility and authority that they possess (McKee, McIntyre 25-31). The kitchen sink in the background of the image creates the intrinsic credibility of the organization. This intrinsic credibility comes from the fact that the kitchen sink looks like one that many Americans would have in their kitchens at home. Because of that, people can relate to the woman in the image and connect to the cause. The image also appeals to the kairos, or the appeal to timeliness and action (Hoffman, Sawchyn 40-46). Using the bright colors and the image of the Student 3 flame, the sense of urgency is communicated to the reader that fracking is something that needs to be stopped immediately. This sense of urgency comes from the fact that water should not be able to light on fire; rather, water is typically used to put out fires. These rhetorical and visual appeals give the organization credibility and create a sense of urgency to stop this method of retrieving an energy source. Similarly, Greenpeace also communicates their message using an image that portrays the effects that fracking has on the environment, to influence people to get involved (see fig. 2). One design element that immediately catches the eye is the white sign with bold, black text, Water The typography of the text is black, all capital letters, and bold font. This combination of features creates a sense of importance and the viewer cannot ignore the sign. Another element is the background behind the text that depicts a fenced-in lake holding the water used for fracking. The grayish color of the water conveys to people that this water is not pure like the sign says and is in contrast to the blue color water typically is. The focus on the contradiction between the text of the sign and the water in the lake communicates to viewers the message that fracking is harmful to the environment. The design choices in figure 2 also effectively communicate to the viewers that Greenpeace does not believe fracking should be allowed. At the same time, rhetoric appeals are combined with visual appeals in this image to influence viewers to realize fracking is damaging and should not be a method of harnessing energy. Logos, or the appeal to logic and reason, is a primary rhetorical appeal used in figure 2 (Lane, McKee, McIntyre 32-36). The enthymeme of this image would be, should not be allowed because the water in this lake is contaminated with chemicals and is no longer safe for people to The water shown in this image is contaminated with chemicals and is a dull Student 4 gray color instead of a blue color that water usually is. This is a logical conclusion to people because water is something that should be clean and safe to use. Another rhetorical appeal used is ethos, the method of persuasion by demonstrating the credibility on the issue (McKee, McIntyre 25-31). The sign depicted in the image has the Chesapeake logo printed in the lower right and left corners of the sign. This logo gives borrowed credibility to the organization because it is a company that concerns the environment; thus, it helps establish credibility. The combination of the appeals to logos and ethos influence viewers to realize that fracking is having serious consequences on the environment. For these reasons, by using images containing visual and rhetorical appeals on their website, Greenpeace effectively communicates to viewers that they are committed to their mission of exposing environmental problems to the public. They can expose an issue such as fracking and educate people on the consequences of using this method to harness energy. People can voice their concerns through this organization, and environmental issues are brought to light. Greenpeace portrays their dedication to this issue using two images on their webpage about fracking. These images contain rhetorical and visual appeals that compel people to realize how fracking damages the environment, and influence people to act against this process. (Word Count: 1,153) Student 5 Works Cited Greenpeace USA, Greenpeace, 2016; Web. 19 Jan. 2017. Greenpeace USA, Greenpeace, 2016; Web. 19 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Sawchyn Alysia; Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, 40- 46, E-text. Lane, McKee, McIntyre Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, 32- 36, E-text. McKee, McIntyre Megan. Eds, Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, 25- 31. E-text. Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, 345- 351, E-text. Student 6 Figure 1. Water lit on fire in Bradford County due to contaminants from fracking in well next to home. Greenpeace Staff.  Greenpeace USA. N.p., 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Figure 2. A fenced in holding pond in Bradford County above 3-8 million gallons of water mixed with chemicals for hydraulic fracking. Greenpeace Staff.  Greenpeace USA. N.p., 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.