Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Importance of Fine Arts Education The Americans for the Arts Action Fund was founded in 2004 in order to convey a united message to Congress as well as build political support for the arts (Americans for the Arts Action Fund, This organization thrives on the arts continuous ability of impacting American society and the issues surrounding the communities. The most important impact the arts have, as stated on the website, is that arts education brings students and schools better grade point averages, better scores on standardized testing, and lower dropout percentages. However, the main problem is that there has been cut backs and elimination of funding for arts education programs in schools. The reason this has become such a drastic issue, that this organization has been battling, is because since the lack of funding the arts programs have had to reduce hours and offer less productions every year (Americans for the Arts Action Fund, the Arts Therefore, the Americans for the Arts Action Fund stands up for rights to an arts education, assembling national support against vicious attacks on the arts. This campaign advertisements provide information leading towards how more support can push them closer towards their goal of getting 5% invested in local education budgets in arts education. Using visual rhetoric and persuasive appeals in their images, the Arts Action Fund displays the importance of arts in education and society, sending their message out conveying to citizens the difference that can be made by supporting this movement to keep the arts and arts education alive in schools and communities all across the country. Student 2 The first image noticeable on their Web page (see fig. 1) stands out more powerful than the rest because of the simple text, (Americans for the Arts Action Fund, The main message communicated by the stakeholder is for people to stand up for the arts and to make a difference. This organization is encouraging individuals to be the ones to take part in helping the arts stay alive in education and communities. In the background is a picture collage with smaller images of people doing different arts activities as well as supporters/speakers of the movement. With this mini photo collage taking up the background of the image, the organization is showing that this is specifically what they are supporting and these people are already making a difference. The design element of the Americans for the Arts star logo in the very center over the tiny photos in the collage brings their message to life. Plus, the compositional element of the text being in bold black, with red lining, letters really impacts the power behind the message their conveying. By using the colors of red, green, and blue, it draws the view immediately to the organization. The entire message communicates for people to stand up and join the movement in supporting the arts and making a difference. Additionally, the Arts Action photo collage also appeals to the which is stated as the appeal to logic of evidence and reasons (Lane et al. 32). The use of various pictures, in the photo collage, of speakers and supporters who have joined the movement, shows them standing up for the cause in helping the arts which then creates visual evidence to the audience. The Arts Action Fund is providing examples of how they are getting their message out there, convincing people in communities to stand with them in the fight to keep arts education. At the same time, the other half of the pictures within this collage appeal to stated as the appeal to emotion used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the argument (Lee et al. 37). Using pictures of students and children taking part in Student 3 many different arts activities such as dancing, singing, and playing instruments raises emotion in the audience. Plus, the organization is emphasizing what it is exactly they are supporting for children. Similarly, another way Americans for the Arts Action Fund gets their message out, is through the use of an image that shows all the elements included in what the arts does for communities in society (see fig. 2). The first thing that catches the eye is the variety of colors: grey, yellow, blue, and red: used throughout the entire text. The color coordination is very creative and it makes the viewer notice that each big word in a particular color matches a smaller word in the same color promoting the different subject contexts that the bigger word represents. For example, the big word in yellow is connected to what the arts changes, the little words listed on the bottom in yellow, such as education and environment. Another visual element in this image is the bigger and bolder font of the phrase day the Arts transform communities (Americans for the Arts, taking up most of the image. The organization is telling the audience why the arts are so important and why they support its continuous. Then, all the little words in smaller font express specifically to the audience more reasons behind what the arts do for society, portraying to viewers how positive the arts really is towards communities. Furthermore, the visual design elements mixed with persuasive tools provide a more powerful influence on the goal and purpose. One of the strongest rhetorical appeals used in this image is Listing everything that the arts helps with in society at the bottom of the image, provides more viewers to be emotionally touched because at least one of those will relate to an individual specifically, convincing them in joining the movement. By placing their star logo at the bottom right hand corner of the image, this Student 4 organization demonstrates the rhetorical appeal of which is stated as a method of persuasion by demonstrating credibility or authority (McKee and McIntyre 27). The Americans for the Arts Action logo represents whom they are as and what kind of an organization they have, what they do. Most people will identify with the star being apart of performing arts and that can give an idea of what the organization is about before researching them. It is evidence to the audience showing that they stand for the arts with their title alone and any viewer can look up their title to help persuade the authority the organization has. Therefore, the information displayed in the image is truthful and proved by a credible organization making the audience feel more comfortable about the facts they are connecting to the cause. Displaying these images on the Americans for the Arts Action Fund website tactically provides affective use of rhetorical appeals to triumphantly impact viewers on the importance of the arts in society. Schools and communities who are struggling to keep their arts programs and activities going depend on organizations like the Arts Action Fund to spread the strong voice of their supporters. According to their Web page, The Arts Action Fund devotes 100% of their time, money, and actions on advancing the arts all around the nation (Americans for the Arts Action Fund, Using visual rhetoric and persuasive appeals in their images, the Arts Action Fund displays the importance of arts in education and society, sending their message out conveying to citizens the difference that can be made by supporting this movement to keep the arts and arts education alive in schools and communities all across the country. (Word Count: 1,272) Student 5 Works Cited Americans for the Arts. 2015. Web. http://www.armericanforthearts.org/news- room/ceos-corner. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Americans for the Arts Action Fund. a 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Americans for the Arts Action Fund. a little about 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Americans for the Arts Action Fund. the Arts 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/pages/why. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Pantelides, Kate. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. Print. Lane, Emily, McKee, Jessica, and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. Print. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Mckee, Jessica, and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. Print. Mckee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. Print. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons. Web. http://www.writingcommons.org/breaking-down-an-image. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1. Fig. 1. #BeTheARTbeat; Americans for the Arts Action Fund; artsactionfund.org, 22 Jan. 2017, http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. Student 7 Figure 2. Fig. 2. Transforming Communities; Americans for the Arts; americansforthearts.org, 22 Jan. 2017, http://www.americansforthearts.org/news- room/ceos-corner.