Dubas 1 Kayla Dubas Instructor Missler ENC 1102 7 February 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide in New York In New York, physician-assisted suicide is being taken into careful consideration for legalization. This is a very controversial topic that has been argued for years. With this being said, many states have already taken the initiative in legalizing and allowing for patients to have this as an option if they meet certain requirements. Dignity in Dying is an example of a nationwide organization whose goal is to give patients a greater choice and allow them to have control over their end-of-life decisions. More and more states are considering legalizing this form of treatment, New York being one of them. In New York, Compassion and Choices is an example of an organization whose goal is also committed to promoting care and allowing patients various choices at the end of their life. Both organizations work to help patients have a say in their healthcare and push for people to have more options when it comes to end of life decisions. If Dignity in Dying and Compassion and Choices came together in New York to join forces by holding a march where they raise money and awareness on the pros of giving people the right to choose in healthcare, then New York officials would further consider and possibly legalizing physician-assisted suicide. Dignity in dying is a nonprofit, nationwide organization that was founded in 1935 and supports physician-assisted suicide. They that assisted dying for terminally ill, mentally competent adults should be (Join the campaign). When it comes to patients, there are Dubas 2 many pros to legalizing this treatment. It gives people the ability to control their faith, stop being a burden to others, save money, and die on their own terms. This group believes that if a terminally ill patient has six months or less to live, they should be given the choice of physician- assisted suicide. Patients should have the right to control what happens to their bodies and have a say in the care they receive. Most people do not want to die a slow and painful death where they are constantly spending money on treatments that will only prolong their death. Patients want the option to end their suffering and avoid having their loved ones suffer from the inability to say goodbye and the bills they will need to pay. With physician-assisted suicide, it allows for patients to die a peaceful death on their own terms. This allows for families to avoid the and missed opportunities of saying goodbye to a loved one. In paper, he provides the reader with a real-life example of a 65-year-old woman, Gloria Taylor, with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. She wanted the right to choose physician-assisted suicide. She believed that having this choice would allow for people to make important life decisions which state should not have a right to with (Schafer 524). The organization Dying in Dignity will continue to work on pushing states to legalize physician-assisted suicide. In a more localized sense, Compassion and Choices is an organization working to push the legalization of physician-assisted suicide in New York. They work to inform people about their options and assist in authorizing medically assisted dying for capable adults in their final weeks or months of a terminal (Compassion & Choices). New York has been contemplating legalizing this form of treatment since 2014 (Mulder). This organization believes that New York should follow in the footsteps of the other states that have legalized physician- assisted suicide. In Oregon, physician assisted suicide has been legalized since 1994. In an anonymous survey, 85% of people said that physician-assisted suicide be morally Dubas 3 acceptable under some (Fenn 236). Patients should have the choice to deny hospice and other palliative care options if they no longer wish to live. It ultimately should be the choice due to it being their body. Even though some people believe that this treatment is border line murder, if the patient meets certain requirements, such as having a terminal illness, that is going to kill them in six months or less, people are more accepting. The requirements that must be met are being 18 years of age or older, a resident of a state where it is legal, must be diagnosed with a terminal illness with six months or less to live, must be mentally competent, and be approved by two physicians (How to access and use death with dignity laws). The criteria that must be met is not an easy thing to qualify for. In Oregon, 1 in 500 directly accesses this (Quill 245). This forces the patient to go through lots of trouble to help assure them that this is truly what they want. With Oregon being an example of the positive results physician-assisted suicide has, Compassion and Choices in New York is pushing to follow in their footsteps. This treatment is a very controversial topic, but there are some solutions that could be made to better benefit the people of New York. The best solution is to have both organizations, Dignity in Dying and Compassion and Choices, come together and hold a march where they work to raise money and awareness on the pros to giving people the right to choose their end-of- life treatment. The states that have already taken the initiative and legalized this treatment are California, Oregon, Colorado, Vermont, and Washington (How to access and use death with dignity laws). These organizations both do the same things when trying to further push getting physician-assisted suicide legalized. These organizations are similar in the sense that they both use marches and real people to help spread the word of this treatment. These groups use impactful stories who have been denied the choice to end their life. These stories Dubas 4 appeal to emotions and pushes for the sympathy. If these two organizations join forces, it will help better convince people and draw more attention to this treatment. There would be more publicity resulting in people wanting to learn more about physician-assisted suicide. Patients will be happy to have doctors obey their wishes to end their lives and allow them the ability to do what they choose to when it comes to tough healthcare decision. If they want to end their life, they should have the choice but also be aware of their other options. This solution will benefit both stakeholders in positive ways because it will help to force a change in opinion and push the progression of legalization in New York. If more states begin legalizing this treatment, it will spark a chain reaction that will lead to it becoming a nationwide law. In New York, physician-assisted suicide is being considered to become legalized. Many organizations are trying to push the legalization of this treatment nationwide, such as Dignity in Dying. Their goal is to allow patients to have choices in their end-of-life decisions. Similarly, in New York, there is an organization called Compassion and Choices which is working to push the state to legalize this treatment. Both organizations have similar goals in giving patients more options and a say in their healthcare decisions. To help advance the legalization in New York, these two organizations need to join forces and hold a march where they work together to raise money and awareness on physician-assisted suicide. If Dignity in Dying and Compassion and Choices came together in New York, then it will help encourage the state officials to legalize this treatment and ultimately create a chain reaction across the nation. Dubas 5 Works Cited Compassion &  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. <https://www.compassionandchoices.org/>. Fenn, Darien S., and Linda Ganzini. Attitudes of Oregon psychologists toward physician assisted suicide and the Oregon Death With Dignity  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice 30.3 (1999): 235-44. Web. to access and use death with dignity Death with Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.dignityindying.org.uk/>. Mulder, James T. Physican-assisted suicide takes step forward in  Syracuse.com. N.p., 24 May 2016. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Quill, Timothy E., Anthony L. Back, and Susan D. Block. Responding to Patients Requesting Physician-Assisted  Jama 315.3 (2016): 245. Web. Schafer, Arthur. Physician assisted suicide: The great Canadian euthanasia  International Journal of Law and Psychiatry 36.5-6 (2013): 522-31. Web.