Brandon Jones 2/5/2017 Should College Athletes Get Paid? College athletics make up a huge part of the sports world today and brings in millions of dollars to their Universities and their communities. Which makes me wonder are these college athletes being taken care of? Many of these athletes receive full ride scholarships to attend these universities, but is that enough? The College Athletes Player Association (CAPA) has been battling the National Collegiate Athletic Association(NCAA) for over 15 years on compensating their players for what they do and how much of a benefit they are to their Universities each year. College sports such as football and basketball have been growing in popularity and it seems like it is only getting bigger. This has caused millions of people to ask, why are college athletes not being paid? Even though the players bring in millions of dollars to their colleges each year it would still not be easy to pay every player in a collegiate sport. Then the NCAA would have to account for the smaller collegiate athletics at the smallest schools in the nation. So, if they were to pay the football players for the University of Alabama then they would have to pay the swimming team for Florida Atlantic University to avoid controversy. Then paying players based on how much they make from sports every year will create a problem for competition. Cork Gaines said it best, big BCS schools are already getting all of the top high school football players. But schools like Boise State thrive off the next wave of talent. That group of players that will choose Boise State over USC because they have a better chance of getting playing time or because of the scholarship limits instituted by the NCAA for competitive balance. What you will get is a situation where the NCAA would be sanctioning yet another competitive advantage for the big schools and it would mark the end of upstart programs like Boise Also, they would not be able to just pay the players from the top schools that bring in the most money from athletics because that would violate anti-trust laws. Some schools are just simply not bringing in enough money to provide compensation for their athletes. Mark Emmert said at a press conference in One thing that sets the fundamental tone is very few members and, virtually no university president, that thinks a good idea to convert student-athletes into paid It is tough to come to an agreement to pay the athletes if none of the presidents of the Universities are agreeing to pay them. Another reason they find it difficult to pay the players is because of the fans. According to Tiffany Patterson who writes for Smartasset, are many fans of collegiate-level sports who are fans because they believe the players at this level play with more passion and love of the sport than athletes at the professional level. There are some who say professional athletes do not play as hard because they have already made it to the highest level, and they do not want to risk injury if a game is not for a national championship. Paying student-athletes could detract from their passion and make them less motivated to play hard to get to the next Therefore, they risk the fact of losing a lot of their fan base that love the game because of the intensity these players bring each week and the motivation comes from wanting to get paid like a professional athlete. Although there are many good arguments against paying college athletes, there are just as many for paying these collegiate athletes. The College Athletes Players Association has been fighting the NCAA to get players paid for over a decade now. The main reason that stands out to me is what they put their bodies through every year and the injuries they have or could experience. A perfect example of this is Marcus Lattimore a football player that played for South Carolina. During the 2012 season, he suffered one of the worst injuries college football has ever seen. To add on to that he was one of the best running backs in the nation that year and he never got to play a down of college football after that. He went on to the pros and was on the 49ers roster for a few years before retiring at the age of 23. He never played a game in the NFL. Now there is no way to compensate for him missing out on all he could have been. Also, the amount of money the NCAA is bringing in over the course of a year must be more than enough to pay these players at least a small portion. A big event that brings in the most money in a month is March Madness. Michael Wilbon has written that seeing the $11 billion deal between the NCAA and CBS/Turner Sports for March Madness between 2011 and 2024 prompted him to change his mind about paying student-athletes. This deal shows the amount of money the NCAA is bringing in over the course of one month alone. March Madness is one of the most watched sporting events in the country. Yet the money being made off this event is not trickling down to the players, who are the stars of the March Madness is only one month out of the basketball season, so technically they are making $11 billion in 13 months just from CBS/Turner Sports. Also, another reason is it will help these college athletes in the long run. Paying college athletes will make them more financially responsible. Most of these athletes do not know what to do or how to manage their money responsibly. This will teach them how to conserve their money for when they are making a lot more in the future. Both the NCAA and the College Athletes Players Association make valuable arguments over this subject, but the best way to solve this problem is with money. The only way to bring in more money to the NCAA and the Universities is to pay the players. If they were to pay the players, they would be able to sell merchandise every year that would be able to compensate them. Also, if the NCAA allows the players to accept gifts from fans that would eliminate a lot of the scandals that have hurt college athletics in the past. Therefore, the best compromise is to allow these athletes to get paid for what they bring into their schools every year because it will benefit the NCAA by bringing in more money for them every year and it will benefit the Players Association because it will stop putting these players in situations where they can get in trouble. Work Cited Patterson, Tiffany. Should College Athletes Be  //smartasset.com/retirement/should- student-athletes-be-paid. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Press, Associated. NCAA President: Not a Good  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 17 Sept. 2013. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Polzer, Tim. Mark Emmert: NCAA Budge on Paying College  SI.com. Sports Illustrated, 17 Sept. 2013. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Gaines, Cork. Why The NCAA Allow Pay Athletes Even If It Wants  Business Insider. Business Insider, 15 Oct. 2010. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.