Crisp 1 Matthew Crisp Instructor Ryan ENC1102.001 10 February 2017 Finding Common Ground: Animals in Captivity Keeping animals in zoos and aquariums is not a particularly new idea. The first zoo to be recorded in history was created by the Ancient Egyptians around 1500 B.C.E., which featured animals from all over Africa, and the first aquarium created was debuted in the London Zoo in the mid The uniqueness and variety of animals showcased is what causes 700 million tourists around the world to frequent at least one zoo and aquarium every year, which makes the business quite profitable. Despite the large number of tourists that visit zoos annually, there are also many that find zoos to be unethical and immoral, with studies being published that claim zoos cause animals distress and depression, and with other claims stating that some zoos will even euthanize animals if there is a surplus of a certain species. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, falls into this category, whereas the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, or AZA, differs. Although AZA and PETA have some apparent differences, both organizations can achieve a compromise through an analysis of their mission statements and programs. Founded back in 1980, PETA is a non-profit organization dedicated to protecting animals from what they deem to be animal abuse. In their mission statement, they essentially claim that their movement is centered around protecting rights with their focus in four areas: factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade, and entertainment industry About The entertainment industry encompasses zoos and aquariums, which PETA believes exploits animals for the own personal gain. They state that the animals being held in zoos and Crisp 2 aquariums are prisoners, and that they have no right to be held captive and unwillingly exhibited to an audience. PETA is largely run by volunteers and other members of PETA, organizing mainly large protests and expensive ad campaigns towards animal abuse and animal cruelty. There have even been some cases where members of PETA have publically protested outside of zoos, expressing their disdain for hours on end. Like PETA, AZA is a non-profit organization, but instead is set on advancing zoos and aquariums in areas of conservation, education, science, and recreation AZA feels as if zoos/aquariums provide visitors a concise education about the animals exhibited, and teaches people the appropriate way to handle animals. AZA run mostly by volunteers; it is a rather numerous committee of more than 400 people that have experience in wildlife science. The AZA committee can deem certain zoos/aquariums as which means that an AZA mentor has visited the zoo/aquarium and taught the employees there about how to properly care for the animals in terms of conservation and animal welfare. These AZA accredited zoos/aquariums are what the AZA committee believes to be safe and prosperous for animals, in the way that the accredited zoos/aquariums possess the knowledge to properly treat the animals they have held, and that they also know the proper procedures for taking care of an endangered species. With this in mind, easy to see that AZA thinks animal captivity is a constructive process. Although not necessarily difficult to figure out why PETA and AZA would be at odds, anyone could see that both organizations are based around animal protection and conservation. Neither of them are villainous entities that wish to do bad things to animals, they both generally have the same goal, but simply from different viewpoints. The AZA committee, for example, basically claims that animal captivity is important because job to Crisp 3 take endangered animals into captivity and breed the species back to an appropriate number as a method of conservation, whereas PETA believes that in freeing the endangered animals back to their respective habitats and tightening poaching laws, nature will take its course, and the species will breed its way back to fruition. Even if you look at each programs, the AZA accreditation process exists solely to make sure that certain zoos are doing their job correctly and treating the animals properly, and protests are not done in hate; done with the goal to save animals and prevent them from going extinct or being abused. With the common ground in mind, the best compromise for the two organizations would be the implementation of a reverse zoo. A reverse zoo is essentially the same thing as a regular zoo, except the animals in cages. Instead, tourists pay to get in cages hoisted onto the backs of trucks, and driven around a certain part of land governed by a wildlife organization to observe the local wildlife, akin to an African safari, yet a little more intimate and up close, as many animals will approach the human-filled cage on their own volition. The aquarium version of this would be getting in a submarine with clear glass windows on sides of the submarine and delving underwater, sightseeing the unique animals that they feature in aquariums. The reverse zoos/aquariums would have to be established based on the species of the animal, so if someone wanted to observe an African elephant, for example, they would have to go visit Africa. This suggestion complements want for the animals to be free in the wild and not kept in cages, as well as the want to have a coalition of governed zoos managed by people that understand how endangered animals should be treated and conserved. The animals could roam free and breed like how PETA wants them to, and AZA could be bystanders that observe the process, stepping in when needed and otherwise remaining in the shadows. Crisp 4 The feasibility of this compromise is apparent. The only major issue is how it would be financed and executed. Based off 2015 financial statement, one would find that PETA earned about $44 million in donations so using that information, could make a rough estimate that PETA earns about $40 million in donations annually. Every year, PETA could allocate $5 million of their budget towards reverse zoos, omitting that said $5 million from their public outreach budget of about $12 million. The AZA committee could then ask its accredited zoos/aquariums for donations in forms of animals and money to help establish wildlife parks across the globe, which is where the reverse zoos would be featured. Though it might be more expensive for the tourists, the uniqueness of seeing animals that indigenous to the locale might entice the tourist to pay the money to go the extra mile and view the animals up close. One could see how the reverse zoo compromise could give the best of both worlds from PETA and AZA. The compromise is mutually beneficial, neither organizatio n has to go back on their mission statement, and both organizations have to give something up in order or it to be possible. In addition to being mutually beneficial, the compromise also has the possibility of providing the tourist an interesting experience that typically found in many zoos/aquariums Reverse Zoo is the Best Way to Experience Through careful financing and planning, it could be a possible compromise that would appeal to both stakeholders if executed correctly. Crisp 5 Works Cited About All About PETA, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, www.peta.org/about-peta/learn-about-peta/. Strategic  AZA, Association of Zoos and Aquariums, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. PETA, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, www.peta.org/about-peta/learn-about-peta/financial-report/. Reverse Zoo is the Best Way to Experience Dose, Dose, news.dose.com/animals/30098/This-Reverse-Zoo-Is-The-Best-Way-To-Experience-Wildlife/.