Bailey Adams Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Americans and Abortions One of the largest ongoing debates occurring worldwide is the debate over what determines life. Many cultures, religions, and governments have abolished abortion in their nations. Planned Parenthood is an organization that advocates sexual health and provides certain healthcare amenities to those who cannot afford it. Florida Right to Life is an organization that promotes health and defends every step in life. Both support basic human rights. For the issue of abortion services to be solved, both sides must find a point of agreement. Planned Parenthood is an organization known all across the western world and developed nations for their abortion services. According to their mission statement, believe in the fundamental right of each individual, throughout the world, to manage his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or (Mission Planned Parenthood). The most advertised services provided by Planned Parenthood include abortions and contraceptives, but they also provide screenings and tests for cervical, breast, and ovarian cancers, infertility, and Pap and HPV for women alone. They provide services and educate on sexually transmitted diseases, sex and sexuality, relationships, sexual health, and many other topics. Sexual health services are a necessity because, overall number of women in need of contraceptive services and supplies rose 10% between 2000 and (Frohwirth 7). Adams 2 Florida Right to Life is an organization and public service to those in need of sexual health information. This information includes what occurs during abortions and alternatives to having an abortion. They are a, service organization dedicated to protecting and fostering the most basic value of our society life itself through education and (Florida Right to Life). The following study, Patient Education and Emotional Support Practices in Abortion Care Facilities in the United States, demonstrates what Florida Right to Life advocates and what their goal is. The study included calling abortion clinics and asking what services they provide prior to performing abortions, such as what information they provide as alternatives to abortion along with counseling. Clinics educated the patients on the process of an abortion and alternatives, while also educating them on contraceptives, mental health, and a variety of hotlines. This study shows that education of what is available, and the rights a person has, is significant to the cause. Planned Parenthood and Florida Right to Life both promote human rights with different views. Planned Parenthood is advocating safe sexual health and providing healthcare to support what they promote. Florida Right to Life is also advocating safe sexual health while also providing information on abortion and suggests the possibilities of other alternatives. What they have most in common is their dedication to their beliefs. Planned Parenthood is in support of abortions to a certain stage, when they believe life begins while Florida Right to Life believes abortions should not occur because life begins at conception. Both constantly fight in the media to promote their cause. They also often have supporters advocating at locations significant their cause. In order to come to a compromise, both must give and take. The most efficient way to work together and form a compromise is to educate the youth, however this will result in both Adams 3 organizations to lose supporters of their cause. Planned Parenthood is losing support because of the attacks broadcasted across the media about they really In order to gain their support back, they need to educate the public and promote the services they provide other than abortion, such as breast cancer screenings and infertility tests. Florida Right to Life is in the category of the organizations attacking Planned Parenthood, which is their way of trying to gain support. However, everyone considered opposes them. If both organizations can work together and educate the younger population on sexual health and preventative measures to take when planning to have sex, then both organizations will be fulfilling their mission statements and hopes for society. Both will be satisfied without thinking they lost anything. College campuses have some of the most influential populations, that are also able to vote and make changes in society. An example of this occurring happened just recently, a large crowd of millennials protested rights. They were so influenced and educated by others on the deficit of rights that they took action and protested. As a result, Rights Day now exists in St. Petersburg, Florida along with other small cities across the nation. This is relevant because it shows that educated individuals can make a difference or change something significant, and this is what both of the stakeholders want. A significant study that demonstrates that educating the young is effective is An Adolescent Perspective on Sexual Health Education at School and at Home. In this study, high school students were surveyed about sexual health education at school and how they felt about it. Students claimed it was very useful and the most effective topics that were discussed with the students included sexually transmitted diseases, birth control methods and safer sex practices. The adolescents claimed that these topics should be taught earlier on, such as in middle school. If students as young as thirteen and fourteen years of age can recognize that sexual health Adams 4 education is a necessity years ago when this study took place, imagine the importance of sexual health and the promotion of sexual health now. As mentioned before, both stakeholders would have to gain something and lose something in order to compromise. With the advocacy of birth control methods and the implementing of them in society, Planned Parenthood would be performing fewer abortions. This would satisfy their goal of helping those in need of sexual health procedures. Florida Right to Life would also be satisfying their goal of eliminating abortion and promoting safer sex, because fewer abortions would be taking place and more sexually active members of society would be taking preventative measures. With fewer abortions taking place, Planned Parenthood would gain more supporters and possibly more funds to provide birth control to those who are unable to afford it. Florida Right to Life would gain satisfaction in achieving goals while also gaining credibility and more active followers in the cause. To achieve the goals of both Planned Parenthood and Florida Right to Life, volunteers or supporters would be required to go through easy training. The training could simply include information about the organization, what they do, and their impact on society. The organizations will then have to coordinate with colleges, high schools, and possibly middle schools to create schedules when they can come to the school and give lectures or seminars about themselves and teach sexual health to adolescents. With the implementing of this nationwide, in only a matter of time will reports of abortion amounts drop and an increased use of contraceptives be noticeable. This plan would be most effective in developed nations due to the availability of resources. Basic human rights are guaranteed in our Constitution, but who and what really determines the extent of those unalienable rights. Countries across the world use government and religion to determine what is and is not allowed, but who can really determine that. Both Planned Adams 5 Parenthood and Florida Right to Life are fighting for a similar cause, the human right to choose, however they take on the worldwide controversial topic with different approaches. But with a feasible compromise, both organizations can fulfill their missions on the promotion of life and sexual health throughout the youth of the nation. And with the education of the youth, fewer abortions will take place, whether legally or illegally, because these organizations and many alike will be able to provide preventative care for those who cannot afford it. Adams 6 Works Cited Byers, E Sandra, et al. Adolescent Perspective on Sexual Health Education at School and at The Canadian Journal of Human Sexuality 12 (2003) Web. 27 January 2017 Florida Right to Life. n.p. Web. 27 January 2017 Frost JJ, Zolna MR and Frohwirth L, Contraceptive Needs and Services, 2010, New York: Guttmacher Institute, 2013 Gould, Heather, et al. Education and Emotional Support Practices in Abortion Care Facilities in the United Health Issues 22.4 (2012) Web. 27 January 2017 Parenthood, Planned. Mission. Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. Web. 27 January 2017