Dietl 1 Katrina Dietl Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 14 January 2017 Mental Health Compromising Treatment and Education Mental health has been a big part of our society and environment for quite some time. However, it has regularly been tossed to the side as not important or not our problem. Towards more recent years, mental health has had more exposure and clinical research to allow the people that suffer from this illness to recover and get back to their lives. The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) and the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) have both jumped to the chance to enhance the lives of those that suffer from mental illness. Even though both stakeholders have created a path for mental illness to become better known, these paths barely intersect. For the public and mentally healthy people to understand the circumstances of mental illness, then these two organizations must come together with a compromise. Both stakeholders must come together and balance the treatment for the mentally ill people and education for the mentally healthy public. When these two are equally balanced, then the public may understand the circumstances the mentally ill have to endure which would allow the public to have less stigma towards the mentally ill people. The first stakeholder is the National Institute of Mental Health. This organization has made a commitment to finding and/or creating a treatment for every mental illness and mentally ill person that they may come across. They hope to achieve a time in which mental illness could Dietl 2 be prevented and cured for every person. This desire is emphasized in their vision statement, which states, envisions a world in which mental illnesses are prevented and (National Institute of Mental Health) They hope to achieve this vision by the way for prevention, recovery, and (National Institute of Mental Health) The NIMH hopes to create this mentally healthy unified world by conducting basic and clinical research. The latter stakeholder is the National Alliance on Mental Illness. It is the largest organization in the nation to strive to create better lives for every American affected by mental illness, which includes the mentally ill person, and their family and friends. The NAMI uses education to create a social environment where mentally ill people do not have any type of stigma towards them. (National Alliance on Mental Illness) Education of mental illness is a major component for decreasing a stigma or attitude that is related to such mental illnesses. The more a person knows about mental illnesses, the less they will believe in stigmatizing beliefs or attitudes, which, in turn, increases the positive attitude a person might have towards seeking professional health. (Jung, 1) The NAMI educates, advocates, listens, and leads the people that are associated with mental illnesses. This organization also because illness impacts the lives of at least one in four adults and one in ten children across the United each (Botzakis, 1)This stakeholder also works with reporters daily to allow the nation to understand the importance of mental health. (National Alliance on Mental Illness) The NAMI wants to spread the word about mental illness, and show that more people suffer and are associated with mental illness than the public may think. NIMH and NAMI have both seen a stigma created towards mentally ill people and this stigma has resulted in a divide between the mentally healthy and the mentally ill. Both Dietl 3 organizations want this man made divide to go away. They want anyone that has suffered with mental illness to be able to have hope, to recover, and to look forward to wellness in their life. They also want anyone that may suffer from mental illness to be able to put that section of their life behind them and allow these people to be able to look forward to the future with no disfigurement. While the NIMH and the NAMI care about the future of the mentally ill, they have not decided on a common action to go about helping these specific people. A way for these organizations to achieve their desired mission statement or vision, they both must give something up for the greater good. The NIMH must give up their hold on strictly basic and clinical research to create treatments for the mentally ill. While NIMH does that, the NAMI must also give up their thought process that the only way a mentally ill person could obtain equality is if everyone knows about mental illness, some mentally ill people could be rid of those judgements by the treatment they may go through. After both stakeholders do this, then they could create a system where education and treatment can go hand-in-hand. When doing so, this would allow people to learn about the illness that each specific person may have, which would allow the divide between the mentally healthy and mentally ill to decrease, and possibly diminish. Then this information will allow the mentally healthy to understand, in a way, of what the mentally ill are going through and how they could personally help. In the study performed by Francesca Pernice-Duca, they observed how a family member might help improve the outcome of a mentally ill patient. They found that if a mentally ill person had family members around, they had a positive influence on the mentally ill recovery. (9) While the mentally healthy are helping the ill, then the personal help may increase the rate of a treatment to work. Dietl 4 Even though the National Institute of Mental Health and the National Alliance on Mental Health want to achieve a world where mental illness is not a frowned upon situation, they both must give up something in order to achieve that desired goal. The mentally healthy should be educated on what the mentally ill have to endure so they could be better equipped to help them in the future. While the mentally healthy are being educated and helping the mentally ill, organizations, like the NIMH, would be allowed to further test their treatments and create new treatments, as they may be needed. With the two working hand-in-hand, the situation the mentally ill are currently in will be greatly improved, and may even create the world in which both stakeholders envision. Dietl 5 Works Cited National Institute of Mental Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, www.nimh.nih.gov/index.shtml. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. National Alliance on Mental Health. NAMI, www.nami.org/. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Jung, Hyejin, Kirk von Sternberg, and King Davis. a Measure of Mental Health Literacy: Development and Validation of a Multicomponent Mental Health Literacy Psychiatry Research, vol. 243, 2016, pp. 278-286. Pernice-Duca, Francesca. Family Network Support and Mental Health  Journal of Marital & Family Therapy, vol. 36, no. 1, 2010, pp. 13-27. Botzakis, Stergios. Visual and Digital  Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy, vol. 57, no.5, 2014, pp. 417-419.