Thompson 1 Antonio Thompson Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102.001 13 February 2017 Hydraulic Fracturing vs. Environmental Protection Extraction can be thought of like a clicking of a pen. It tends to be annoying, but it is effective in keeping control of ink usage with a pen. Hydraulic fracturing can be simply explained as the extraction of oil from underwater shale formations. Yet, with this being a main contributor in the United States economic growth and stability, it serves as a controversial topic in the country today. As we look at the two stakeholders, we realize that both organizations serve the purpose of having clean resources and have clean and efficient energy. BP Global is an and gas provides fuel for Global). ACS GCI, also known as American Chemical Society Green Chemistry Institute, is an institution looking to better the process of fracking through safer chemicals and extract more efficient and clean oil. As both seek to achieve their goals at hand, they must come to the consensus that in order for clean oil to be extracted, the chemicals used need to be efficient and not hazardous, while also making the mechanics of the process flawless. BP Global has a goal be a focused oil and gas company that delivers value over (BP Global). They provide oil and fuel for transportation, as well as heat and energy for other needs. BP Global also states on their website, aim to run safe, reliable and compliant operations leading to better operational efficiency and safety performance. We target competitive project execution to deliver projects as efficiently as As a strategy, they Thompson 2 aim to run the process as safe and effective and efficient as possible, not trying to cause a disaster. In 2010, due to human error and mechanics malfunction, the BP Oil Spill caused for millions of gallons of oil to leak into the Gulf of Mexico. This caused water contamination in the neighboring states such as Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. For months, no one could go into the beach water or drink water from a bottle due to this disaster. In order for this to not happen again, measures must be taken in order for protocol to be followed, and so that there are no more disasters through the usage of this process. In retrospect, the ACS GCI, also known as the American Chemical Society Green Chemistry Institute, is an organization that promotes green chemistry. Their mission is catalyze and enable the implementation of green chemistry and engineering throughout the global chemical (ACS GCI). It seems as if they have nothing to do with hydraulic fracturing, however they have a separate mission statement just for the implementation of green chemistry in hydraulic fracturing, stating that their mission is systematically integrate green chemistry and engineering principles into the chemical supply chain for hydraulic (ACS GCI). They want to ensure environmental protection as well, yet they want to also provide this prestigious and remarkable process with more efficient ways of production and extraction. In order for the two stakeholders to reach a compromise, there must first be common ground and a consensus that both must meet. Both stakeholders can both agree on the fact that they want to make the environment a lot more safe and less controversial. Both can also agree on the safe use of the process by implementing more eco friendly chemicals and more well manufactured mechanics for the machines out in the oceans drilling. Thompson 3 Although common ground is there, conflict is present amongst both. The problem the BP has with this process is the mechanics used to extract oil from the underwater shale formations. The mechanics end up malfunctioning, leading to catastrophe. The problem the ACS GCI has with this process is the chemicals used are hazardous, and wants to implement more eco friendly and non hazardous chemicals, yet not enough scientific research on the chemicals they want to use to be approved for the process. Rutgers University states that the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process causes human threat and threatens the environment and the species that live within it. Erle Donaldson, who was a contributor to the book Fracturing Explained , states in Chapter 6 section 1 of the book that, of the products (toxicity, volumes, duration of exposure, and quantity of the chemicals) used can have serious detrimental effects on the surface and subsurface environments. Ecological impacts are caused by the environmental aspects associated with the hydraulic fracturing process which affect the physical environment as well as the flora and fauna of the area. Emphasis is placed on the detrimental effects of the chemicals on the physical A compromise that can be formed by these two stakeholders is for the use of chemicals within the process to be more eco friendly and handled with pure caution, with research being conducted on the chemicals being used before they are put into the solution, with this being supported by a research conducted by Rutgers University. Also, the mechanics used should also be checked repeatedly and on a daily basis before use. The compromise calls for BP Global to accept the usage of chemicals in the process and to also make sure that the mechanics used on the machines are well manufactured and do not cause error otherwise they will be fined, where the ACS GCI will have to conduct in depth research to make sure the chemicals being Thompson 4 used and implemented are not detrimental to the health of humans or the environment and the species within them. They are also tasked with the making sure that the chemicals being used are checked constantly, or else they will be fined and revoked from being able to do any research. To conclude, hydraulic fracturing comes with a price. Whether it be a harmful price or a helpful price, something must be done in order for this to work for both stakeholders. Although both stakeholders have the same common ground, they must abide by the compromise in order for the situation at hand to be resolved. Thompson 5 Works Cited 6 Environmental Impacts of Hydraulic Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing - Hydraulic Fracturing Explained - CHAPTER 6 . GCI Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Society . the ACS Green Chemistry Chemical Society . Valko, Peter, and Michael J Economides. Fracture University, Rutgers. file from Editorial of Hydraulic Fracturing , pp. , , www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/about-bp.html.