Diamond !1 Alexia Diamond Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.045S17 14 February 2017 Standardized Testing Compromise Standardized testing has been a huge part in assessing schools, students, and teachers for a very long time, however, recently . Students take about 112 mandatory tests from pre- kindergarten to the end of their high school career. The Civil Rights Group states that they are committed to a unbiased, and accurate data (Inouye 2015) to determine class placement, college admissions, and college scholarships and they believe that these standardized tests are the best instrument for that. However, the National Center for Fair and Open Testing believe that these tests are unnecessary as they waste time in the classroom, narrows the curriculum, and causes many students to drop out of school (Schaeffer 2017). They believe that there is a better way to assess a students performance without the use of unnecessary testing. To solve this controversy, a compromise must be reached. The Civil Rights Groups believe that standardized testing is the only consistent and fair source of data for students that are a minority, for students of color, low-income, disabilities, and those who are just learning English. They strongly advise that parents do not of these tests because they believe it contradicts the efforts to improve schools for not only their child but students everywhere (Schaeffer 2015). These tests may be seen as unnecessary, but it is the most consistent, unbiased, and reliable way to obtain data to improve curriculum, schools, and teachers for a better education. Most of these exams are taken on computers, where the Diamond !2 background of the student known; it know if the student are of color or if they are having financial issues at home, the scores are completely based on the material given to them by the student (School and Child Care Search Service 2013). Taking these tests not only give students an opportunity to show what they have learned, but something that can help improve their schools and education (Brown 2015). Standardized testing is a part of a large strategy to improve education and focus on setting clear standards for schools. The tests consists of multiple choice questions that allows students to think, analyze, and figure out how to solve a problem (Williams 2000). Schools depend on standardized testing to give an accurate indication on whether or not a student is not only memorizing, but is also able to apply what they learned . However, the National Center for Fair an Open Testing urges parents to or refuse the mandatory tests. The article Say No to Standardized states, sends the message that school time should be used for teaching and learning, protests harmful uses of standardized demands better ways to assess and promote students and prevent test results from being used to harm students, teachers and (Schaeffer 2017). The focus on test preps take away hands-on projects, collaborative and interactive activities. These high-stake test teacher frustration, increases student drop-out rates, reduces classroom instructional time, narrows the curriculum, widens the achievement gap, and promotes (Phelps 2015). The exams asses creativity, critical thinking, collaboration, or leadership (Schaeffer 2017). The number of parents that have opted their child out of taking these tests have grown enormously over the past decade and the number keeps growing. They argue that this civil disobedience is the best way to change the overemphasis on tests in the public (Brown 2015). These groups believe that Diamond !3 although they have a right to public education, standardized testing is grueling and unnecessary and is in fact, hurting the education. Although the Civil Rights Group and National Center for Fair and Open Testing are on opposing sides, they need a common ground to resolve this issue. Overall, both stakeholders care about the education system and what is best for students and teachers. Both sides may represent their goal differently, but in the end they both want to see the same thing happen. The Civil Rights Group promotes standardized testing by urging parents not to opt out of the tests. They see this tool as the most accurate way to test how well each school is teaching their students. By taking these tests, the board of directors in each district can adjust the curriculum. In the case of the National Center for Fair and Open Testing their mission is to give their children the best education. They believe that the education is hurt by the amount of time wasted on test preparation. By spending so much time on preparing for the test, students are missing out on hands on projects and interactive activities. Each stakeholder wants to improve the education system in an attempt to ensure that their students have the best education. In an attempt to ease the tension and come to a common ground, each stakeholder must put aside some of their beliefs. A compromise that can be met by both sides consists of standardized testing being minimized to just the basic subjects and test preparation are kept to a minimum in classrooms. Students will take two government-mandated standardized tests annually and the scores will continue to be posted to the public so parents are aware of how well their child and school is doing, however only one test score at each grade can determine if a school is struggling and needs change (USA Today 2015). This compromise appeases to both stakeholders as it only changes what is necessary. By making this compromise, the state is able Diamond !4 to test students and schools without taking away classroom time and changing the curriculum to fit the test. It takes away unneeded stress on students and allows teachers to focus on teaching and the education itself. Standardized testing has become a top controversial topic talked about today with may different organizations taking sides on the debate. Two stakeholders who are on different sides on the issue, Civil Rights Group and National Center for Fair and Open testing, are able to come to a common ground in an attempt to reach the goal they share. There will still be standardized testing given to students to assess both the students and teachers performance, but there be as much pressure and time attached to it. This will not only benefit education, but also do right by the children. Diamond !5 Works Cited Analysis: Pros And Cons Of Standardized Testing In Public Schools And Its Effects On Teaching And Learning. n.p.: National Public Radio, 2000. Literature Resource Center. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Compromise on standardized testing - a test for  USA Today 2015: Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Emma, Brown. Some parents revolting against standardized  Washington Post, The Aug. 0003: Regional Business News. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Inouye, Shin. Civil Rights  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.civilrights.org/press/2015/anti-testing- efforts.html>. Phelps, Richard P. Defending Standardized Testing. [Electronic n.p.: Mahwah, N.J. : L. Erlbaum Associates, 2005., 2005. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Schaeffer, Robert. Just Say No to Standardized Tests (Updated January  Just Say No to Standardized Tests (Updated January 2017) FairTest. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http:/www.fairtest.org/get-involved/opting-out>.