Hurtado 1 Ana Maria Hurtado Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.001 09 February 2017 A Compromise Between Pro Choice and Pro-Life Movements Abortion has always been a controversial topic. According to the Medical Guide induced abortion is the deliberate ending of a pregnancy before a fetus is capable of surviving outside the (Kaplan et al. 1). It is a subject where people have strong feelings for or against. It is surrounded by moral, legal and religious issues. Abortion has two admirable causes: pro-life groups such as The Secular Pro- life fights for the concept that everyone has the right to life and the life starts since the moment of conception; therefore, it is murder to realize an abortion para.1). On the other hand pro-Choice groups such as The National Abortion Federation defends the idea that all women have the right to decide what happen with their bodies, and a fetus is not a human being because it is not self-sustaining and is not a personhood para.1). People have always been divided by abortion. According to Liddia Sad nation of United States is split with 47% Pro-Choice, 46% Pro-Life, and 19% who do not have a (1). The division of a country has to end. It is important to make a compromise that can satisfy both opposite sides since both groups share the goal of defending the rights and the importance of the reduction of abortions. The Secular Pro-life is a nonprofit organization that fights against abortion and embryo abuse. Its mission is to protect and defend the humankind since the moment of conception until natural death para.1). It wants to decrease elective abortion by increasing the common knowledge of fetal development and abortion risks para.1). First, it has agreements with women centers where pregnant women in crisis can find counseling, legal advice, housing and financial help para.1). Second, it has online sources where it provides knowledge about abortion and connects an online community of volunteers and pregnant teens and adults, where they share their stories and find support para.2). The SPL states that abortion is a symptom of lack of possibilities, not a solution to the para.2).Therefore, an abortion is a Hurtado 2 reflection that society has failed to meet the needs of women and it is necessary to recognize that all women no matter the races and social status deserve better than an abortion. The National Abortion Federation is a nonprofit organization that promotes the health and justice for women. It defends the idea that every woman has the right to decide over her own reproduction and a fetus is not recognized as a person para.1). Its mission is to promote safe legal and accessible abortion care. Its member includes nonprofit clinics, public hospitals, health centers, Planned Parenthood affiliates and offices para.1). All of them provide educational programs for sexual health care and abortion care para.1). Even though both organizations have two different ideas about if an abortion is good or wrong, both share the goal of protecting the rights, and agree that the best way to reduce the rates of abortions is to give more possibilities to the women. If the society eliminates the main causes that drive women to have unwanted pregnancies a change can be made. According to Ankoor Shah half of the annual 6.7 million pregnancies in our country are unintended. Of those, 43 percent end in (para. 4 ). Most of the women who had an abortion do it because they did not have and have other alternatives, and that is what these pro-Life and pro-Choice organizations want to change. It is important for both to improve the sexual education, accessible birth and financial help for pregnant women in crisis. A viable compromise between both organizations could be the creation of a new non-profit organization that would be neutral to the abortion topic. The main goal of the new organization would be the reduction of abortions by helping women and giving them opportunities. The actions that this new organization could make are: First, it would create physical and online campaigns in high schools, colleges and communities, where reproductive age women would find sexual health information. Second, it would create offices where pregnant women in crisis could find legal support, concealing and adoption information. Third, it would create affiliations with health centers that would primary focus in prevent pregnancies by allowing affordable birth control. This organization would be created with the financial help of both sides. According to Margaret Hurtado 3 Hughes and Emery Yao alliance studies have investigated how emblematic relations create superior value for There is no more emblematic relationship than the creation of the first pro-life and pro-choice organization. A partnership would increase their activists, supporters and donors nationwide. People that are between pro- life and pro- Choice ideas would be more likely to participate The partnership between these organizations will lead to progress and will open new discussion between Pro- life and Pro-choice movements. It would join a nation and can be the beginning of a change. The principles and goals of each organization would be respected and it is seen that both of their ideas have helped the women over the years. According to the most recent data from the Centers for Disease Control number of abortions for every 1,000 live births dropped from 344 to 246 as a result of pro- Choice and pro- life Therefore, the best solution to keep reducing abortions is to join both ideas. However, these two organizations will have to give up on of the concept of working in all their projects by themselves, and the partnership would be more beneficial. Finally it has been shown that a partnership between a pro-life organization a pro-choice organization is viable, even though they seem to be at odds on the surface. Both want to create a better nation and create justice for women and unborn children. A new organization will not go against their core values and will not interfere with their own projects. It will just give more opportunities for women such as an increase of the sexual medical care, sexual education and pregnancy support. It is important to be informed about this topic because unwanted abortion are very popular not just in United States but all over the word. If people have more information about what can be made in order to reduce abortion, more women and children will have a better future. Hurtado 4 Work cited Prochoice, 2017, www.prochoice.org/about-naf/. Accessed 9 Feb. 2017. 2017, www.secularprolife.org/about . Accessed 09 Feb. 2017 Kaplan, Clair, APRN/MSN, Leslie V., PhD Tischauser, and Paul J., Jr., PhD Chara.  Medical Guide (Online Edition) (2016): Research Starters. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Shah, Ankoor. common ground between pro-life and pro-choice The Hill, 26 Jan, 2017, www.thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/healthcare/316209-finding-common-ground-between-pro-life-and- pro-choice. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 Saad, Lydia. U.S. Still Split on Abortion: 47% Pro-Choice, 46% Pro-Life; No decline in voters who prioritize abortion issue, now at  Gallup Poll News Service 2014: Academic OneFile. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Hughes-Morgan, Margaret, and B. Emery Yao. Rent Appropriation In Strategic Alliances: A Study Of Technical Alliances In Pharmaceutical  Long Range Planning 49.(2016): 186-195. ScienceDirect. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Sullivan, Andrew. The Case For Compromise On  Time 165.10 (2005): 90. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 9 Feb. 2017.