Rodriguez 1 Keanna Rodriguez Alison Missler ENC1102.044S1713 14 February 2017 Project 1 Final With the recent appointment of a conservative administration into the White House, the controversy surrounding abortions has given rise to a new debate regarding the funding for Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood is an organization whose primary focus is aiding in the prevention of unintended pregnancies. The services they provide include tests and treatments for sexually transmitted diseases, breast exams, PAP tests, abortion services, and more, making them one of the top providers of affordable health care and sex education Planned Parenthood at a ). Despite the fact that abortions only account for three percent of Planned health services, many believe that the organization should be defunded because abortions conflict with religious beliefs and views about protecting life Planned Parenthood at a ). However, the National Law Center (NWLC) and the American Public Health Association (APHA), are two organizations that are against defunding Planned Parenthood. Although both organizations agree that access to reproductive health care is essential for health and a fundamental right, they have yet to work together because they have different methods for approaching their goals. If the National Law Center and the American Public Health Association collaborated on a charity, they could combine their knowledge of science and policies to emphasize the need for Planned Parenthood and the consequences that may arise if it gets defunded. Also, the donations collected from this event Rodriguez 2 could be divided to not only benefit the NWLC and APHA, but also Planned Parenthood, to further show support for their health services. The National Law Center has been fighting for protection and equality for over 40 years. According to their website, their main goal is to policies and laws that help women and girls achieve their potential at every stage of their lives at school, at work, at home, and in The organization is comprised of advocates who challenge injustices such as the protection of pregnant women, lack of availability for contraceptives, and discrimination in the workplace The center has even petitioned against the U.S. Department of Office for Civil Rights, for gender discrimination in high school and college sports (Choo 32). Their success is why women have greater accessibility to healthcare coverages, can hold the same positions as men in the military or sports, and more (Choo 32). On the issue of defunding Planned Parenthood, the National Law Center is completely against it. The center views the possibility of Planned Parenthood being defunded as discriminatory in the sense that women, who statistically earn less than men, would have to suffer higher premiums if they are unable to afford their healthcare out-of-pocket Bans on Insurance This would seemingly punish women who have lower-incomes since they already lack the funds to raise a child. Defunding Planned Parenthood would also be dangerous for health. In some cases, pregnant women face health complications and if they have to postpone their abortion in order to raise funds, the safety of the procedure decreases. Furthermore, women would be stripped away of their autonomy and the coverages they do have would be halted. Instead of defunding Planned Parenthood, the NWLC proposes that healthcare Rodriguez 3 funding be expanded to provide for all care regarding pregnancy, abortions included Bans on Insurance Instead of treating sick people like doctors do, public health professionals work to prevent people from getting sick or injured. To do so these professionals go out into communities and promote healthy behaviors, educate on health issues, provide vaccinations, and more Is Public As an organization built around public health, the America Public Health Association exercises these same values and practices. The executive director, Dr. Georges Benjamin, states that We all deserve access to a culture of health living as long as you can, as well as you can and having a short but glorious ending. It also means having a system in place that ensures we can all achieve  The APHA has been around for over 140 years and is the only organization that unites various members within the public health field and influences federal policies by providing a Similar to the National Law Center, the American Public Health Association does not agree with defunding Planned Parenthood. As stated on their website, believes access to the full range of reproductive health services is a fundamental right and integral to the health and well-being of individual women and to the broader public and Sexual APHA is a huge supporter of Planned Parenthood since their services relate to the public health field by providing sex education and contraceptives. The executive director even considers birth control to be a milestone in our generation (Culp-Ressler, Five The organization has also adopted a policy that encourages the protection of reproductive health care providers, clients, and volunteers from violence. The reason why the council chose to adopt such a policy is because such violence prevents women Rodriguez 4 from being able to decide whether or not they want to get an abortion and it also puts the lives in danger Public Health 446-447). The only time that the National Law Center and the American Public Health Center have worked together, was on an appeal they submitted to United States Court of Appeals, in favor of Planned Parenthood (Perkins, Court They did so as a collaboration with other pro-choice organizations such as the National Health Law Program, National Center for Lesbian Rights, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health, and more. However, the two organizations have never worked together on a project one-on-one. The reason being that outside of the issues regarding reproductive healthcare, the two organizations rarely cross paths since the NWLC focuses on laws and policies pertaining to rights and the APHA focuses on research about public health. In other words, these organizations have not worked together because they are focused on different fields, have different approaches to how they accomplish their goals, and they appeal to different audiences. However, if they were to combine their differences and collaborated on a charity, it would be beneficial because they would be able to raise awareness to the public about the need for Planned Parenthood. Since both organizations are located in Washington, D.C and the APHA has a history hosting events such as the National Public Health Week Public Health this compromise is very possible. Also, both organizations have connections with policy makers and if invited, this event could also influence future policies. Since this event will focus on Planned Parenthood, half of the collected donations should be sent to them so that they can continue to support their patients. The remaining half should be split between the NWLC and APHA so that they can continue their individual advocacies and research. Rodriguez 5 Another reason why this compromise is possible, is because it has worked in the past. Starting in 2015, Tesco, Diabetes UK, and the British Heart Foundation, teamed up to start the Tesco Charity Partnership to raise awareness about diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. As the leading retailer New Tesco utilized its stores, pharmacies, magazine, and social media to inform their customers and employees about the risks and dangers of diabetes and cardiovascular disease (Fox, raises Within their first year, the trio-charity was able to raise over $22 million. The charity donated half of their earnings to projects geared towards helping people improve their health. The other half was split between Diabetes UK and the British Heart Foundation Your Money Will Be Even though the National Law Center and the American Public Health Association share an interest in defending Planned Parenthood, they have different ideas about how they should tackle such an issue. However, as seen with the Tesco Charity Partnership, a collaboration between organizations with differing methods and strengths can be very beneficial when trying to bring awareness to a cause that they both believe in. By collaborating, the NWLC and APHA will have an opportunity to educate the public and policy makers about the services Planned Parenthood provides and the dangers that could arise if it were defunded, while simultaneously raising money for Planned Parenthood and their individual organizations. The end result of such a collaboration could spark conversations throughout the nation, which will in turn allow those who are against Planned Parenthood a chance to reevaluate their position and possibly change their minds. Rodriguez 6 Works Cited  NWLC. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  About APHA. American Public Health Association, n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. American Public Health Association Governing Council, Boards, Committees, Section Councils, And Affiliates,  American Journal of Public Health 86.3 (1996): 446- 447. Business Source Premier. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. CHOO, KRISTIN. MY DAUGHTER THE PLUMBER: National Law Center Seeks More Gender Equality in Vocational  ABA Journal 2002: 32. JSTOR Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Culp-Ressler, Tara. How Five Decades of Legal Birth Control Have Changed  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Fox, Nicolette. Tesco raises with Diabetes  Sustainability case studies. Guardian News and Media, 30 Apr. 2015. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Major new partnership announced between Tesco, Diabetes UK and the British Heart  Tesco plc. Tesco plc, 9 Sept. 2014. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. National Public Health  Nphw.org. National Public Health Week, n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood at a  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rodriguez 7 Perkins, Jane. Supreme Court Litigation - National Health Law  Supreme Court Litigation - National Health Law Program. National Health Law Program, 6 Mar. 2016. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Reproductive and Sexual  Reproductive and Sexual Health. American Public Health Association, n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. State Bans on Insurance Coverage of Abortion Endanger Health and Take Health Benefits Away from  NWLC. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tesco Charity Partnership Your money well  Tesco Charity Partnership Tesco Charities Partnership. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. What is Public  What is Public Health? American Public Health Association, n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017.