Lasso de la Vega 1 Gabriela Lasso de la Vega Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.001 11 February 2017 PETA and AZA: creating a compromise on zoos Many Americans love to visit the zoo each year. According to the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), around 186 million people visit their zoos each year. People find that visiting zoos is a way to learn about and connect to exotic animals that they would not normally be able to see in person. Some people and organizations believe that zoos are unethical because they keep wild animals in captivity. Animal lovers have to wonder if they are supporting something morally wrong when they visit a zoo. Two main groups that disagree on this issue are PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) and AZA (Association of Zoos and Aquariums). While these groups have very different agendas when it comes to zoos, they can compromise and use their shared love of animals to improve the living conditions of wildlife in captivity. When it comes to protecting animals, PETA is the group that always has a strong opinion to provide. According to website, they are the largest animal rights organization in the world. They focus their efforts on four main areas which are protecting animals from the food industry, clothing industry, labs, and entertainment. Zoos count as entertainment to PETA, so they are strongly against them for a few reasons. They believe zoos deprive animals of their natural instincts and behaviors because in captivity an animal is not able to hunt, scavenge, fly, and run. When animals are deprived of these natural rights, they quickly develop a condition called PETA explains that many zoos, even accredited ones, capture animals from Lasso de la Vega 2 the wild, which is a practice that they do not approve of. Another issue PETA has with zoos is that baby animals tend to bring in more visitors, so zoos will sometimes have breeding programs that force animals to have more babies. Zoos then will place older, less appealing animals in to where they are sold as roadside attractions. Ultimately PETA would like to shut down all zoos worldwide. One group that has a very different view of zoos is The Association of Zoos and Aquariums. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) is a nonprofit organization that accredits zoos that they believe meet their standards. Their guide to accreditation for 2017 states that their mission is to uphold, and raise the highest zoological and aquarium professional standards through self-evaluation, on-site inspection, and peer Per website, there are over 230 AZA accredited zoos in the US. For a zoo to become AZA accredited it must fill out a questionnaire that asks about the policies, procedures, records, lists and reports. It takes six months for AZA to evaluate the zoo, and then they send a team of inspectors and veterinarians to assess the zoo. The benefit of being an accredited zoo is that they are highly respected by the public and eligible to receive funding. AZA believes that zoos and aquariums play a key part in conserving animal species and educating the public about the animals. They state that their goal is to animal welfare and well-being in zoos and Although these two groups disagree about whether zoos are necessary, they do have some shared interests. Both AZA and PETA care greatly about animals. Both make it apparent that they are dedicated to animal welfare. Neither groups want to see animals suffer or be harmed in any way. Education is a huge part of these organizations because they believe that change can be made when the public is more aware of an issue. In case, they want to educate the public about unfair and unethical conditions that animals are put in. AZA wants to educate the public Lasso de la Vega 3 about animal species conservation and other environmental issues such as habitat destruction. AZA even has an animal welfare committee who has very similar goals to PETA when it comes to keeping animals happy and healthy. Attempts have been made in the past to improve the quality of zoos and address the concerns of PETA, as well as its supporters. In 1968, U.S. zoos started a voluntary ban on importing gorillas from the wild (Fisher 1999). This inspired many zoos to reduce or even eliminate the use of capturing animals from the wild. In addition to this, the use of accreditation programs such as AZA encourage zoos to provide animals with enrichment activities. Senior Vice president of AZA has said that modern zoos work hard to keep animals from being bored or becoming This is a huge step in the right direction, but PETA has more concerns about zoos that still need to be addressed. PETA still would like to see zoos stop forcing non-endangered animal species to breed, and for older animals to not be put in warehouses. For PETA and AZA to be able to compromise on the issue of zoos, they both must give a little. PETA needs to have an open mind and consider that zoos can be a key component in animal conservation. Species such as black-footed ferrets, horse, and California Condor have been saved from extinction due to zoos (Kelly, zoos AZA might lose a few of their zoos if they are not willing to make the changes needed to improve the lives of captive animals. An approach at compromise that been tried before is to have the president of PETA meet with the president of AZA and have PETA help make a new set of standards that will benefit the animals in zoos. In addition to this, PETA will encourage their members to support zoos and their conservation efforts. Both parties would benefit from this compromise by knowing with confidence that animals in captivity are being treated properly. PETA can take this opportunity to address their Lasso de la Vega 4 biggest concerns such as removing animals from the wild and forced breeding. AZA will benefit from having happier, healthier animals. They will also benefit because they will gain more supporters from having support. PETA claims to have over 5 million supporters, including celebrities such as Paul McCartney and Mary Tyler Moore. Zoos will be able to earn the trust of the public and can share their message about animal conservation. To make this compromise happen, PETA and AZA must meet in person and discuss concerns with zoos. PETA has stated that some of their main objections are breeding programs and taking animals from the wild. AZA can use these suggestions to write a new set of accreditation standards. For example, AZA accredited zoos will only be allowed to house animals born in captivity, and they will not be able to put older animals in warehouses to make room for babies. Whatever they come up with together can be implemented in January 2018 so that zoos and plenty of time to adjust and decide if they want to stay accredited. PETA will then make adjustments to their stance on zoos and encourage the public to choose AZA accredited zoos because of their ethical practices. AZA might lose some zoos who do not want to make the required changes, but these are zoos that do not share the same goals when it comes to animal rights. Zoos with the intention to conserve animal species and treat animals humanely will find the resources to do so (Croke, A consideration of policy implications: a panel discussion). Although PETA and AZA seem to be on opposite sides of the fence, there is room for compromise. When these two groups work together, they can accomplish many great things for animals and the environment. No matter what side of the argument a person is on, they can agree that there is room for change. Animal lovers who were concerned with zoos being ethical in the past, as well as the two stakeholders mentioned, will be able to benefit from this compromise. It is a matter of enough people supporting the change, and showing that they appreciate the zoos Lasso de la Vega 5 efforts. Based on the improvements that zoos have shown so far, it is clear that the future is hopeful. Lasso de la Vega 6 Works Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Strategic  Strategic Plan. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Are zoos  Junior Scholastic/Current Events 2016: 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Are zoos bad news? Tiger attack spurs  Current Events, a Weekly Reader publication 2008: 7. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Croke, Vicki. A Consideration Of Policy Implications: A Panel  Social Research 3 (1995): 801. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Fisher, Lester E. Zoos Look to the 21st Century: Year In Review  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 06 Aug. 1999. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.