Hall 1 Samantha Hall Professor Robert Ryan English Composition 1102 28 January 2017 Finding Common Ground-Sexual Education in Schools Sexual Education has been an issue of controversy across the nation and the topic of educating the youth about it has been argued for years. Now it is not just whether it should be taught but how and which version, abstinence or comprehensive sex education, should be placed in schools. The two types of sexual education out today are abstinence-only sexual education and comprehensive sexual education. ASCEND is an organization that focuses on abstinence-only education which is a form of sex education that teaches the youth about not to have sex until marriage and excludes talking about birth control, safe sex and the health part of the reproductive education. Advocates for Youth is an organization that focuses on comprehensive sexual education which teaches all information surrounding sexual education including, but not limited to, decision making, human development, disease prevention, contraception and relationships. Using the abstinence approach while incorporating comprehensive sexual education will lower teenage pregnancy rates, decrease the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases, and increase the health of the public. ASCEND, being an abstinence-only organization, focuses on the adolescents providing opportunities to become certified in Sexual Risk Avoidance, SRA (ASCEND 2007). According to ASCEND, SRA is an educational program on the prevention of the risks involved with sexual Hall 2 intercourse by encouraging abstinence from sexual activity until marriage. The program shows the importance of waiting until marriage, as well as the emotionally and physically cost that come with having sex. The aim is to discourage adolescents from having sexual relations by showing them the importance of family values (ASCEND 2007). The mission of ASCEND is to serve, protect and support the adolescents to remain abstinent; ASCEND awards SRA certifications to students choosing to wait until marriage in an effort for the abstinence lifestyle to be received in a positive light by the public (ASCEND 2007). Their SRA program holds its members to a code of ethics that guide the youth towards avoiding any sexual activity before marriage, while conducting themselves with integrity and compassion, and giving the students the best information to have the best health outcomes (ASCEND 2007). ASCEND does not believe in birth control or protection, safe sex, or anything else in that form of sexual education. According to a five-week abstinence program done by researchers at the University of Arkansas, abstinence education in high school increased general sex knowledge and decreased the number of students engaging in sexual intercourse while choosing abstinence (Denny 2006). These findings conclude that there are positive effects of an abstinence education program and thus abstinence should not be out ruled completely. Therefore, to achieve a greater public sexual health, abstinence should be included as a viable part of a sexual education plan. Advocates for Youth is a comprehensive sexual education organization that helps teens make responsible decisions when it comes to sexual activities by giving them the necessary tools and knowledge (Advocates for Youth 2008). The mission of Advocates for Youth is rights, respect, and responsibility when it comes to sexual education, and to assist the public in gaining understanding about the importance of comprehensive sexual education (Advocates for Youth 2008). The Advocates for Youth believe that the adolescents have the right to know about Hall 3 their body and the services that are offered to them. The organization wants to enable adolescents to protect themselves, and helps them by giving the information that they need. Advocates for Youth believe that adolescents need to know the risks of sexual behavior, such as pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, as well as be provided with the tools to prevent these. The organization does not just focus on the sexual education aspect, but also on ways to delay the sexual activity while increasing the use of condoms or birth control. If the youth are aware of their options, it will lower the amount of teen pregnancies. As stated in research done by Kathrin F. Stanger-Hall, education is positively correlated with teenage pregnancy and birth research provides evidence that providing information on safe sex as well as a complete instruction on sexually transmitted diseases lowers risky teenage sexual behavior. She refers to sexual education as alcohol; why not talk about the risks and educate people on how to take precaution? Incorporation of scientific sexual facts into a standard biology course may promote safe sexual behavior among youth, which in turn will slow the spread of STDs and STIs, while simultaneously reducing the amount of teenage pregnancies and the risks associated therein. Despite clear differences, when it comes down to making a difference in the lives of the teens and their education they have similar views. When the topic of sexual education is presented to the public, there is a negative reaction making it difficult for any version of this education to be heard because progress stalls once the people realize what the topic is, thus preventing the teens from learning. One common goal between ASCEND and Advocates for Youth is to raise awareness and to reduce teenage pregnancy rates and the rates of sexually transmitted diseases. The organizations want to protect teens from hurting themselves and want to give to the youth. In addition, both ASCEND and Advocates for Youth are involved in Hall 4 ongoing research and data analysis concerning the effectiveness and results of various sexual education programs. ASCEND states that one of their main objectives is, research expertise to evaluate raw data, interpret research trends, and correlate findings to healthy youth Similarly, Advocates for Youth have produced of research have identified dozens of programs that are effective in helping young people prevent pregnancy, HIV, and With this emphasis placed on the importance of finding the most effective and healthy program, there is a greater chance of implementing a curriculum that has the greatest impact on youth, mainly discouraging risky sexual behavior. Throughout the years, Sexual Education has been a controversial topic, but the difference between now and the future depends on action taken today. Sexual education needs to be taught to teenagers nationwide. Right now, there are high teen pregnancy rates, and rising STD rates. This all stems from the lack of this education. It may be unproductive to teach abstinence only, but it may be just as ineffective to teach a comprehensive sexual education class alone. The way to get through to students and teach them the information needed to keep them safe is to have a sexual education class put into schools. That class should be a comprehensive and abstinence program to give the students every tool they need to protect themselves. Studies have shown that students who receive an abstinence-only sex education class have a higher likelihood of engaging in risky sexual behavior (Kohler 2008 344-351). However, that does not mean that comprehensive sexual education is the sole answer. To incite a change in current sexual education, both parties must acknowledge their common values, and discuss the best way to combine the most effective parts of both of their programs. If both organizations are willing to make concessions in the name of supporting their unifying goal, an agreement can be made, and efforts to increase the sexual safety and health of teenagers will be doubled. A union between Hall 5 these two organizations will also result in an increase in fund-raising which will help with program implementation in public schools. If they act to get this program placed in schools, they will be in good standing with the public and their mission will be viewed in a favorable light by parents. In conclusion, sexual education should be taught completely including health, diseases, contraception and abstinence so that the youth have all the information they need to stay safe. ASCEND and Advocate for Youth can work together to make this happen and they can do it while accomplishing their goals for the youth and the public. The best solution to solve the controversial topic of sex education in America is to evaluate all perspectives and reach a consensus that introduces a program with curriculum that addresses the concerns of both perspectives, while remaining true to the mission of sexual education: helping teens stay safe. Safety is the highest priority, and it can be achieved by utilizing a program containing abstinence education combined with a comprehensive education of sexual and reproductive health. Hall 6 Works Cited Denny, George, and Michael Young. Evaluation of an Abstinence-Only Sex Education Curriculum: An 18-Month Journal of School Health, vol. 76, no. 8, 15 Sept. 2006, pp. doi:10.1111/j.1746-1561.2006.00135.x. Hauser, Debra. Advocatesforyouth.org. Edward Carporal, 14 July 2008. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Huber, Valerie.   We Ascend. John Lyman, 24 Jan. 2007. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Kohler, Pamela K., et al. and Comprehensive Sex Education and the Initiation of Sexual Activity and Teen Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 42, no. 4, June 2008, pp. doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2007.08.026. Stanger-Hall, Kathrin F., and David W. Hall. Education and Teen Pregnancy Rates: Why We Need Comprehensive Sex Education in the PLoS ONE, vol. 6, no. 10, 14 Oct. 2011, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0024658.