Kamadia 1 Ayaan Kamadia Janie Gill ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Resolving the Issue of Illegal Mass Surveillance Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor  This is a quote from Benjamin Franklin, one of the founding fathers of the United States. While Benjamin Franklin was reported to have said this almost two centuries ago, this quote still holds true in day and age. The in day and age is the veil of privacy. In an age filled with smartphones and increasingly new advances in technology, the value of privacy is more important now than ever. On this ever-growing battlefront of privacy, and its workarounds there are two such stakeholders (among many) which are on opposing sides. The two stakeholders on opposing sides of this issue of privacy are the United National Security Agency and an organization that stands for the public against illegal mass surveillance, Stand Against Spying. A common ground between both the NSA and Stand Against Spying are their concerns over citizens. A possible compromise between these two stakeholders is the creation of fragmented bypasses. To understand the ongoing conflict between the stakeholders, one must first understand who the organizations are and what they stand for. The National Security Agency is a branch of the United States government that was formed on November 4, 1952 National Security ). The NSA specializes in maintaining safety and security of the United States through means of technological advances and security. The main aim of the NSA is to ensure the safety and security of the country through means of cryptology Mission & ). Therefore, they ensure security by the study of computer code and its Kamadia 2 effects on systems. Their core beliefs are honesty, respect for the law, integrity and transparency. Their mission statement states that the NSA is at the front of different forms of cryptology that contains different information products and services so as to be at an advantage for the USA and their allies Mission & ). As for the opposing stakeholder, Stand Against Spying is an alliance of different organizations that have come together to combat the spying of the NSA on its citizens. Stand Against Spying was formed after the Snowden disclosure Where Do Your Representatives Stand On Illegal ). The Snowden disclosure refers to the information released by Edward Snowden about the NSA. Edward Snowden was an NSA contracted employee who discovered that the NSA was conducting mass surveillance on all its citizens irrespective of any involvement with red flagged individuals or organizations. He then managed to gain proof of the actions and was able to release his message to the public. Because of his revelations, he is being persecuted by the United States government and is currently seeking asylum in the European Union (University of South Florida Libraries Catalog). The formation of Stand Against Spying was a gradual process that first had various organizations forming anti spying organizations. The first of this was in June 2013 with the formation of stopwatching.us. The website was created so as to pressure the government to investigate the illegal mass surveillance. In the next month, the Electric Frontier Foundation along with many more organizations sued the United States government for violating their First Amendment rights. Eventually Stand Against Spying was formed in July 2014 when the organizations mentioned above came together so as to stop the illegal mass surveillance program. Kamadia 3 The main aim of Stand Against Spying is to fight the mass surveillance that is in place in the United States. Stand Against Spying believes that the mass surveillance does not fit in anywhere in a free and democratic government. Their view on mass surveillance is because it is technically possible does not mean it should be Where Do Your Representatives Stand on Illegal ). Stand Against Spying aims to inform individuals about the illegal surveillance that takes place and urges them to place pressure on the government so that they outlaw such activity. Mass surveillance is a point of contention between the NSA and Stand Against Spying. This is because the NSA views mass surveillance as a solution to the issue of security in the country while Stand Against Spying believes that mass surveillance is not a legal action. The compromise between these two stakeholders that will lead to a viable solution is the creation of fragmented bypasses that allow for important information to be viewed but ensures that no one person or organization has access to all of data (Ciriani, Valentina, et al). This is because such data collection is dangerous as this data could be compromised and used against the very citizens it was meant to protect. Both the NSA and Stand Against Spying have not come to a resolution due to their opposing ideologies. The NSA believes in its fight against any enemies foreign and domestic through the means of prevention. Prevention, which is done by the surveillance of its citizens so as to identify any potential acts of terrorism and terminate them before they could begin. Stand Against Spying on the other hand believes that the NSA should not have the ability to mass surveil all of its citizens as it is not only unethical but also illegal. Kamadia 4 A common ground between both the NSA and Stand Against Spying are their concerns over citizens. Both organizations are concerned with the betterment of citizens even if they go about enacting this concern in different ways. The main aim is to ensure the safety and security of the citizens, and they achieve this goal by going through any methods at their disposal, even if these said methods are legally questionable. As for Stand Against Spying, their main aim is to ensure the privacy of these citizens. They want to ensure that the rights of all individuals irrespective of background or any other varying factor should limit from having the privacy that they as individuals and organizations deserve. A solution to this issue is the creation of an information bypass. This can be done by requiring technology firms to create a bypass that allows the government to obtain any relevant information about an individual or individuals, but split up set bypass into fragments so that no single agency has access to all information. The NSA will have to give up the control they have had over information. Stand Against Spying will also have to give up on their aims of having surveillance made illegal by the United States government. Information that could be leaked as the creation of this split bypass will not allow any single individual to have all the data required. This is feasible as the creation of bypass technologies are not unheard of and have been created in the past (Ciriani, Valentina, et al). Therefore, making a specific bypass for certain applications should not be problematic for technology firms. As for the issue of fragmentation, encryption and fragmentation technologies are available to allow for the effective breaking down of data. This solution is a workable compromise as it allows for the goals of both the NSA and Stand Against Spying to be achieved in some form or the other. The solution allows for the NSA to receive key pieces of data that will aid in prevention of any crimes against citizens. Kamadia 5 Key fragmented data pieces can be used to find otherwise incriminating or actionable intelligence while not sacrificing the privacy of other citizens. This solution also works for Stand Against Spying as it prevents the NSA from accessing all the information of citizens, furthermore it stands by the goal of Stand Against Spying which is to ensure that illegal mass surveillance by the NSA is stopped. It is imperative that these two organizations come to the compromise stated above. Without this compromise, they cannot protect the rights and ensure the safety of their citizens. Kamadia 6 Works Cited Ciriani, Valentina, et al. Combining fragmentation and encryption to protect privacy in data  ACM Transactions on Information and System Security (TISSEC) 13.3 (2010): 22. Edward Snowden. n.p.: Farmington Hills, Mich. : Gale, 2010-, 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jacob, Leah, MA. National Security Agency  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mission & . Nsa.gov. n.p., 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 . <https://www.nsa.gov/about/mission-strategy/>. Where Do Your Representatives Stand on Illegal . StandAgainstSpying.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017 . <https://standagainstspying.org/about/>.