Ibarra 1 Ivan Ibarra Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Piece Rate Farms have been a huge part of American History. From the first time the American natives taught the pilgrims to grow and harvest crops America has produced food to feed its people. Today, America is able to produce a plethora of food for its citizens and to export to countries around the globe. This is mostly thanks to the farm workers who harvest millions of pounds of crops a year. These farm workers and the pay they receive has been controversial since the days of slavery. Nonetheless, America has always produced bountiful crops for its people. Today, farm workers have the lowest wages/salary of any other worker in America, but this has helped the cost of crops to be at a relatively low price. If pay was increased but they still used the harvest would increase which would keep profits the same for farmers and the farm workers would be able to live above the poverty line. On average a farm worker will work forty to sixty hours a week picking crops. These crops can vary from strawberries and oranges in Florida to watermelons all the way up north in Indiana. From the standpoint of a farm worker, their pay is not sufficient to support their livelihood. The majority of farm workers are paid based on a system called This piece rate system pays the farm worker for every set quantity of crop they harvest. For example, the piece rate for oranges in Florida is 85 cents per 90-pound box of oranges. On average a farm worker will earn $7.25 an hour (Chavez).So if a worker were to meet this average picking Ibarra 2 oranges in Florida, they would have to pick roughly 767 pounds of oranges in an hour. This average will vary widely because there are so many factors that affect how much they earn. The pay can be affected by the type of fruit that is being picked, how long the employee has worked at a particular farm, and whether or not the crops were harmed by the weather. Usually the more years an employee has worked at a particular farm the more pay they receive according to the piece rate. But new employees will be faced with lower pay according to the piece rate. Each fruit has a different rate for quantity picked. This pay does not vary so much because of the difficulty of picking a particular fruit but because of how much it is sold for in the market. For example, an eggplant is relatively easy to pick all you do is use a branch cutter to cut the eggplant from the plant and wear gloves to avoid the thorns it is as simple as that, but the workers are paid a lot for this plant. In spite of all the regulations that are meant to protect farmworkers and their wages, these laws are only strictly enforced in companies that are large. The government is not strict on the smaller companies, therefore allowing the employers to not abide by the regulations. For example, if the government does not enforce these regulations, the employers may get away with not recording the wages, and not paying the farmworkers minimum wage. According to the article Labor Law for growers have claimed that they do not any farmworkers and therefore need not comply with the minimum wage or other labor Labor Law for In other words, employers can simply not abide by the minimum wage regulation just by not claiming to employ any farmworkers. Referring back to the piece rate system, it may seem harsh that workers may not pick enough of the produce to add up to the minimum wage. Although this may be a concern for farm Ibarra 3 workers from small farms, there is a regulation that requires employers to pay the farm worker minimum wage when their average earnings for the hour did not meet the hourly wage. In order to guarantee that the employee will meet the minimum wage per hour, a solution may be to increase the price for the piece rate system. Yes, that may be a solution, but increasing the pay for farm workers will also increase the cost of crops. For instance gas prices, why do gas prices fluctuate so much? There are many factors that affect the gas price, such as the cost of crude oil, marketing, and taxes. Now, instead of gas, the price of crops is affected by different factors also, such as; the cost to buy the field, pesticides, the tractors/equipment, water bill, pay the workers, and how hard it will be and how much would it cost to keep the crops healthy. Farm workers have one of the lowest salaries, mainly because they are not given the opportunity to go to school or be able to pursue a degree. Of course having a low salary, farm workers will seek the opportunity to make more money, which includes working using the piece rate system. The piece rate system pays by the units of output produced. A point that is often overlooked is that the more efficient the worker is and the more units of output produced, will then lead to a greater increase of pay for the hour, day, week, month, or year. This system motivates workers to be more productive in order to increase their salary. Pay is based on what you put in, and the worker gets what he gives. There are many cons and pros when using the piece rate system. Some cons of the peice rate include; the wage causing many workers to live below the poverty line, insufficient salary to afford the basic living cost, and how deceiving employers can be in order to pay the workers less than the minimum wage. Some Pros of the piece rate include; workers being more productive, greater output of production, opportunity to increase earnings based off of effort, and Ibarra 4 affordable crops for consumers. According to the article article by Cesar Chavez, the case of workers in our fields, labor laws are poorly enforced at best, and at worst, farm workers are paid very little or no wages and work under modern slavery In other words, there are regulations that were established to improve the wage of farmworkers, but the real issue is the enforcement. When will employers stop deceiving farm workers, when will they be strictly enforced to follow the regulations, not only on big farms, but on small farms as well.. Most farm workers are immigrants, who are not U.S. citizens, workers who are uneducated, who work all day in the field, regardless of how hot or cold it is, just to provide for their family. They spend most of the week working, away from their family, but they get paid overtime. In fact, Cesar Chavez stated in his article that, than increasing over time, farm worker wages have actually declined by more than 20% in the past twenty years after accounting for (Chavez). With all keypoints considered, it is obvious that farm workers wage will continue to be a controversial topic for many years, due to the fact that if one issue is solved for one stakeholder than one issue arises for the other. But the one compromise that does seem plausible is that the farm workers will have to continue to work according to the piece rate but the farmers have to increase the pay by anything between $0.50-$1.00. Based off the information here farm workers will work harder for more money which would increase the production rate helping the farmers and their Employees. This compromise does seem to lean towards the farm workers a little more but only because the farmers have had the better of the bargain for a while now. Ibarra 5 Works Cited Agricultural Productivity in the  ERS - Agricultural Productivity in the U.S. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Low Wages  Farm Worker Ministry . N.p., 03 Oct. 2016. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. US Labor Law for  Justice . Farmworker Justice, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017.