Mourra 1 Saskia Mourra Janie Gill ENC 1102-077 29 January 2017 Vaccinations Immunization is the process of making a person immune to an infectious disease by the distribution of a vaccine (World Health Organization). Many people have strong point of views regarding vaccinations as to whether they should or should not vaccinate their children. Whether one chooses to vaccinate or not, they both have their own set of risks. People see vaccinations as a black or white viewpoint, but a gray area (compromise) is not an impossible task, but it is a difficult one. Voices for Vaccines support the idea of vaccinations in order to prevent the spread of diseases while the Anti-Vaccination Movement do not approve of vaccinations due to the risks of transmitting a disease from a vaccine. Although these organizations view vaccines in different perspectives, they have their minds set for the same goal. Both organizations, the Anti- Vaccination Movement and Voices for Vaccines, main priorities are to prevent diseases and assure safety for children from diseases. The best way for these two organizations to accomplish their goals is if they work together and the only way to do so is by a compromise. There is a bill in Vermont being reviewed called the Vaccine Compromise Bill, which allows people to rules requiring a range of vaccines for all school-aged children. This compromise supports the Anti-Vaccination Movement and Voices for Vaccines beliefs and rights. The Anti-Vaccination Movement want to prevent diseases that come from vaccinations and inform parents of the risk of immunization such as autism. According to the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry, is a complex neurologic disorder that typically manifests in the first Mourra 2 few years of live and primarily involves a deficiency of typical social skills and (The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry). The Anti-Vaccination Movement believes that the Mumps- Measles-Rubella vaccine is the vaccine that causes autism. The reason behind this belief is that in the the number of vaccinations increased along with the number of autism diagnoses. According to sciencedirect.com, people may think that are actually ineffective, useless, or even Vaccinations hold a host of a disease, which is entered into the bloodstream and could possibly spread the disease or be the cause of another, such as autism, autoimmune disorders, brain damage, and Sudden Death Infant Syndrome (SIDS). According to vaccines.news, all vaccines contain a number of lethal chemicals that are linked to serious neurological damage including antibiotics, formaldehyde, acetone, and yeast proteins. The majority of schools in the United States of America make vaccinations mandatory in order for children to attend and get the proper education. This causes children who are not vaccinated to be home schooled and cannot attend a proper education with teachers and classmates. The Voice for Vaccines want to prevent diseases from other countries by taking vaccines and inform parents about the safety, importance, and benefits of immunizations such as preventing disease. This organization is a parent-led organization supported by scientists, healthcare professionals, and public health officials. Voices for Vaccines want to give parents who vaccinate a chance to speak up about their choice since the majority of voices speaking on the behalf of parents who vaccinate, are those who oppose of vaccinations (Voices for Vaccines). Dr. Goldstein, a pediatrician, states that parents have the right information, and they understand the overwhelming evidence that supports vaccination, we feel they will come to understand why we, as doctors, feel so strongly in favor of (Goldstein). According to Adult Vaccinations, vaccines are just as important to your overall health as diet, Mourra 3 exercise, and regular check-ups, because they play a role in keeping you healthy and safe from infectious diseases. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends vaccinations throughout your life to protect against many (Adult Vaccinations). Since vaccinations are mandatory for children to attend schools, those who support vaccinations do not have any issues with their children getting the education they need. The fear of a disease is what both organizations have in common. The Anti-Vaccination Movement and Voices for Vaccines want to prevent diseases in order to keep children and others safe and healthy. At the same time, they have different viewpoints on the subject of immunizations. Even though the diseases each organization fears are transmitted into the human body differently, they still both want to prevent any kind of disease. The Anti-Vaccination Movement fears diseases transmitted into the human body by getting a vaccine shot, meaning the vaccine carries the disease. Voices for Vaccines fear diseases that could be prevents by getting vaccines since vaccinations are known to make a person immune to a certain infectious disease. Although the host of a disease is within the vaccine, the host is dead and cannot cause that certain disease, but some believe that there is a small risk and chance that it may cause another disease such as autism. The only way for both organization to see eye-to-eye is by a compromise that will support and benefit both sides in order to prevent diseases. The argument between both organizations is whether a person can or cannot the disease from the vaccine and whether the ingredients in vaccines are safe or contain harmful substances. Rather than arguing with one another, both organizations that represent every point of view should come together and find a gray area known as a compromise. Since children are not allowed to attend schools unless vaccinated, there must be a compromise found since many believe that the government should not interfere in personal medical choices. A Mourra 4 recent compromise being situated in the state of Vermont called the Vaccine Compromise Bill, allows them to rules requiring a range of vaccines for all school-aged children. This bill is still being reviewed since the vaccines being are for diseases that can be clearly preventable such as the measles, whopping cough, and the flu. According to Alan Panebaker, parents who choose to opt out would need to provide a signed statement every year stating that they understand the risks to their children and others, such as children with compromised immune systems, whom the departments of Education and Health would need to find a way to protect (Alan Panebaker). John Campbell, the Senate President Pro Tempore, refused to sign the bill and stated, cannot in all good conscience sign a report when I deeply feel we are putting our children at The topic of immunization and vaccinations is a touchy and one-sided subject. Even though both organizations want to prevent disease and assure safety for children from diseases, a compromise is nearly impossible hard to find because of each strong beliefs. The Anti-Vaccination Movement believes strongly in their viewpoints and research on the reasons why vaccinations are harmful. Voice for Vaccines strongly believes in their research and evidence as to why and how vaccinations are efficient. No issue or problem should have just a black or white point of view that could make it impossible to find a gray side. Every issue has a gray area where both sides can come together and make a compromise that supports both sides. Therefore, the Vaccine Compromise Bill is the best compromise. It supports both sides while letting everyone know the risks of their decisions as well as others decisions. Those who are pro- vaccination believe that each vaccinated person can protect their herd from those who are not vaccinated. Thus, a compromise is needed to be found, so that both stakeholders can support Mourra 5 themselves while supporting one another and help protect our generation as well as the future generations after us. Mourra 6 Work Cited Deshevoi, Sergei.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Kata, Anna.  ScienceDirect. Science Direct, 28 May 2012. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Novella, Steven. The Anti-Vaccination  CSI. N.p., Nov.-Dec. 2007. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Pane Baker, Alan. Conference Committee Agrees on Vaccine  VTIGGER. N.p., 30 Apr. 2012. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Samuelson, D. Ten Reasons Not to  Vaccines News Vaccines News Health Related News. N.p., 20 June 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Vaccines  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 19 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Vara, Christine. Doctors Take a Stand for  Shot of Prevention. N.p., 02 Sept. 2011. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. 10 Reasons To Be  10 Reasons To Be Vaccinated. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.