Zyrylou Macatol Adam Carter ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Is Instagram causing self esteem issues? This day in age, technology has attained a powerful hold in the young generation. As a teenager in the twenty first century myself: I am fully aware of the influence that technology, and in turn, social media holds on my constituents. Consequently, as the influence of social media grows; so does the influence of certain social media personalities. The problem that lies within this is that many of those that attain a certain amount of fame using social media by posting pictures of their bodies, attain it by posting unrealistic and highly retouched content increasing beauty related pressures that young women face. This content is posted and nothing is disclosed to their audiences about how this photo came to be. Since photos are two-dimensional, there are many ways to take photos and edit them in ways that make one appear thinner or more toned as they really do three-dimensionally. Certain photo-editing technology such as Photoshop can even make one appear as something they do not actually look like at all. Teens see that these people that post this content are well liked and are influenced to believe that they must look like these illusions in order to look good. A powerful social media influence in generation is Instagram. This organization is notorious for lending fame to those that post unrealistic portrayals of their bodies and in opposition to the negative influences of this that are caused by such organizations as Instagram is Dove. In order to combat the influence that Instagram has on the spreading of this unrealistic idea of beauty and consequently; the self esteem issues of women; we must make it a requirement for those posting photos to disclose clearly that these photos have been edited and to disclose the mechanism that the photo was edited on. A prevalent social media platform in culture is Instagram. This organization has gained a powerful role in the lives of many of adolescents as well as young adults. Instagram is a photo based platform of social media, thus many of the issues that social media poses for cultural body image is posed by Instagram. In a study composed about the relationship between Instagram and body issues, participants displayed their issues concerning the studies and were quoted to respond negatively to it, saying things such as was annoyed with the amount of photos they (celebrities) posted. It looks like they live such unrealistic (Dion, 14). Their mission statement is storytelling for everyone from celebrities, newsrooms and brands, to (Instagram). Many seek to gain fame through Instagram by posting unrealistic photos and many gain a large following by doing just this. A testimonial of Essena on youtube reveals that she quit Instagram because she once longed for fame but once she gained what she had longed for; she was miserable. She revealed that she would spend hours doing photo-shoots just to post one picture on instagram and every aspect of her life that she revealed on social media was edited and articulated in order to get her the most amount of likes. When she was twelve, she saw the people in her current position of fame and believed that these people were so happy. She convinced herself that if she attained the fame and the appearance that these people possessed; she too would be happy. This did not happen and once she finally gained all of these things, she was She learned through her journey that you let yourself be defined by numbers, you let yourself be defined by something that is not The images that people such as Essena before she portray are not always realistic and people must be required to disclose what they are doing to their photos in order to help people realize that these photos are mere illusions. In contrast to this, Dove aims to make a difference in how women feel about themselves. Their mission statement is to the next generation of women develop a positive relationship with the way they look - helping them raise their self-esteem and realise their full (Dove). They want people to realize that the images they see are not realistic and that they are beautiful just the way they are. In a campaign launched by Dove, they call out to teachers to and parents to teach the younger generation they should love their bodies and gain confidence from their beauty keeping in mind that self-esteem issues are normal part of growing up. While both Stakeholders promote different entities, they both aim to allow people to reach their full potential. With Instagram, it is by sharing art and with Dove it is by helping people gain self-esteem. The spread of technology throughout the years has spread this thin woman is a good looking ideology and according to studies, there have been a rise in the prevalence of anorexia in young women in each decade since 1930 (Hoek & van Hoeken, 2003). Additionally, bulimia in women of the ages 10-39 has tripled between 1988 and 1993 (Hoek & van Hoeken, 2003). It is biologically impossible for most women to attain the level of thinness that many social media personalities appear to have without turning to unhealthy methods such as eating disorders. Even a women who once a made a career out of social media, Essena has seen the negative side of it and turned against exactly what she though would bring her happiness because it was not real. Women be influenced to appear as something that they cannot. Making teens realize that these people that appear happy on Instagram and other social media platforms only appear happy. There is no way to know as to whether or not they really are and according to Essena testimonial, those around her were just as miserable as she was. To solve this issue, we must require those with a large following or those whom are sponsored on sites such as Instagram to disclose exactly what they did to their content in order to make it appear the way it does. Their impressionable audiences will soon realize that these people are not realistic. With this solution, both Instagram and Dove will benefit. Implementing this solution will be a positive turn towards positive body image and people will turn towards healthy ways in which they can attain their individual body goals. People will stop comparing themselves to things that they cannot be and will no longer have to feel bad for not appearing in a certain away. About  About Us Instagram. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Dion, Nicole Annete,  The Effect of Instagram on Self-Esteem and Life  (2016). Honors Theses. Paper 91. Our  Dove UK. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Building Your Body Confidence - Dove Self-Esteem  Doveselfesteem. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. IKaryn. Essena - Why I REALLY Am Quitting Social Media - (Original  YouTube. YouTube, 03 Nov. 2015. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.