Zena Rigaud Mr. Carter English Composition 2 29 January 2017 Effects That Beauty Standards Have on Women Over the years a lot of research has been done on whether or not beauty standards have negative effects on women. Within recent years, the issue has become more prevalent in the media, causing a highly debated controversy. With large well known beauty companies creating advertisements that showcase unrealistic images of beauty, poor body image can be developed at a very young age. This can also cause negative emotions amongst women to arise on their appearance, leading to low self-esteem, anxiety and other possible mental illnesses. Seven in ten girls they do not measure up in some way including their looks, performance in school and (Dove Self-Esteem Fund). One of the companies that is on the forefront of promoting positive self image is Dove through their Real Beauty campaign. They focus on transforming the conversation around what beauty is by stating that is not defined by shape, size or color feeling like the best version of They feature women from real life on their website and ads. On the other hand, companies like Secret continue to perpetuate unrealistic beauty standards through campaigns like Perfect Body, which was later changed to A Body for Every Body due to backlash from critics. Despite no longer advertising this campaign, they still showcase models who represent unrealistic beauty ideals. Ultimately, both these companies share the common goal of striving to market their products in a way that will appeal to the most buyers. However one is causing detrimental effects to self image and mental health. In order for Secret and Dove to successfully sell their products while also promoting realistic beauty standards, they should develop a partnership based on the principles of learning from each other. Secret was founded by Roy Raymond in 1977 after feeling embarrassed to be seen publicly shopping for lingerie for his wife. The store instantly became successful and earned a revenue of $500,000 in one year. It is now the largest retailer of lingerie and is owned by L Brands. By them showcasing models who only fit a certain beauty standard, Secret continuously adds to the negative effects of media. For example, their annual Secret Fashion Show solely displays models scantily clad in (Holmes). These fashion shows are primarily attended by A-list entertainers who are seen as role models to girls and young women everywhere. The shows also showcase famous celebrities who are well known around the world. Celebrities like Taylor Swift, Gigi Hadid, and Kendall Jenner all have made appearances on Secret runway while also having a tremendous following on social media. Since these women have such immense platforms, young girls look to them as role models and aspire to be like them. By endorsing this unrealistic and negative beauty ideals, these celebrities are insinuating their support for Secret detrimental effect on girls. When young girls see women they admire reflected by widespread companies, it tends to have an influence on how girls view themselves. As pointed out by Jo Swinson who is a British member of parliament for East Dunbartonshire in Scotland and co-founder of the Campaign for Body Confidence girls aged 5-7 were exposed to images of thin dolls like Barbie, they said they wanted to look thinner compared with those who saw dolls with a healthier body (Swinson). Whether companies like Secret want to admit it or not, their advertisements have a large impact on how the girls and women who view them perceive themselves. The Dove Brand was founded by Lever Brothers in 1957. In the beginning, they only sold soap bars but have since grown to sell other products like body wash, body lotion, face washes, shampoos and conditioners. This company has always used real women in their ads, for over 40 years now, in order to promote their ideals of moisture, cleanliness, natural beauty, and touchable Their campaign, Real Beauty, was launched in 2004 with efforts to widen the definition of beauty in mind. They showcase women of different sizes, races, and ages in hopes to celebrate real and inclusive beauty. Dove has also demonstrated that their main priority is not always sales but rather representing themselves in a way that exemplifies the beauty ideals they promote. For example, in 2013 Dove released an ad that showed footage of young and elderly women hiding their faces from a camera and compared it to film of younger girls being excited to be on camera. With this ad they asked the question, did you stop thinking you were and in turn advocate for their desire to change commercialized beauty ideals. Being such a well known company, Dove has the opportunity to highly influence their audience and they are choosing to leave a lasting and positive impact. Since Secret sells clothing items and Dove sells beauty products, they have never worked together. One company portrays women that are not representative of regular, everyday women and the other showcases real women that represent a wide range of body shapes, ages, and races. Despite their differences in marketing styles and offered merchandise, both companies value the reputation that they portray with their advertisements. Unlike many other businesses who cater to both men and women, these two companies specifically target women. They solely feature women in their commercials and emphasize the benefits women can acquire from purchasing and utilizing their products. A possible solution to the negative effects that beauty ads have on women and body image would be to develop a partnership based on the principles of learning from each other. According to The Partnering Initiative, which is an independent not-for-profit organization dedicated to driving innovative cross-sectoral collaborative action for a sustainable future, potential partners spend time getting to know each other and thereby deepening their understanding of each priorities, individual partners feel more able to present their specific Benefits and Risks of This compromise would be effective because both parties would be contributing their perspective on the beauty industry. Not only would this eliminate bias, it would also enhance the way both companies create ads in the future. Understanding the reasons behind why people have different views on topics allows one to expand on their knowledge of the topic while also diversifying their points of view. The two companies can equally benefit from this proposed partnership because it would give them the opportunity to gain insight on their opposing styles of marketing. Through this sharing of ideas, the intended outcome would be for Dove to understand why Secret feels as though the way they portray their women is the most effective and vice versa. Once both companies have grasped the underlying factors behind their advertisements, a positive outcome is most likely to be achieved. We are faced with images portraying a wide range of topics on a daily basis. Being bombarded with these images in the media, in magazines, advertisements and commercials, it tends to heavily influence the way we perceive the world. The impact these advertisements are having on people often go unnoticed by the person experiencing them. While the consequences of filling our daily lives with photoshopped images are beyond our control, companies like Dove and Secret have a meaningful stake in making a difference within this industry. A specific example of the effects this issue is having on our lives is the way young girls and body image is being negatively affected due to photoshopped and unrealistic images of women in the media. Currently, Secret is only using women in their ads who represent an unrealistic beauty ideal. On the other hand, companies like Dove are attempting to promote a more positive and diverse image of beauty. In order for both companies to successfully market their brand while also staying true to their image, they should develop a partnership that would allow them to understand the point of view. Works cited Fund, Dove Self-Esteem. New National Report Reveals the High Price of Low  PR Newswire: press release distribution, targeting, monitoring and marketing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Holmes, Elizabeth. Secret Fashion Show: Models, Rappers and One Famous Baby  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 11 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Laura Falotico Follow. Dove- Brand  Share and Discover Knowledge on LinkedIn SlideShare. N.p., 18 Jan. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Require Magazines to Print Disclaimers on Photoshopped  Change.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Swinson, Jo. False beauty in advertising and the pressure to look  CNN. Cable News Network, 10 Aug. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Training and  The Partnering Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Welcome to  Dove UK. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.