P e r e z 1 Bailey Perez Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 15 February 2017 Sexual Abuse in Sports and the Equality Amongst the Coaches According to a study done by the American Medical Association, one in four girls and one in eight boys is sexually molested before they reach the age of eighteen (National Council of Youth Sports). Unfortunately, many predators turn to coaching a sport to find their victims since there is one on one time with the child. Children that are victims of this sexual abuse in sports have usually already formed a bond with the predator and the parents build trust with the situation and the coach. This makes it more difficult for the child to seek help. Sexual abuse in sports is an issue that has been receiving a lot of media coverage recently which is causing more and more people to question just what is being done to combat the issue. While there are many policies already in place, some have argued that there are not enough regulations to keep the participants safe. One of these policies is Title IX, legislation meant to protect the participants against sexual abuse and the coaches against discrimination (NCAA). Many sports organizations require coaches to go through a background check and/ or fingerprinting to know of any past or present legal allegations against the coach. While this is in place to help hire trustworthy coaches, not all predators have a legal history (Lanning). This complicates the hiring of new coaches, often basing a lot of hiring opportunities solely off trust and hope. However, Title IX had some setbacks in the hiring of gymnastics coaches. Many gymnasts and parents were worried about male coaches being the main predator and because of this, the male coaches were P e r e z 2 discriminated against. The organizations that hire these coaches then overcompensated by hiring more male coaches than female, thus causing the amount of female coaches to drastically decline. The National Council of Youth Sports is an organization that the youth sports industry in promoting the value of participation through advocacy and (National Council of Youth Sports). The National Council of Youth Sports (NCYP) advocates for the implementation of more policies/ trainings for the coaches; however, many coaches find it unfair to be limited on how they can teach. The Alliance of Women Coaches is an organization that defends the rights of women in the field of sports instruction. In order to diminish the amount of sexual abuse in sports and broaden the diversity of coaches, the Alliance of Women Coaches and the NYCP should educate the parents, coaches, and athletes on what to expect from a coach in class and the signs of sexual abuse; also, the organizations should have to give adequate reason for hiring a coach based on Title IX. By educating the parents and athletes as well on the different forms of sexual abuse, the occurrence of misconduct could be drastically diminished. A misconception surrounding sexual abuse in sports is that an athlete leaves the sport or the coach once they experience sexual abuse. However, most of the time, the athlete is meaning they feel obligated to remain because of the manipulation and in some cases, the athlete may not even know they are the victim. In sports that involve touching, an offender may convince the athlete that it is completely normal. The information presented should also include what they should expect in from the coach during instruction and why it is done the way it is. Some spotting (aid in performing a skill) in gymnastics may require the coach to touch a spot that could make the athlete uncomfortable. If the athlete is informed of why the coach must hold his or her hand in that area, it would help distinguish sexual advances from proper spotting. P e r e z 3 Title IX states that person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial (NCAA). In earlier years, male coaches were often not hired in gymnastics, simply because of their gender. When Title IX was implemented, many of the organizations that hire coaches tried to overcompensate for the lack of male coaches by hiring only male coaches. The amount of women coaches in 1972 was over ninety percent; however, today, it is at an all-time low (Alliance of Women Coaches). The Alliance for Women Coaches is to leading the field of women coaches, at all levels, by providing support, resources, and unparalleled events and programs which address the needs and interests of its (Alliance for Women Coaches Vision). The Alliance for Women Coaches is fighting to equalize the amount of male and female coaches in the workplace. By educating those involved of what is expected while allowing the instructors of sports to teach in a manner that is effective, sexual abuse in sports can be decreased. There are many misconceptions surrounding sexual abuse in sports, often blaming the athletes. A common misconception is that athletes can get themselves out of a situation that involves sexual abuse; however, an offender has a way of isolating his or her victim and often leaves them trapped in the relationship. Sports organizations can help combat this by limiting the isolating situations that leads to the initiation of sexual scenarios and giving the parents and athletes access to information about expectations and help if something goes wrong. Sexual abuse is a rapidly growing issue, but together sports organizations and the sports officials with the participation of the athletes and parents can help drastically decrease the rate of abuse in sports. And with the hiring organizations providing adequate reasoning and deciding fairly when conducting the employment process, the amount discrimination in the workplace could be drastically decreased. P e r e z 4 Works Cited Brackenridge, Celia. Myths About Abuse in  International Olympic Committee. Olympic Games, Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Lanning, Kenneth V. Child Molesters: A Behavioral Analysis. Alexandria, VA: National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, 2001. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. NCYS  National Council of Youth Sports (NCYS). N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Title IX Frequently Asked  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. What Is The  Alliance of Women Coaches. Web. 15 Feb. 2017.