Berry 1 Cody Berry ENC 1102 Dennis Mont Ros MW 11:00-12:15 With or Without Violence Violence has been the main controversial issue revolving around video games, and especially when they are being played by children. Analysis shows that more than half of the video games on the shelves today contain violence and 90% of them are rated for children. One group that is actively against violent video games is the Parents Television Council (PTC) whose mission is to protect children and families from graphic media because of their long term harmful effects. Not directly opposing the PTC but in defense of the media industry is the Entertainment Merchants Association (EMA) whose mission is to protect the rights of, foster the health and vitality of, and provide a forum for those engaged in the sale, rental, and or commercial delivery of video or video game content. These two organizations do not have direct opposition toward each other, but one could say that since the PTC is fighting against violent video games, the EMA is defending their title as a legitimate source of entertainment and therefore, can be distributed as such. To satisfy both parties, I believe that it is up to the manufacturing companies of the consoles to tighten the security on the gaming systems. The system would have to scan the ID of the user and connect the ID to a thumb print scanner to identify the age of the person playing. In this way, the EMA can distribute without a problem and the PTC would have to worry less about children playing violent games due to the strict security. It now depends solely on the parents to keep their hands from violent games. Berry 2 The PTC is very strongly against violent video games. They begin their informational website with, video game world, children can as murderers, cop- out mind-altering tasks with realistic The way they see it, a child could go in and buy games meant for adults and parents need to be more involved in the decision-making process for purchasing said video games. They urge lawmakers to support legislation attempting to enforce age ratings for games by financially penalizing lawbreakers. The information is backed by many independent studies the long-term harmful effects and they are also involved in various legal activity to lobby against the freedoms of violent video game distribution. One such study was done by Craig A. Anderson et al. which had a group of Japanese student ages 12-15, another Japanese student group ages 13-15, and an American group of students ages 9-12. All of the behavior was recorded in 3 different samples at 2 time points ranging from 3 to 6 months. The results were that those children who habitually played violent video games became more physically aggressive later in the school year. As for the legal activity, in 2011 the Supreme Court struck down a previously proposed law for banning the sale of certain violent video games to children due to the first amendment. The law was proposed by the PTC back in 2005 and was passed in California. It restricted the sale of violent videogames with a mature rating or higher to people under the age of 18 and required clear ESRB labeling. very clear as to this stance on the subject, they detest the fact that children are able to play violent video games because there is some evidence that shows a relation between violent exposure and increased aggression in children. Conversely, the EMA just supports the rights of distributors to sell all types of entertainment. While the information page is hostile and completely one-sided, the mission and goal page provides a plethora of information that describes what the Berry 3 organization is about and its purely business: member relation goals, profit margins, and public relations. The EMA was involved in the Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association by declaring a judgement action against California for their video game restriction law. The Supreme Court ordered in favor of the Association in defense of the First Amendment and the fact that the state was not tailored enough to seem to have an interest in preventing psychological harm to minors. There are arguments that video games, even the violent ones, are tools for learning. For example, an article written by James Paul Gee from the University of Wisconsin attempts to explain the fact that many games provide a learning curve. The player needs to learn how to control the character, use items to his or her advantage, and strategize in order to solve puzzles and therefore video games make the players think outside the box while having fun. This in turn trains the brain to think on multiple levels for longer periods of time and provokes creative thinking. The number of studies that show no correlation between video games and behavior is small compared to the steadily rising number of studies that attempt to show behavior linked to video games. Despite this, there are many arguments that explain how video games lean more towards learning than behavioral issues. In conclusion, the PTC is backed by a number of studies that show correlation between violent video games and aggressive behavior. However, there are many scholarly sources that attempt to explain that video games are a tool for learning rather than an antisocial activity. Despite the fact that most of the video games made and sold today contain some sort of violence, there can be a way to protect children from the more violent games that are meant to be played by older individuals. The companies that produce gaming systems would need to incorporate a tighter security system that scans an identity and links it to their thumb print while restricting video games that are not meant to be played by people under a certain age. This way, Berry 4 it is a bit harder for children to play games meant for adults and it would make parents see that these video games might be affecting their children in the wrong way while at the same time the games are still being produced and sold. It is ultimately up to the parents in this situation to censor what their children are exposed to while making the video game companies not responsible for violent exposure. Word Count: 1040 Berry 5 Work Cited Background of the Issue - Violent Video Games -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Brown v. Entertainment Merchants  Oyez. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Burnell, Jennifer Lane. Entertainment Merchants  Strategic Plan and Mission. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Gee, James Paul. What Video Games Have to Teach Us about Learning and Computers in Entertainment 1.1 (2003): 20. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United States Articles Pediatrics. N.p., 3 July 2008. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. PTC History on Violent Video  PTC History on Violent Video Games. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.