The Dilemma of Immigration The current number of jobless Americans according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics is 22 million and 8 million workers of the current American workforce are unauthorized immigrants based upon statistics from the Pew Hispanic Research Center. Nonetheless, according to a 2008 report by the Perryman Group, if all of the unauthorized immigrants were to leave the U.S., the country would lose $551.6 billion in economic activity, $245 in gross domestic product, and approximately 2.8 million jobs. As can be seen, the topic of immigration and its effects on the economy of a country is a difficult subject to pinpoint. Not only is a question of economics, it is also a moral issue. Two stakeholders in the argument are the Immigration Legal Resource Center(ILRC) and NumbersUSA. While ILRC believes that immigration laws should be more accepting of the circumstances surrounding immigration because they realize that those who engage in forms of illegal immigration are generally in search of a better life and are fleeing from undesirable situations in their home countries, NumbersUSA believes that the influx of immigrants should be reduced because its effects on the economy of a country and quality of life are often negative. One way to compromise on this situation is to allow for the integration of current immigrants into society while cracking down on illegal immigration going into the future. views are comparable to those of ILRC in that they wish to allow for the best quality of life to all citizens(natural-born or foreign-born) of the United States and hopes to integrate immigrants of a legal nature into the American lifestyle and society. It nativism in the law and private actions [and believes Americans should be treated equally regardless of where they were (NumbersUSA). Its stance, however, wishes to limit the number of family visa lottery immigrants, and immigrants on work visas who do not provide any extraordinary skills as well as placing electronic entry points on the borders and eliminating birthright citizenships. These methods of immigration have substantially increased the amount of unauthorized immigrants living in the United States since 1990. NumbersUSA has also stated that it does not intend to break apart families and will advocate for the permanent citizenships of those a part of the family of spouse and minor children, including overseas adoptions and marriages by U.S. (NumbersUSA). These views are closer in line to those of ILRC and would allow for an easier compromise when the stage arrives. NumbersUSA is clear on its stance against immigrant-bashing and hope to increase the quality of life for the current American citizens. The Immigration Legal Resource mission is to increase awareness of immigrants as to how they can use the current American legislation to their best interests. It also in advocacy with government agencies and elected officials at the federal, state, and local levels, on policies that directly impact (ILRC Website). Its offices and employees focus mainly on making life easier for immigrants that are working, studying, or simply living in the United States. It hopes to make it easier for families to stay together. However, its actions often leave the door open for chain-immigration whether intentional or not which is in opposition to the beliefs and mission of NumbersUSA, which may make coming to a compromise a bit more difficult for the two stakeholders. The Immigration Legal Resource Center ultimately intends to increase the accepting of diversity by the majority of American citizens and with and educate immigrants, community organizations, and the legal sector to continue to build a democratic society that values diversity and the rights of all (ILRC Website). In order to come to a compromise between these two stakeholders with differing views, we must assess what to do with current immigrants who have come to America illegally without proper documentation and what to do about policies regarding future immigration to the United States whether permanent or simply as a visitor. In regards to the first topic, the proposition is to increase the number of local policemen in American border states that can focus solely on determining whether people entering the country have the correct paperwork needed to visit or reside in the States, while keeping in mind the rights to privacy that every individual in America is honored with. As to how we may deal with future immigration, the number of annual permanent immigration and visitor immigration should be set to a fixed number that will allow for increased diversity while still refraining from infringing on the rights of current American citizens or putting strain on the economy of the country. All the while implementing these compromises, the United States legislators should keep from infringing on the individual rights of a person. What many who deal with this dilemma do not realize is that the people involved are individual human beings who have personalities, wants, dreams, and hopes and should thus not simply be treated as a statistic. Works Cited Beck, Roy. conservatives and liberals working for immigration numbers that serve finest NumbersUSA. NumbersUSA Action, January 1, 2017. Web. January 24, 2017. Immigration Legal Resource Center. Immigration Legal Resource Center, January 1, 2016. Web. Feb 12, 2017. in Diversity: The Economic and Political Power of Immigrants, Latinos and American Immigration Council. American Immigration Council, January 15, 2015. Web. February 12, 2017. Krogstad, Jens Manuel. facts about illegal immigration in the Pew Research Center. Pew Research Center, November 3, 2016. Web. February 12, 2017.