Steuer 1 Abi Steuer Mr. Carter ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Books vs. E-books As the generations change, new concepts come into play. In this age of Millennialism and fast-pace living, one notices an increase in technology. It has expanded past occasional internet browsing to overtaking the common day to day life. People order food with tablets, have computers in their cars, and are on their phones for business and pleasure most of their day. While Millennials tend to enjoy the internet realm, individuals of older generations often feel left behind with this influx of new-age advancements. Undertones of discontent have sparked among these groups, especially in the conversation of e-books and hardcopy text. True controversy has risen between Barnes and Noble and iBooks, for these companies both sell books but in very differing ways. These enterprises butt heads because one wants customers to consume tangible books while the other thrives on selling them online. However, since they both hold the common ground of wanting to sell books, if Barnes and Noble sold iPads at their stores and Apple promoted the Barnes and Noble app, the two businesses could end up settling their disputes by advertising for each other. Barnes and mission is operate the best omni-channel specialty retail business in America, helping both our customers and booksellers reach their aspirations, while being a credit to the communities we While this is their goal, they have been in jeopardy in these recent years. Many people buy books online and are not shopping in their stores. The company has attempted to keep up with the market by producing a device called NOOK. They wanted to Steuer 2 appeal to both younger and older generations by selling books in their stores while also selling them as e-books on their devices. These kept the company afloat for a small time, but after some time the tablets began to lose their luster, so to say. Barnes and Noble simply wants to keep written text alive, but the biggest way for them to complete this task is by having customers come in and buy their books (barnesandnobleinc.com) (cbsnews.com). iBooks you lose yourself in a good story from the comfort of your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. find classics, bestsellers, up-and-coming authors, and even ready to download and This main intent is to provide convenient reading for their customers. They understand many people have a demanding mindset in the sense that modern people in America are used to getting what they want right when they want it. It is not hard to go out and get a book at the store, but it is faster to purchase one online. The app also reads the text to the owner if they are on-the-go or do not want to read it themselves. Therefore, iBooks is currently getting a lot of business by having this feature readily available for people owning an Apple product because it is cheap, easy, and handy (itunes.apple.com). Both companies are obviously working against each other. Barnes and Noble wants to keep written text alive by selling hardcopy books. Apple, on the other hand, gained interest in the concept of online text and is actively supporting that market. There is no evidence of either company detesting the other, but their business markets put them at odds with each other. When analyzed, though, these organizations have common ground- they are in the business of selling knowledge. Apple is more focused on spreading it online while Barnes and Noble wants to get physical books in hands. These companies understand that knowledge will never die and that there is an ever increasing demand for it. This has and always will be true because we need intelligence to grow. The avenues for sending out information have simply changed with Steuer 3 time. Therefore, both of these companies want to fulfil similar duties, they just have differing approaches on how to do it (library.appstate.edu). Barnes and Noble and Apple understand both sides and are trying to please the audience to the best of their abilities. However, Barnes and Noble is mainly focusing on individuals that prefer hardcopy text and Apple is selling e-books to the technology driven folk. A beautiful compromise would emerge if they advertised for each other. iBooks could have ads for Barnes and Noble on their webpages and apps while Barnes and Noble sells iPads in their stores. Right now they are still trying to sell NOOKs even though they do not publicize them on TV anymore. However, if one were to honestly watch the rate at which these devices are being sold, it is obvious to see that they are declining in the market. Apple devices like iPhones, iPads, et cetera are common in households and are bought often by consumers now. Therefore, if Barnes and Noble sold those products instead of their NOOKs, they could help out Apple. With this compromise, the two companies would aid each other in climbing the latter of success (bookmaster.com) (barnesandnobleinc.com) (itunes.apple.com). Knowledge is something that will always be sought after- that will never change. The methods of obtaining it are ever changing, though, and that is where businesses selling books find the most strife and competition. They want their method of gaining knowledge to be preferred by the public. In the end, the customers are all desiring the same product. With that said, instead of finding new methods to outsmart and potentially annihilate other businesses in their field, book sellers should discover their common ground. In other instances, it is understandable why the owners of companies constantly think up new ways to come out on top. They have to demonstrate that their products are better than their competitors. In the business of selling books, however, that should not be the thought process of the companies. They all truly Steuer 4 have the same products to offer. There is no difference between one copy and another copy. They are in luck because people will always want to buy what they are selling opposed to other companies that sell items that are only in demand for a short time. Unfortunately, the book unwillingness to work together is causing most to go out of business. Many branches of book sales were open to the public for a while but their attempt to compete with each other ultimately failed and numerous stores shut down. Therefore, if a compromise were to be made with the two leading book companies, it could create a settlement that gains them more customers than they previously had. An agreement in this area of consumption will also help bring two differing worlds together. Book lovers and textbook buyers will be exposed to the option of either hardcopy or digital edition and a world of conversation and understanding will be opened up on either side of the argument (pewresearch.org). Steuer 5 Works Cited About Barnes & Noble B&N,  Barnes & Noble Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.barnesandnobleinc.com/about-bn/>. Belk Library and Information  Welcome to Belk Library & Information Commons Belk Library and Information Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.library.appstate.edu/>. Berr, Jonathan. Barnes & next  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cbsnews.com/news/whats-barnes-nobles-next- chapter/>.  Pew Research Center RSS. N.p., 23 Nov. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/topics/e-reading/>. Inc., Apple. IBooks on the App  App Store. N.p., 13 Sept. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/ibooks/id364709193?mt=8>. Print Book vs.  Bookmasters. N.p., 24 May 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.bookmasters.com/blog/print-book-vs-ebook/>.