Lastorino 1 Daniel Lastorino Adam Carter ENC1102 14 February 2017 Creativity and Copyright: Finding a Balance Music has been a revered form of art by many throughout its history. As technology has evolved, new methods of obtaining music have emerged. This has led to a transition from tangible products purchased in store, to digital copies bought online. Generally speaking, this development has enhanced the industry, as it allows for easier access to media. However, one issue this causes is piracy, which involves illegally acquiring and redistributing copyrighted materials. While this may be perceived as a blatant crime, many groups, such as Creative Commons (CC), see these policies as a hindrance on the spread of creativity within society. They are part of what has been named a movement, where they support media that can be redistributed freely and legally. On the other hand, there are many which work to enforce current copyright policies, one being the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The RIAA is a trade group which has filed numerous large-scale lawsuits against piracy crimes, to ensure the rights of both artists and their publishing companies. While it is evident that both groups have contrasting ideologies, they share a passion for creativity, therefore a sufficient compromise would be to establish a subscription-based virtual library, where customers gain legal access to music, movies, and other forms of media. Founded in 2001, CC focuses on providing creative license to all who desire it, by eliminating the cost of obtaining copyright for a large amount of media. As explained on their Lastorino 2 website, the group supports, and stewards legal and technical infrastructure that maximizes digital creativity, sharing, and and This shows that the group aims to increase access of various media to the public. Since December 2002, has been releasing free copyright licenses intended for non-commercial use. This would align well with the mentality of piracy, as the prime benefit behind the act is the money being saved, as conveyed in a 2014 study. Over 500 participants filled out a questionnaire regarding piracy, and one of the strongest correlations found was a positive relationship between economic benefits and attitude toward music piracy (Cesareo and Pastore 520). In other words, those who perceived music piracy to be good did so due to the fact that they were saving money. While copyright generally utilizes the phrase Rights CC has established a policy called Rights meaning that the creator can choose what level of rights he or she retains. That said, CC strongly affirms that they are in no way a legal firm, and their resources are simply to be used at the discretion of the user. While the idea behind CC is to expand creativity without a hefty price tag, it does not necessarily solve all conflict between copyright and free information. The RIAA has had a variety of methods to combat music copyright, however none of them thus far have been rendered effective. As explained on their website, the group to protect the intellectual property and First Amendment rights of artists and music In other words, their aim is to preserve the legal authority of the music creators. the group was oriented around filing lawsuits for copyright claims. In the early 2000s, they would sue entire P2P networks, however this transitioned to suing individual illegal file-sharers. A pivotal case showcasing this method was BMG v. Tenenbaum, where Joel Tenenbaum was ultimately ordered to pay $675,000 in statutory After years of this, the RIAA Lastorino 3 announced that they would no longer take this route, instead implementing what they called a As explained in an article from December 2008, the new method would give customers multiple warnings to terminate their illegal actions. If they failed to comply, they would eventually be cut access from their Internet Service Provider (McBride and Smith para. 4). This method is still used current day, and while it has affected more people, it still brings up some concern. Namely, the concern of due process of law is brought up in a 2010 article. The detection system may not always be accurate, and those who are shut down by their providers will not have fair chance to defend themselves (Zilkha 690). Despite this apparent flaw in the system, no other solution has been created yet. The trade group has had a long history of harsh yet ineffective methods of dealing with music piracy, and copyright as a whole. It is apparent that both the RIAA and CC have opposing views on copyright laws. CC aims to limit the burden of copyright on the average person. However, the RIAA focuses more on enforcing copyright to ensure the rights of the producer of the music. While one group aids the consumer, the other aids the producer. Nonetheless, both parties can agree on an adoration of creativity, and media as a whole. This commonality of interest is what will allow for a proper compromise to be made. A plausible way to meet in the middle between CC and the RIAA would be to establish an expansive media library which involves both interest groups. The application would require that CC adds all of its licensed content to the library, and continues to obtain permission from creators to add their work to the database. This will limit the power of the RIAA to enforce their former copyright policies, but enhance ability to expand creative content. The RIAA would be involved in setting up the subscription service, where users can pay either $20 a month, $110 Lastorino 4 every six months, or $180 yearly. This will increase the cost of obtaining media compared to what CC aims for, but the RIAA will increase the amount of money generated for the music artists and labels. The idea behind the increased rate for monthly payments, as opposed to semi annually and yearly ones, is that which comes from a 2006 study. Investigation was done into how consumers behaved according to various methods of payment, and the results showed that customers who paid monthly for their subscription ended up maintaining their subscription for the longest period of time (Dover and Murthi 14). Based upon this idea, having a monthly payment cost the most would likely generate the most revenue possible. While the service does not eliminate the option for piracy, it hopes to decrease the rate of large-scale groups which create illegal databases. Instead, this service offers a legal and affordable library for one to access any media he or she pleases, overall improving creative diffusion in society. Music piracy, and copyright infringement as a whole, are considerably more difficult to fight against than most crime. The reason for this is that there is no physical action for the offense, but instead, a virtual infringement is committed. This is much more vague to convict against, which is likely why the law has not been properly fit. CC allows for various media to flow at a high potential, however they have no actual say in any legal issues one may find in regards to copyright. The RIAA ensures the rights of music artists and labels, however it fails to take into consideration the need for a steady circulation of content, which they often block. Calling for the two groups to collaborate will ensure that their common interest in maintaining creativity prevails. A subscription-based media library will allow for maximum potential of creative intelligence, for both producers and consumers of all media. Lastorino 5 Works Cited Cesareo, Ludovica, and Alberto Pastore. Attitude And Behavior Towards Online Music Piracy And Subscription-Based  Of Consumer Marketing 31.6/7 (2014): 515-525. Source Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dover, Howard F., and B.P.S. Murthi. Asymmetric Effects Of Dynamic Usage Behavior On Duration In Subscription-Based Online  Of Interactive Marketing 20.(2006): 5-15. . Web. 14 Feb. 2017. McBride, Sarah, and Ethan Smith. Music industry to abandon mass  Wall Street Journal Eastern Edition 2008: 1. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zilkha, Genan. The Troubling Solution To  Intellectual Property, Media & Entertainment Law Journal 20.2 (2010): 667-713. Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  . N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Mission and  Commons . N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.