Student 1 Student Kimberly Wiggs ENC 1101 27 January 2017 Gender Wage Gap Human inequality is colossally prevalent in modern day society, more so in some parts of the world than others. Inequality has improved exponentially in the western world in this century. Equality has been on the rise since the abolishment of slavery in the U.S. and the introducing of anti-discrimination laws for minorities, such as women. Even today there is many inequalities with these minorities, even in first world countries. Not to mention the inequalities occurring now-a-days in the middle east. There are many groups trying to correct this though. For example, Feminism is taking the United States over by storm to promote women rights and equality to men. For example, there is a noticeable wage difference between men and Women in the U.S. In the Institute for Policy article by Ariane Hegewisch, it states that ratio of and median annual earnings was 79.6 percent for full-time or year-round workers in (Hegewisch 1). Women make twenty less cents on the dollar then men do on average, although the pay gap improves as age increases. Gender bias is undeniably there and it has been for years. Could it be caregiving responsibilities or just the fact that more women work part time. In the following the gender wage inequality will be analyzed and scrutinize the reason behind this gap. Why does the wage gap exist in modern day society in the United States and the world? Is it actually unequal pay for equal work? (Word Count: 248) Student 2 Blau, Francine, and Lawrence Kahn. The US Gender Pay Gap in the 1990s: Slowing  Sage Journals (2004): n. pag. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This journal by Francine Blau and Lawrence Kahn states that the gender wage gap has substantially lowered since the 1980s. The labor force selectivity has always been a problem because there were less favorable changes in supply of jobs during the 1990s due to the fact that there were more labor intensive jobs available that, statistically speaking, women want part of. Their data suggests that there was a near constancy between 1979 and 1989 of convergences of male and female wages. Convergence slowed down from the 1990s. It states that the reason why the convergence slowed down is due to the fact that there is labor market discrimination, and supply and demand shifts in jobs. The convergence process is still underway, but at a slower pace. This directly connects to my research question due to the fact that it provides some historical background to the issue at hand. They presented numerical evidence consistent with each of those factors. They also stated that changes in human capital did not contribute to the slowdown, so that is important to mention in my essay as well. This is a credible source because Francine D. Blau is a Cornell professor that got her economics Ph.D in Havard. Bryant, Molly, Paige Winters, and Jojo Matson. Gender Pay  Uhuru 10th ser. 10.3 (2012): n. pag. Iowa State University. Iowa State University, 24 Jan. 2012. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In this journal, the majority of the information provided is about how the gender wage gap has been slowing down exponentially, but has stopped in recent years. The journal states that gender stereotypes has played a massive role in gender wage differences due to the fact that during the 19 th century Victorian Era, for example, main role was to cook, clean, and tended to be a stay at home mom. The journal also states that young girls often grow up learning Student 3 these stereotypes because it is reinforced in modern day society. Getting to the statistical perspective of the gender wage gap, it states that there is two sides of the gender wage gap: adjusted and unadjusted. Unadjusted is the raw aspect, and the adjusted is the objective perspective of the problem, that be explained by specific variables. There are many laws that are in place though. For example, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, that was supposed to eliminate wage discrimination based on sex. Secondly, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, that eliminated wage discrimination for all humans, not only sex. A more recent law that helped women was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, which granted women more opportunities to file for an equal pay lawsuit. This journal entry was incredibly useful because it provided with specific language to use for the measures taken by the government to provide equal pay, or opportunity for equal pay. This connect to my research question greatly, due to the fact that I can now provide arguments for both sides to create an unbiased essay. The credibility is good in this journal because, firstly, it is a college scholarly source in Iowa State, and the authors are Iowa State professors and they have published journals on social justice. Cohen, Philip N., and Matt L. Huffman. Working for the Woman? Female Managers and the Gender Wage  American Sociological Review 72.5 (2007): 681-704. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This journal is incredibly insightful due to the fact that it provides a different perspective on the inequality troubles in jobs. This is a large scale analysis on whether the gender composition of managers affects the gender of workers beneath them. Cohen states that as more and more women are taking positions of authority, the differences in earnings should noticeably start to decline due to the fact that they are a crucial part in decision making about salaries, Student 4 promotions, hiring, etc. The journal states that not enough women get into higher management positions. If they did get into said positions, the wage gap would decrease significantly. It also said that women express stronger support than their counterpart to promote gender equality and to reduce the gender wage gap. Cohen also states that increased access by females taking on important positions, homophily preference will ensue. There will be a weaker sex-based bias due to females in leadership positions will have more access to organizational power, more than before. This means that gender plays an increased role on gender equality, and homophily preference for women to want other women in managerial positions. This connects to the research question due to the fact that it is a very good perspective to provide that women are more inclined to want gender equality, either it be due to societal upbringings or rooted from some other external factor. The source is credible due to the fact that Philip Cohen has his PhD in sociology. He has other published works on inequality and social demography. Hegewisch, Ariane, and Asha DuMonthier. IWPR  The Gender Wage Gap: 2015; Annual Earnings Differences by Gender, Race, and Ethnicity IWPR. IWPR, 1 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.iwpr.org/publications/pubs/the-gender-wage-gap- 2015-annual-earnings-differences-by-gender-race-and-ethnicity>. In this IWPR report it states that there is a disparaging inequality between men and women when it comes to how much they are being paid. On average, women get paid 20.4 percent less than men do. average earnings for 2015 was $40,742 while men were paid $51,212. wages are definitely getting closer to though. Since 1975 there has been a solid increase, but less so within the past decade. Closing the wage gap, according to the Student 5 Institute of Policy Research is not a zero-sum game, which means that the losses for one sex does not have to necessarily include the losses for the other sex. The source is extremely important to this research question due to the fact that The Institute for Policy Research is an institute where its main purpose is to better the opportunities of women form all backgrounds. The gender wage gap is a critical issue where not many people are actually informed about. The credibility of this source is to be trusted due to the fact that their research teams have Bachelors in science and have worked in equal opportunity policies for many years. Ariane Hegewisch has her economics degree from London School of Economics and her master of philosophy degree in developmental studies. Kassenboehmer, Sonja C., and Mathias G. Sinning. Distributional Changes In The Gender Wage  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 67.2 (2014): 335-361. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. In this article in Business Source Alumni edition, BSAE states that the gender wage gap in the United States has fallen tremendously since the late 1970s. It states that there has not been much change in the gender gap wages in the bottom of the distribution, but what decreased the gap is the increasing number of educated women. It states that the educational success of women greatly contributed to the unequal gender wage gap. They also state that women that are members of unions do not help them as they should and are not significant in their data at conventional levels for 2006. This source is crucial to the research question due to the fact that it is an expertly written paper on the gender wage gap distribution and provides some input on what the root cause of it might be. It also provides an empirical analysis on the issue in order to understand it in a more mathematical form. This conncets the source to the research question due to the fact that it looks Student 6 at it in a more mathematical perspective. The author, Dr. Sonja Kassemboehmer, is an incredibly knowledgeable person about this topic and she has posted numerous research papers on human well-being. She has a doctorate in economics in which she received summa cum laude. Olivetti, Claudia, and Barbara Petrongolo. Unequal Pay or Unequal Employment? A Cross Country Analysis of Gender  Journal of Labor Economics 26.4 (2008): 621-54. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This journal is a great perspective to acknowledge due to the fact that it recognizes the pay gap for international situations as well, not only the United States. Olivetti states that there is a noticeable wage gap in the United States. There is a thirty percentage point difference between the genders and the UK has between about a twenty-five points difference. This means that there must be situational or occupational differences in these countries. Their data shows that US and UK wage gaps are much higher than the rest of Europe, for example. Olivetti states that this might be due to the fact that supply or demand forces are different in every country. She also states that there are which include gender roles and family values. Women are more prone to adhere to these values more than men. This is extremely related related to the research question due to the fact that this journal provides us with some reasoning behind the wage gap. Gender roles indeed play a role in this wage gap and missing women in management roles creates less women un subordinate positions and it is a never-ending cycle. This is a credible source due to the fact that she has her PhD in economics and has numerous publications in gender roles and human inequality.