Ana Roman-Dominguez Adam Carter ENC 2011 14 February 2017 Should prostitution be legal Should prostitution be legal? There is no doubt that it is such a controversial dilemma that it is still not solved. Prostitution refers to a wide variety of sex-for-payment( Peterson-Iyer The problem comes when the person is not the one that decides and puts rules of their own for them to work as being a slave. While some prostitutes appeal for prostitution to be legal and to have the same rights as all the workers, there are some opinions that are against this movement. Some organizations that are mentioned in this paper do not want prostitution to be legal because that would promote discrimination to women and some other problems such as rape or sexual abuse. This is the case of Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women (GAATW) that says that legalized prostitution is more harmful than to keep it illegal. At the same time, since prostitutes are mostly females and their costumers are mostly males, it promotes the idea of males above women. The opposite happens with COYOTE that tries to get the same rights for all the workers and the only way to get it is by making it legal. Overall, prostitution should turn into a safer bussiness, by making it legal, and giving the same rights for all workers. The way to make this possible is establishing rules that would ensure safety. Giving prostitutes the choice to do it or not. Organizations such as COYOTE(Call off Your Old Tired Ethics) which works with National Task Force on Prostitution (NTFP) and try to claim the rights that prostitution should have. At the same time they the public about the reality of the situation, as opposed to the various myths of prostitution; to educate, to prevent the spread of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases; and to end the stigma associated with female sexuality and earning (Peterson-Iyer, 24). They talk about some laws that should exist in order to make prostitution safer, and make prostitutes feel free to call or ask for help whenever they need to. Feminists play a big role in this dilemma and not all of them think the same way. The liberal approach is that those who consider that they are the owners of their body which gives them the liberty to chose what they want. These are the ones who support the idea of legal prostitution. It is a voluntary contract where both adults benefit. It is their decision to chose that profession and also their responsibility to follow the rules with costumers. Making prostitution illegal makes prostitutes powerless to report these behaviors to the police. In fact, customers of prostitutes do not get caught by the police very often. Atlhough, pimps are not the ones who want prostitution to be legal because they are not going to recognize that they contract these services. On the other hand organizations such Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women gives another angle saying that explained that by at least decriminalizing sex work and practices around it, the number of opportunities to exploit persons for sex work is WHISPER, ( Women Hurt in Systems of Prostitution Engaged in Revolt) argue that making prostitution legal or an occupation promotes the perception of some males to need and buy bodies for sexual use. The other group of feminists that are considered the domination approach, or prostitution as exploitation, agree with these organizations. They are those who consider that prostitutes are not free and some of their contracts violate their dignity. It is the male who dominated the female being his subject. This approach talks about how women are called or being against of all the rights that feminists fight against, putting women under man and letting them get treated as objects. Even though the same stakeholders have the same perspectives, their points of view on this problem are completly opposite. subordination in civil society situates females to be the more likely victims in cases of human trafficking and sexual assault The same happens with prostitutes in the streets, they are vulnerable and they do not feel safe enough. There are so many cases of that have done physical abuse, rape or sexual assault to prostitutes. At the same time the risk of getting sexual diseases by prostitutes is pretty high. A study that was done in United States showing that males between 60 and (1) years old showed that the sexual transmissions of this practice were considerable. Some of these males consider themselves as which means that their hobby is to dedicate themselves to this practice. In this article they assume that both parts are being benefited. At the same time if the prostitutes have the right to accord the rules with the customer, why can they not use condoms? the main problem and what they are claiming. If both of them are free, they should have the power to decide if they want to use it or not, and not the male. In fact even having different points of view about prostitution any of these organizations are against the act of prostitution. The one who does not want prostitution to be legal is for the effect that this practices makes, such human trafficking, not the decision of the workers to do this job. Both organizations fight for the rights on people. They want prostitution to be a safer business Feminist cannot be defended by prostitution since it structured sexual interaction, sacrifiing freedom, equality and sexual integration, because of the economic need. Prostitution cannot be eliminated because it is almost impossible to regulate something that everybody knows is happening but is already illegal. So since they cannot do anything against it they should at least give prostitutes the rights to normal work. Making it legal and regulating it. Giving specific zones for prostitution, and buildings. That would help to stop with some abuses and rapes since there is any worker in the street. That would give the prostitutes the freedom to request help or to put rules to their costumers. At the same time that would regulate the health of the prostitutes by making sure that they are not infected and that there is no risk to their relations. Works cited Carrasquillo, Tesla1. Understanding Prostitution And The Need For  Touro Law Review 30.3 (2014): 697-721. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Global Alliance Against Traffic in  Home - The Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women (GAATW). N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.  Coyote RI. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Milrod, Christine, and Martin Monto. Condom Use, Sexual Risk, And Self-Reported STI In A Sample Of Older Male Clients Of Heterosexual Prostitution In The United  American Journal Of Health 10.4 (2016): 296-305. PsycINFO. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Peterson-Iyer, Karen. Prostitution: A Feminist Ethical  Journal Of Feminist Studies In Religion 14.2 (1998): 19-44. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Rucke, Katie. Human Rights Groups Urge UN To Not Recommend Legalized  MintPress News. N.p., 25 Sept. 2013. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Swanson, Jessica. Sexual Liberation Or Violence Against Women: The Debate On The Legalization Of Prostitution And The Relationship To Human Trafficking Null  New Criminal Law Review 4 (2016): 592. HeinOnline. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.