Araimi 1 Hamed Al Araimi Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Video Games and Violence In recent years there have been intense debates surrounding the issue of video gaming and the potential linkage to violence and antisocial behavior among children. As technology advances, children are able to access video games through smartphones and computers, parents and the society at large is becoming increasingly worried about the effect of these games on children. Interactive video games have become a phenomenon in American society, as they provide the entertainment that children want and need. Video game developers have taken advantage of that need and continue to create a variety of these games. The combination of supply and demand has built the video game business into a thriving $25 billion industry. However, as technology advances and children are better able to access video games through smartphones and computers, and thus spend more time playing them, parents and society at large become increasingly concerned about the effect these games can have on children. That is because many of these games are violent in nature; they incorporate scenes depicting guns, fist fights, and outright carnage. Clearly what the situation calls for is a compromise between legislators and the gamer industry that allows the industry to succeed while also preventing violent videos from having a dangerous impact on impressionable children. There is no questioning that the violence exists. For instance, in the video game Theft Auto: San the gamer engages in bloody fights with the police. They make use of guns, crude weapons, or their fists. The potential impact of such games on children can be serious. Araimi 2 A child who is exposed to such games for a prolonged period may eventually learn some of the tricks and try to implement them in the real life (Funk et al. 26). In fact, some studies have already found a positive linkage between childhood violence and exposure to violence video games (Anderson and Bushman 354). The result in recent years has been an intense debate over video games that puts activists and especially legislators on a collision course with the Entertainment Software Association, which speaks for the video game industry and retailers who sell such products. The battle has only intensified on the heels of a number of widely publicized shootings in schools and elsewhere. The game industry wants to maximize profits. The legislators want to maximize safety. The US politicians have passed a number of laws to protect children from exposure to violent video games (Thierer). They argue that this news legislation is necessary to curb further damage to impressionable children. The move has not gone well with the retailers of these games who feel that some of these laws may negatively impact their business. The ESA points out that their member manufacturers and retailers are a legal business and deserve to sell their wares. Such rebuttals have not prevented legislators from taking some extreme action, in some cases. The most notable example took place in 2015 when then California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed into a law a bill that prohibited the sale of violent video game to minors. This generated alarm within the ranks of the $25 billion a year industry, with many analysts forecasting great losses. Therefore, the ESA and the rest of the industry fought back, and in 2011 a landmark Supreme Court ruling lifted the ban on the sale of these video games. Ted Price, president of Insomniac Games, was relieved, saying that such a ban have left us handcuffed wondering whether or not what we create would fall under the restrictions and thus be illegal to sell to (Biskupic and Snider). That has not ended the controversy, however. The legislatures are there to Araimi 3 pass laws that are for the general good of the society (Thierer). A violent society is a risk to peaceful co-existence. Meanwhile, the ESA is there to meet the demand for exciting and technologically advanced entertainment. And since this conflict of interest between these two stakeholders has existed for some time, it is clear that a compromise is needed that protects kids from violence while also allowing game manufacturers and retailers to stay in business. Such a compromise position can be achieved when the two stakeholders factor in their shared values or goals. First, video game retailers are in a business that is an important part of the entertainment landscape and economic growth, but they certainly do not want to see children commit horrible crimes. Meanwhile, US politicians are elected to govern the country, protect the interest of their constituents, and ensure safety, but at the same time, they do not want to deprive consumers of entertainment options or drive an entire industry into bankruptcy. Exposing children to excessive violent content has been shown to have a far reaching impact on their social behavior. Children who are constantly exposed to violence may end up picking up some of those characters and trying them in real life (Shaffer, Williamson et al 106). This is an example of a risk that both the legislatures and retailers would not like to happen. It is thus from these shared risk that the two stakeholders can reach a compromise that will not only protect children from exposure to violence, but will also save businesses from losses that arise from a violent business environment. In the United States, this function can be achieved through the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) (Video games and age US and UK). Both the ESA members and politicians must give the ESRB the authority to review all video games and classify them according their suitable for the various age group. For instance, we can have video games for children aged 10 years and below, then for teenagers below 17 years, and finally for mature who Araimi 4 are 18 years and above. The extremely violent video games should be sold only to adults who are mature enough not to experiment with game-based themes in real life. Critics may find a weakness in the above compromise because children can still access these videos through their parents. It is at this point that the role of the parent or guardian needs to be highlighted. It is the duty of the adult present in these homes or schools to keep violent video games away from children. Through collaborative approach children exposure to violent content will be minimized. In conclusion, the solution to children exposure to violent video game content rests on a compromise between the US legislatures and ESA members. Strict laws need to be put in place by the US legislatures that will prohibit the sale of violent video games to children. However, this law must not be a blanket ban on the sale of these video games to minors as it was the case in California in the year 2005. Instead, the US politicians have to come to an understanding that such a move a multi stakeholder undertaking and that the interest of all the stakeholders have to be taken into account. Since both the retailers and US politicians are keen on building a peaceful society, this shared common goal can inform the actions of the ESRB. Therefore, ESRB can appropriately classify the video games produced in line with the age group to ensure that children are not exposed to violence. Retailers acting in good faith can collaborate with the patents to ensure that violent video games do not get in the hands of minors. Lastly, parents must be willing to parent, and not use violent video games as a form of to keep kids occupied when parents have no time for them. Araimi 5 Works Cited Anderson, Craig A., and Brad J. Bushman. Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggressive Behavior, Aggressive Cognition, Aggressive Affect, Physiological Arousal, and Prosocial Behavior: A Meta-Analytic Review of the Scientific  Psychological Science 2001: 353. JSTOR Journals. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Biskupic, Joan, and Mike Snider. Supreme Court Rejects Ban on Violent Video  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 28 June 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Funk, Jeanne B., et al. Violence Exposure In Real-Life, Video Games, Television, Movies, And The Internet: Is There  Journal Of Adolescence 1 (2004): 23. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Shaffer, David Williamson, et al. Video games and the future of  Phi delta kappan 87.2 (2005): 105-111. Thierer, Adam D. Regulating Video Games: Must Government Mind Our  Cato Institute. N.p., 24 June 2003. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Video Games and Age US and  Video Games and Age US and UK. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.