Trent 1 Henry Trent Instructor Gill ENC 1102.077 1/29/2017 Death Penalty The death penalty, also known as capital punishment, is a very complex issue in the United States. Capital punishment is the process by which the government sanctions the legal termination of an life who is found guilty for the punishment of a serious crime. Individual states determine whether or not they wish to utilize capital punishment. However, in federal cases, some crimes are punishable by death independent of states rights. The death penalty is not only used as punishment, it is also intended to prevent people from committing heinous crimes. However, capital punishment is controversial with regards to whether or not it is a just, constitutional, and beneficial system. The two main opposing stakeholders in the matter of the death penalty are the Republican Party, which calls for the continued practice of capital punishment. However, the Democratic Party calls for the abolition of the death penalty at both the federal and the state level. Both parties share a common ground in that they both want to keep society safe and keep American cities safe. A reachable compromise would be having the death penalty carried out by sentencing criminals to die in prison without possibility of parole. The Republican pro-death penalty ideology arises from a desire to discourage murder and lower the murder rate in United States cities in order to protect society. The Republican Party uses the death penalty as a tool to strike fear in potential murderers with the goal of preventing murder. The Republican Party aims to use the death penalty as both a form of Trent 2 punishment, as well as deterrence, scaring American people into submission. The Republicans disagree with the Democrats in that the death penalty is in fact constitutional. In the Grand Old Party (GOP) platform the Republicans specifically state their position on the issue as well as their view on the death constitutionality. constitutionality of the death penalty is firmly settled by its explicit mention in the Fifth Amendment. With the murder rate soaring in our great cities, we condemn the Supreme erosion of the right of the people to enact capital punishment in their (GOP Platform), they also state that the abolition of the death penalty in some states is actually an infringement on our rights. Newly elected Republican President Donald Trump stated that will expand the death penalty to those who kill police (Daily Record), not only is the Republican platform explicitly in favor of the death penalty, our new president intends on expanding its use, which will result in even more people facing capital punishment. On the other hand the Democratic Party calls for the abolition of the death penalty. The Democratic Party wishes to abolish the death penalty because they believe that it is unconstitutional. One reason they believe capital punishment is unconstitutional is found in the eighth amendment to the Constitution where it is stated that no citizen shall be subjected to cruel and unusual punishments, and being sentenced to death may be construed as the cruelest punishment one can face. According to the Democratic National platform, the death penalty constitutes as a form of cruel and unusual punishment, and is more expensive than sentencing a criminal to life in prison (DNC Platform), therefore the death penalty should no longer be legal within the United States of America. According to Antonios Kouroutakis, author of Abolish the Death Penalty? Arguments from Madisonian Thought, the death penalty goes Trent 3 against that which our country stands. Our country was built upon a representative democracy with majority rule but minority rights, or in other words keeping the minority from becoming oppressed by the majority. However, having pro-death penalty policies in place, totally neglects this (Kouroutakis 43). The death penalty neglects minority rights because, the minority of the population that commits crimes grave enough to warrant the death penalty, has all rights stripped from them and are sentenced to death. Throughout history the tool used to carry out the death penalty has changed several times. In the early United States a death sentence resulted in death by hanging. In the United States today the prison systems us lethal injection to carry out the sentence. The method change is due to the discovery of more humane ways to kill someone. If society continues on this trend eventually the death penalty should eventually be life in prison without possibility of parole. Which could be a good middle ground between the Republican and Democratic Parties. This is the clear compromise that meets both sides in the middle. The middle being the fact that both sides seek to protect society. Although both sides benefit from this compromise, neither party gets everything it wants. For example, the Republican Party achieves its goal in that it keeps murderers off the streets. Although they get to keep murderers out of society they lose the possibility of deterrence. However, as stated by Brian Frost, in his study on the effectiveness of the death deterrence concludes that balance the death penalty does not have a perceptible influence on the homicide 938). Therefore the Republican party is not losing as much as they may think. The Democratic Party also achieves some aspects of its goal in this compromise. One of the Democratic issues with the death penalty is that it costs the taxpayers a considerable amount of money. According to Russell Covey, there is no exact Trent 4 amount instating death in prison would save, however North Carolina estimated it would save $11 million, after switching to a life without parole policy (Covey 1116). However, there are some important flaws in their rejection of the death penalty. For example, they claim it violates the Eighth Amendment to the constitution, while it is expressly mentioned in the Fifth Amendment (Bill of Rights). This means that the death penalty does indeed have some constitutionality, and sentencing a criminal to die in prison does not qualify as cruel and unusual punishment. Homicide is the most severe crime that can be committed and the death penalty is the most severe punishment. However, a belief held by many is that the state should not justly have the power to end a life, and in addition to having the power, doing so is not beneficial to society. In some regards it is in truth adverse to society. Capital punishment is adverse to society in that it is ending a human life and costs the taxpayers more than life in prison. Although both the Republican and Democratic parties disagree on the issue they agree that they both want to keep society safe. The best compromise would be a sentence of lifelong incarceration that is not subject to revocation for Replacing lethal injection with death in prison, is a good compromise for both the Democratic and Republican party. With this compromise both parties achieve parts of what they want, while at the same time giving up parts to the other side. Trent 5 Works Cited Covey, Russell D. DEATH IN PRISON: THE RIGHT DEATH PENALTY  Georgia State Law Review 28.4 (2012): 1085-122. libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Death Penalty Promises to Make a Splash in Campaign 2016 Rep.  Record 1 Aug. 2016: n. pag. Print.  Democratic Party Platform  . N.p., 21 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Frost, Brian . Symposium on Current Death Penalty Issues: Capital Punishment and Deterrence: Conflicting  of Criminal Law and Criminology 74 (1983): 972. libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Madision, James . of Rights . N.p.: n.p., 1789. Print. Kouroutakis, Antonios. Why Abolish the Death Penalty? Arguments from Madisonian  Journal 29 (n.d.): 43-46. Libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Republican Platform  . Republican Party, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.