Greathouse 1 Caroline Greathouse Dennis Composition II Section 3 12 February 2017 Sexual Education Methods in the United States According to the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, nearly 20 million people have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). In spite of this, nearly 50% of adults younger than 45 years of age were never tested for any STD besides HIV/AIDS. Additionally, the chart shown below from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows the large number of new STD cases in youths in recent years. Greathouse 2 These alarming statistics suggest that the information regarding and access to sexual health in the United States is unbalanced. After 1996, a standard of sexual education was created with passage of Section 510 of Title V of the Social Security Act mandated that the US Government fund state-level abstinence-only-until-marriage education (AOE) in public (Jeffries et al). Two groups are working to create their own standard of sexual education. Advocates for Youth is an organization that aims to provide access to accurate information regarding sexual health for adolescents because not every teen will practice abstinence (Advocates for Youth). Ascend is an opposing group which encourages abstinence because youths have more opportunities to improve their futures when they avoid the hazards associated with premarital sex (We Ascend). The two groups share the goal of improving teen health, so this common ground could be the basis for a compromise. In order to benefit teens, Ascend and Advocates for Youth should combine their organizations and create a new advocacy group that teaches abstinence along with a comprehensive curriculum that covers all topics relating to sexual health. Ascend was founded in 2007 and was formerly known as the National Abstinence Education Association (Ascend). Since then, the organization has raised nearly $500 million to support sexual risk avoidance (SRA) programs. These programs are not only but teach a holistic view of sex and sexual health (NAEA). The distinction is that abstinence is considered the best method to avoiding sexual risk and this is told to the students more than anything else. Ascend is led by Valerie Huber, who has worked in the SRA field across the nation by training sex educators and lobbying in Washington, D.C. (Ascend). This organization operates on the national level with their most senior staff communicating with the Ohio Department of Health; the Administration of Children and Families; and even the Federal Greathouse 3 Department of Health and Human Services (Ascend). In fact, their headquarters are located right next to the White House in D.C. on Pennsylvania Avenue NW. Recently, the organization published a paper titled Risk Avoidance which shows the impact of SRA education through Ascend. An example of the success of their programs is shown below in the graph. Overall, the group Ascend works to promote abstinence on a national level through lobbying, training sex educators, and widespread networking. The organization believes that adolescents are better prepared for their futures with they do not participate in pre-matrimonial sexual activity. On the other side of this controversial topic is the organization called Advocates for Youth. Per Advocates for Youth, the SRA field promoted by Ascend abstinence as the only morally correct The organization has operated in the field of informing adolescents of their reproductive and sexual health for over three decades (Advocates for Youth). It is led by Debra Hauser, who has worked for the organization for over twenty years. According to Greathouse 4 Advocates for Youth, 95% of people have sex before they are married. Instead of trying to convince more teens to wait for marriage, Advocates for Youth prepares their students with risk- reducing strategies and resources. For example, in 2016 alone, the group distributed 1,200,000 condoms on college campuses (Advocates for Youth). Their annual expenses last year totaled nearly seven million dollars. The group is in Washington, D.C. as well. Advocates for Youth uses the 3-R approach to sexual education: Rights. Respect. Responsibility. This summarizes all the global and local programs that they sponsor, with the common goal of empowering youths to take charge of their health without societal backlash. One of the main reasons that the sexual health education laws have not been reformed much since 1996 is because there are so many advocacy groups involved with the issue. The two organizations mentioned above are some of the most influential of these, but they have been working against each other, delaying the process of reconsidering Section 510. Ascend and Advocates for Youth have opposing approaches to the same dilemma: keeping teens healthy in their choices. It is a fact that abstinence is the only 100% effective method to prevent pregnancy or the transmission of sexual infections. However, a majority (up to 95%, per Advocates for Youth) of teens do not remain abstinent. With this statistic in mind, the two groups should form a council filled with their leading curriculum writers, medical doctors, active adolescents, teachers, and public policy makers. Valerie Huber and Debra Hauser should lead it. The goal of this group would be to draft a new sex education program. This program would contain accurate medical information, facts on the success of abstinence, and resources available to the students. In addition to this, the groups could share resources and network connections to promote their new program of sexual health education. Once the program is created, the two groups can campaign for federal funding and use their network connections to sway Congress towards redrafting Greathouse 5 Section 510. Both organizations are powerful and span the entire nation. By consolidating their programs and focusing on a shared list of concerns, the groups would easily be able to reform the federal policy surrounding sex education. With this compromise, both groups are enabled to continue their work with youth while also broadening the reach of their campaign through the shared network. Since Ascend is not a religious group, their belief system is not being overly compromised. Additionally, both groups give up their control over certain schools/regions, so it is a fair trade for both organizations. In conclusion, the state of sexual education in the United States is unbalanced. The graph below depicts the various standards of sex education and the regional trends of those standards (Peck). In each of the more than 20 grey colored states, there is no mandated sexual education program, despite the federally funded program detailed in Section 510 of the Social Security Act. Greathouse 6 There are two groups that work on the national level to improve sexual education. These groups, Ascend and Advocates for Youth, are at odds with one another. Ascend fights for abstinence education while Advocates for Youth believes in promoting the sexual health rights of teens and their access to information and resources. Despite all their differences, the two groups share the passion to improving the opportunities for and health of adolescents. If the groups could focus on this common ground and create a new curriculum program that incorporates abstinence, safe sex, and disease prevention, then this shared goal could be achieved. Greathouse 7 Works Cited Advocates for Youth. Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., 2008. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Ascend. Sexual Risk Avoidance Works. Publication. Washington, D.C: Ascend, 2016. Print. Chastity  Chastity Project. Stewardship, 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Sexual Health of Adolescents and Young Adults in the United  The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, 20 Aug. 2014. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.  We Ascend. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://weascend.org/>. Jeffries, William L., IV, Brian Dodge, Frank C. Bandiera, and Michael Reece. Beyond abstinence-only: relationships between abstinence education and comprehensive topic  Sex Education 10.10 (May 2010): 171-85. EBSCO . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lerner, Justin E., and Robert L. Hawkings. Welfare, Liberty, and Security for All? U.S. Sex Education Policy and the 1996 Title V Section 510 of the Social Security  Archives of Sexual Behavior 45.5 (July 2016): 1027-028. EBSCO. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. NAEA - National Abstinence Education  NAEA - National Abstinence Education Association - FAQs. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.abstinenceassociation.org/faqs/index.html>. Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood Federation of America Inc., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Peck, Adam, and Rebecca Leber. States with the Highest Teen Pregnancy Rates Lack Adequate Sex Ed  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 1 Mar. 2013. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States. Sexuality Information and Greathouse 8 Education Council of the United States, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.siecus.org/index.cfm>. Social Security Administration. Compilation of the Social Security  Social Security Administration. Social Security Administration, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.