Nereim !1 James C. Nereim Professor Hannah Lay Composition 1 12 February 2017 Protecting Right to Bear Arms. Has America become too violent? Are we even safe anymore? The GOA (Gun Owners of America), a foundation created due to the NRA (National Rifle Association) being a more timid stakeholder, holds a very strong stance when it comes to gun control in America. The organization, GOA, works hard to protect their right granted to them by the second amendment (gunowners.org). On the other side of this conflict exists an organization known as the CSGV (Coalition to Stop Gun Violence), who strive to create an America in which fearing for your life and the lives of those close to you becomes a thing of the past. They seek to liberate America from the fear by supporting and conducting research into the topic and promoting effective policy (csgv.org). The issue these two opposing organizations run into comes from conflicting points of view. One side wants their right to bear arms protected because they want to protect themselves from danger; however the other side seeks to remove the danger created by the very tool the other side uses to protect themselves. In order to reach a middle ground between the two organizations, we must first determine if they have any common ground. Luckily neither side really wants to see any good upstanding individuals get hurt through the abuse of gun rights, which creates good common ground to start with. Now gonna take an in-depth look at each organization to try and understand what motivates each organization, after which with the Nereim !2 use broader area restrictions and of new and up incoming technology be able to develop a compromise and create a safer world while at the same time allowing gun owners to maintain their rights. First, lets take a look at the GOA. An organization that holds a very strong stance when it comes to Gun control, and makes it very difficult to have any sort of compromise at all; however always room for negotiation in a debate. Founded by Sen. H.L. Richardson, now retired, created the GOA in response to feelings that the NRA holds too weak a stance when it comes to gun control. Sen. Richardson wanted a group that could stand firm in defense of gun rights and the protection of the second amendment, so the GOA came into being as a result (gunowners.org). This group has formed a nationwide network in the last thirty years, in which they have gathered attorneys who fight for their organization and try to protect their platform and policies. Policies that support the second amendment, not to mention also putting a stop to any gun-control legislation. The organization also fights to protect local and community gun owners rights and clubs. On top of that, the GOA also counts as a non-profit, tax-deductible foundation that provides necessary and important education based on research that informs those who need to be educated about the different types of fire arms and safety. Other activities the GOA involves itself in are fund raisers where the funds are used in order to support pro-gun candidates and parties, who return the favor by promoting the policies that the GOA wants to push through. This relationship is a common one in politics. Second, lets look at the CSGV. This group focuses on the reduction of gun violence in America, and how they can promote laws to control this. They believe that gun violence in America occurs to often and because of that, they are driven to do their best to end it, failing that, Nereim !3 reduce it (csgv.org). They desire to make others aware of the safety requirements for gun owners, promoting gun-control policies, and contribute to pro-gun-control candidates. They strive to educate the ordinary person about gun safety measures, for example, treat every fire arm as if it were loaded, also put your finger on the trigger until you are ready to fire, and so on (policeone.com). Their purpose for offering this education is hopes that if you decide to use a fire arm, that you mess around or play with it. Guns are not toys and thus be treated as such. The group also works hard to develop and push policies that could reinforce the kinds of safety measures they are trying to take in order to keep people safe from gun violence. The candidates that the CSGV supports and the very organization itself have a very symbiotic relationship, basically they both receive benefits from working together. The politicians supported by the group receive funds and votes from the organization and intern they use their influence and power to push for pro gun-control policies and convince attorneys to support these policies as well. Now that we understand each stakeholders position on the subject we can find some common ground. We know that the GOA has a strong will and generally refuses to back down and will completely oppose any gun ban laws, fortunately the CSGV as stubborn and mind that guns are accessible; however the CSGV will fight to create a safer America for us all. Broader area restrictions for guns could potentially become a viable compromise that both sides might agree to. This would increase safety in certain areas such as college campuses, sport organizational game fields, and many other potential areas that could use increased security and protection from fire arms. New technology also offers some new compromises both sides might deem acceptable terms, for instance, some new technology requires a finger print identification Nereim !4 in order to use the weapon (foxnews.com/tech). These technologies will make it easier to maintain gun safety, allowing only a specific person or a few specific people the use of a gun contains it (foxnews.com/tech). As a result, stolen guns are rendered useless, and gun theft would also fall. Requiring every new gun created to implement this new technology would translate into a fairly useful method of gun control, while also making it a requirement to have older models replaced with the new technology. New technology allows the GOA and members to hold on to their weapons while also keeping them in check so that the safety of others can be maintained while wider area restrictions can protect those who wish to avoid guns all together. A combination of these compromises are fairly viable and reasonable options; however the future of gun safety most likely lies mostly in technological advances that allows us to control a guns ability to fire. Both the GOA and CSGV are very at odds when it comes to compromising, being that their organizations have very opposing views about gun laws, but both sides should understand that to have a peaceful resolution, the implementation of new technological advances are a necessity for sack, as a safe guard to ensure peoples lives are protected. These safety measures will serve as safe guards to those who could potentially be in harms way. Nereim !5 Works cited Chang, Lulu. New Smart Gun Technology May Help with Gun Safety in the  Digital Trends. Lulu Chang, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gun Control: Implementation Of The National Instant Criminal Background Check System : Report To The Honorable Craig Thomas, U.S. Senate. n.p.: Washington, D.C. (P.O. Box 37050, Washington, D.C. 20013) : The Office, 2000. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Https://www.policeone.com/police-products/firearms/articles/59674-Handgun-safety- rules-and-procedures/. Handgun Safety Rules and  PoliceOne. Policeone.com, 16 Feb. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Patrick, Andrew. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Sen. Chris Murphy (D- CT), 26 Jan. 2017, csgv.org/about-us/. Velleco, John. About Gun Owners of America General General, Sen. H.L. Richardson, 2015, gunowners.org/protect.htm.