Leverett 1 Shandrea Leverett Composition II Professor Lay 12 February 2017 Debate of Physician Assisted Suicide In 2005, a young woman in Florida named Terri Schiavo was basically in a vegetable sort of state with a feeding tube and breathing tubes sustaining her life. A severe battle broke out between her husband and parents, but in the end the tubes were removed. What came from that case and many similar instances like her case was the question whether people should have the right to control the terms on how they die (Garrow). Physician assisted suicide is the suicide of somebody with an incurable disease carried out with the help of a physician. Many people have different views of the issue whether to be for or against assisted suicide. This debate has been ongoing for years without any compromise to be given in the past or near seen resolution any time soon in the the near future. Not Dead Yet and Death with Dignity are two opposing organizations divide on the topic. Both organizations believe that they should help the person so that they get the best treatment possible because of this then both organizations should give information in the form of a pamphlet to the patient or family in rare cases to then let them have the option to decide what is best for themselves or their loved one. Death with Dignity is a nonprofit organization that works to help gain all possible freedoms that a terminally ill American can have in order to make their own end of life decisions. In their mission statement it states that the long term goals is to promote the right of Physician assisted suicide all over America, and even help as a legal defense for physician assisted legislation. In the District of Columbia for instance advocates for Death with Dignity visited several council members in order to promote the assisted suicide and discredit Leverett 2 opposing views(DWD). They have worked hard to the point where PAS is now breaking through. Stated by Death with Dignity, PAS is thought of as a doctor prescribing his or her patient to self administer a lethal dose of medications. PAS is only legal in three states with restriction varying by state. Euthanasia, which is a physician administering a deadly dosage of medication into the body, is still illegal and prosecution can take place. With all the progress careful planning is needed. Death with Dignity tells in their about us that it partners with local advocates, grassroot groups,and other smaller organizations to help strategize, organize and fundraise money(DWD). Not Dead Yet organizations is a group unlike death with dignity is against physician assisted suicide.In the goals of Not Dead Yet it states that they are opposed to the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of discrimination against old, ill and disabled people .The mission statement of Not dead Yet works to fight for the equal protection from innocently killing those deemed as worthless because of the state of their health.(NDY) They focus on that there is no withholding of life sustaining treatment only if it is voluntarily given up. Along with that there are alternatives to death like long term service care for instances. Then the input of the family being pursued only when absolutely necessary, but still following out that wishes. They go against any policy that leaves the healthcare decision in the hands of the healthcare provider that will go on the direction of taking away life sustaining care. As well as respond more appropriately in homicide case where the victim is not in the best of health. Not Dead yet believes in the ethics and morals of assisting anyone to commit such a hance act. Many people who believe in this organization are strongly religious as opposed to those from Death with dignity. People in this organization Leverett 3 view the consideration of physician assisted suicide pressure for those in poor state to automatically be assumed by others that physician assisted suicide would be the best choice of option. Although there are many different viewpoint between the two stakeholder regarding the issue, there are some points that these organizations have similar interest in. In both of the stakeholders goals they both want to provide the patient with the best care for them. They are not focused on expanding the organization for the own personal achievement, but to help give the patient the best legal action to go about their end of life decisions. Both organizations provide information and also helps educate and support the patient and family. Their main common goal is to make sure the patient is comfortable and do what they think is best for themself and their family. They both work hard to raise money to go to the government to achieve more rights for patient to have without much influence from the healthcare profession to make life or death decisions for the patient. Although their ideas vary on what exactly that is. The only way for these two stakeholders to come together is to work with each other to give the best healthcare to the patient. In many of the cases in the stand for the to issue the question that is always a concern like in Terri Schiavo cases is what is the best decision, and what would Terri Schiavo want for herself. It is hard to determine what is the deciding factors for an assisted suicide for that of a baby or someone who has been mentally incapacitated their whole life, but in cases such as terminally ill or certain chronically ill patients the choice whether to end their life prematurely is solely up to them and how they feel (Chambere). In time medicine has come a long way and can prove life saving and Leverett 4 even changing in certain instance leading to miracles in otherwise hopeless cases, but on the same hand with the improvement of modern medicine it can provide as tool that just prolongs the inevitable due to life sustaining equipment at hand but decreasing the quality of life for that patient. In order for patient to find out what is the best option more education can help, and by both stakeholders working together more right for the patient can be achieved. For both causes the goals for them is that the patient is the main priority. Doing what is best for the patients would benefit both organizations due to the fact that more people are being educated on both of these stakeholders. By them working together they also can earn more rights together for their patients. Around 57 percent of Americans think that such assistance should be legally available to the terminally ill, proponents are optimistic about their long-term prospects dealing with their healthcare (Garrow 1).Working together towards a common goal of educating terminally ill patients and their families better decision can be made on their end of life decision. More than half of Americans believe that end of life decisions is up the patient themselves, and not have the input or interferences of legislators or healthcare providers. supposing better competencies, communication skills, knowledge of their rights and more appeal to autonomy, highly educated patients and their families will be more often involved in 12). Giving the patient all possible information they need to know then can they can be able to make their own decisions based off what they know and not just off of what healthcare providers may say. Taking away the possibility that healthcare providers may just try to pressure patients in prematurely ending their life or prolonging their life. Giving pamphlets to people in general before the need for them to make life ending decisions can be a great benefit. In these Leverett 5 pamphlets the information on the difference between the two different end of life choices. It should tell or give the benefits of choosing Physician Assisted Suicide and all the risk factors. As well as in the pamphlet alternative actions can be taken instead of PSA for a different means to go about their end of life decisions. In the Oregon Model, the law states that an alterternative method like hospice must be given instead of PSA (Frank). Alternative options have to be already be stated, but by giving the pamphlet ahead before the threat of life ending or chronic disease speeding up the decision process of making either choice. More information can be given describing the risk and possible effects there could be for the patients and his or her family as well as time for them to come to their own to make their decision for PSA or an alternative option. Educating patients on what is best and giving them the free will to determine what is the best option to go about. The more education a patient has the better chance they have to make a better decision. With the two stakeholders working together they can fight together to earn more legislative right to be earned to give to terminally ill patients. Both the stakeholders can benefit from this by expanding the knowledge of both sides people and family can learn about each organization and their goals with the use of the pamphlets. By using the pamphlets, it can be circulated around in insurance companies and hospitals nationwide. This will then allow patients to make their end of life decisions before they are incapable of making these decisions on their own, This will also help prevent similar cases like Schiavo. Leverett 6 Works Cited Acker, Sarah, and Nicole Mitchell. Doctor-Assisted  Press Encyclopedia Of . Health (2015): Starters . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chambaere, Kenneth, et al. Is Educational Attainment Related To End-Of-Life , Decision-Making? A Large Post-Mortem Survey In  Public Health 13.1 1-19. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Frank, John N. Physician-Assisted Suicide Up For Debate In States: What Role Should Physicians Have In States Where Assisted Suicide Is  Economics 9 (2016): 36. OneFile . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Garrow, David J. Letting the Public Decide About Assisted  New York Times . The mmmmm York Times, 28 June 1997. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  With Dignity . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Leverett 7 Not Dead  Dead Yet . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Pickert, Kate. Assisted  . Time Inc., 03 Mar. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.