Langs 1 Chase Langs Dennis Composition II 12 February 2017 The EPA and NHRA, where is the compromise? One of the biggest contributors to global warming is the amount of CO2 from the creation and operation of motor vehicles. It is a proven fact that automobiles have had an effect on the environment for the worse. From the mining processes to get the materials, the billowing clouds of smoke coming from the factories where the vehicles are made, and the topic we are focusing on today the cars themselves, everything about this industry has increased CO2 emissions worldwide. Each time a vehicle is running it puts out an average of 122.1 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer, 197.9 grams per mile. (Gov.uk) With over one billion registered cars (and counting) driving around each year (Caradvice), that is a lot of CO2 floating into the atmosphere. As with most issues, we have two stakeholders with opposing views the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). While the NHRA believes in providing a safe place for competitors to race as well as the modification of cars, the EPA wants to reign in the modification of cars by putting strict limits in place. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has proposed a regulation to prohibit conversion of vehicles originally designed for on-road use into (Sema). So where can we find a happy medium? I propose that these two stakeholders meet in the middle and do as California has done pass stricter emission tests on street vehicles nationwide. That way if someone wants to modify their vehicle, they need to do it in such a way that it does not hurt the environment more than any other vehicle on the street. Some ways this can be done are the use of Aluminum, Carbon fiber, and turbocharged engines. Langs 2 It is a simple concept, less vehicle weight means the engine does not have to work as hard, resulting in better gas mileage and less emissions. The use of aluminum in non-structural parts of vehicles and carbon fiber throughout would achieve this. Ford Motor company has already put two of these into action with their newer F150 truck line. By using aluminum body frames and smaller turbocharged engines (Bloom) they have increased the efficiency of their trucks while staying in compliance with the EPA standards. With the new 2.7 liter Eco boost engine combined gas mileage has hit an all-time high of 22mpg compared to the old combined 17mpg from the year before (Greencar). However, aluminum has its limits, but using more aluminum you are decreasing the rigidity of the vehicle throughout and this has been a notable problem with new f-150. This is why carbon fiber is the better choice and worth the extra cost, not only is it lighter than both steel and aluminum, it is very predictable in crashes as well as being stronger than steel. Instead of crumpling like metal does, carbon fiber spreading the impact across the whole piece evenly. Shown here is the aftermath of carbon fiber crash testing vs new f150 aluminum body. Langs 3 Turbocharging has always been associated with making a car go faster, with its large use in Formula 1 racing it has come a long way. The way it works is as followed in the diagram below By forcing cooler, higher pressure air into the engine the engine can burn fuel more efficiently, this allows the engine to be downsized without the loss of power using less fuel compared to its big brother high displacement engines (turbocharge). On top of being more efficient with the smaller engines you have less weight in the car, making it work even less! When it comes to the modification of cars to increase speed and performance, turbocharging is the best bang for your buck out there. By using exhaust gas which in a naturally aspirated car is just wasted through the exhaust system, you are able to harness this gas with turbocharging to drive the turbo and create more power. In most bolt-on applications (meaning buying a turbo kit for a car that did not originally have one) consumers see anywhere from 25-50% increase in power and torque! That is quite the jump if your car is making 400+ horsepower from the factory as many modern sports cars do today. Langs 4 By far the most expensive option of the three, carbon fiber is strong stiff fibrous material that is stronger than steel. It can be formed into everything from car doors, mirrors, wheels, or even the whole body as they do with supercars. However, the process is time consuming and expensive which is why it is reserved for the limited production cars such as Lamborghini and Ferrari. Until there is a way to mass produce carbon fiber cheaply and as quick as we make everyday road cars we will not see much of it no matter how efficient it is. In the diagram below you can see just how light it actually is. That is the body of a BMW I3 easily being picked up by two employees. Carbon fiber is 40% lighter than steel and 60% lighter than Aluminum the typical two materials vehicles are made of. Langs 5 In conclusion, there are many ways that a car can go faster and still be efficient, they just take a little more planning and may be more expensive but the price to pay to protect ourselves from harmful emissions. Most people like change especially when it comes to traditionalist They consider a car unless it has a big displacement gas guzzling V8 under the hood, but times are changing, this the 1960s anymore, the world and people are in danger and it is time for a change. With this compromise I believe both sides can be generally happy, the EPA has less carbon emissions, and NHRA members are still able modify their cars, it may not be the traditional way but going fast is still going fast. Langs 6 Works Cited Beissmann, Tim. How Many Cars Are There in the World?  CarAdvice.com. Car Adive, 19 Aug. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.caradvice.com.au/133570/how-many-cars-are-there-in- the-world/>. Carbon in  Carbon in Mobility SGL CARBON. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.sglgroup.com/cms/international/innovation/carbon-in- Department For Transport. New Car Carbon Dioxide  New Car Carbon Dioxide Emissions - Publications - GOV.UK. United Kingdom Government, 15 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/new-car-carbon-dioxide-emissions>. Evans, Scott. Audi Teases New Lightweight R8 Variant Codenamed  Motor Trend. Motor Trend, 25 Feb. 2011. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <http://www.motortrend.com/news/audi-teases-new-lightweight- r8-variant-codenamed-nf-journalists-tech-demonstration-34967/>. Henry, Jim. Turbocharging to Save Gas, Instead of to Go  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 28 Feb. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.forbes.com/sites/jimhenry/2012/02/28/turbocharging-to- save-gas-instead-of-to-go-fast/#35dd1b9e691a>. How Does a Turbo  The ORIGINAL Turbocharger Review. Turbocharger Review, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.turbochargerreview.com/turbo-education/how-does-a-turbo-work/>. F150 Aluminum  N.p., n.d. Web. <https://cimg1.ibsrv.net/gimg/www.f150forum.com- vbulletin/800x449/80- d919.jpg>. Lippert, John. Crown Jewel, the F-150, Has a Big  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 16 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-16/ford-s- crown-jewel-the-f-150-has-a-big-problem-after-overhaul>. Various.  EPA Seeks to Prohibit Conversion of Vehicles Into Racecars SEMA. SEMA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.sema.org/news/2016/02/08/epa-seeks-to-prohibit-conversion-of- vehicles-into-racecars>. Voelcker, John. 2015 Ford F-150 Gas Mileage: Best Among Gasoline Trucks, But Ram Diesel Still  Green Car Reports. Green Car Reports, 24 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. gasoline-trucks-but-ram-diesel-still-highest>.