Mitchell Professor Gill ENC 1102 2/13/2017 Climate Change Imagine a place where resources are scarce and the environment we live in is uninhabitable due to pollution and other factors. Imagine having to fight for necessary resources because everything is so scarce. It is scary to think that we might not be imagining this world for much longer, as climate change and overconsumption are destroying our world and resources. The world is at a crucial point in time where we must act fast. If not, we will face the repercussions of a world where our actions have damaged the most beloved thing around it. Earth. We face a big problem today: climate change. According to NASA, change is a change in the usual weather found in a place. This could be a change in how much rain a place usually gets in a year. Or it could be a change in a usual temperature for a month or Human-driven climate change is the most deadly type of climate change, as billions of people are contributing to it everyday. Pollution is perhaps the most common cause for human-drive climate change, however, there are many other factors, such as deforestation and construction, that serve as a catalyst for climate change. Climate change has been a debate ever since the end of the 20th century, however, it has recently been receiving a lot of attention after the 2016 election. With many people arguing over whether climate change is a hoax or is it a real occuring problem, I wish to propose a compromise between two big stakeholders in the conversation: the Greenpeace Organization and oil These are two major stakeholders that are at odds with each other in a sense. The Oil Companies want to increase their profits more than help the environment and Greenpeace wants to solely help the environment. The only problem is is that the Oil Companies are the ones contributing to climate change and the greenhouse gases we see today. If these two could compromise we would likely see an end to the overall discussion of the topic. Oil companies share a big part in the discussion of climate change. They have a lot of money and can sway lobbyists and others to back their agendas in order for them to profit. Oil companies will say they do not play a big part in human climate change and that they are for the environment as much as anybody else. According to one of the leading oil companies, Chevron, stated, recognize and share the concerns of governments and the public about climate change. There is a widespread view that the increase in atmospheric greenhouse gases (GHGs) is a contributor to climate change, with adverse effects on the They basically are stating that they understand the concerns of the government and the people and they want climate change to get out of hand as well. They express concerns over pollution and global warming when they come out and talk about it. Many other companies such as Exxon/Mobil, Shell, and multiple others realize that the burning of the oil they are producing is leading to higher levels in greenhouse gases which increase the overall temperature. For the most part, the oil companies address the concerns about climate change. However, what do the oil companies actually do to prevent climate change? Some companies like Exxon/Mobil have gone out and said that they would prefer to tax the burning of carbon and the fuel in order for there to be a reduction in carbon burning adding to the greenhouse effect. Also, many oil companies are trying to find new technology in order to make cleaner extraction of the fossil fuels that do less harm to the environment once they are burned. Even though many oil companies say they care about the environment and putting an end to global warming, there still seems to be increasing in burning of fossil fuels and hotter temperatures. Greenpeace is one of the bigger stakeholders in the conversation of climate change. Their goal is to help reduce and find an end to human-driven climate change. On the Greenpeace website, they say, devastating impacts of climate change are clear. Our world is warmer than ever before, and people and wildlife are already suffering the consequences. But nothing compared to what leaving future generations if these trends continue. time to stop the destruction. time for an energy wants to truly stop the climate change on our Earth and they understand the problems with the environment the most out of the two stakeholders. They are the most active when it comes to helping the environment. Greenpeace believes that fossil fuels are major contributors to global warming and they seem to understand the effects of climate change. As the temperature rises from the increasing amounts of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere, the polar ice caps in the North Pole will melt, causing the sea level to rise. This will flood homes for both humans and wildlife alike. Greenpeace fights for the justice of the environment and they also fight for the people who need the environment. Greenpeace has had numerous campaigns and rallies in order for the world to understand the environmental issues that the world faces. The debate on climate change is very hard to understand at times, as both sides seem to play some positive roles in everyday life. The oil companies say they are for the environment, but this statement is obviously undermined by the profit they make. Since the temperature is increasing and problems with our climate have become more numerous, I think that both groups can see the outcomes of our current human lifestyle. I think that if both sides of the conversation can reach an agreement, I believe that we could move forward in the process of stopping climate change. Both groups agree on it being a problem for the environment, so I think if we could find a cost-effective way of implementing new technology into the oil industry, we could get cleaner products meaning a better price for the companies. I think this would work because the oil companies would not have to reduce their profit as much as they normally would and it would still help Greenpeace by making the environment cleaner than before. This would be a compromise that I think both groups would settle on because both parties would be getting closer to their main goals. Also, if Greenpeace could work with those companies to start advertising to be greener sources of energy, they could help more people use cleaner fossil fuels while the oil companies would be making profit. This would incentivize the oil companies to make even greener choices. According to the EPA there are many solutions that can be explored by both parties when talking a compromise. Whether that be Nuclear energy, Solar power, or others this would create a lot of needed transformation in the world. Even new technology to help make coal and oil burning more efficient and less polluted are being talked about. Climate change is a problem that the world faces today. We must act now in order to keep the world clean and sustainable. With the increase in fossil fuel use in the world, we must realize that these habits can not last forever. The climate is an important part of the world and we must fight to maintain it. The conversation must continue until we end the problem. Greenpeace and all the oil companies need to have a compromise that can benefit both of the groups in order for our environment to heal. If you think they should do so, you should contact Greenpeace or join the movement at greenpeace.com in order to help keep the progress going. Work Cited: Dunbar, Brian. What is Climate  . NASA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What  USA . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. RAMOS, HOWARD. Mapping The Field Of Environmental Justice: Redistribution, Recognition And Representation In Engo Press  Journal Of Sociology 40.3 (2015): 355-375. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kurlantzick, Joshua. What Lies Beneath: Some Oil Companies Boast About Their Commitment To Fighting Global Warming. But As The Arctic Heats Up, These Same Companies Are Racing To Drill In Newly Melted Waters. The Rush To Exploit The Melting Ice Cap Is  American Prospect 11 (2006): 26. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Oil Company Positions on the Reality and Risk of Climate  Company Positions on the Reality and Risk of Climate Change Environmental Studies . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tao, Fulu, et al. Effects Of Climate Change, CO2 And O3 On Wheat Productivity In Eastern China, Singly And In  Environment 153.(2017): 182-193. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017  . Environmental Protection Agency, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.