Life 1 Cameron Life English Comp II 003 Dennis 29 January 2017 Opioid Addiction: Medical Myth or Real Danger In East Liverpool, a small boy was found in a car in the hot sun. The boy was left in the car in the heat and where were his parents; passed out on opioids in the front seat (Parks,1). You can see the horrifying image below. In the United States there is a hot button topic developing: Opioid Misuse. Amid the sensationalism of the media, Americans are not sure what the reality of this issue really is. Regardless of opinion and biases, there are two groups that stand with clear platforms in the middle of this issue. That would be the Pain Care Forum (PCF) and Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP). They are standing in opposition of each other and the situation will only worsen until a compromise is met between the two. While the Pain Care Forum argues for increased distribution of opioids due to the epidemic in the U.S., Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing believes in the encouragement of safe and cautious prescriptions and possibly reducing the number of prescriptions altogether due to the mortality of opioid abuse. One way to meet both objectives is to commission an unbiased research organization to farm data and use said data to encourage opioid prescriptions through a physician-endorsing collaborative brand. Life 2 (picture taken from Park, Alice . The Story Behind the Viral Photo of an Opioid  Time. Time Inc., n.d. Web.) First we must define opioid addiction. According to Wikipedia, is a medical condition that is characterized by the compulsive use of opioids despite adverse consequences from continued use and the development of a withdrawal syndrome when opioid use (Wikipedia, 1). Both the utility and the potential for abuse of opioids has been acknowledged again and again. This is shown in the academic journal Professional Safety when Eric Lambert writes that opioids can manage a pain but is also highly addictive (Lambert, 57). A Mayo Clinic study showed that one in four people who took progressed to a long term prescription (Lambert, 57). As evidenced in the chart below the number of prescriptions of powerful opioids continues to rise and rise. This paper does not condemn or condone the use of opioids, it serves to provide a dialogue with hopes of progress in the field. Life 3 (Graph courtesy of Volkow, Nora . Addiction to Opioids: Heroin and Prescription Drug Abuse. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Web. https://www.drugabuse.gov/about- nida/legislative-activities/testimony-to-congress/2016/americas-addiction-to-opioids-heroin- prescription-drug-abuse ) Let us start off by defining who the players are in our divisive issue. According to PainEDU.org, the Pain Care Forum is a, of diverse organizations with a stake in improving pain (Corsini, 3). It is important to note for clarity that any information coming from PainEDU.org is plausible to be biased due to the fact that their sponsor, Inflexxion, Inc., is a one of the 60 plus corporations that make up the PCF (Corsini, 5). The PCF are committed to helping to improve pain care in hopes of abated the that exists in the U.S. (Corsini, 7). This basically means that the PCF mainly works as a lobbyist and advocacy group for fewer restrictions and increased availability of opioids. They have a reduced web presence (the only mentions of their platform are on their some of their websites). This is believed to be because they are focusing their resources on activism and more focused endeavors such as their Pain campaign (Corsini, 27). They have Life 4 yet to comment of Opioid Addiction and whether or not it is actually causing a multitude of deaths in the United States. They support the increased distribution of opioids because they are aware of how many Americans rely on opioids for pain management. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, Americans account for 99% of hydrocodone and 81% of oxycodone consumerism (Volkow, 2). The other Stakeholder in this divisive issue is the Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP). As detailed in a short informational video on the website, mission is to, morbidity and mortality resulting from prescribing of (PROP, 1). They are a group of physicians and citizens who are concerned about the growing number of people who are dying or are affected by opioids. They say there are motivated to remedy this issue because it is so highly preventable, due to the fact that these drugs are largely prescribed by doctors (PROP, 30). They have observed that there has been an increase in past in 20 years in drug overdose deaths, and from 1999-2013, 220,000 Americans died due to opioid- related overdoses (PROP, 5-6). A chart that illustrates this data clearly can be found below. They have become worried that if the situation is not remedied soon then those rates could increase at unprecedented rates. They plan to improve this growing problem by, counter detailing education for clincians, the FDA to better regulate opioid manufacturers, and more cautious prescribing (PROP, 7-8). As you may have been able to see, goals are largely counter to that of the PCF. So this does beg the question: how can these two prominent organizations reach an agreement that will ameliorate this situation. Life 5 (This graph is taken from https://www.drugabuse.gov/related-topics/trends- statistics/overdose-death-rates ) There is one compromise that I believe both organizations would find most agreeable. In this agreement the PCF would compile records of general cases that were prescribed opioids from the physicians who are in PROP and the processes that the physician underwent to come to that course of action. They would then create an environment for representatives of PROP to view and scrutinize the cases and determine if it was a proper and safe prescription. A physician with a certain number of representative-approved prescriptions could be endorsed by the two organizations. They could publish a report detailing the processes they found to be the safest for Opioid prescription. For cooperation through this process, PROP will assist in lobbying Life 6 against strict regulations on opioids. This would ameliorate a multitude of the aspects of this issue. Those who truly need opioids for pain relief will receive them, the strict regulations on manufacturers will be lessened, and due the fact that diagnoses are safer, there will be less deaths as a result of drug related overdoses. (photo courtesy of http://www.cugmhp.org/2016/10/28/painkillers-are-killing-us/ ) In conclusion the topic of opioid abuse and addiction is very controversial, due to the large amounts of Americans that rely on opioids for pain management but also the large number of documented opioid deaths. It is important to remember that these are not just statistics, they are human lives that are being affected on a day-to-day basis. While the PCF and PROP are not working currently due to lack of communication and differing ideals, the suggested compromise is a very reasonable approach that could be taken to better the situation as a whole. No matter what each American thinks about opioids, we can all be happen that the parents from East Liverpool were convicted of felony accounts of negligence and the boy recovered physically from the incident (Parks, 3). Life 7 Works Cited Corsini, Evelyn. The Pain Care Forum and Pain Awareness Month An Interview with Mayssa Sultan, MPA,  PainEDU.org. Inflexxion, Inc., n/a. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Lambert, Eric, and Joseph Semkiu. Opioid  Professional Safety 61.10 (2016): 57-59. Web. N/a. About Physicians for Responsible Opioid  PROP Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing. Steve Rummler Hope Foundation, n.d. Web. 21 Jan.2017. Opioid Use  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Park, Alice . The Story Behind the Viral Photo of an Opioid  Time. Time Inc., n.d. Web Volkow, Nora . Addiction to Opioids: Heroin and Prescription Drug Abuse. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Web. Life 8