Lewis 1 Ashley Lewis Hannah Lay ENC1102 12 February 2017 Standardized Testing Standardized testing is a highly critical part of any life because their scores determine whether they can get into college or not. In addition, teachers have to prepare their students to take these tests during their class time. As the Institution for Democratic Education in America (IDEA) works heavily on providing information that standardized testing is minimizing student opportunities to expand on their curriculum, the Students for Education Reform (SFER) is a group of students who are relying on testing to further their educational resources towards a better future. The IDEA is a group of adults (made up of teachers, school administrators, and people in the educational board) who do not see positive results of standardized testing, while the SFER is a group of students who think standardized testing is imperative in the school system. Both groups share a common goal of pushing the boundaries of education in order to provide a better outcome for all students taking these tests. A reasonable compromise would compose of a slight change in the execution of the tests by implementing these exams as an equal yet optional opportunity, which leads to the opposing conflicts between these two groups to be resolved. The IDEA (Institution for Democratic Education in America) is a group that believes that student curriculum should not be limited to standardized testing. This idea is based on the fact that teachers have to stop what they are teaching just to prepare their students for these tests. When teachers stop teaching their subjects, it limits how much the students learn about things such as art, science, or history (considering, math and English are the only subjects tested in Lewis 2 most standardized tests). The group is made up of adults and supporting students who would like to be a part of their educational change. In expressing their plans to change the way students are tested the Mission statement states that is a need to step out of our settings to see what is possible and gain new ideas and Instead of limiting students to only a few subjects, they would allow students to advance in subjects that they are interested in. In addition to curriculum limitation, these tests cause students an abundant and unhealthy amount of stress. This pressure is placed on students and their parents who want the best future possible for their children. Pamela K. Randolph went on to explain how standardized testing affected some students in a nursing program; AZ programs do not use standardized tests as stakes however approximately one-third of AZ programs established a with consequences for students who failed to attain the score. AZ programs that did not establish a cut-score had a significantly higher OI (NCLEX pass rate + OTG) than programs with cut scores. an agreement that programs need to consider multiple factors, not just NCLEX pass rates when establishing testing  (Randolph 4). The students who did not have a did significantly better, which further proves that standardized tests do not aid better results for students taking these tests. The IDEA believes that these types of unrealistic expectations and stress should not be put on students. The SFER (Students for Education Reform) is a group that does not want standardized testing taken away because they believe it benefits students, by showing them what they need for the real world and an equal education. This organization is a group led by students who believe in the positive aspects of standardized testing. They see these tests as a better grasp on their future by giving them opportunities such as scholarships based on their grades rather than the school they are learning from. The SFER Mission Statement says that the Lewis 3 develops college students into grassroots organizers who fight for educational justice in their These students fight for these tests because of its great impact on their future. Standardized tests are given to test things such as literacy and mathematics for real world jobs and further educational purposes for the students taking the tests. The tests do not only show the students what they already know how to do, but also bring the things that they need to improve on into perspective, all to better the education. Krystal L. McCutchen explains the results of a test given to students with different mindsets regarding standardized tests, who believe they are able to achieve academically are more likely to be successful (Marsh & Craven, 2006). Academic achievement is related to a self-belief in their ability to achieve for that domain (Marsh & Craven, 2006; Robins & Pals, (McCutchen 209). The students who had a positive mindset were more likely to pass, rather than those opposed to the test; which furthermore proves that standardized testing is not the variable in school that is limiting student, instead, their mindsets are limiting them. The overall goal of both of these stakeholders is that they want what is best for student education. The IDEA seeks to stop the limit of education, and the SFER wants an equal and fair education for all students. These two groups are not intentionally aimed against each other; instead, they are both actually fighting to help students gain a better future, and learn the skills that they need for real world jobs. The founders of both of these stakeholders are simply concerned with how students are being affected by these tests, and are interested in manipulating the school system to create better and well-rounded students. Though it seems apparent to one side or the other which type of testing is right for the student, in actuality everybody learns in different ways. Seeing people as unique individuals would allow students to be tested on what they want and how they would like to do it, rather than what they are being forced to do. Lewis 4 The idea of bettering a education can be done in many different ways, while still obtaining a uniform curriculum across the board. Changing how students are tested and what they are tested on will not only open up a wider variety of future college majors but will also allow further advancements in society as that generation becomes a part of the working class. Descriptive Inquiry explained by Yoshie Kittaka is a great compromise that these two groups would be able to agree on. She explains that Inquiry has the potential of being an alternative, or a complementary practice, to standardized testing. In the United States, especially since the inception of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, standardized testing has become the primary way to evaluate the public schools and its children. Heavy reliance on standardized testing, however, is not supportive to the well-rounded development of (Kittaka 30). Descriptive Inquiry can create an agreement between these two groups by setting up a list of all of the subjects in the school and allowing students to choose what and if they would like to be tested on them. Once the student chooses their specific academic subjects, the teachers of that subject will create a test that seems fitting for the subject and student, then assess the student. This type evaluation will support students who want to major in diverse subjects or students who do not plan on furthering their education at all. Descriptive Inquiry implemented into school testing will benefit both stakeholders by allowing everyone a diverse curriculum, while giving every student an equal opportunity. In most cases, when students participating in something that they feel strongly about, they will do better, so if students are getting tested on the subjects that they would like to pursue in the future, then they will score better. The curriculum in schools would not be limited because every subject would maintain an equal amount of importance, no matter what it is. Since this compromise Lewis 5 would be implemented to manipulate standardized testing, the changes to the test will affect every school equally (rather than only benefitting the schools that can afford to give their students a better education). Lewis 6 Works Cited  Students for Education Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. Institute for Democratic Education in America  Institute for Democratic Education in America IDEA. N.p., n.d. Web. Kittaka, Yoshie. Descriptive Inquiry As An Alternative To Standardized Testing: Patricia Carini And Her Progressive  Teaching And Learning 1 (2016): 30. Academic OneFile. Web. McCutchen, Krystal L., et al. Mindset And Standardized Testing Over  Learning And Individual Differences 45.(2016): 208-213. PsycINFO. Web. Randolph, Pamela K. Standardized Testing Practices: Effect On Graduation And Pass  Journal Of Professional Nursing (2016): ScienceDirect. Web.