Taylor 1 Reef Taylor Ms. Alison ENC 1102 14 January 2017 Goliath Grouper and Ecosystem Between the years of 1970 and 1980, the grouper population in Florida dropped dramatically affecting all species of grouper but especially the Goliath Grouper and placing the species on the critically endangered list. The Goliath Grouper species can live to 100 years and weigh up to 800lbs, resembling a small station wagon (Goliath Grouper). Many believed that the Goliath Grouper would go extinct, however, due to the Florida Fish and Wildlife implementation of a harvesting ban on the species in the 1990s. The species has seen a population comeback in recent years to what many believe to be a possible overpopulation of the Florida waters. During the 1970s the Goliath Grouper would only be found as far north as waters, however, today there is a multitude of Goliath Grouper sightings daily in the panhandle. The panhandle was initially believed to be too cold for the Goliath grouper species. It is thought that the species has expanded its range of habitats to this new region because of global warming increasing northern waters and the over population of the species in the south Florida waters. The Goliath grouper is incredibly territorial and much of the time will stay in a localized area of 100 sq. yards for over a month before relocating for a renewed food source (Goliath Groupers). While the species is localized and territorial they are required to locate every so often because a juvenile Goliath Grouper (approximately 5-6 years old and 200-300lbs) is capable of cleaning out a small reef structure in about a month With the feeding habits of a Taylor 2 Goliath Grouper historically compiled of small crabs and injured reef fish, but in recent years the Goliath Grouper has been seen to regularly pursue and devour key reef species (Mature Lobster, Snapper, Grouper, small Sharks) creating competition with fisheries and devastating the underwater ecosystem. Sharks, Barracuda, and Mackerel feed on juvenile Goliath Grouper, but when fully grown the Goliath predators are large Sharks and Humans; meaning that without human intervention there is not a substantial amount of natural predators to keep the population numbers at a healthy level. There are two companies who in recent years have not worked together on the subject of the Goliath Grouper harvest due to their previous positions in the subject matter. However, in this instance the Reef Environmental Education Foundation (REEF) an underwater conservation group that advocated for the safe and practical regulation of marine species. And Another Keeper Charter based out of Englewood, FL that wishes to lift the ban on harvesting Goliath Grouper shortly to properly manage the ever-growing population. These two groups have a rather similar idea as to what should happen with the harvest ban on the Goliath Grouper and if they were to combine effort in a campaign to lobby the Florida Legislation to lift the Goliath Grouper harvest ban for one trial season under strict regulation could not be ignored by the legislation. Another Keeper Charter Captained by Tom McLaughlin in Englewood, FL. Captain McLaughlin currently runs $1200 a day Goliath Grouper catch and release charters in South Florida and has spoken out about how the ban should be lifted because the population has grown so large it affects his other fishing operations by cleaning out fisheries and stripping tackle from his fishing lines (Tom 2012). If the ban were to be lifted Another Keeper  would be able to charge more for the harvest of the Goliath Grouper and would also allow for other species Taylor 3 of reef fish to repopulate in healthy numbers back into the local fisheries. Over the past five years, Another Keeper Charters has conducted catch and release programs in Florida waters to give tourists and locals the fish of a lifetime by fighting one of the largest creatures you can catch on hook and line. During this period whenever a Goliath Grouper would be caught the captain would take measure meets and tag the beast to keep the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission up to date on the population numbers in certain areas. However, while Another Keeper Charter feels a harvest would be a promising endeavor in the near future the captain of the charter company would only agree to such measures after thorough research and more funding put into the study of the population numbers (Tom 2012). While he feels the numbers of the Goliath Grouper population have reached adequate numbers he does not want to make the mistake of promoting a lifting of the harvest ban to realize the numbers, in fact, were too low and now the mere fishing of the species to have a ban put on it. Captain McLaughlin has attended all FWC (Florida Wildlife Commission) meeting to talk about such options and to look over the research of the populations in different fishery regions to ensure the correct choice will be made. He has even had the pleasure of granting his fleet of vestiges to the Florida State University Coastal Marine Laboratory, which is home to the leading expert in all this Shark, Snapper and Grouper, Dr. Koenig. Dr. Koenig spent multiple weeks in South Florida aboard Another Keeper Charter boats while fishing and tagging Goliath Grouper, so much time that he was able to return home with enough information to publish a research paper covering the Goliath Grouper populations and the advised future of the fishery. This research paper PATTERN OF RECOVERY OF THE GOLIATH GROUPER EPINEPHELUS ITAJARA POPULATION IN THE SOUTHEASTERN  is not only backed supported by Another Keeper Charter but also by the REEF organization (Koenig 900). Taylor 4 The Reef Environmental and Ecosystem Foundation (REEF) in Florida promotes safe environmental practices in the underwater ecosystem as documented in their mission statement To conserve marine ecosystems for their recreational, commercial, and intrinsic value by educating, enlisting and enabling divers and other marine enthusiasts to become active stewards and citizen scientists. REEF links the diving community with scientists, resource managers, and conservationists through marine life data collection and related  The REEF organization advocates for the best interest of the environment and believes that human intervention is needed to regulate certain aspects of the underwater ecosystem. On the subject matter of the Goliath Grouper harvest, the REEF organization has advocated for the lift of the harvest ban to regulate the Goliath Grouper population and ensure the future of the Florida Reefs. The REEF organization in recent years has had two main topics by which they speak out about at FWC meetings, one is the over populated lionfish, and the other is the growing Goliath Grouper population. While they do not stand to gain as much financially as the charter companies, they are an organization made up of divers, fishermen, and conservationists who regularly express opinions about the population as well as assist in the studies that are conducted around Florida. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission is a state office that deals with the interest of the wilderness. They are the ones who decide upon the seasons and regulations each year Taylor 5 those different fisheries have to follow. The FFWC was the office that originally placed the ban on the harvest of Goliath Grouper, and they coordinated with FWC to enforce that ban. Now to get the ban lifted and strict regulations put in place for a trial harvest season they are the office one would need to lobby. A campaign video on local news channels across all of coastal Florida would be the most effective way since most people who would fish, or dive are more understanding of what they can see not so much what they would be told. And it may even take a few years before the official bill gets pout into place and by then the population will be well past any questionable limit and the harvest should prove effective. After the Harvest ban had been imposed on the largest species of grouper in Florida, it allowed for a well-needed revival of population numbers and even some adaptation. In 1970 the Goliath was a docile creature whose main diet composed of small crabs and reef fish, however, in recent years, they have adapted to hunt down larger fish and consume more in a day that most species of shark. As the population numbers have well surpassed those predicted from the 1960s the question arises to how far the population should be allowed to grow before human intervention is needed. Fully grown Goliath Grouper have a very limited number of natural predators one of which being humans and while in the past humans have shown there is no intelligent way to self-manage the population government enforcement will be required to prevent a repeat of the 1980s population dive. Reef Environmental Education Foundation and Another Keeper Charter both express desires to lift the harvest ban once it is sure the population numbers have to reach a healthy level. And with new research to promote the health of the Goliath Grouper population being released each year the harvest ban is looking to be lifted with- in the next decade. However the government is not as likely to lift it when the time is right, they Taylor 6 are more likely to lift it after the Goliath Grouper damage parts of fisheries, and then the harvest will commence. However, REEF organization and Another Keeper Charter have connections spanning the full state and joined forces in a lobbying campaign to lift the ban in the coming years would be more effective than separate operations. Taylor 7 Work Cited Goliath  Big Fish. National Geographic, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Goliath  Goliath Grouper. Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Tom, Captain. Fishing  Another Keeper Charters. N.p., 09 Oct. 2012. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Koenig, Christopher C., Felicia C. Coleman, and Kelly Kingon. Pattern of Recovery of the Goliath Grouper Epinephelus itajara Population in the Southeastern  Bulletin of Marine Science 87.4 (2011): 891-911. Web. Shideler, Geoffrey S., David W. Carter, Christopher Liese, and Joseph E. Serafy. Lifting the goliath grouper harvest ban: Angler perspectives and willingness to  Fisheries Research 161 (2015): 156-65. We Reef Environmental Education Foundation (REEF) Explore. Discover. Make a  Reef Environmental Education Foundation (REEF) Explore. Discover. Make a Difference. Reef Environmental Education Foundation, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017