Chris Holliday English composition Robert Ryan 02/14/2017 Racism has been a hot topic for over the past 300 years that America has been established as a great nation. From slavery to the Jim Crow laws and the many legislations that were put in place in order to keep African Americans in a permanent level of subservience. African Americans did not have any rights in America, and therefore, they continued to march and fight for equal and fair legislation and rights until they, as a people, obtained these equal rights. But lately, these rights seem to be being revoked by the government due to a series of unjustified murders of African Americans by white Americans, more specifically various police officers. This can be seen by the events that unfolded in Ferguson, Missouri where Mike Brown, an unarmed black male, was shot by a white police officer in what appeared to be a racial killing. This has caused much outrage in the African American community and especially has not settled well with the NAACP. They have started the Black Lives Matter movement which has been fighting for the equal rights of blacks that have been mercilessly killed by these various police officers who have not received any form of reprimanding. On the other side of the spectrum is the Ferguson Police Department who is in charge of the overseeing of the many different police operations in Ferguson, Missouri. They believe that their police officer acted not only within the parameters of the law but of his training as well. Both stakeholders need to agree completely in order to establish and form of a compromise between them. In this case, both stakeholders need to come to an understanding that they cannot move on from this incident until both stakeholders have an equal understanding of one another. The NAACP is an organization that focuses primarily on the equal rights and advancement of African American culture. In more recent times, they have been fighting for the equal treatment of African Americans by police officers throughout America. They marched and protested because they wanted their voices to be heard throughout the nation and to pressure the government into changing the laws or to pressure the Department of Justice into holding these police officers accountable for their actions and to have much more severe punishments for the police officers who do not follow these new rules. The NAACP has been very angry because of these recent killing of unarmed African American men. These recent acts of police brutality have left a bad taste in the mouths of many African Americans and have left many people scrambling for answers and punishments for these police officers. Many judicial officials have also weighed in on these cases with some stating that Many governmental officials agree with t must not pretend that the countless people who are routinely targeted by police are They are the canaries in the coal mine whose deaths, civil and literal, warn us that no one can breathe in this (Satomayor). The NAACP believes that the black community of Ferguson has long been the punching bag of the police claiming that years, police force has meted out brutality, violated civil rights, and helped Ferguson officials to leech off the black community as shamelessly as would mafia (friedersdorf). They believe that these officers should be relieved of duty and forbidden from working in a police department ever again because their moral compass is skewed. On the other side of the spectrum is the Ferguson police department. Their mission statement says that Ferguson Police Department provides protection of life and property in Ferguson through the enforcement of laws and ordinances and assistance with emergency medical (Ferguson PD). They organize and oversee the manage the different police operations that occur in Ferguson. They ultimately act within the law and ensure that they fairly treat everyone that they encounter. In the case of Mike Brown, the Ferguson police department believe that their officer acted correctly in order to protect himself. There is evidence that claims to show Brown actually attacked the officer first stating that reached into the SUV through the open window and punched and grabbed (Capehart). This would show that the officer truly was in his right to defend himself and prove that he was completely justified in using his firearm to kill Brown. The common ground that these two groups have is that they both preach safety and equality. The NAACP preaches equality and peace for African Americans in all of the societal realms: political, social, judicial, etc. the Ferguson police department also wants peace for the American citizens so that they can sleep peacefully at night knowing that they are being protected. Another realm of common ground that these two groups have is that they both want to weed out crooked police officers so that they only have the best and most honest men and women protecting the American citizens. The NAACP want this because they wish to bring an end to these merciless killings that have many African Americans living in fear and overall not respecting police officers because they feel as though they are being singled-out as a people. The Ferguson police department should make it a standard code that all of their officers wear body cams that are functional and on at all times so that all of their actions can be monitored so that a decision can easily be made as to whether their actions were justified or not. The NAACP should have many different functions that help African Americans to become much more tolerant to police officers and teach many of these people about the many hardships that police officers deal with on a daily basis and the stress that their families are put through when their father or mother leave for work. Together they can help raise a collective understanding of the different hardships that each group endures and they can better co-exist without all of the violence. For many decades, the Ferguson police department has been under much scrutiny for alleged acts of racism but many of those claims could strain from disgruntled citizens who feel as though they do not have a voice. With these compromises, there should be no squabbling about things being unfair for one group because the other group is being forced to change and adapt as well. The NAACP must be adamant and forceful in establishing these various organizations to help the relationship between the Ferguson police department and the citizens of Ferguson, Missouri because together, they can change the perception of police officers for future generations. Works Cited Civic  NAACP. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Capehart, Jonathan. Opinion Up, Was Built on a  The Washington Post. WP Company, 16 Mar. 2015. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Friedersdorf, Conor. Conspiracy Against Black  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 05 Mar. 2015. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.