Ragsdale 1 Carson Ragsdale Comp II Ms. Lay 2/12/2017 Illegal Immigration The United States is a country that is built upon the basis of immigration. In 2014, around 42.4 million immigrants lived in the United States (Zong and Batalova). The question is how many of those immigrants followed the protocol of becoming a US citizen? A debate about what to do about those people who came to this country illegally has spurred not only over the last couple years but for decades. Amnesty for illegal immigrants is a controversy that has been prevalent in the United States for years now. Organizations like the Federation for American Immigrant Reform, FAIR, have taken the anti-amnesty side of the argument, on the other side of the argument are organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union who try to protect the rights of the immigrants. While both organizations aim for different outcomes there is some common ground between them, such as caring for groups of individuals. To provide care for both groups of people, a good compromise would be the implementation of a system known as microcredit which would be in the best interest of both parties. The Federation for American Immigrant Reform is straightforward about their beliefs on immigration, there is not enough room for those who are not citizens. has reached a point where perpetual growth cannot realistically continue within limited (Labor and Economics). beliefs show that illegal immigrants have the potential to cause intense harm to the country in more ways than one. FAIR also makes it clear, for America to thrive, Ragsdale 2 illegal immigrants cannot be allowed into this country. Instead of amnesty, FAIR and other similar organizations want to secure our borders, deport illegal immigrants, and regain American jobs. Securing the borders is something that is controversial but some deem it necessary. The way the US borders are set up now have obvious flaws and continue to fail at keeping illegal immigrants out. Research has been done to try to fix our borders and keep unauthorized immigrants out. What has been found is that increased security around highly populated entry routes have only lead to the redirect of entry (Leerkes 113). The study Borders Behind the Border tests how border control can be spread out throughout the country not just at our borders. If each state were to implement a policy to deter illegals, then they would be much more inclined to leaving. For example, using laws like the municipal housing policies in Los Angeles is a way to keep track of unauthorized activity in the states. After the municipal housing policies were implemented, illegals fled out of Los Angeles and California looking for safer routes (Leerkes 113). These immigrants also occupy over 17 percent of the jobs in the United States. This number has more than tripled from five percent to 17 percent since 1940 (Zong and Batalova). By removing illegal aliens from the US, Americans would be able to gain back the jobs that they lose to cheaper foreign labor. In addition to losing jobs to the immigrants, statistics show that Americans must pay extra in taxes to support the illegal immigrants who do not pay taxes. As a freeloader, illegal immigrants get to enjoy the benefits of the tax dollar without having to pay taxes themselves (Zong and Batalova). FAIR demonstrates the ways that Americans must cope with the illegal actions of those trying to come to this country. The American Civil Liberties Union provides more of a compassionate outlook towards illegal immigrants. In favor of amnesty for illegals, the ACLU wants to provide illegal immigrants with the basic rights the US citizens have. Immigration detention is a way that the Ragsdale 3 American government deals with captured refugees to the US. The ACLU claims that these detention services are a huge burden to the US taxpayer. The detention services are and inhumane that should not be paid for by US citizens Rights and Detention). In other words, the ACLU wants to provide the illegal immigrants with the basic rights of a citizen and saving the US taxpayer from paying for inhumane detention services. Illegal immigrants also provide an easy and cheap way to find labor. According to the ACLU, these immigrants are, for the most part, hardworking individuals who are looking for ways to earn money to bring their families over and become permanent citizens of the US Rights and Detention). With this work ethic, they help tremendously with labor-intensive work like working on large farms and other agricultural workplaces. Author DW Gibson states that immigrants make up an estimated 65 percent of New agricultural (Gibson 3). By deporting 11 million unauthorized immigrants, backbone, the agricultural industry, could take a massive blow, in turn leading to inflation in food products. The solution to this problem is to take the illegal immigrants and help them to a easy road to citizenship. It is every dream to become a citizen of the United States of America. The sad thing is that not everyone has the means or education necessary to become a citizen. The conservative side of this argument argues for stricter immigration policy and border control while the progressive side argues for amnesty for unauthorized immigrants. However, they both share a common ground in that they want what is best for the people. The progressive side wants to help the immigrants and the conservative side wants to help the Americans. America is a country founded on the concept of immigration, a true melting pot of people. The problem is that both sides of this argument are far too extreme for one side to prevail entirely and get their Ragsdale 4 way. There could be potentially many solutions to this problem and they all have their pros and cons. One solution is to bring opportunity to places that we know illegals come from like Mexico and Cuba. If opportunity for jobs and economic success is available in home country, then immigration is not needed. Microcredit is that opportunity for the poor. Microcredit is basically small loans extended to people with no access to credit (Roepcke, 458). This may not help someone in a developed country but are incredibly helpful to those living in poverty. A man named Mohammad Yunus created microcredit when teaching at a college in Bangladesh. He was astonished at how much poverty surrounded him, so he opened a bank and began giving loans that equated to pocket change to him but were essential to the poor (Roepcke, 459). Microcredit may be the solution to the immigration problem in America. If both the ACLU and FAIR organizations could contribute to this idea and set up a system similar in Mexico, opportunity in underdeveloped countries would be great and the opportunity would convince immigrants to stay in their home country. Illegal immigration is a problem that both sides of the argument agree needs to be solved. The issue becomes how exactly the problem should be resolved. Some argue that illegal immigrants should be deported and the US should increase the border control. Others argue that these illegal immigrants should be given a chance through the amnesty policy and granted citizenship in the country. Both solutions are too far extreme for either side to be content if the other side wins. The compromise makes the most sense being the installation of Microcredit to deter people from moving out of their home country. This country was built on the foundation of immigration. As a country, there needs to be an agreement on how to take care of this issue. However, it is too big of an issue to allow it to go unnoticed; something must be done. Ragsdale 5 Works Cited Gibson, DW. America without  The Nation 2016: 20. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rights and  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Labor and Economics Federation for American Immigration  Labor and Economics Federation for American Immigration Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Leerkes, Arjen1, Borders Behind The Border: An Exploration Of State-Level Differences In Migration Control And Their Effects On US Migration  Journal Of Ethnic & Migration Studies 38.1 (2012): 111-129. Humanities Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Roepcke, Devon. I Stay Or Should I 1 : Preventing Illegal Immigration By Creating Opportunity In Mexico Through Microcredit  California Western International Law Journal 38.(2008): 455. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zong, Jie and Batalova, Jeanne. Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United  Migrationpolicy.org. N.p., 26 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.