Langenbach 1 Blanche Langenbach Dennis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Stem Cell Research: Save the Baby or Everyone Else? In 2001, Hannah Pudsey, just twelve years old, waited for a long six months before receiving her donated heart, even though compared to many others, this is a short wait for any organ transplant. In 2008, just a month away from marrying her she died from organ rejection (Reilly). Although organ rejection was completely overlooked because of diabetic acidosis caused by her anti-rejection medication, she is like many others who suffer from organ rejection. Even though a futuristic concept, growing organs from stem cells would reduce the number of years people wait for transplants and completely eliminate the possibility of rejection. For now, researchers at Johns Hopkins are studying the stimulation of stem cells to reduce the risk of rejection (Johns Hopkins). However, the ethics of stem cell research have been debated since 1981, when the first stem cells were extracted from mice embryos and the possibility for human embryo use was established. These unspecialized cells from embryos have the capability to develop into almost all types of regenerative specialized cells, such as a brain, fat, liver, or bone cell (Zawada 3). While the New York Stem Cell Foundation supports stem cell research because it can accelerate cures for major disease, the National Right to Life Committee opposes stem cell research due to the infringement on unborn rights to life. To satisfy the opposing stances of both stakeholders, alternative embryos should be developed and used in lieu of human embryos, and in certain cases, such as that of a parent wishing to terminate, the parent could give consent to donate their embryo to stem cell research. Langenbach 1 The New York Stem Cell Foundation (NYSCF), established in 2005, has been working toward scientific advancements in stem cell research. Investing over $150 million in research, both in their New York laboratory and other international institutions, the foundation has made medical breakthroughs, such as the project led by Dr. Egli that developed the first embryonic stem cell with type 1 diabetes that specialized into the insulin-producing cells found normally in the pancreas that are not present in a patient with type 1 diabetes. This institution was also the first to turn skin cells into human bone, accelerating research within the field of regenerative medicine (Geronemus 1). The NYSCF believes it is vital that stem cell research continues to grow to further develop treatments and cures for prevalent diseases, such as ALS, Diabetes, Multiple Sclerosis, disease, and others. Figure 1 below shows a minority of diseases that could be treated by stem cells and Figure 2 displays the potential U.S. patient population that could benefit from stem cell-based therapies. Figure 1 Potential Uses of Stem Cells Stem cell  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Langenbach 1 Embryonic stem cells are most important to the research because they are pluripotent, meaning they are capable of developing into almost all types of specialized cells, due to the necessary growth of the embryo into an adult (Zawada 1). The New York Stem Cell Foundation believes that other types of stems cells, such as induced pluripotent and somatic, cannot achieve all the results that an embryonic stem cell can, and are against completely substituting embryos (Geronemus 1). Fortunately, Dr. Egli has spent his fellowship at NYSCF researching and reprogramming somatic cells by nuclear transfer, which was described by NYSCF as the for stem cell research (McKeon 3). Somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) is a process to produce embryonic stem cells by transferring skin cell nuclei into unfertilized egg cells (McKeon 1). This allows stem cell research to continue with stem cells that can act as embryonic cells, without the use of an already formed embryo. Even though the National Right to Life Committee (NRLC) also wants to work to better the quality of life for people, this group has a much different priority. concerned with the destruction of human embryos and the infringement of unborn rights. The NRLC is also concerned with use of human cloning for research, even if this provides an alternative to Figure 2 Potential U.S. Patient Population for Stem Cell-Based Therapies Perry, Daniel, Coalition for Urgent Research, and Alliance for Aging Research. Voices: The Powerful Sound in the Stem Cell  Science. American Association for the Advancement of Science, 25 Feb. 2000. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Langenbach 1 using actual human embryos (National Right to Life 1). Much of their perspective relies on the conservative belief that killing an embryo is equivalent to murder. Embryonic stem cells are taken from blastocysts, which are human embryos made up of eight cells. The process of obtaining these stem cells requires dismantling the embryo and then growing these cells in a culture. Although these embryonic cells are unrecognizable as a fetus, the potential for these pre- disassembled cells to become a baby creates the controversy (Rosalyn 1). Figure 3 exhibits the stages of human development of fetuses at which sources for stem cells. Based on the diagram, at 5-7 days, a human embryo is obtained for embryonic stem cell. The National Right to Life Committee supports unborn rights, and bases their perspective on The Declaration of Independence (NRLC 1). The Founding Fathers distinguished their rights, specifically by stating all men are created equal, that they are endowed by Figure 1 Stages of Fetal Development and Sources of Stem Cells Vikas, Rohit, Dr. Stem cells in  Share and Discover Knowledge on LinkedIn. N.p., 26 Aug. 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Langenbach 1 their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are (Burnside 1). In an effort to legally prove that all individuals have a right to life, the National Right to Life Committee has millions of members with about 3,000 chapters and affiliates in all states (NRLC 1). Even former President Bush supported the committee in vetoing the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 (Zawada 2). Despite both different beliefs, they both have the goal of improving the individual quality of life. One compromise could include use of two other stem cell sources. The first is the use of alternative stem cells produced outside natural conception methods. The second is fetuses from mothers wishing to terminate or superfluous eggs from in vitro fertilization. Alternative stem cells, such as somatic and induced pluripotent are effective; however, somatic nuclear cells (SNCT) are the most conducive to medical research. Through this process, the stem cell can act as an embryonic cell without the requirement of an already formed embryo. This would satisfy the National Right to Life Committee because no human embryos would be destroyed, as well as the New York Stem Cell Foundation because SNCT has potential to be as pluripotent and as effective as embryonic stem cells. However, using a limited abundance of human embryos would be difficult for NYSCF. The New York Stem Cell Foundation has already researched SNCT and proved its effectiveness, as well as the National Right to Life Committee supports these stem cells as an alternative (NRLC, NAS 1). Additionally, consent for parents to donate their embryos would provide an opportunity for the NYSCF to still use human embryos, but save them from being wasted through abortion. Moreover, as addressed in the vetoed Stem Cell Research Enhancement of 2005, the compromise should describe the allowed use of frozen embryos from in vitro fertilization in fertility clinics for stem cell research with consent of the donor, to provide an alternative to disposal of the Langenbach 1 surplus embryos (Zawada 3). This would allow access to human embryos for the New York Stem Cell Foundation; however, this use of embryos is not completely appropriate to the National Right to Life Committee, even if it does provide an alternative to abortion. In summary, both stakeholders have firm beliefs about the ethics of stem cell research. Even though the New York Stem Cell Foundation supports research of stem cells because of their potential for finding cures for diseases, and the National Right to Life Committee opposes stem cell research due to the infringement on unborn rights to life, both prioritize quality of life. By viewing these groups on the basis of life, a compromise should be established to continue scientific advancement to prolong quality life, as well as work to not harm individuals in the process. As discussed in depth previously, alternative embryos, such as the somatic nuclear cell transfer, should be developed and replace human embryos, and in certain cases, such as that of a parent wishing to terminate or with a surplus of frozen embryos, may the parent give consent to donate their embryos to stem cell research. It is vital that these groups work towards a compromise to improve quality of life. Langenbach 1 Works Cited Burnside, William H. Declaration Of  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Geronemus, Roy, MD, and Susan L. Solomon. The New York Stem Cell  NYSCF Research Institute. N.p., 7 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Illustrations from a National Academy of Sciences report shows how sexual fertilization and somatic cell nuclear transfer each create a human  National Right to Life, National Academy of Sciences. N.p., 1 Sept. 2001. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Killing Human Embryos (Human Cloning and Related  National Right to Life Committee. N.p., 15 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McKeon, David. Disease-Specific Human Embryonic Stem Cell Line by Nuclear NYSCF Resarch Institute, Columbia University Medical Center. N.p., 28 April. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Perry, Daniel, Coalition for Urgent Research, and Alliance for Aging Research. Voices: The Powerful Sound in the Stem Cell  Science . American Association for the Advancement of Science, 25 Feb. 2000. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Reilly, Rachel. Miracle heart transplant patient who inspired thousands died of organ rejection just 5 months before her dream wedding  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 02 Oct. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Rosalyn, Courtney, and Farrell Carson-Dewitt. Stem Cell  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stem Cells Stop Donor Organ  Johns Hopkins Medicine. N.p., 11 Oct. 2011. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Langenbach 1 Stem cell  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Vikas, Rohit, Dr. Stem cells in  Share and Discover Knowledge on LinkedIn. N.p., 26 Aug. 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Zawada, W. Michael, PhD, and Karen E., PhD Kalumuck. Stem  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Science (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.