Rader 1 Alyssa Rader 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Ms. Lay Legalizing Marijuana in the NCAA In time of the college lives, it is well known that drugs and social aspects of entering college are on a rise (Leinw). Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume. Athletes do a lot in their day-to-day college life, except for ending their long weeks with a college student weekend because of their chances for a random NCAA drug test, no matter their sport or season. This conflicts with the organization NORML and their views, which efforts try to legalize marijuana for responsible use by adults. This clash between the NCAA, already having a zero tolerance drug policy no matter the substance or time of competition, and the NORML organization, which wants marijuana to be legalized and give even student athletes the enjoyable effects of marijuana, could find common ground through indicating recreational drugs, specifically marijuana, legal for the college student athlete in the NCAA. The NCAA or the National Collegiate Athletic Association is the non-profit association, which regulates college athletes in the United States (NCAA Core Values). Within the NCAA, there are very strict drug rules. These rules ban the following substances: stimulants, anabolic agents, alcohol and beta-blockers, diuretics and other Rader 2 masking agents, street drugs, peptide hormones and analogues, anti-estrogens, and beta-2 agonists (2016-17 NCAA Banned Drugs List). The street drugs category is where the substance of marijuana falls. These drug rules are regulated by both random and scheduled drug testing for the athletes within the NCAA. Regardless of the recent legalization of the use of marijuana by federal and state governments, the NCAA has a zero tolerance policy rule. The stance on what student athletes should be and signify is excellence in all that they do within the academic, athletic, and community parts of their lives. With their stance on student lives, it is frowned upon to associate drug use and NCAA collegiate athletes, regardless of the lack of a normal college student social life (Shirazi 29-46). On the opposite side of drug use controversy, NORML is an organization with a mission is to, move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (Working to Reform Marijuana Laws). With the recent law changes for the legalization of marijuana in the United States, NORML believes they have been on the right track (Evans 149). Even though NORML is not specialized in NCAA athletes, it is indirectly pinned against the NCAA and their thoughts on marijuana use. The use of marijuana is highly popular in the college setting and that includes with athletes. NORML is in part trying to lessen the negative views on marijuana users, including athletes. If now normal college students can use marijuana by the say of the law, why the college student athletes as well? Although these two organizations seem at odds, there is a place of common ground. The common ground lays where they want to make particular groups happy and Rader 3 fulfillment, college athletes in this specific case, and want what is best for them, just by taking two opposite ways of doing this. NORML wants the country to be happy by thinking that marijuana use will help supply more fulfillments, by simulating the brain into happy state of minds. The NCAA wants athletes to achieve fulfillment as well, by doing great in school, competitions, and the community while thinking that drugs will hinder that. It is a given of why performance enhancing drugs are and should be illegal by the NCAA, but according to NORML, marijuana is not like those substances, and would benefit the lives of many. In fact, the side effects of marijuana may even help the busy college athlete relax and calm down so that they can perform better when it is asked of them, due to relaxation effects and brain activity agents. At the end of the day, both organizations want people to be happy and preform at their best in everything they do in their lives, especially college student athletes. A compromise between these two organizations can happen with the simple change to the NCAA rules. Since many state governments have recently legalized marijuana, it can stand to reason that this could be the least problematic drug for the NCAA (Aikins 25-43). With many substances being legal in the NCAA, players, because of its ability to do more help than harm to them, can then use marijuana. The compromise can come through the NCAA legalizing marijuana only, while still not allowing performance-enhancing drugs. As usual, it can be monitored by drug testing and can still have the same consequences as the unmodified rules, just eliminating the consequences from testing positive for marijuana. This compromise of changing the type of substance, marijuana, to be legalized for student athletes within the NCAA can help Rader 4 these two organizations come closer on this controversial problem of drug use for student athletes. The student life is a very busy and very stressful one, and it is well known that drugs and the party scene are on a rise in college. Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do by using substances like marijuana, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume, especially when it comes to street drugs, like marijuana. Athletes do a lot in their day-to- day college life, except without a college student weekend because of the NCAA drug testing, no matter their sport or season, while this conflicts with the organization views on marijuana use in the whole country. This clash between the NCAA, already having a zero drug policy no matter the substance or time of competition, and the NORML organization, which wants drugs to be legalized and give even student athletes the enjoyable effects of marijuana, could find common ground through indicating recreational drugs legal through the out of season time of their sport. Rader 5 Work Cited 2016-17 NCAA Banned Drugs List. (2016, September 06). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.ncaa.org/2016-17-ncaa-banned-drugs-list Aikins, Ross D. From Recreational to Functional Drug Use: The Evolution of Drugs in American Higher Education,  History of Education 44.1 (2014): 25- 43. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Evans, Alona E. National Organization for Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) v. Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S. Department of Justice. 559 F.2d  The American Journal of International Law 72.1 (1978): 149. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Leinw, Donna. College Drug Use, Binge Drinking  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 15 Mar. 2007. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. NCAA Core Values. (2016, July 06). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values Rader 6 Shirazi, Aida, and Raymond Tricker. Current Drug Education Policies in NCAA Institutions: Perceptions of Head Athletic  Journal of Drug Education 35.1 (2005): 29-46. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Short- & Long-Term Effects of Marijuana - Negative Side Effects of Weed - Drug-Free World. (n.d.). Retrieved January 26, 2017, from http://www.drugfreeworld.org/drugfacts/marijuana/short-and-long-term- effects.html Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. (n.d.). Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://norml.org/about