Huynh 1 Tuan Huynh Robert Ryan ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Nuclear Energy The advent of nuclear energy was tainted in infamy. The devastating effects of the nuclear bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki has showed the world the destructive power of this new technology. After the war, however, nuclear energy has been reintroduced as new and peaceful tool for generating viable renewable energy. And so, the industry grew rapidly, especially during the when oil prices skyrocketed due to conflicts in the middle east. But then, recently, the excitement for nuclear power began to slowly diminish as nuclear disasters started to appear. Disasters such as Chernobyl, Fukushima Daiichi, and Three Mile Island has left the world wondering if nuclear energy should even be utilized. Some groups, such as the Nuclear Energy Institute, believes that nuclear energy does more good than harm. They want this industry to grow and foster. Others, such as the Union of Concerned Scientists, believe that nuclear energy is too dangerous, and have a strong stance against harnessing its power. But there is some common grounds between these two groups; and so, a compromise exists between both groups concerning the advancement of the industry and the prevention of its potentially hazardous effects on the environment. The Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI), as stated in their mission statement, a unified voice on the global importance of nuclear energy and nuclear This organization is a merger organization of many other nuclear energy-related organizations of the past. They use their influence to promote the use of nuclear energy before Congress and federal Huynh 2 regulators. They believe that nuclear energy (and the industry as a whole) is beneficial to the United States and around the world. Nuclear energy provides an effective alternative to fossil fuels. It mitigates the dangerous emission of carbon-dioxide caused by such energy sources. A study from NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Columbia University Earth Institute calculated that, nuclear power has prevented an average of 1.84 million air pollution- related (Prevented Mortality and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Historical and Projected Nuclear Power). The effort to be so proactive in communicating with the government and regulators and to inform the public about the use of nuclear technology is to ultimately keep the industry alive and fostering. They aim to increase public and policymaker support for nuclear as well as to facilitate relicensing of existing nuclear energy (NEI: Key Public Policy Issues). They truly believe that nuclear energy will pave the way to a cleaner and more efficient future. They try to meet all regulations required from such a potentially dangerous industry and believe that using and reprocessing nuclear energy is a much cleaner option to burning fossil fuels. To ensure the sustainability of this industry, they will work with Congress to meet the economic, environmental, and energy needs which is stated in their of The Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) is a science-based activist group with the sole purpose of using practical science to solve worldly problems. They use crowdfunding and their union of scientists and engineers to aid in projects that would answer global pressing issues. They have a strong stance against the disposal of nuclear waste. Used nuclear fuel is extremely Huynh 3 dangerous and radioactive. Right now, the most popular answer to this issue is reprocessing the waste into nuclear weapons or to store it away in temporary containments until it is safe enough to be used again. The UCS is unsatisfied with this approach and believes that the excessive nuclear waste caused by the growth of the industry is potentially dangerous to the environment later down the line. As explained in one of their articles, the growth of the nuclear industry has caused plant owners to increase their storage pools of nuclear waste to the point of critical capacity; a malfunction, a natural disaster, or a terrorist attack causes the water to leak from the [it could in thousands of cancer deaths and hundreds of billions of dollars in decontamination costs and economic (Safer Storage of Spent Nuclear Fuel). Finding a safer long-term storage for nuclear waste has been quoted as one of their but they have yet to find a solution. Although both organizations are at odds with one another on the aspect of managing nuclear waste, they both have very similar beliefs. Both of them believe in the betterment of the world through the use of science and technology. Both also wish to save the environment, and both have a vision for a healthier planet. As mentioned before, the NEI sees nuclear energy as the answer to our greenhouse gas emission crisis. UCS is also very aware of this issue and is an advocate of using cleaner sources of energy, create a cleaner, safer, and healthier energy future, time to choose renewables (UCS: Clean Energy). UCS understands the benefits of nuclear energy as a viable, renewable, and cleaner source of energy even though they believe that the potential danger of it outweighs the benefits. Huynh 4 With that in mind, a compromise can exist between these two stakeholders. They necessarily disagree in the benefits of nuclear energy, just on how to deal with nuclear waste, especially with the current growth of the industry. In the past, the UCS tried working with the government to find a permanent long-term geological site to store the nuclear waste. This resulted in the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982. Eventually, the project stalled and no resolution was made. This is where the communicative prowess of the NEI can help persuade congress to reopen this project. Beyond congressional action, the full cooperation of the nuclear industry and industry regulators under the umbrella of NEI will make the process more intuitive and tangible. This is a give and take situation, and the UCS has to make this issue truly their This means dedicating the majority of their scientists and engineers (who have accomplished many pressing problems in the past) to the research and design of a permanent new geological repository. The most important factor in this compromise, the fuel that moves the parts, is money. The UCS has found a lot of success in the past due to crowd donations, especially from wealthy donors. In order to solve this issue, they must dedicate the majority of their donations to this project. With the help of the NEI communicating with congress and regulators allowing this course to be set in motion, having the cooperation of most of the industry experts and powers, and using the resources of money and mind from the UCS, progress can be made in solving the issue of nuclear waste and finding that permanent Huynh 5 There is no doubt that the nuclear energy industry is here to stay; however, advancement of the industry is met with backlashes from many who oppose the danger of used nuclear fuel. Through this compromise, both organizations will benefit. The UCS will have accomplished one of their top goals-making nuclear energy safer. The NEI will also benefit from having a much easier time dealing with regulators. The Industry as a whole will also grow since one of the biggest argument against it, nuclear waste storage, will have been silenced. Works Cited Pushker A. Kharecha and James E. Hansen, Mortality and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Historical and Projected Nuclear Environmental Science and Technology. American Chemical Society. March 15, 2013. Web. Feb 12, 2017. Kurzgesagt. Energy Explained: How does it work? YouTube. March 26, 2015. Web. Feb 12, 2017. of Statement of Purpose - Nuclear Energy Institute. Nuclear Energy Institute. 2017. Web. Feb 12, 2017. Storage of Spent Nuclear Nuclear Power- Union of Concerned Scientists. 2 Brattle Square, Cambridge. 2017. Web. Feb 12, 2017. About Us- Union of Concerned Scientists. 2 Brattle Square, Cambridge. 2017. Web. Feb 12, 2017. Clean Energy- Union of Concerned scientists. 2 Brattle Square, Cambridge. 2017. Web. Feb 12, 2017. Huynh 6