Tribble 1 Justyce Tribble Professor Gill ENC1102 14 February 2017 Climate Change For about 4.5 billion years Earth has been known for the only planet in the solar system to harbor life of many different organisms. Throughout its many years, Earth has been environmentally has been documented through the movement of land masses, mountains forming and deforming, and most recently, evidence has been shown through climate change. Lately, concerns regarding the evidence of climate change, its causes, its effects, and whether or not it is possible to try and stop or slow down climate change have been a constant topic within the United States. With climate change being an issue that raises a lot of attention, opposing positions of different organizations are only natural. Natural and man-made environmental issues are the sources of climate change and how it has already caused negative effects around the world. Fossil fuels are used for efficient global energy and have been reported to be part of the cause of climate change. Natural gas, oil, and coal are the main fossil fuels used as energy sources today. Concerns in regards to fossil fuels can be accumulated through two organizations: Chevron and the Fueling U.S. Forward organization. Chevron has a history of using fossil fuels and not being concerned with its effects on the planet; however, the position has changed. The U.S. Forward is an organization that wants to continue to use fossil fuels because they have helped the United States in the past with innovation. With climate change on the rise, these two companies can find ways to adapt by advocating less fossil fuel use for energy. Tribble 2 Natural gas, oil, and coal are the top three types of fossil fuel used today for energy sources all around the world. It has been reported that fossil fuels are one of the leading causes of the occurrence of global warming the effects that climate change can have on the environment. The Fueling U.S. Forward organization is one that supports the usage of fossil fuels as a main source of energy for the United States. In her article Koch-Funded Group US Aims to Promote the  of Fossil Sharon Kelly writes that the president and CEO, Charles Drevna, stated that sustainable energy is needed to ensure the future of the sources of that energy being from fossil fuels (Kelly). The Fueling U.S Forward goal is to focus on the from the use of fossil fuels. The Fueling U.S. Forward stresses that the United States has been able to innovate and become more industrially advanced due to the discovery and use of fossil fuels (Kelly). In the U.S A Brief History of People, Progress, and Fossil the organization wrote that the use of energy sources Industrial Revolution in the late 1800s, allowing us to replace manual labor with machine (Forward); thus furthering its position if how fossil fuels helped enhance the United States and bring about the Industrial Revolution. This organization supports the use of fossil fuels because natural gas, oil, and coal are most abundant, reliable, and affordable energy sources the world has ever (Forward). A few years ago Chevron was one of the leading companies that used the most fossil fuels like natural gas and oil; however the company has switched its position on the use of these energy sources. On its website, Climate Change: Policy Principles, Chevron talks about its concerns for climate change risks and the causes of it. The company recognizes that its use of fossil fuels do cause harm to the environment which furthermore adds to the occurrence of global warming (Corporation). The use of fossil fuels contributes to the rise of greenhouse gasses Tribble 3 (GHGs) into the atmosphere and because of this Chevron believes that it is only right for them and other organizations to take action to address climate change risks (Corporation), but with the approach of the unavoidable growth of the global means the demand for energy will increase is important that energy organizations find ways to prevent greenhouse gases from entering the atmosphere without placing a cap on the supply of energy itself. In fact, Chevron has set up a list of four principles that will be used as guideposts for the development of climate change policies (Corporation). By definition, fossil fuel is a natural fuel in which formed in the geological past from the remains of living organisms. The use of three fossil coal, and natural been one of the prime suspects in environmental change. Fossil fuels are the sources of heat and electrical and they all contain carbon. Fossil fuels proved to have negative effects on the environment early on; for example, in the article Effects of Fossil Fuel A. G. Chmielewski writes that when coal was used to produce influences on the environment from its combustion was observed (Chmielewski). Common ground between Chevron and the Fueling U.S. Forward is the fact that both companies use fossil fuels. With the positions that the Fueling of U.S. Forward organization and Chevron have on fossil fuels and the effect it can have on the environment, it can be understood why each stakeholder takes the position that they do. The Fueling of U.S Forward wants to only focus on the positives of the use of fossil fuels because without them the United States would not have been able to industrialize into the advanced technological and energy using country it is today. On the other hand, Chevron does use fossil fuels for the products; however, Chevron does not ignore the fact that it has been reported that fossil fuels are not the most Tribble 4 environmentally safe way to go for energy sources as it does produce certain amounts of carbon into the environment which can effect climate. Chevron feels that it is important to not only inform citizens on the rise of climate change risks, but also to inform them of the importance of reducing the usage of these fossil fuels. The greenhouse reported to have the ability to the planet, and could lead to potentially catastrophic changes in the according to what the Environmental and Energy Study Institute stated in article titled (Institute). Each stakeholders position on climate change hold a significant amount of weight and is understandable, but if the end result is to keep the environment safe, then they should work together to not only reduce the use of fossil fuels, but end it altogether by using alternative energy sources that are natural and natural gases, oil, and coal (McLamb). As stated before, fossil fuels effect the environment by releasing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere with the number one being carbon dioxide. In Eric article named Fuels vs. Renewable Energy he states that the of these fossil fuels is considered to be the largest contributing factor to the release of greenhouse gases into the (McLamb). There are also concerns in regards of the dangers that are posed to natural ecosystems that result from collecting fossil fuels (McLamb). The transition from the use of fossil fuels to the use of alternative energy sources could benefit the environment greatly and possibly slow the effects of climate change that have been recorded today. Alternative energy sources would benefit both of these companies because neither company would have to fear running out of them since some sources say that fossil fuel reserves have been estimated to be depleted in about 50 years. Clearly no one can be certain on when the last amount of fossil fuels will be collected from Earth as it depends on energy demands and how companies choose what sources to supply said energy and with the increase in the Tribble 5 population, the demand of energy sources will increase greatly. Alternative energy sources are renewable and are considered clean sources of energy. In the article of renewable energy sources in environmental protection: A author N.L. Panwar writes that the optimal use of alternative energy sources minimize environmental impacts, produce minimum secondary wastes and are sustainable based on current and future economic and social societal needs (Panwar). energy technologies provide an excellent opportunity for mitigation of greenhouse gas emission and reducing global warming through substituting conventional energy (Panwar). Recent reports and discussions have shown that global warming is happening and there are definitely ways that humans can help adapt to or even combat the risks of the effects on the environment. Companies and organizations like Chevron realize the effect that they have on the environment when they use nonrenewable fossil fuels like natural gas, coal, and companies want that the environmental effects of these sources are one of the main causes of climate change and can be reduced. The Fueling of U.S. Forward and organizations alike are aware of the effects of fossil fuels on the environment, but want to remain positive about what the use of fossil fuels supply for the United States. These two organizations can help minimize the use of fossil fuels by being resourceful with alternative energy sources that are natural and most importantly, renewable. The alternative energy sources can be easily accessed for energy supplying organizations and companies; these sources would also be less expensive so more consumers would be willing to pay because of the lower prices and availability of the actual resources themselves. Tribble 6 Work Cited Chmielewski, A. G. ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS OF FOSSIL FUEL COMBUSTION  INTERACTIONS: ENERGY/ENVIRONMENT (2002): 1. Forward, Fueling U.S. Fueling U.S. Forward. 26 January 2017. 28 January 2017. Kelly, Sharon. New Koch-Funded Group US Aims to Promote the  of Fossil Fuels. 14 August 2016. McLamb, Eric. Fossil Fuels vs. Renewable Energy Sources. 6 September 2011. January 2017. Panwar, L.N. Role of renewable energy sources in environmental protection: A  (2010): 1-4.