Mercado 1 Alejandra Mercado Professor Robert Ryans ENC 1102 S17 14 February 2017 A Fight Against Extinction Zoos have been a source of entertainment for many families, whether they live in the United States or not. Kids enjoy going to the zoo to learn about animals that they would never see otherwise, making it not only fun but also highly educational. However, in recent years, zoos have become somewhat of a controversial issue. The world in the recent years has been in crisis as many species have become extinct or are in danger of extinction. Due to this, many organizations were created to protect animal rights, whether they are in the wild or not. Many of these organizations believe zoos protect animals from extinction as well as respecting their rights. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) have been fighting for many years now against zoos as they do not believe zoos can protect animals from extinction.The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) whereas, believe they are saving animals from extinction and providing an adequate habitat for their animals. Both organizations have different approaches to solving the same issue, extinction, and it is crucial for them to find common ground and make some sacrifices to reach a shared end goal. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is the largest organization in the world that works for animals rights as it can be clearly seen in their slogan, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any (About Peta). This Mercado 2 organization has always been against the concept of zoos, as they believe that placing animals in cages and cramped habitats are forbidden them from having the opportunity of fulfilling their basic needs. Going back to the conception of the idea of zoos, they were created especially for one thing: to profit from using animals as entertainment Rights Uncompromised: PETA agrees that today zoos are more aware of the necessities of animals; however, there are instances PETA thinks, in which animals are still seen purely as entertainment pieces. This issue can be perfectly seen in the situations were breed animals because babies draw zoo visitors and boost revenue. But the fate is often bleak once they outgrow their Rights Uncompromised). Also, the zoos restrict natural behavior including flying and climbing. Apart from all the physical factors, PETA argues on the psychological factors that may affect the animals as well. Animals in captivity often engage in neurotic and self-destructive behavior including self-mutilation and swaying. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums have a specific mission and it is that of its members with the services, high standards, best practices and program coordination to be leaders in animal welfare, public engagement, and the conservation of Plan). This organization is working towards the conservation of all the animal species. Not only do they want to improve animal health and care but also increase the sustainability of animals in zoos. AZA states the necessity of zoos when they stated, modern zoos and aquariums have a vital societal mission to educate zoo visitors regarding the necessity of wildlife conservation and the dilemma of global biodiversity decline and that they contribute significantly to fundraising efforts to support conservation projects in the (Keulartz 44). Zoo policies and treatments of animals have changed tremendously over the years, making them more sustainable and Mercado 3 respecting animal rights. Apart from the changes made with animal care, zoos have also started conducting important scientific research. With this scientific research, scientists have been able to breed animals in ways so that they could be reintroduced back into their natural habitats. Both organizations, PETA and AZA, are on opposing views on the ethical part of keeping animals captive yet they both work towards saving animals from extinction. While PETA suggests the best way of protecting animal species is to protect their habitats, AZA believes animals in danger of extinction can be protected by keeping them in zoos. It can be said that the common ground between these two organizations is that commonwealth of the animals at hand. Both of their mission statements and slogans appeal towards the benefits the organizations have for the animals as well as their rights. They care deeply about the future of the animals as well as spreading awareness about how to save them. Educating the public about can be done in order to prevent extinction and of their needs is something these groups as striving for. Having in mind both stakeholders missions and believes, there are some things that both groups can agree upon to make sure both of their missions are somewhat accomplished. First, it would be imperative that all zoos in the United States be affiliated to AZA, this way all the new changes will apply to all of them. PETA will stop fighting against zoos gaining profit from the exhibition of animals.They would also have to allow zoos to take animals from the wild and into their facilities. One of the biggest problems we as a society face today, is that of natural habitats being destroyed by our own intervention with nature. Because of this issue both of this organizations must come together and conduct research to create a plan that will combat the challenges that climate change will bring to the animals. As researches Minteer and Collins Mercado 4 stated, animal welfare impacts produced as a result of high-priority and well-designed conservation research and conservation activities involving captive animals will in many cases have to be tolerated to understand the consequences of rapid environmental change for vulnerable wildlife populations in the (49). This means that zoos are a necessity in order to conduct research and educate the world about the changing climate that is affecting many species. But in order for this research to take place, AZA would have to agree upon certain guidelines PETA would agree are fair towards the animals. priorities would be focused on making sure animals adapt correctly to their new habitat. This means that animals cannot be transferred between facilities just for entertainment. Also, the zookeepers would be held up to higher standards when handling the animals. By having the animals being taken care of properly, the research itself would be more successful. This research benefits both parties as its results will be helpful to protect species from extinction due to human behaviour destroying their natural habitat. Having to hear and work with another company that has a different view on something important can be impossible. Nonetheless, sometimes it is the only way of achieving that one goal. PETA works towards the world in which what they consider animals rights to be are respected by everyone. While AZA works towards the world in which zoos keep species from going extinct and can educate the public about the species and the habitats that need to be saved. Even though they both have different methods and ideas, they are both working in saving and protecting animals. Mercado 5 Works Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  . PETA, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. About  . PETA, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Keulartz, Jozef, J. Keulartz@science.ru.nl. Captivity For Conservation? Zoos At A  Pojman, Louis P., and Paul Pojman. Environmental Ethics: Readings in Theory and Application. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Cengage Learning, 2011. Print. Minteer, B. A., and J. P. Collins. Ecological Ethics in Captivity: Balancing Values and Responsibilities in Zoo and Aquarium Research under Rapid Global  Journal 54.1 (2013): 41-51. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Strategic  Plan . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.