Kelly 1 Catherine Kelly Robert Ryan ENC 1102 Project 1 Standardized testing has been changing schools and teaching methods consistently since George W. initiatives. Since then there have been both numerous arguments and statements of support towards the new systems. Fairtest is a national organization for fair testing that is against the recent changes. SCORE is an organization of teachers that support the tests, and argue that the benefits outweigh the sacrifices. These tests allow for a simple way to gauge the abilities of students. But they may also not gauge all abilities correctly. This will leave some students with extra work such as summer school or the students may be placed in classes that are not as advanced as they belong in. SCORE is the State Collaborative on Reforming Education. There are many teachers and people very involved in education that are committed to the idea of testing to progress the quality of education. Many people have witnessed the benefits to these tests. As SCORE clearly points out there are a variety of teachers with different teaching experiences in schools today. This leads to unstandardized tests having a wide range of difficulty and quality. SCORE stresses that this is unfair as students will be getting the same recognition for different amounts of work. They will also not have the same opportunities for a quality education if these teachers are being held to different standards. SCORE argues that when teachers do not have the same experiences and techniques some students will miss out on opportunities that may have been provided if they were taught by teachers who were being held to high expectations. These tests are often incentives and motivators for the students to learn. Students will want to show their best work Kelly 2 when they understand the meaning behind tests. Students will also look forward to a feeling of accomplishment after doing well on the tests they have been preparing for for months at a time. Advocators of testing understand that students sometimes need testing as an incentive to do well. They are more motivated than if there was nothing to show how much they have learned and accomplished. SCORE recognizes that not all standardized testing is beneficial for young children. Its intentions are to implement tests that will not hinder young minds. SCORE recognizes that the tests need to not only be multiple choice bur also have a variety of types of questions to also allow students to think more freely. There are also many downfalls to the quantity of high intensity tests that young children are given. The average student takes 112 tests throughout their time in primary and lower secondary school (Fairtest). The Fairtest organization argues that this could be used for more in depth learning in engaging ways. They also argue that students are not able to focus on just learning to gain knowledge and information and that the focus of their education is now testing. There are also many errors that can occur within testing and have many effects on students through their time in school. Six thousand students in New York were once sent to summer school because of a mistake in the grading system of their standardized tests. This organization emphasizes how this is very unfair to the students as not only did they lose time while relearning concepts they had already grasped but the incorrect grading also instilled in these students a sense of failure that tells them they are inadequate. Fairtest also shows how teachers have to base lessons around these tests and are unable to customize lessons plans around what they feel will best fit their students. Not all students learn the same way and at the same pace. Fairtest does not approve of the idea that standardized testing tries to make students learn in the same manner. It is also argued that these tests and their grades are mainly being used as a tool to label schools. Kelly 3 Schools are now often considered not proficient based on scores. Fairtest claims that these schools may not actually be as the scores show. There is much more to schools and education than the tests are showing. They believe the way that education is changing will be very detrimental to our youth and the future generations. Fairtest is trying to change the course that education has been taking and reform it to a more traditional way of learning. Both the organizations that are for and against standardized testing share a common goal. They each wish to ensure that students are offered the best education that they possibly can be. They want to see students succeed. Fairtest and SCORE are under the impression that there are very different routes to seeing this occur. Students need both a pressure free environment to learn but they also need testing as a motivator and tool to see what has been learned and accomplished. Rather than testing all throughout the year with generic lessons plans in between to cater to the criteria of these tests teachers should be able to teach as they best see fit for their students. With this they should then with one single standardized test at the end of each semester to gauge the progress. The students will be able to show their accomplishments without the stress of year-round testing and lessons that do not fit their needs. SCORE wishes to standardize the majority of curriculum and testing in schools. Fairtest is very much so advocating the idea of independent classrooms to allow students the opportunity for individualized lessons. The issue of standardized testing is actually a very complex issue that requires a complex compromise. There is no one simple solution. Schools should follow the guidelines of one test per semester initially. However, if certain schools or classes fall behind the average they should be more guided and influenced by outside parties to ensure that their students are staying on par with the others. It is easy to say that each side should only sacrifice some of their values. But when evaluating the issue and the fact that both organizations are in search of a beneficial education it seems as Kelly 4 though they should be willing to start off with a simple plan and branch off from there based on the performance of students. Both organizations need to recognize that there are certain times when standardized testing is necessary and there are times when those pressures should not be placed on students. Neither of these organizations wish to infringe on education. With some yet limited testing the Board of Education will be able to see which schools and teachers need extra help. Standardized tests can then be implemented as a tool to help those struggling with further guidance as to how their students should be taught and assessed. Standardized testing can be very helpful when used in moderation. It should not be used excessively, but rather when it is seen as needed throughout schools. Kelly 5 Works Cited Just Say No to Standardized Tests (Updated January  Just Say No to Standardized Tests (Updated January 2017) FairTest. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Case Against Standardized Testing: Raising the Scores, Ruining the 2001 Tom Gallagher Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Standardized Print publication date: February 2005. Online Publication date: March 2005. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Voice: In Defense of Standardized May 20, 2014. James Aycock. Web. 27 Jan. 2017