Gonzalez 1 Leidy Gonzalez Professor Robert Ryan ENC1102.045S17 2 February 2017 Sex Education in public schools Education has always been a popular topic of conversation, throw sex education in that mix and things get chaotic. With all the back and forth we hear from organizations for and against sex education it makes it difficult to think of this issue as more than or The problem is that we are constantly being forced to choose a side, pro or against, when actually a way you can stand behind both. Time and time again we see organizations battling each other over what is the best form of sex education, such as Planned Parenthood and The American Life League. In reality both companies can work together to produce a presentation that accomplishes a healthier and clearer path for our future. Almost everyone can distinguish who Planned Parenthood is, but what they offer is not something everyone has knowledge about. Planned Parenthood is a reproductive health care provider that branches into almost every city across the U.S. They pride themselves in extending accurate reproductive answers to difficult questions. Their purpose is to bring sex education to the youth around the world through information regarding contraception as well as speaking about how to prevent unwanted pregnancies and Planned Parenthood is known for their thoroughness of complete sex education, including how to put on and use contraception and what safe sex really means. Planned Parenthood believes that with the proper knowledge about sex, unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases will decline in the general population. Planned Parenthood specifically takes time to put together classes and courses for young teens Gonzalez 2 about sexuality and relationship information in (1) Planned Parenthood Planned Parenthood prides themselves with making sure their classes are inclusive to all sexualities and what positive relationships mean. Douglas B. Kirby agrees with Planned Parenthood in that the effectiveness of sex and H.I.V programs in schools can be beneficiary. Planned Parenthoods emphasis on the importance of reproductive safety and they both believe that these programs really do bring a positive change in a classroom setting. Planned Parenthood believes that with information that is inclusive to all sexualities that the audience gains a better understanding of how to be safe. On the other side, The American Life League is an organization standing behind the belief in abstinence and they challenge the use of contraception. While there are many stigmas against abstinence the ALL organization breaks down many myths. ALL believes that abstinence builds the self-esteem the youth needs to reject hormonal urges. They also bring many accounts of couples who have felt whole and ready because they waited. ALL addresses how waiting helps create a fundamental relationship that encourages safe timing. purpose is to discard all sex propaganda in the media to ensure children are not exposed to this kind of imagery. They believe that it is the job to teach their own children how to refrain from sex. ALL believes the explicit show of sexuality and sex is pressuring youth into dangerous sex acts that eventually lead to unwanted pregnancies and mission is to teach sex education without having to push the audience into any explicit demonstrations that might have negative impacts. Robert Rector, the author of about Abstinence backs up statements proving that comprehensive sex-ed curricula contain sexually explicit and offensive (Rector Pg 11) Most of audience really emphasizes that the dialogue of Gonzalez 3 sexual activities should be in a guarded way so that as not to cause offence or push the audience into pursuing sexual acts. While it seems that both these companies are obvious competitors, they have many shared principles about what they hope to achieve. Both organizations care about the upbringing of youth. Both Planned Parenthood and ALL care about receiving and sending out positive and accurate reproductive information. They also agree that sex education should include parental guidance and direction. The media and ads are pushing us to see their differences. In reality they have more in common than both companies are lead to believe. Although this issue seems to be pinned at anti or pro sex education, really a question of what style of sex education public schools should teach and how far they should go. This a yes or no but a question. A compromise could be made to appease both parties and share the reproductive knowledge they each carry. I propose putting together one presentation representing both values as two working halves of a whole. The presentation would be administered in school during the last year of middle school so there is no obstruction of younger minds. This information would be to all children in the public school system during a seminar with everyone in the grade so the information is the same to the audience. The presentation has to be medically accurate information that does not sway the audience into thinking they need to start having sex. Planned Parenthood would give up the explicitness of contraception use so as to not offend anyone in the audience and gain the ability to speak about how important it is to be safe while having sex and different ways to reduce unwanted pregnancies and ALL would give up speaking about any religious ties to abstinence so as to be as inclusive as possible and gain being able to speak about the importance of having a mature relationship and the positive scale of waiting till marriage. Planned Parenthood is able to dispel some myths about how one can and Gonzalez 4 contract or become pregnant. ALL is also able to break stigmas surround abstinence. Showing how waiting for marriage is beneficial and the positive impact of couples who fully followed the path of abstinence. They would also agree to let each other speak and each stakeholder would have to pose their ideas so that they would not devalue the other. In fact, there are perfect ways for both ideas to become one full range of sexual knowledge to choose from. This matchup of both parties shines light on how it have to be one choice over the other. This way our youth can have all the imperative medical information about safe sex and choose to wait because they fully understand how big of a choice it really is. Both stakeholders are representative in that they wish to educate children or young adults about sex and in this way both parties can be represented, not as opposing teams, but as one unified player against sexual stigmas. Silva has lead a study about the of school-based sex education programs in the promotion of abstinent (silva pg.2) She believes that both schools of thought working together help prove a bigger fight against their shared aversion of undesired pregnancies and This is one positive bump towards my compromise. If both companies were able to push together their school of thoughts it would lead to an expansion of knowledge for the audience and leave them with many options that can merge with their personal life style. Thorough open mindedness and information is the key to avoiding horrible sexual encounters and consequences. I believe that putting both Planned Parenthood and ALL together to work towards their common goal fuels a more productive and wide range audience able to listen and act. By merging these organizations their respected target audiences also merge into a population of informed people with knowledge of sex whenever they decide to have it. Gonzalez 5 WORKS CITED -American Life League, Sex Education - . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. >http://www.all.org/learn/sex-education/>. -Kirby, Douglas and HIV Education Programs: Their Impact on Sexual Behaviors of Young People Throughout the March 2007 Society for Adolescent Medicine. Published by Elsevier Inc. http://www.jahonline.org/article/S1054- 139X(06)00601-X/fulltext#sec2.2.4 -Planned Parenthood. Who We  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 31 Dec. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/who-we-are>. -Rector, Robert. Facts about Abstinence  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 30 Mar. 2004. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2004/03/facts-about-abstinence-education>. -Silva, The Effectiveness of School-based Sex Education Programs in the Promotion of Abstinent Behavior: A  Effectiveness of School-based Sex Education Programs in the Promotion of Abstinent Behavior: A Meta-analysis Health Education Research Oxford Academic. Oxford University Press, 01 Aug. 2002. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://academic.oup.com/her/article/17/4/471/590928/The-effectiveness-of-school- based-sex-education>. Gonzalez 6