Alexis 1 Usha Alexis Dennis English Composition 1102 29 January 2017 GMOs, do we have a right to know? We may think that the term genetically modified organism is a fairly new concept, yet the introduction of gentically modified foods and organisms started in the Advance research was conducted to deepen the understanding of gentically modified products throughout the years. Now, as American consumers we are faced with the fact that GMOs are incorporated in majority of our foods. The question is, we have the right to choose whether we want to ingest foods that contain altered genomes? While the organization of Mansato believes that GMO foods promote effective productivity of produce because GMOs can be altered in genetic material to bring about favorable traits in the produce; Label GMO Florida opposes GMO productivity due to the fact that GMO products have not been thoroughly investigated to determine any trace of prolonged side effects of GMO foods when ingested into the human body.Label GMO urges that companies at least label when the product has GMO components within it.To satify the objective of both groups GMO foods should still be administered but labeled on each product that does contain GMO substances. Those companies that label efficiently would get higher rating, than those that do not. Alexis 2 This graph indicates the huge impact that genetically modified food have on the American food industry.(Jones 2014) Is the production of genetically modified organisms, eploiting nature or just science? percent of the processed foods that American consumers eat daily contain plants that have been genetically Banerjee, 2014). There is no doubt genetically modified food is becoming more and more prominent in our food chain. But what exactly is a GMO? GMO is the outcome of geneticist manipulating the genes from the DNA of one kind of animal and artificially inserting that same gene into another unrelated animal. And this is through the use of gene technology in a way that does not occur naturally through mating and/or natural recombination.Genetically modified organisms are very unnatural. GMO is created by the insertion of one or more functional genes from different Alexis 3 species into the genome of an organism. This technique is used to produce new genetic combinations that are of value to science, medicine, agriculture and industry, and it has been used with several species of plants, animals, fungi and (Milavec, M., Dobnik, D., Yang, L., Zhang, D., Gruden, K., & J, 2014) A recent debate erupted where battle with decision of rather or not genetically modified products should be labeled. ABC news polls indicate that than a third of the public believes that genetically modified foods are safe to eat. Instead 52 percent believe such foods are unsafe, and an additional 13 percent are unsure about Consumers a definetly concerned. Those in favor of the label, stress this because the American people should be informed on what exactly they are ingesting when purchasing consumption products. It is seen as unethical if official withhold the fact they maybe ingesting genetically modified foods. Personally a question of freedom of choice of everyday consumer. Some of the more prominent organisms genetically modified are plants, vegatable, meat, and fish.GMO chickens are the most facsinating. Chickens can be genetically modified to grow larger than normal, to produce more meat for consumers and add to the production profit. Alexis 4 Chickens can also be genetically modified to be featherless, which cuts the cost of the equiptment to remove the feathers on the chicken before slaughtering it. Truely defy nature and allows manufacturors to get the exact product they need to make money.Its propaganda!!!!!Big businesses and manufacturers stress that are not scientifically proven to be harmful to humans. And labeling would only scare the consumer away for puchasing the product.A consumer has the right to know!!!!!ABC New polls also say that everyone, moreover 93 percent says the federal government should require labels on food saying whether been genetically modified, or  The FDA is not concerned about the risk of in fact they express that they are safe and harmless.The USA does not require genetically modified foods to be labeled. In Europe companies are required by law to label and disclose all the ingredients consumer ingest.One of the laws put in lace was the GMO Proposal and this law aims to enable the member states to ban on their territory the use of GMOs authorised under the EU legislation. (Paskalev, V. 2015) Each Alexis 5 state has the right to ban genetically modified organisms in the market. When it comes to the consumption of the the goverenment created specific branches of legistation to regulate the products.A plethora of regulation is implimented to ensure the consumer has freedom of choice. The genetically modified product must be tested and ensured safe for the European consumer.Genetically modifying food has been said to alter the nutritional substances of that particular substance.This means essential nutrient are removed, devalues and alters the organism. While Europe stresses on regulating and labeling genetically modified foods, China continues to make a profit on the production of genetically modified organisms. The GMO industry has enriched China financially and this has added great amount of stability to China. China has turned into a GMO source, and sees bioengineered seeds as vital to a modern farming officials of China strongly support the development of genetic technology to futher advance the genetically modified food production.Billions of dollars are spent to bolster the research being done,which is very extensive. (Roberts, D., & Bjerga, A., 2015) Dennis Halterman, a research geneticist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, developed a presentation that empasized that potato should contain Bt toxin a protein that comes from a bacteria and is used in both organic production and biotech (GMO) crops , this toxin can help protect the plants from insects. (BEECHER, C, 2016) This toxin will act like a sort of pesticide that discourages insects from eating the potatoes. Certainly this is a smart idea, yet if this causes great damage to the insects, what effect can it have on human beings? There needs to be a huge amount of time and effort put upon the research of the effects that genetically modified foods can have on human beings. Scientist are more interested in widening and Alexis 6 expanding their intellect on th subject of genetically modified organsim, yet negelect to find out the side effects of altering the genes of these organisms. When it comes to there are two view points.One side demands mandatory labeling of while the otherside does not find the action of labeling is necessary. There is a continued battle in federal court about this issues.In Congress, the House and Senate appear split over whether such labeling should be a state or federal issue. More attention is brought upon the debate and action is starting to take place. In 2013, for example, Whole Foods announced that by 2018, all products in its U.S. and Canadian stores must be labeled if they contain genetically modified organisms. (Beecher, C, 2016). Indeed when crops are genetically modified to withstand natural obstacles such as insects, disease, weather, and lack of water; this will promote a higher production of crops. Geneticist must reduced the use of chemicals and pesticides on insect resistant plants, which will result in healthier food .Enriching the nutritional components of crops to bolster human health through food, will definetly shine a positive light on enetically modified provide huge potential for production of pharmaceuticals and vaccines which will be much easier to ship, store and administer than traditional injectable (Amofah, G, 2014). fear that the lack of labeling of GMO products disables postmarketing surveillance of the GMO products for safety. Most of the trials supporting introduction of GMOs are not independently done and are commercially driven.The trial designs are laboratory design and of short (Amofah, G, 2014). I feel that the advancement of technology towards genetically modified organisms is a great thing. Scientist are able to insert desirable characterstics to organisms they choose, and this ability in turn creates an efficient food industy. But also concerned about the effects of the Alexis 7 alteration of genes, and risk it may have on human health. Officials should encourage more research to be done to ensure that are in fact safe for us humans to ingest.Labels should become a law toward genetically modified foods. Alexis 8 Works Cited Amofah, G. (2014). RECOMMENDATIONS FROM A MEETING ON HEALTH IMPLICATIONS OF GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISM (GMO). Ghana Medical Journal, 48(2), 117-119. Blake, C. (2015). Day a logical opportunity to discuss GMO benefits. Western Farm Press, 37(21), 4. Drott, L., Jochum, L., Lange, F., Skierka, I., Vach, J., & van Asselt, M. B. (2013). Accountability and risk governance: a scenarion informed reflection on European regulation of GMOs. Journal Of Risk Research, 16(9), 1123-1140 HEMPHILL, T. A., & BANERJEE, S. (2014). Mandatory Food Labeling for GMOs. Regulation, 37(4), 7-10. Milavec, M., Dobnik, D., Yang, L., Zhang, D., Gruden, K., & J. (2014). GMO quantification: valuable experience and insights for the future. Analytical & Bioanalytical Chemistry, 406(26), 6485-6497 Paskalev, V. (2015). GMO Regulation in Europe: Undue Delegation, Abdication or Design Flaw?European Journal Of Risk Regulation, 6(4), 573-578.