Jacob Conaty 1 Jacob Conaty Emil Smith Enc1101.002--Comp 1 February 18th, 2017 Annotated Bibliography In world the population growth is increasing at an uncontrollable rate every day. Since the population is growing so fast, it is likely that food will become scarce in the near future. No need to worry though, thanks to the scientists developing new ways to grow larger and better quality crops our food production is increasing. This is possible by genetically engineering our food, especially our vegetation products. In recent news there has been a lot of controversy surrounding this matter on whether this process may be harming the consumers rather than benefitting them. Like most of us, we question the same thing; are the in food and in our vegetation products, causing more harm than good to the Earth and people that consume these products? Michael J., Dogan Gursoy, and Nancy Swanger. To Buy Or Not To Buy: Impact Of Labeling On Purchasing Intentions Of Genetically Modified  International Journal Of Hospitality Management 26.(2007): 117-130. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. In this journal entry, a controlled science experiment was performed to see how people react when the food they buy is labeled with the in it. The scientist that performed this experiment split the one hundred volunteers into to equal suitable characteristic groups including, woman, men, age, and region of where they live. He had the stores they visit label what was genetically modified and what was all natural. In response, across every group people Jacob Conaty 2 were more likely to buy the non-genetically modified food. This scientist concludes that people have negative thoughts towards genetically modified food because of the media, but, as said in the article, what they understand is the positive aspects of genetically engineering our food. The authors of this article all obtained a degree from various colleges in the field of hospitality and business management. This major is related to this experiment because they are simply observing how people react to genetically modified food be labeled, and then recording the data as a business aspect to show what will affect the amount of food bought. The first author Michael Fallon graduated from James Madison university with a masters in his field of hospitality and business management. The next author also graduated in the same field from Washington State University with his degree, his name is Dogon Gursoy. The third author also graduated in the same field as the other two from James Madison University with a masters as well. This article relates to the research question above because it helps us understand what people think of the in their food. Although it specifically say if it harms or it has no effect at all, it has the opinion of people themselves. From the article we can conclude that people tend to think there are negative effects for the consumers due to their reactions. Datta, Asis. Genetic Engineering For Improving Quality And Productivity Of  Agriculture And Food Security (2013): Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. In this article the author gives us some ways on how genetically engineering our food can be good to us Americans and around the world. Datta, talks about how the quality of crops have significantly improved and the amount of food actually produced is more than it has ever been in recent years because of genetically engineering these crops. Although he says, we have produced much more food than ever, he says to have a sufficient supply of food for the future we need to produce fifty to a hundred percent more food than we are currently. He then begins to talk about Jacob Conaty 3 how these modified foods are able to be produced in every kind of weather which was not possible before, and with growing amounts of people in this world GMOs will help keep our food plentiful for the future. Datta, says it is most important for developing countries where every day a number of people die from starvation or suffer from lack of food. Overall this article is discussing the pros of genetically modifying our food for the sake of food security in the world and how we actually need to do more than we are as of now. These beneficial outcomes include, but are not limited to, larger crops, quality of crops increase, able to plant and grow year round, and it can eventually help us lead to a world with little to no people suffering from starvation. The author of this article, Asis Datta, is a very well respected biochemist from India specializing in molecular biology and genetic engineering. Asis Datta is also very well known for his research on genetically engineered food and food nutritional security. This Article relates to my research question because it gives reasons on how genetically engineering our food has more beneficial outcomes than negative outcomes. Jez, Joseph M., Lee Soon Goo, and Ashley M. Sherp. The Next Green Movement: Plant Biology For The Environment And  Science 353.6305 (2016): 1241. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. From domestication and breeding to the genetic engineering of crops, plants provide food, fuel, fibers, and feedstocks for our civilization which is growing at an incredible pace. This article specifically talks about how genetically engineering our food products can not only create an increase in food but also in fuels and feedstock. Also with the climate evidently changing the natural crops will have a shorter season and in result to that less food will be able to go to the market for us to get. With this new coming into place and perfecting it in the last few years we can grow more food in less acres than ever done before. Thanks to recent Jacob Conaty 4 discoveries we are also now able to create fuels to run our machinery in a way we never thought was possible with out genetic engineering plants. All together this article show the pros to just us, the people, but to everything in the world including creating new fuels to run our machinery, and feedstock to build energy or to also fuel these machines too. The main author of this article Joseph M. Jez, is a biology professor at Washington University in St. Louis. He received his PhD degree in Biology and Chemistry. Also, Joseph has several more articles published and peer reviewed about Biology and genetic engineering. This article directly relates to my research question because it is giving the reasons on how are benefitting us humans in ways other than for our bodies. Lemaux, Peggy G. Genetically Engineered Plants and Foods: A Analysis of the Issues (Part  Annual Review of Plant Biology 59.1 (2008): 771-812. Web. In this article the author talks about how in our food are actually harming not only us but also the environment in ways we never thought. He starts off by telling us how in world there are over two hundred and fifty million genetic engineered crops and this poses a bug problem. This problem is that they are tolerant to pesticide and herbicide meaning there is almost no way to kill or control them causing them to continue growing and taking over other crops at the farms and destroy those. He also goes onto talk about how the products could eventually lead to a growing amount of obesity in the world because in an experiment conducted with mice only fed genetic engineered food, the mice gained an extra twenty-five percent more weight than the ones fed natural organic products! Although, there is no experiments on humans consuming these products he says the weight the mice gained while eating these products could possibly be directly connected to what they are doing to our own bodies. Jacob Conaty 5 The author of this article Peggy G. Lemaux received her PhD in Crop biotechnology and research from the University of Michigan in 1977. She currently is a Professor at UC Berkley teaching a class on biotechnology. Peggy also received numerous awards for her research efforts in plant biology and her advancement in science in these subjects. This article relates to my research question because it gives us some harmful aspects of in our world and how it can possibly effect our health in a harmful way. Iorizzo, Massimo, et al. Disease Resistance Gene Transcription In Transgenic Potato Is Unaltered By Temperature Extremes And Plant Physiological  European Journal Of Plant Pathology 4 (2011): 469. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In this article the authors, Massimo Iorizzo, Dimitre Mollov, Domenico Carputo, and James Bradeen, discuss how genetic engineered potatoes can be designed to have characteristics to protect them from the elements. All the authors agree that with rising temperatures crops will not be able to produce the same amount of food as they did in previous years. These four scientist set out to find a way to prevent the diminishing of crops in the future and to protect the quality of them. They did this by genetically engineering a potato to be able to resist all diseases and this potato can also with stand very high and low temperatures. With all this being engineered in the genes it can with stand almost anything and the scientists believe this is possible with any other vegetables or fruits. The author Massimo Iorizzo earned a PhD and masters in science from the University of Naples in Italy, majoring in Bioinformatics, Genetics, Molecular Biology. Also Iorizzo has published multiple peer reviewed journals about genetics and biology in recent years. Dimitre Mollov also received a degree in genetics and molecular biology from The University of Minnesota- Twin Cities. Mollov currently works for the USDA as a Plant Pathologist. Domenico Jacob Conaty 6 Carputo is currently a professor at the University of Naples Federico teaching in the department of Agricultural Sciences. James Bradeen earned is masters and PhD in plant breeding and genetics from the University of Wisconsin. Bradeen is currently a professor and head of his department of Plant Pathology at the University of Wisconsin. This article directly relates to the research question because it describes that will not affect the earth at all and even as the earth evolves we will still be able to grow full and plentiful crops for people to consume, making genetic engineering a positive for both humans and the earth. Qaim M, Kouser S (2013) Genetically Modified Crops and Food Security. PLoS ONE 8(6): e64879. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0064879 In this article the author Shahzad Kouser explains how the genetic engineering of our food can help contribute to the ending of world hunger. First, genetically modified crops could contribute to food production increases and this can improve the availability of food at global and local levels. Second, genetically modified crops could affect food safety and food quality, making it better for humans and the world. Third, genetically engineered crops could influence the economic and social situation of farmers, this can either improve or worsen their economic access to food. This aspect in particular is in great importance given that fifty percent of hungry people tend to be small scale farmers in the world. The author Shahzard Kouser has her masters in science in Environmental and Resource Economics at the University of Agriculture in Pakistan, earned in 2006. She has numerous peer reviewed articles including this one. She also is a professor at The University of Agriculture. This article relates to the research question because it Jacob Conaty 7 talks about both how in food can benefit people in the world by ending hunger and how have the ability to worsen the economic access to food to farmers. All, together this article talks about how genetically engineered food can be bad and good to both the consumer and the planet.