Stow 1 Cassidy Stow Bob Botkin ENC 1102-063 06 February 2017 Food Source or Secret Killer? Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are organisms that have genetically engineered DNA. GM foods are becoming increasingly more abundant due to the fact that the quickly growing population needs to be fed. However, GM foods are becoming a controversial topic due to arising issues and unknown factors that could cause future health problems. The fight for or against the production of has been going on for about twenty years with the first GM food being sold in supermarkets in 1994 (Wechsler). However, today the fight is aimed toward labeling or not labeling these foods since they are already being sold in our grocery stores country wide. Stakeholders such as the Non-GMO Project and the Grocery Manufacturers Association have been at odds with each other for about ten years now. For one of these stakeholders to win their battle, a law must be enacted to either require or dismiss the labeling of GM foods. A compromise must be made quickly due to the fact that this controversial topic includes every single person in society. The Non-GMO Project is an organization that is fighting for the labeling of GM foods. They are a non-profit organization dedicated to informing consumers about what could be in their foods, increasing the number of non-GM foods on the market, and providing more non-GM choices. This organization was created in 2007 by the owners of two natural food grocery stores, The Natural Grocery Company in California and The Big Carrot Natural Food Market in Stow 2 Toronto, Ontario (Non-GMO Project). Both of these grocery stores are still up and successfully running. In fact, The Natural Grocery Company has expanded by opening two more locations in California (The National Grocery Company). Both of these stores are similar to Whole Foods in that they only sell natural and organic foods and locally grown crops. The Non-GMO Project has already begun their work of fighting for the labeling of GM foods by labeling foods that do not contain GMOs with their well recognizable logo. This logo can be found on any product in any grocery store across the United States that has verified that they are GMO free. The Project also has a side organization called Living Non-GMO that informs consumers what companies and foods contain GMOs and where one could find these foods. Living Non-GMO has verified 43,623 non-GM products and 2,430 registered retailers where consumers can buy these products across the US (Living Non-GMO). The Grocery Manufacturers Association is an association that is fighting against the labeling of GM foods and is also a big supporter of the research and funding for farmers who grow GM foods. They believe GM foods are actually beneficial to consumers and that they help society and the growing population. The Association was founded in 1908 and are composed of more than 250 big name food, beverage, and consumer product companies (The Grocery Manufacturers Association). Some of these companies include Monsanto, Pepsi-Cola, Coca- Cola, General Mills, Campbells, etc. These companies are the ones making the most profit on the GM food market. Since GM foods are already being sold in grocery stores across the country, The Grocery Manufacturers Association is not so much fighting, but supporting and funding the scientists and farmers who are growing these GM foods. The Association is simply the company that sanctions the majority of these foods into the grocery stores. They have also expressed their concern that if Stow 3 a law passes that these GM foods must be labeled, then people will stop buying and consuming their foods because of what they are calling a of natural, organic diets (Watson). As with most controversial topics, there are pros and cons to GM foods. The pros mostly revolve around the fact that GM foods help feed the growing population. As these crops are growing, they require less maintenance due to the fact that they are resistant to most insects, intense heat and cold, and require less watering (Newby). This means that more edible foods are produced with less effort. Also, these GM crops are much larger and more colorful than their non-GM competitors. Although the colorful aspect actually benefit society, the larger aspect does benefit the people. Also, crops are modified to produce more nutrients, protein, and vitamins than non-GM crops (Bodnar). This is beneficial to society because it makes having a well-balanced meal easier and cheaper. The cons of GMOs seem scary to most people because there is a big unknown factor with the science behind it. For example, there may be long-term health issues for consumers who ingest GM foods. However, since GM foods have only been in super markets for a little more than twenty years, the long-term effects are still unknown. It is also unknown what exactly is used to modify these crops and foods. The only information released is that scientists will take the DNA from other foods to alter the DNA in the GM foods (SOT). For example, protein from a Brazilian nut was used to add protein to certain GM foods, and it came out that people with certain nut allergies were having allergic reactions to foods they were usually able to eat (Trask). It is also thought that are linked to people developing allergies (Newby). There are also studies showing that GM foods are most likely causing antibiotic tolerance in humans due to the crops tolerance of insects and bacteria (Wechsler). The worst of it was a study done by scientist Jeffery Smith. He fed test animals all GM foods and almost all of them exhibited abnormal Stow 4 conditions such as developing large tumors and early death (Entine). Is this the future for humans? The controversial topic of GMOs seems to be the kind of topic that people are either for or against, but there is no in between without a general lack of knowledge. Therefore, a compromise is quite difficult to come up with that both stakeholders will be happy. However, the fight for labeling vs not labeling GM foods could be solved. Organizations such as Non-GMO Project have already started labeling non-GM foods and grocery stores such as Whole Foods are popping up all over the country. If these organizations will continue to label the non-GM foods, then the informed population who are against GMOs will know which foods are safe to eat. All the while, GMOs are still being produced and there is no shortage of food in grocery stores. In this world that is constantly changing, is it changing for better or for worse? It seems that stakeholders fight against each other for what they believe is That is the only common ground between The Non-GMO Project and The Grocery Manufacturers Association, they want what is best for the population. The Non-GMO Project believes that the right thing to do is inform society about what GMOs really are and label them so the people consistently know what they are consuming. On the other side, The Grocery Manufacturers Association believes the right thing to do is use the growing knowledge of science to grow more food and help feed the people in society. The only common ground with these stakeholders is what is beneficial to the people. The compromise between The Grocery Manufacturers Association and The Non- GMO Project could be to label non-GM food so people know what may contain GM ingredients and what definitely does not. If the concern is what is best for the people in society, then let the people decide and continue to do research on GMOs until there is a definite yes or no that GM foods are bad for health. Stow 5 Works Cited SOT ad hoc Working Group. The Safety of Genetically Modified Foods Produced through  Safety of Genetically Modified Foods Produced through Biotechnology Toxicological Sciences Oxford Academic. Oxford University Press, 01 Jan. 2003. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Entine, Jon. 29-year study of trillions of meals shows GE crops do not harm food-producing animals,  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., 16 Sept. 2014. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Newby, P. K., Dr. Latest  PK Newby FAQs on GMOs What the Science Says Comments. N.p., 06 Nov. 2012. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Trask, Pat. News Room Are GMOs safe? No consensus in the science, scientists say in peer-reviewed  Center for Food Safety. N.p., 15 Feb. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Watson, Elaine. CSPI: There are legitimate concerns about GMOs, but not around food safety, and labeling would be  FoodNavigator-USA.com. N.p., 03 July 2013. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Wechsler, Seth. Recent Trends in GE  USDA ERS - Recent Trends in GE Adoption. N.p., 03 Nov. 2016. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Our  Natural Grocery. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.  The Grocery Manufacturers Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Bodnar, Anastasia. The Promise of GMOs:  Biofortified. N.p., 19 Feb. 2014. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.