Fennell 1 Anna Marie Fennell Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Technology v. Minimalism an epidemic how people nowadays are glued to their devices. Since it is such a widespread phenomenon, the general public is not aware about the psychological effects it has on us. Some have turned to minimalism to curb the addiction of smart phone use. Though they may seem to have different goals, Apple and The Minimalists need to come to a compromise through their common interest of enhancing and simplifying lives. The consumerist technological industry and the minimalist movement must find a healthy balance of utilizing and appreciating social media, while also making time to reflect and experience the present moment this will lead to an increase in mass well-being and an interconnected economy. Apple is a company that enhances lives through the consolidation of multiple tools in one with the iPhone. With its interconnected interface, it simplifies planning, scheduling, and communicating with friends and family. Apple is a prime example of a technological company because they have molded their ideal form of life and communication it into reality with their popular device, the iPhone. Today, one can facetime a friend across the country and schedule a meeting for work at the same time at their fingertips. Some misunderstand frequent smart phone use as brainlessly scrolling, but technology has more merit than they realize. Computers in Human Behavior published an article investigating the phenomenon of being online and permanently connected (PO & (Vorderer 694). The results were that the Fennell 2 acquisition of information online combined with connecting with other people can be interpreted as a modern form of (Vorderer 695). Our society has adapted to this way of life and though some may not be accustomed to it, for young people today, it is reality. It is reality that news is spread through the internet, and people access it through their smart phones. technology has allowed quicker, simpler, and enhanced communication across the globe because they have united several aspects of daily life into one device. Technology serves as a means of uniting friends and family across an interface that would not exist otherwise; it allows people to express themselves and their ideas with others. Although, while Apple may seem minimal with their sleek interface and simple icons, frequent upgrades and notifications are distracting and harmful. The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus, believe that when you eliminate constant consumption of goods you eliminate the need to curb your unhappiness with material possessions (Millburn & Nicodemus). In terms of technology, the notifications one gets every day is excess and distracts from our lives. The Minimalists believe that their ideology is a tool to help simplify and enhance lives as well. They believe that once one is aware of their behavior as a consumer, they are more mindful of whether their purchasing truly enhances their lives. Therefore, they are less wasteful and are conscious and deliberate in the actions (Millburn & Nicodemus). The Journal of Happiness Studies published Art of examining materialism. Overall, participants who believed money and material goods could make them happy and successful were less satisfied with life, wanting more and giving less. In other words, having a high attachment to money and material goods is correlated with lower well-being (Tatzel 409). Minimalism allows us to be content with what we have in the present, instead of victims of consumerism continuously chasing something new. Minimalism serves as a means of maintaining balance Fennell 3 between oneself and the ever-changing technological landscape, and allows those who may be vulnerable to obsession and dependency a chance to reflect and find inner peace The reason a compromise between big companies like Apple, and underground associations like The Minimalists has not come to the surface yet is because so many American people function day to day. Surrounded by advertisements and controversy, people in the United States possibly have not been exposed to or implemented an essential routine of mindfulness along with their daily browsing of social media. The Minimalists do not intend to villainize big companies like Apple; consumerism is just an obstacle to look past. Our economy thrives on a psychological need to consume and keep up that is why minimalism is not popular. Both Apple and The Minimalists believe that their tools better human lives and their communities. With a mindful attitude and appreciation for each other, both can collaborate for the wellbeing of the country. Completely unplugging would not be an appropriate compromise or a viable option for most Americans. A survey was conducted with people of all ages asking them their attitudes on unplugging and there were mixed results: Some felt like they needed to keep contact with their email or social media out of a fear of missing out, while others were less anxious in regards to being able to be relieved of the drama of texting and social media (Thomas 543). Based on self- reflection, there are anticipated pros and cons of social media, and most would agree that it is a great tool for communication, but it excess, it can take a toll of the psyche. Apple, being a for-profit company wants people to buy their electronics, but they have more invested in the advancement of human communication and technology. Since they are so prominent and powerful in their role in the lives of Americans, they should take responsibility and educate those on the effects of excessive technological use. Apple can provide regulations Fennell 4 for the applications available to their consumers, such as regulating excessive notifications and encouraging taking breaks and meditating. Meanwhile, The Minimalists can provide digestible everyday advice encouraging healthy consumption and supporting social media in moderate amounts. As opposed to major lifestyle changes, they can appeal to the common man which will help them gain more popularity. Both of these organization can work to minimize the unhealthy excessive notifications and constant browsing, and encourage organization and meaningful messages; both can focus on a balance of having a growing technological conversation, but also mindfully stepping back to take care of oneself. The reality of the situation is that technology is not going to be obliterated in our society, and it be, because it is a great asset for our social processes but the ideology of minimalism is important to keep an ever-growing force like social media under control. Steve viewpoint of our modern relationship with technology is, Man is the creator of change in this world. As such, he should be above systems and structures, and not subordinate to  (Farfan). As a community, we can change how we act and feel about structures in place and we can change them. We do not have to be glued to a screen on our smart phones every minute of the day, and we do not have to be solitary hermits disconnected from society. In extremes, both minimalism and technology are unrealistic and unhealthy for a typical modern American. But, a proper compromise would be to embrace both ideologies and realize that we need both to be a balanced nation. Fennell 5 Works Cited Farfan, Barbara. What Is Mission  The Balance, 18 Sept. 2016, www.thebalance.com/apple-mission-statement-4068547. Accessed 12 February 2017. Millburn, Joshua Fields, and Ryan Nicodemus. What Is  The Minimalists, www.theminimalists.com/minimalism/. Accessed 12 February 2017. Tatzel, Miriam. The Art of Buying: Coming to Terms with Money and  Journal of Happiness Studies, vol. 4, no. 4, 2003, pp. 405-43, doi:10.1023/B:JOHS.0000005770.92248.77. Accessed 12 February 2017. Thomas, Virginia, Margarita Azmitia, and Steve Whittaker. Unplugged: Exploring The Costs And Benefits Of Constant  Computers In Human Behavior, vol. 63, 2016, pp. 540-548, doi:10.1016/j.chb.2016.05.078. Accessed 12 February 2017. Vorderer, Peter, Nicola Kramer, and Frank M. Schneider. Permanently Online and Permanently Connected: Explorations into University Use of Social Media and Mobile Smart  Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 63, 2016, pp. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2016.05.085. Accessed 12 February 2017.