Alfaro 1 Ariel Alfaro Professor Dennis ENC 1102-003 12 February 2017 Impoverished, but Why? Poverty and unemployment have always been factors in society that the United States has been attempting to combat through the enactment of different policies and support organizations. This problem has existed since before President Obama raised the federal minimum wage to $7.25 to 2017 where the minimum wage still remains the same despite rising costs of living. According to Nicole Mason, a 25 year old single mother, the minimum wage job at a fast food restaurant that she is employed at is insufficient no matter the amount of hours that she works (Raise the Minimum Wage campaign). She is reportedly working this job in order to support her two children but has found it extremely difficult to provide for them without a better job. In response, she has attempted to go back to school to become a nurse but has found that nearly impossible because of the amount of hours she must work just to keep her children fed. In order to combat poverty in the United States, some individuals and organizations, such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, have proposed the idea of raising the minimum wage to $15 within all states which has, of course, sparked the rise of opposing organizations such as the Faces of $15 campaign. While the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign believes that there should be a raise in minimum wage within all states in order to decrease the population of impoverished peoples, the Faces of $15 campaign opposes such a wage adjustment because they believe that this raise would only hurt small businesses and cause unemployment rates to spike Alfaro 2 throughout the nation. The spike in minimum wage has caused some business owners to close their doors permanently such as Annisa, a local favorite in New York City that was forced to close their doors because they could not afford the new labor costs (Faces of $15). In order to satisfy the objectives of both parties, an increase in minimum wage should be gradually introduced to the states in order to allow for businesses to adjust their expenses for the cost of labor, while also allowing for the minimum wage to increase not immediately, but gradually. The Raise the Minimum Wage campaign (RMW) is a campaign that is sponsored by the National Employment Law Project (NELP) that has openly stated that they are for a wage families can live on and an economy that works for us (National Employment Law Project). The NELP mission statement openly reveals that the goal of RMW is to gain enough support and awareness to bring about a raise in the minimum wage in order to bring those that are completely overworked but still impoverished to a better, more sustainable financial standing in society which can then effectively allow them to support themselves as well as their families. As stated many times on official website, to them, the minimum wage as it is now is cruel and is the reason that overworked individuals are still struggling every day to make ends meet. Individuals like Nicole Mason who attempting to better herself and the lives of her children by attending school but cannot accomplish this because the current minimum wage has left her family on the borderline of poverty (Raise the Minimum Wage). The following map of the United States represents what the cost of living is versus what workers would need to make through minimum wage in order to lead a life outside of poverty (Ledbetter, The Huffington Post). Alfaro 3 Not only do individuals reportedly feel the repercussions of having such a low minimum wage, but even Dr. David R. Howell, a professor of economics, states in his work, Reframing the Minimum Wage Debate, that workers have increasingly confronted labor markets of precarious jobs that pay too little to provide a minimally decent standard of (Howell, 1). Howell supports his claim through the use of a chart that shows what wages should truly be in order to live a minimally decent life if one is a single adult with a child. According to NELP, Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, and economist David R. Howell, the minimum wage as it is now is a sure gateway to poverty (Howell, 4) Ledbetter, The Huffington Post Alfaro 4 that can be remedied with a raise in the minimum wage. While there are those that support such a raise to the minimum wage there are also those that feel, through their own research and gathered statistics, that raising the minimum wage would only hurt small business and also cause the unemployment rates in the United States to spike. The Faces of $15 campaign, sponsored by the Employment Policies Institute (EPI), suggests that the minimum wage has real consequences for businesses and ( 4 Official Faces of $15 campaign). The goal of the Faces of $15 is to bring all of the businesses that have closed due to an increase in minimum wage to the attention of the public. On their website they feature about 81 businesses that have experienced brand new struggles as they attempt to meet the new minimum wage requirements in their locations. The National Policies Institute has also warned the public that their own research suggests that as minimum wage increases so does the amount of jobs that will be lost in the United States because of it (National Policies Institute). The table below shows the estimated effects that an increase in minimum wage will have on jobs for example, how many jobs will be lost when the minimum wage is raised (Congressional Budget Office). Due to these ideas, both the Faces of $15 and the EPI believe that the nation would benefit from the minimum wage remaining as it is now. In his academic journal contribution, How Effective is Congressional Budget Office; The Effects of Increased Minimum Wage Alfaro 5 the Minimum Wage at Supporting the Poor?, Professor of economics at Stanford University, Thomas MaCurdy states that in low-wage industries are typically in highly competitive industries such as restaurants and retail stores, and the only option for these profit margin industries becomes lowering exposure to low-wage labor or raising (MaCurdy, 499). The following table depicts the reason that restaurant owners are extremely concerned with any type of minimum wage adjustment. These owners use a third of their revenue to pay for labor in the first place therefore, they feel that if any changes were to happen, it throw of the way they financially run their businesses. Throughout his work, MaCurdy confirms some of the beliefs that the Faces of $15 and the EPI share, in that as minimum wage begins to increase it could do more harm than good as businesses may begin to hire less and charge more. Though the Raise the Minimum Wage and Faces of $15 campaigns seem to disagree both campaigns seem to have the best interest of the people in mind; Raise the Minimum Wage wants to make sure that common people have a chance to live comfortably while the Faces of $15 want to ensure that people do not lose jobs through businesses closing down. Therefore, since both campaigns have the best interest of the common people in mind, in order to satisfy both of their Martinez, The Seattle Times Alfaro 6 objectives, a raise in minimum wage could occur gradually within states. This gradual introduction of a raised minimum could ensure that businesses have an opportunity to adjust their budgets in order to ensure that they are prepared for an increased wage and do not struggle as much as they would have with the initial $15. Likewise, those who support a raise in minimum wage will not see an immediate increase as they hoped for but instead a gradual increase. Seattle recently underwent this change in minimum wage and according to a 7 study conducted by the University of Washington the results were much less catastrophic than expected. In this study, the authors state that they did not find any compelling evidence that shows that there has been an increase in business failure due to the increase in minimum wage (Impact of the Minimum Wage, 4). The Faces of $15 main concern is that any kind of minimum wage increase could potentially disrupt small businesses throughout the nation. The main concern of the Raise the Minimum wage campaign is that the current minimum wage does not reflect the changes in cost of living since the last minimum wage raise. In order to address both of their concerns, it would be in our best interest to gradually raise the minimum wage within states in order to give single mothers like Nicole Mason a chance at improving her own life and the lives of children as well as allow local favorite restaurants such as Annisa to have time to adjust to the rising labor costs. Knowing that a gradual introduction of a raised minimum wage has been successful in Seattle as well as many other areas throughout the United States, has diminished some of the fears that people have about the impact of these particular changes. Alfaro 7 Works Cited MaCurdy, Thomas. How Effective Is The Minimum Wage At Supporting The  Journal Of Political Economy 123.2 (2015): 497-545. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 Faces of  Faces of $15. EPI, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.facesof15.com/>. Minimum  Employment Policies Institute. EPI, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.epionline.org/minimum-wage/>. NELP.  Raise the Minimum Wage. NELP, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://raisetheminimumwage.com/>. Howell, David R. Reframing The Minimum-Wage Debate: Why Job Is The Wrong Standard For Setting The Right Wage  The American Prospect 3 (2016): 48. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Vigdor, Jacob, Mark C. Long, Robert Plotnick, Ekaterina Roshchina, and Hilary Wething. REPORT ON THE IMPACT OF MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE ON WAGES, WORKERS, JOBS, AND ESTABLISHMENTS THROUGH  (n.d.): n. pag. University of Washington, 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Sonn, Paul K., Irene Tung, and Yannet Lathrop. The Growing Movement for National Employment Law Project. NELP, 4 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Alfaro 8 The Effects of a Minimum-Wage Increase on Employment and Family Congressional Budget Office. N.p., 12 Aug. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://www.cbo.gov/publication/44995>. Martinez, Amy. Tips Are Top Concern for Some in $15 Minimum-wage  The Seattle Times. The Seattle Times, 21 Apr. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. l.html>. Ledbetter, Carly. This Is The Hourly Wage You Need To Afford A 2-Bedroom Apartment Around The  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 2 June 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/06/01/minimum-wage-apartment-hourly-salary-