Bauman 1 Madelyn Bauman Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Testing of the Future Albert Einstein once said, only thing interfering with my learning is my education system relies highly upon standardized testing to evaluate intelligence. The underlying debate regarding the use of standardized tests is the question of its usefulness. Opposing organizations cannot seem to agree upon the degree of standardized testing that should be maintained in schools across America. The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights (TLCHC) and The National Center for Fair and Open Testing (Fair Test) are two groups with distinct views on how standardized testing should be used. TLCHC works to uphold the use of high-stakes standardized testing across America while Fair Test advocates against using high-stakes testing to review student performance. These two organizations have distinct views on standardized testing yet they share the goal of making sure all children receive an equal education. If TLCHC and Fair Test acknowledged their common ground and chose to fight in unison for the use of standardized testing without the high-stakes they would strengthen their shared goal and success in presenting laws and petitions to the Department of Education. Over the years, the government has granted itself more control over public schools across the country. The Department of Education was established in 1980 as a cabinet level agency. This establishment gave the federal government the power to not only oversee but articulate and guide state and community level education. Given the federal increasing power, Bauman 2 numerous organizations have formed with varying views and motives in attempt to maintain the voice regarding education. The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights is a diverse civil rights group, founded in 1950, that works to and protect the civil and human rights of all persons in the United Leadership While education is not the only topic they address, it is certainly an important one. In 1969, a branch of TLCHC was founded, The Leadership Conference Education Fund. The goal of this specialized arm of TLCHC is to and mobilize advocates around the country to push for progressive change at the local, state and federal level in the United Leadership At an even more focused level, the TLCHC and its specialized branch, The Leadership Conference Education Fund, have strong views regarding standardized testing. In January of 2015 the CEO of TLCHC, Wade Henderson, spoke on behalf of the entire organization at the Senate Committee of Health, Education, Labor, and first hearing. According to website, advocated for annual statewide assessments, consistent accountability systems to evaluate progress, and the preservation of a strong federal hand in ESEA Hearing, a Focus on Testing and Essentially, The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights believes that a strong federal government presence is necessary within education system. Their main goal, as stated in their mission statement, is to and protect the civil and human rights of all persons in the United Leadership The National Center for Fair and Open Testing to end the misuses and flaws of standardized testing to ensure that evaluation of students, teachers and schools is fair, open, valid and educationally National Center for Fair and Open This Bauman 3 organization is more specialized than The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights as it solely focuses on the issue of standardized testing in education without creating an additional focus group. Fair Test is not completely against the use of standardized testing per se, however, it strongly advocates against their misuse. To Fair Test, this refers predominantly to high-stakes standardized testing. In their own words, the misuse of standardized testing equals notion that test scores equal National Center for Fair and Open education system, regulated by the Department of Education, refers mainly to the scores of high- stakes tests, such as the SAT and ACT, to evaluate the level of a education. Fair Test views this as a prejudiced and skewed way to assess students and the success of their teachers and schools. Fair Test goes beyond just protesting the misuse of standardized testing. On their website, Fair Test provides fellow advocates, teachers, and school officials alike with approaches in rejecting the misuse of standardized testing. Per their website, they provide several articles regarding how to do so such as, You Can Boycott Standardized Tests Without Fear of Federal Penalties to Your You Can Boycott Testing Without Fear of Federal Penalties to Your and Guide: Organizing for Testing Guide: Organizing for Testing These articles are provided as a secondary form of information for viewers when contemplating standing up to the misuse of standardized testing. This organization is extremely focused on this issue and works to revoke certain laws and policies of colleges especially that mistake standardized testing as the only factor assessing a academic achievement. Neither the National Center for Fair and Open Testing nor The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights is completely against the use of standardized testing. Fair Test is more Bauman 4 against this issue but they are not against the honest purpose of standardized testing to have an equal way to assess students all across the United States. Equality is the reason behind strong advocacy for the maintained use of standardized testing in such a purposeful manner. Essentially, they are nervous for inequality to creep further in to the education system. They believe that standardized tests allow for the removal of any prejudice when evaluating students because each child is given the same examination and hopefully provided the same education necessary to succeed on such test. While Fair Test is also fighting for equality of students, they disagree that high-stakes standardized testing is the only thing that can measure a abilities. Because of these disagreements regarding the process of ensuring equality for students, these opposing groups are fighting against each other on a shared goal. These organizations should realize that they are fighting for the same cause ensuring equality. They should then acknowledge that they both believe standardized testing can be effective. And finally, they should combine their beliefs regarding standardized testing and agree that a relaxed form of it can be a useful tool in evaluating students. This acknowledgement would allow both groups to maintain their view that standardized tests can be helpful in evaluating students. According to the text, Closing the Opportunity Gap published by Oxford University, testing is not a viable solution to the problem of academic the Opportunity A compromise of values between TLCHC and Fair Test prevents either group from perjuring their values. In fact, such a compromise would add to the power of their shared cause. As discovered through the values posted on their websites, The National Center for Fair and Open Testing and The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights, are two powerful groups motivated to ensure the equality of every student in the United States. Their differences Bauman 5 derive from their beliefs in how that can be accomplished. As stated, neither group completely denies the helpfulness of standardized testing in assessing children, teachers, and schools. One (Fair Test) simply believes that standardized tests are becoming increasingly misused. TLCHC believes that standardized testing in education system is still completely effective. By agreeing that the proper use of standardized testing has the potential to be useful, these two groups can lead the movement of providing equal education and evaluation for every student. Bauman 6 Works Cited Closing the Opportunity  Google Books. Oxford University. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://books.google.com/books Federal Role in  Home. US Department of Education (ED). n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. ed.gov Moore, Stephanie. At ESEA Hearing, a Focus on Testing and  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.civilrights.org/archives Resistance Resistance Guide: Organizing for Testing Reform FairTest. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Leadership Conference Education  The Leadership Conference Education Fund. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://leadershipconferenceedfund.org The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.civilrights.org The National The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://fairtest.org