Pogue 1 Matthew Pogue Bob Botkin ENC 1102 Sec 063 12 Feb 2017 Project 1 Final Draft The debate about animals being used for scientific and commercial testing has long divided the general public. As the experimentation on animals increased, so did criticism and controversy. Throughout the course of history, animal testing has helped conquer various diseases, but it has left the general public with one question in mind. Is there another way to find cures for diseases rather than torturing and killing innocent animals? Businesses have used animals for a variety of test settings, including tests to determine the safety of drugs, cosmetics, and other substances. On the other hand, animal rights activists have seen animal testing as a negative practice by society and they have been trying to convince the general public that these types of tests should be banned worldwide. Because of this divide, animal rights organizations and cosmetic manufacturing companies must reach a compromise where animals will not be harmed in any way, but will also play an important role in these organizations. For years, animal rights organizations have believed in the idea that all animals should be able to live in a world where they are not treated as test subjects, but as companions. Their mission is to free all animals who were being held against their will. By doing this, they try to Pogue 2 convince companies that these animals have lives and by testing on them will make them guilty of animal cruelty. One of the many animal rights organizations is Stop Animal Exploitation Now (SAEN) which focuses on ending abuse of animals in high-tech laboratories. It has been reported that at least million animals per year worldwide are killed in high-tech laboratories. That is approximately 2,900 animals are being abused, maimed, tortured, and eventually killed every single (Society). Recently, the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) filed a lawsuit on primates in labs. They are requesting records from the Department of Agricultural Resources on importation and sale of (Massachusetts) that are used in laboratories along the Charles River in Massachusetts. It has been revealed by PETA that these laboratories are home to some of the most and methods ever conducted. If this is to just to test out a new drug, then this is outrageous. We must find other ways to test new drugs; no animal should ever have to live their life, where they are constantly living in fear while being tortured, abused, and eventually killed. because experiments on animals are cruel, expensive, and generally inapplicable to (Alternatives), some of the leading scientists are now in the development of creating new methods of testing that will hopefully replace animal testing. Some of these new methods are In Vitro testing, computer modeling, research with human volunteers, and human- patient simulators. PETA and its affiliates are even funding and promoting the development of these types of tests. Animal testing can very expensive because it requires a lot of products to acquire, plus scientists and researchers have to feed and care for these animals. According to Dr. Elias Zerhouni a former U.S. National Institutes of Health director, he says that animal testing has been a huge failure and that Pogue 3 need to refocus and adapt methodologies for use in humans to understand disease biology in (Alternatives). However, cosmetic companies believe that by testing their products on animals it will be safer for the general public to use. Without the prior testing, these companies could be held accountable if a consumer displays health problems, such as allergic reactions. If a consumer is harmed from the product, the company could be subject to a lawsuit from the customer and an investigation from the Food and Drug Administration. A few reasons why commercial businesses conduct animal testing is that it: human experimentation, highly reliable, protects humans, and it allows quick (Benefits). These reasons have allowed business leaders and scientific researchers to gain acquisition of new knowledge and the development of new medical therapies for humans (Rowan, 79). One cosmetic company that has been testing products on animals is Avon. Avon is a cosmetic company who specializes beauty, household, and other care products. A couple of years ago it was reported that Avon was conducting animal tests of beauty products in China. After the news was leaked, Avon came under fire by criticism and controversy. They were known to be the first cosmetic company to go door-to-door, instead of selling out of a store. Another well-known company that specializes in household products is Procter and Gamble that also has a history of testing products on animals. From their standpoint, they believe that by testing these products on animals before selling to the general public will help keep the consumers safe from getting seriously injured or even killed by their household products. If you talk to some of the cosmetic and research companies, they will say the reason animal testing is necessary is because it helps find cures for various diseases as well as keeping Pogue 4 customers safe. Some of the diseases that have been cured as a result of animal testing are Anthrax, and (Proud). Though their differences can be clearly seen, these two stakeholders do have a common ground. Their common ground is that animals are essential to their organizations. For instance, if business were not conducting tests on animals for their new products, then they could be held responsible if a consumer is injured or killed as a result of the products. It is the same thing for scientists or researchers who are creating new medications and substances to counter various diseases. Without the proper testing, these research organizations would be held responsible and in serious trouble. For animal rights organizations, they are considered the voice for these animals who are held in captivity. It shows that these activists are committed in preserving the lives of these animals. It also demonstrates how they care deeply about these animals. Overall, the debate about animal testing has been going on for decades if not, centuries. The animal rights activists believe that all animals should be free without being tortured, abused, or killed. However, businesses leaders believe that animal testing is essential in keeping consumers safe while unveiling new products. To settle differences, both the animal rights organizations and business leaders believe that animals are essential to their organizations. 3In the end, the general public must think how animal testing not just affects us as humans, but also animals who are currently spending their lives behind a cage. Pogue 5 Word Citied Rowan, Andrew. Benefits and Ethics of Animal FORUM, 1997, 93 Society for the Advancement of Animal  Society for the Advancement of Animal Wellbeing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Massachusetts Supreme Court to Hear PETA Lawsuit on Primates in  PETA. N.p., 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Proud Achievements of Animal Research: And the Consequences of Halting It. Washington, DC: Foundation for Biomedical Research, 2001. Foundation of Biomedical Research. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Alternatives to Animal  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Benefits Of Animal  Benefits Of. N.p., 25 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017