Rayfield 1 Brittney Rayfield Ms. Lay Comp II 25 January 2017 Athletes Speak Up The United States has been legalizing marijuana in multiple states for recreational and medicinal purposes. Marijuana is fully legal in Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, Washington and the District of Columbia. Although, the country is becoming more lenient, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) has stood their ground and stays against drug use in college athletics. The NCAA has stood their ground and stays against drug use in college athletics but on the other hand, the athletes want to be able to use marijuana where it is legal. While the regulations of the NCAA would still be in play, it could be possible for the athletes to use marijuana in their off-season. Universities associated with the NCAA have regulations forbidding athletes of the use of marijuana. The NCAA does random drug testing at many universities. With any substance, including marijuana, in the system of an athlete, there are regulations and consequences that they have to go through. Some universities vary but there is always a consequence 3). Some are suspended, some are kicked off of the sports team. There are many reasons the NCAA is against the use of marijuana. The NCAA website states, addition to disturbing the cardiac system, marijuana also affects an steadiness, reaction speed and psychomotor (Kilmer). The NCAA will not allow collegiate athletes to use marijuana at all. Some athletes will argue against the NCAA rules. Some athletes will say that marijuana is an enhancer; not like a steroid but more as a performance. Marijuana is known to help you Rayfield 2 relax and some athletes will take a dose before a game or match to calm their nerves. Athletes will counter the NCAA rules and say it should not be the way it is. For example, The University of South Florida is a little more lenient on some of their athletes. Their football players get four where they can fail the drug test before they get kicked off of the team. The players have consequences for each time they fail but it is still more tolerant than what the NCAA expects. The NCAA and collegiate athletes have their differences but maybe one day in the future there could be an accommodation for them. Marijuana use in college athletics is not permitted at the time but some athletes will testify against the rules for it. of recreational drugs should absolutely be discouraged, the committee members said; but because they do not provide a competitive advantage, alternative approaches to testing should be & Drug Abuse 5). While some athletes could use it, it would not be something for every athlete. Some say it could be used as an enhancer, some say it could be used for sore muscles and body aches. Already, number of positive marijuana tests in all three divisions increased from 28 in 2008-09 to 71 in (Jack). Regulations will still be in play during season but the athletes in the off-season could use it freely. While the NCAA and collegiate athletes are on the same page, there are differences in opinions on certain regulations such as the use of marijuana. The NCAA being adamant on the rules, it may be hard to get around for some athletes. Maybe one day there will be an argumentative case on it and the athletes may win the rights to use marijuana. Rayfield 3 Works Cited Jack, Carey, and TODAY USA. Marijuana use up in NCAA  USA Today n.d.: Academic Search Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Kilmer, Jason. Marijuana and the Intercollegiate Student-athlete: Implications for  NCAA. NCAA, 20 Nov. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Page, Randy M., and Michelle Roland. Misperceptions Of The Prevalence Of Marijuana Use Among College Students: Athletes And  Journal Of Child And Adolescent Substance Abuse 1 (2004): Academic OneFile. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Timothy. Legalized Marijuana Use Apply To College  College Athletics And The Law 4 (2015): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. NCAA to eliminate testing for  Alcoholism & Drug Abuse Weekly 2015: 5. Academic OneFile. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. plus the fact that student-athletes who are penalized for recreational drug use by losing eligibility are more likely to drop out of school (6).