1 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Project 1: Should Uniforms be enforced In Public High Schools? Rebecca Blackler University of South Florida 2 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Today, the majority of teenagers in America are allowed to wear their own clothes to school while following a certain dress code. This dress code could be anywhere from not being allowed to wear leggings to not showing off shoulders. On the other hand, extremely difficult to come across a public school in the United Kingdom which does not enforce a uniform. It could benefit the United States if they followed their footsteps. The National School Board Association (NSBA) is the first stakeholder and they would be for this principle as it just make the students look professional but there are benefits of decreases in discipline, gang involvement, and bullying. Furthermore, students are said to improve their work ethic while in professional clothing (Sanchez, Yoxsimer & Hill 2012). However, there are some people who approve as easily compared to faculty and staff. The second stake holder is an organization called Parents against CASD dress code. They are a group of parents in the Coatsville Area School District who are against the dress codes in the area they live in. Parents against CASD dress code want their kids to have more freedom of speech in what they wear, however, the NSBA care more about the students education and preparing the for later in life so a solution for this would be for public high schools to wear uniforms Monday through Thursday during the week and then wear their own clothes every Friday. Uniforms are easy to come across while being in England. It was originally adopted during the 16 th century when children who came from a poor family had to wear By wearing the cloak it told the public that they came from a lower status family. As time passed uniforms were soon adopted into private schools (Wilken and Aardt 2012). At this point of time, uniforms were used to hide how rich students were, to create equality among the students. In America, The National School Board Association (NSBA) believes that education for children must be top priority as well as having academic success in public schools School Board (2017). This states that the NSBA believes in education first over any other thing. Therefore, school uniforms could be beneficial by making sure that education is a top priority. (Sanchez, Yoxsimer & Hill 2012) wrote an article on collecting data from a school who just adopted wearing a school uniform, it was noted how referrals were reduced, inappropriate behavior had decreased as well as police log reports. Just by the students wearing a uniform they became more disciplined and less likely to commit crimes, therefore, focusing more on the school work 3 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? and their education. Wilken and Aardt (2012) created a research aim determine the perspectives of parents, learners and about mandatory school uniforms. The study population was a random selection from different schools and areas. There were 8 main factors which the sample size rated, they were Functionality, Economic advantages/disadvantages, appearance, competition, Time-saving aspects, academic standards and behavior, safety considerations, and social benefits. In the end, the results showed that the majority of educators liked the idea of enforcing a school uniform, Educators even seven of the eight factors higher than parents and learners (Wilken and Aardt, 2012). Even though educators and the NSBA would find school uniforms beneficial, students are less likely to be as excited for this change. Wilken and Aardt (2012) also found in their study that students as happy or enthusiastic about the idea of school uniforms, they rated each category lower compared to educators. Not only do students dislike dress codes but the parents in the Coatsville School District also believe that dress codes are going too far. Their organization started in 2012 after realizing how the dress code was against CASD dress code, 2012). Parents against CASD dress code (2012) believe that children have the right to express themselves as young and should be able to do what they want, therefore, to try and fix the problem they want a new dress code implemented. Vopat (2010) states that the school boards on the benefits of these policies to justify their Not only does Vopat (2010) state this but he also argues the point that it stops children from being aided in their of substantive This means that by having a uniform or a strong dress code it limits children from being able to show off who they actually are or who they want to be. Parents against CASD dress code (2010) also state that children being sent home due to what wearing beneficial, not only do they miss out on education but students will be less inspired in what wearing. In the past there have been many court cases which have spoke about children and the freedom of expression. Vopat (2010) highlights a few in his article, Tinker v. Des Moines Community Independent School District is the only case which deals with expression that made it to the US Supreme Court. After taking it to court, the court stated how it fell under the protection of the First Amendment. Vopat (2010). This just shows that students should be able to wear what they want as it is protected under the first Amendment. 4 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Freedom of speech is something that a lot of people take seriously. However, some schools do have problems with students dressing inappropriately for school, therefore, creating a dress code. However, these dress codes can be too harsh on students. Yet schools want to a good reputation and to create a good education for their students. So it would be beneficial for a uniform to be adopted in public schools to help improve attendance and reduce bad behavior. On the other hand, by doing this it limits a child by not being able to express themselves. A solution for this would be for students to wear a school uniform from Monday through Thursday and then letting the children wear their own clothes every Friday. This allows children to wear their favorite/new clothes once a week, also, it gives them longer to think about what they want to wear as well as add to the happy Friday feeling. The school would have to give up one day to let them wear their own clothes. A dress code would have to be put in place but not too harsh where it completely limits the students. Students would have to compromise by wearing a uniform but still be able to show themselves off on Fridays. Parents will have to buy uniforms which can be pricy but they will last a long time. Parents have to buy the clothing new either, it is easy to buy school uniforms second hand for a cheap price. This is beneficial because a school uniform should limit the amount of students for getting into trouble for what wearing. Parents want their children to go to school and gain a good education and to not have to worry if their child is getting sent home or a detention due to what wearing. As previous articles have shown, parents also liked the idea of the benefits of a school uniform yet it only works if its implemented correctly, students and parents should have a say in the design of them also. Uniforms have proven by the public and school who have adopted them to be beneficial. As Sanchez, Yoxsimer and Hill (2012) stated, attendance and school work approved as violence went down. Even though students get to wear what they want for the majority week, a school uniform will put them in professional attire to get them into the mood of school and learning. This will also means students will take less time getting ready in the morning. In the end, the school board will see an improvement in their school while students will gain a better education while being able to put more thought into what they want to wear to school on Fridays. 5 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? 6 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Reference National School Boards Association. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.nsba.org/ Sanchez, J. E., Yoxsimer, A., & Hill, G. C. (2012). Uniforms in the Middle School: Student Opinions, Discipline Data, and School Police Data. Journal of School Violence, 11(4), 345-356. doi:10.1080/15388220.2012.706873 Vopat, M. C. (2010). Mandatory school uniforms and freedom of expression. Ethics and Education, 5(3), 203-215. doi:10.1080/17449642.2010.519139 Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012). School Uniforms: Tradition, benefit or predicament? Education as Change, 16(1), 159-184. doi:10.1080/16823206.2012.692211 Parents against CASD DRESS CODE. (2012, May 25). Retrieved February 10, 2017, from https://www.facebook.com/Parents-against-CASD-DRESS-CODE-