Suzannah Lipstein ENC 1102 Professor Ryan 29 January 2017 Project 1: Finding Common Ground Coral Reef Decline Climate change has had a significant impact on the natural world in the past decade. The majority of climate change has been caused by greenhouse gases, different sources of pollution, and excess amounts of CO2 emissions released from consuming fossil fuels and not being environmentally conscious. These factors have caused a decline in the worldwide coral reef population. While being caused by mainly human acts, there are some natural aspects to greenhouse gas emissions as well to take into consideration. The two stakeholders are the NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program and Carnival Cruise Ships. The one stakeholder organization focuses on problems with coral reefs involving climate change, land-based sources of pollution, and unsustainable fishing practices. The second organization is a company that takes large amounts of tourists to popular vacation locations on 25 ships. These two organizations have goals that work on opposite sides but with both aiming for clean, healthy waters, even if they may be for different reasons, they can help reduce coral reef destruction by working to educate the public and create more environmentally friendly ships. The NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program was organized in 2000 protect, conserve, and restore the coral reefs by maintaining healthy ecosystem This organization mainly focuses on climate change, land-based sources of pollution, and unsustainable fishing practices as they affect coral reefs. The CRCP works to study reefs in efforts to avoid further decline due to climate change. When the greenhouse effect takes place, the ocean absorbs more carbon dioxide than normal levels. normal to have low levels of carbon in the ocean but when too much is absorbed, it can have immense negative effects on the living things (Elizabeth Kolbert). The greenhouse effect also causes the overall temperature of the ocean to rise which leads to coral bleaching. With this, the CRCP works with NOAA scientists from a variety of ocean and environmental services and fisheries to gather research on the health of reefs. Coral reefs are the backbone of marine ecosystems, so if those are destroyed, it makes it that much harder to keep everything else in check. People and leisure activities are a huge factor in the causes of global warming and affect much more than what many may believe. Carnival Cruise Lines was established in 1972 and shortly became one of the best cruise lines. Their mission is take the world on vacation and deliver exceptional experiences through many of the best-known cruise brands that cater to a variety of different geographic regions and Since their popularity continues to grow, this brings an increase in passengers and number of boats. The newer boats can carry up to 6000 passengers while some of the first ones held around 1000 (Klein, 2005). These cruise ships can go anywhere from the Bahamas to Australia, some of which include major coral habitats. Depending on several factors, the average cruise costs around $1000, so this greatly helps the cruise industry by making them more profitable and popular. Even though Carnival Cruise Lines are popular, they do relate to the CRCP. Since the two stakeholders have such opposing goals, most people would not think that they would be able to share something in common. Both organizations are working towards a clean, healthy ocean. The NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program puts together research to maintain coral reefs which involves keeping the area it lives in under control. Carnival Cruise Lines wants to keep the water clean for the passengers on their cruises. If they are happy, then it will continue to increase the popularity of the ships and they can continue their business. The common area may be working towards different goals, but in the end, the stakeholders both want the same thing. The two stakeholders have both been working for several years towards their goals and have had their successes in different ways. But together, they can both accomplish some of their goals as well. For a compromise, Carnival Cruise Lines could limit their interactions with coral reefs and maybe not travel to the same area every time as traveling many times could cause decay to only select parts. Also, they can become more environmentally conscious with their entire ship. There is new technology to help with the maneuverability of the boat, fuel savings, and better handling of emergency situations (Johnson, 2002). These factors can help to reduce pollutants that enter the water as well as reduce damage to the reefs. The Coral Reef Conservation Program can give their time and resources to help educate the people on the cruise lines. By putting these people on the actual cruise lines, they can present videos or demonstrations before entering the water near reefs to prevent damage to the habitat. When people are educated, they are more aware of their surroundings and conscious of their actions. Both stakeholders would need to comply in order for this to work and one may be giving a larger amount, in the end, it will pay off. This compromise would help to promote cleaner, healthier waters for cruise ships to take their passengers, and for coral reefs to thrive without destruction from pollution or bleaching. Damage to coral reefs can be caused by many things, but human caused factors have some of the greatest impacts. Whether its pollution or tourism, there needs to be certain limits set to what can and cannot be done. Both stakeholders have their goals that they aim to accomplish and human interaction comes with that. The NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program and the Carnival Cruise Lines are both stakeholders that care about the health and cleanliness of the water, so it is important for them to both achieve their goals. Works Cited Crcp. Coral Reef Conservation  US Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. N.p., 22 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 Kolbert, Elizabeth. The Acid  National Geographic Society, Apr. 2011. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Johnson, David. Environmentally Sustainable Cruise Tourism: A Reality  Science Direct. N.p., 19 Mar. 2002. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Klein, Ross A. Responsible Cruise Tourism: Issues of Cruise Tourism and  Responsible Cruise Tourism: Issues of Cruise Tourism and Sustainability. Australian Academic Press Pty. Ltd., 1 Jan. 2001. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Martin, Reed. Cruise Ship  Australian Science. Australian Science, 20 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.