Ryan Casey Dr. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 January 17, 2017 Legalizing Marijuana Weed, hash, grass, green, gas, dope, pot, Mary Jane, are just a couple of the names for the drug marijuana. Marijuana is a psychoactive drug used worldwide by millions of people, however, it is illegal in most states in the United States. But recently that has begun to change, with the 2016 election came changes to many state laws. In the 2016 election, Florida voted yes on Amendment two, which is the legalization of medical marijuana. Making it one of twenty-six states and the District of Columbia that currently have laws legalizing some form of use of marijuana. The legalization of marijuana would be great for this economy for many reasons, police would be able to focus more of their time and recourses on more violent crimes instead of wasting it hunting down marijuana and second the government would be able to make a huge profit off of taxing marijuana. This paper is will take up the question whether legalizing marijuana is advantageous of the U.S. economy. Hill, Kevin P. Marijuana: the unbiased truth about the most popular weed. Center City, MN: Hazelden Publishing, 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This book is written by Kevin P. Hill, M.D. One of the leading scientists on the effects marijuana has on people. The book talks about how opinions have changed throughout history. It also touches on how media and politics have skewed and created false myths about the drug in order to better their position. It then goes on to talk about how legalizing the drug would do great for the economy and people that need to be using the drug medically but because of laws still preventing use Dr. Kevin P. Hill is a reliable source because he has conducted research on the drug for many years. He did his residency at Harvard, got his degree at Yale University, and the hospital where he now conducts his research is McLean Hospital, one of the leading hospitals in studying the effects of substance abuse. All these qualifications make Dr. Kevin P. Hill more than a reliable source to talk about what the effects of marijuana would be on a person and the economy. Kalteux, David. Does New Medical Marijuana Law Mean For Mondaq Business Briefing 2016: Web. 5 Feb, 2017 This article is discussing the new laws for medical marijuana in the state of Florida. It talks about how the process is working to change the law, what the terms of use for the drug will be, and how it will effect businesses. This is important because the people that need medical marijuana need to know how to get it, where they can get it and when they can use it. This article relates to my topic in that it is very recently written and it talks about how changing the law is going to effect the economy and business owners. This is a reliable source because the author is a lawyer in the Florida area who has been dealing with cases involving marijuana and helping people get the proper care they need. He would be good for understanding what legalizing marijuana will do for economy and how it will effect workers and businesses in the work place. Schneider, Dan. Pot Economics: The Future Of The American Marijuana Dollars & Sense 311 (2014): 9-16. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Economics: the Future of the American Marijuana is an article written by Dan Schneider. In this article it is talking about the legalization of recreational marijuana use in the states of Colorado and Washington and what it will do for each economy. It states that the war on drugs is a waste of time, lives, and money because, like the prohibition, people are still using the drug just as much if not more than if it was legal. It also talks about how marijuana would be 1 of the largest cash crops in America if it was legal. Not only would it be grown for the drug but the rest of the plant could be used for many other purposes as stated in the article the non-intoxicating parts of the cannabis plant are called-is used in over 25,000 products This article relates to my topic because my question is whether or not legalizing marijuana would be advantageous to the economy and this article talks about how the legalization of marijuana has helped economy. Dollars & Sense is the magazine that published this article, their main focus is political and economic news. This magazines experience on reporting on economic affairs makes this article a reliable source. Joffe, Alain and W. Samuel Young. Of Marijuana: Potential Impact On Pediatrics 113.6 (2004): Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article is discussing what could possibly happen to youth if marijuana is legalized. Not only would the legalization of marijuana make it easier for adolescents to get marijuana, it would make it seem less harmful and they will want to try it more. The article also talks about how alcohol and tobacco products target youth and that the same would most likely happen if marijuana was to be legalized. Thus, putting underage kids at an even higher risk of trying marijuana. This article is related to my topic because it is talking about how marijuana would not be good for the U.S. economy because it would make it much easier for kids to get their hands on marijuana and my question is whether or not legalizing marijuana would be advantageous to the U.S. economy. This article is a reliable source because both of the authors have extensive medical knowledge and have done research on marijuana and how it would affect the economy.