Braganca 1 Marcela Braganca Professor Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 9 February 2017 The Compromise Between PETA and NCBA The United States, according to a research conducted by Forbes, is the second leading nation that most consumed meat in the year of 2013, showing that the average American will eat 200.6 lbs of meat per year. Since then, the beef industry has been a major subject of debate among stakeholders since its demand skyrocketed. Among the different stakeholders, NCBA Beef Association) and PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) are two conflicting groups which stand for opposite ideals on a common ground, the cattle. As stated in its official website, NCBA define itself as an independent organization that works directly in satisfying and increasing demand of consumers in the beef industry, which causes a great impact in the economy The  ). On the other hand, PETA is an independent organization that promotes animal rights around the world; this organization is involved in ending animal abuse that exists in the cattle industry. It might seem challenging to come up with a compromise between the two stakeholders, but by doing so, it would be great to raise animal rights awareness at the same time that beef demands increases. Since the beef demand has increased gradually over the years, so did motivation to fight the battle against animal abuse. People the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an organization created to represent the people who believe that animals deserve the same rights as human beings. Today, one of the their main focus is the cattle industry, the leading Braganca 2 agricultural livestock in the nation. Ronald J. Adams, professor and author, enforces the importance of this fight when he states in his article Food and Animal Rights , that worst examples of abuse are to be found in the factory farms where animals may literally never see the light of day or be afforded enough space to turn around [in little protection is afforded to animals raised for human  In other words, the farm factories are the target of utmost animal abuse comparing to any other human activity that involves animals. According to report Beef Industry, cows are burned to identification purposes, workers cut testicles without any pain relief, cows die of heat or freeze to death (depending on the states they are raised), they die from diseases because of sanitary negligence, and their food is packed with antibiotics which make human beings to build an antibiotic-resistance making bacterial diseases extremely hard to fight. By promoting animal abuse awareness, PETA goals is to make the demand of beef decrease and to lead the farm industries to an end. On the contrary, the farmers and workers are happy to see the demand of meat increasing. When the industry is financially successful, more labor is required and more jobs become available to the public. Yet, the industry has great impact on the life of many rural communities that depend on those jobs, and exactly what National Beef Association promotes. According to NCBA, work to advance the economic, political and social interests of the U.S. cattle business and to be an advocate for the cattle policy positions and economic  The  ). In other words, they work to ensure a successful position of the beef industry in the market. According to Bill Bullard, the author of Siege: The U.S. Live Cattle Industry , the U.S. receiving $50 billion annually the live Braganca 3 cattle industry the single largest segment of American agriculture and is, consequently, critically important to the prosperity of Rural  (Bullard 1). Apparently, not only the rural communities but the entire nation depends on the agricultural industry, for instance shutting down this department would not be a smart choice since it would hurt the entire nation, socially and economically. Oppositely, maintaining the beef industry growing would improve the life of many people. Apparently, the two stakeholders are in great conflict that seems to be hopeless, however a compromise might be the solution to get one step closer to both of their personal goals, either by promoting animal awareness or by increasing beef demand. Both stakeholders cause a great positive impact on or lives, and the only way to maintain this positive impact is by, as stated before, creating a compromise between them two. After all, if PETA could shut down the beef industry, it would be great to the animals but it could have a negative effect on those whose jobs would be affected. However, not making any changes in the operation that happens inside the industries will also be unethical; not moral to live a life in which people do not care or associate [a package with a living, breathing, walking, suffering  (Adams 303). In this case, to make a win-win solution affordable, it requires from both stakeholders to understand that the compromise presented on this paper will not bring instantaneous results, but in fact it will definitely lead to a long-term solution. The compromise consists of an independent fiscalization company to enforce animal rights in every cattle industry in the United States. Some of these rights include: workers are forbidden to burn cows for identification, the indoor areas have to be cleaned regularly, and any animal sent to surgery has to be under anesthesia effect. In other words, the cattle industry has to prevent or minimize any Braganca 4 type of animal suffering or harm. If not, the industry will be charged a fee or it will be forcibly shut down, depending on the circumstances. Fortunately, the ethical changes within the industry will be highly respected by all kinds of people around the world, even by non-meat eaters, and as a result the demand on beef will increase drastically, nationally and internationally. This is only one case of many conflicting industries that agreed and surprisingly worked on a successful compromise regarding animal rights. It is completely achievable to overcome the ideological differences for two distinguished interests. This is not the first time that animals are in between two big concurrents. This kind of conflict happens often between cosmetic industries and the activist, also. However, many of them are overcoming some of their differences to achieve a compromise to satisfy both hands. Everyone knows that the cosmetic industry requires animal-testing to experiment the risks of certain products to prevent any harmful effect on humans. However, activists are completely against this activity because they believe that animals should have their rights, just as human beings have theirs. What happened in New Zealand is a perfect example to demonstrate the alliance and the positive results of the compromise between these two industries. A compromise between the stakeholders (scientists that used animal-testing and activists) was created, and according to the research conducted by Rychert and Chris Wilkins for Massey University, Animal testing is accepted for medicines, but increasingly prohibited in safety assessments of consumer products such as cosmetics or  (Rychert, 2015). other words, to conduct an experiment to promote development in medicine for the well being of humans, animal-testing will be legal under low-risk procedures, avoiding any harm on animals. Just like the cattle industry, lab scientists found a way to please the animals protectors without Braganca 5 harming their professional careers that had such impact in human development. This is the reason why a compromise should always be the solutions for a conflict. As noticed, people have created such dependency on animals in their professional lives that it turned out to be impossible to exclude that variable from routines and expect no change or no consequence from it. Globalization surrounds people in every manner, not mattering their differences, they are all connected. For that reason, different stakeholders have always to create a compromise between them, otherwise the solution that benefits only one stakeholder can possibly bring harm to the whole community. With and compromise, animals will get the treatment they deserve, and NCBA will be the greatest example to show people that animals, even if raised for human purposes, deserve the proper respect. Without even noticing, the outcome of a compromise brings more prosperity to the society than it would if the stakeholders continued to work separately from one another. Successfully, the compromise will benefit the animals and the people at the same time. Braganca 6 Works Cited Adams, Ronald J. Fast Food And Animal Rights: An Examination And Assessment Of The Response To Social  & Society Review (00453609) 113.3 (2008): 301-328. Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson) , Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The  Association - Beef USA, http://www.beefusa.org/theassociation.aspx. Accessed 20 January 2017. The Beef PETA, http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/factory-farming/cows/beef-industry/. Accessed 20 January 2017. Bullard, Bill. Under Siege: The U.S. Live Cattle  Dakota Law Review 58.(2013): 560, Academic: Law Reviews , Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Rychert, Marta, and Chris Wilkins. Policy Analysis: The Challenge Of A Ban On Animal Testing For The Development Of A Regulated Legal Market For New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) In New Zealand: Issues And Options For  International Journal Of Drug Policy 26,(2015): 1273-1278, , Web. 24 Jan. 2017.