Whitney 1 Alex Whitney Professor Robert Ryan Composition 2 11 February 2016 Technology and the Impacts on Childhood The topic of a early education is one of the major concerns for new parents, as it may decide their future from the start. With the noticeable increase in the integration of technology in the daily lives of the humans living on Earth, the idea of using it to aid in learning has become more widespread. Even so, there are parents who see this as a step backwards in the development of learning, and have worked to impose themselves against using technology to teach their children. At first glance there is an obvious disagreement that could be assumed as insurmountable. But behind the obvious differences between those for and against this change, there is no malicious intent between these parties. The idea is that because both sides are intending to benefit their development at a young age, they should balance the amount of technological interactions with more traditional and less electronic methods of learning to increase the positive effects while diminishing the negative effects. These two different ideologies have enough common ground which can be utilized to produce a compromise that will benefit everyone involved. One of the leading groups in the integration and development of technology for learning purposes is the National Association for the Education of Young Children, or NAEYC. They believe that used intentionally and appropriately, technology and interactive media are effective tools to support learning and and creating a better future as a whole Whitney 2 (NAEYC). This not only enhances the learning effectiveness of the teaching materials provided, but additionally expands the opportunities available to a larger audience in less favorable circumstances. The NAEYC intends to continue researching and developing new means to improve the quality of their ideal learning environment. However, they are also aware of the drawbacks to bringing children into a technologically enhanced world, or at least are aware that there are drawbacks to a fully-automated learning program. They intend to take and improve upon precautionary measure so they may protect the privacy and safety of these children from the dangers both known and unknown to them. The Association also looks to include time away from the screen and with family members to aid in improving human interactions and break away from the invitingness of modern learning conveniences. Overall, the National Association for the Education of Young Children works to develop the next generations of youth with beneficial learning programs and ready them better for their futures. Against this, one of the groups opposing the expansion of technology into the learning environment is the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, or CCFC. CCFC was created to fight against the recent growth in technological learning programs and devices, so that children can grow up in a safe and unbiased environment when their learning tendencies are at their greatest. They advocate practices that would screen time and insure children time and space for active and creative play, face time with caring adults, and a connection with (CCFC). They believe that by limiting and even stopping this encroachment, it would solve problem such as the loss of identity and individuality, discord of family relationships, and imprinting ideals onto impressionable souls. They also strive to make their children by separating them from advertisements and removing the ability for companies to advertise their products and messages to children. This ideal is one they Whitney 3 ask schools and other learning facilities to apply to themselves, so as to prevent external influential parties to change the way a child should think. Both sides of this conflict are fighting for one big reason: to help children become better, more educated people to benefit themselves, their society, and the world as a whole. These organizations want to give every chance they can to survive in the rapidly expanding world for digitally interactive society, just as the parents wish for the best for their children. And both sides actually agree that technology should be regulated in some fashion to prevent unintentional abnormalities to occur from this overexposure. They each believe that unnecessarily long exposures will cause problems, though each group defines different negatives as the result of this exposure and how much is considered too much. Each also reach out to schools and other places of learning to spread the word for the benefit of learning, though again to promote their own organization and denounce others of opposing ideals. It is this dedication to their children that ties these opposing sides together, and leads them to a possible solution of coexistence. This basis, one where the fulfillment and enlightenment of children and their early childhood, is enough ground to allow these groups to reach even the smallest of compromises. Both the NAEYC and the CCFC have ties to schools and their learning curriculum. Perhaps have it where technology is used as a tool for teachers instead of becoming the teachers. This way, the methods used before technology are not lost, and new advances can enhance their learning potential beyond the limitations encountered in previous years of learning. For learning before entering the education system, again technology should be used as an enhancement and not a replacement for parents. Human interaction is a vital part of a learning at a young age, and should not be replaced by screens and such. On the other scale, as the world becomes more Whitney 4 technologically driven, it would be detrimental to remove technology entirely for fear of being less prepared than their peers to face an everchanging digital age. If for the children, even these two opposites can come together and reach an agreement, benefitting themselves and their cause of a greater good. The increase in technology and its applications in the development of young children has led to two different outlooks. There are those like the NAEYC who wish to cultivate and nurture this exposure to better these children for their future. Then there are those like the CCFC who believe limiting and even eliminating this exposure would benefit the children of the world, and make them less of a target for corporations looking to expand their presence. Both groups work for the benefit of the children, though their methods and outlooks are not aligned with one another. So, the proposed idea is to incorporate both tried and true methods with the digitally enhanced learning features of tomorrow to gain the benefits of both while diminishing the negative effects created from either one. Work Cited Bavelier, Daphne, et al. Children, Wired: For Better and for Neuron, vol. 67, Issue 5, 9 September 2010, pp. 692-701. for a Commercial Free Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood, www.commercialfreechildhood.org/. Whitney 5 Herman, Jana Morgan. for More Balanced Technology Montessori Life, Fall 2012, pp. 40-42. Hsin, Ching-Ting, et al. Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A Educational Technology & Society, 2014, pp. 85-99 Association for the Education of Young Children National Association for the Education of Young Children NAEYC, www.naeyc.org/.