Carlos Hernandez Hernandez 1 Professor Robert Ryan English 1102 15 February 2017 Standardized Testing in the American School System Standardized testing in The United States of America has always been a point of controversy, with two antipodal sides. Specifically, there are organizations like that of The National Center for Fair & Open Testing and The Education Trust, where one side believes that standardized testing is unjust while the other believes it is a useful tool. In furtherance of a fair and equal opportunity for students, both groups must come together and host a national speaking rally where their members in every state can interact with the other groups members and speak together to an interested audience on their ideals. This gives both groups a chance to listen to each ideals. The Education (abbreviated EDTrust) believes that standardized testing should be kept as it is an essential tool that can be used to promote the continual developement of a student. Education Trust is a national non-profit advocacy organization that promotes high academic achievement for all students at all (EDTrust) their goal is to create a system where everyone in the eyes of education is equal and has an identical opportunity to learn. They advance towards their goal of advocating for the students who have been (EDTrust) by working alongside educators, students, policymakers, and others to provide maximum assistance towards the education system helping these individuals. Their stand on standardized testing is that are an important tool for gauging the progress of students and (Santelises). While they argue that the current amount of testing is exaggerated and the Hernandez 2 education system is too focused on the methods of taking the test, they believe that standardized testing is still the best way to a progress (Santelises). Standardized tests a much-needed lens for educators to compare their students with others across community borders and zip (Santelises). Using the information gained through testing allows the instructors to better tailor their education plans to the needs. The National Center for Fair & Open (abbreviated FairTest) main objective is to the racial, class, gender, and cultural proposed by standardized testing (about FairTest), they want an education system where the academic merit of a student is measured by the achievements and various assessments conducted over time instead of a single assessment. Their mission statement reads National Center for Fair & Open Testing (FairTest) advances quality education and equal opportunity by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and (FairTest mission statement), FairTest believes that standardized testing is unfair and invalid because they give different weight to different aspects of the test based on race, gender, and other factors. FairTest also believes that the public should have access the tests and the test data, to prove the and They believe that because the test has so much weight in the academic career, that at minimum the educators should be at least more prepared to teach the material. FairTest simply believes that there are other ways to measure a knowledge on a subject besides a standardized test. While both and goals and methods seem diametrically opposed, there are many overlaps. Both organizations want to create a seemingly perfect education system Hernandez 3 in The United States, as stated in their mission statements. EDTrust believes that the system should include standardized test, but acknowledges their downfalls and argues that they are the best option to monitor a progress; while FairTest rebuttals with standardized testing should be excluded from modern day education, but acknowledges the usefulness of the tests. The organizations both feel as though the education system is unfair towards certain races, gender, and other diversities. They believe that different college, universities, and organizations weigh different students based on their diversities. In the and eyes students in The United States education system are not equal. Despite these similarities, every proposition to solve the controversy of standardized testing has failed. and have been used to inspire students to enjoy testing (Crowder and Konle). It has also been proposed that there is no solution to the controversy of the testing, Robert Linn, author of A century of standardized testing: controversies and pendulum swings, states is safer to predict that the pendulum will continue to swing with the ebb and flow of controversies about the uses of It is clear that both parties are not in unison, however with all the similarities in their goals and actions it is safe to say that both organizations want a similar outcome. For both organizations to accomplish their goals of a better American education system, they will speak at the same events. The solution to these two organizations being at odds with each other is to have both organization host events where they both speak their ideals. By doing so FairTest and EDTrust will both begin to understand the others intention. This come together will be the first step to having the opposing Hernandez 4 sides of standardized testing come together and make an agreement on what the best choice for the student. In the interest of the students, FairTest and EDTrust must work together in hosting these public speaking events nationally. By doing these speaking rallies, both organizations gain support for their cause, also hear the opposing sides arguments. According to Robert Linn, the debate of standardized testing will always be a swing pendulum. This is because no side takes the time to debate or speak in behalf of the themselves towards the other, both sides just assume that the other is against what they believe in, when in actuality they want to accomplish the same thing. EDTrust and FairTest coming together and speaking at the same event together forces them to listen to each other, making an actual advancement on standardized testing much more feasible. To achieve the maximum outcome from the public speaking rallies they must be strategically placed in calendar. The events will take place around the states standardized testing dates where the issue is much more relevant in minds, this will give the largest population turn out. The larger population that shows will translate to a larger following group increasing the funds for each group which can then make the next event larger continuing the cycle. The more events held by the organizations, over the few months, the more their points are heard by each other leading them to eventually understand that the end goals of each other are the same and standardized testing is the only hurdle. The events themselves need to be organized as such: open with introductions discussing what each organization stands for, speak in regards to standardized testing and why it is either right or wrong, and then close with questions from the Hernandez 5 audience and the organizations to the other. This organization will lead to the most effective convincing of FairTest, EDTrust and the audience that to further the improvement of education in the United States the issue of standardized testing must be resolved. Standardized Testing is the only outlier in these two organizations ideals. Through this proposal of petition EDTrust and FairTest will both benefit. Originally, it seemed that the two organizations were on opposing sides, however upon further investigation it seems to be standardized testing is the only aspect of education they cannot come to terms on. While both agree that it be the only measure of achievement, FairTest believes that the system is flawed putting different weights to different aspects of different test based on diversities such as gender and race. Whereas EDTrust believes that those notes of race and gender provide a more intellectual way to focus a learning in a way that benefits the student. The question remains if there are other compromises to be made to standardized testing to improve its accuracy as a measure of academic success. Yet, by holding these events together FairTest and EDTrust move one step closer to coming to an agreement on the controversy of standardized testing. Hernandez 6 Works Cited About FairTest / FairTest, The National Center for Fair & Open Testing, www.fairtest.org/about. Crowder, Zan, and Stephanie Konle. Ya-Ya or, What Pearson Hear: Opt-Out, Standardized Testing, and Student The High School Journal, vol. 98, no. 4, 2015, pp. doi:10.1353/hsj.2015.0013. Linn, Robert L. Century of Standardized Testing: Controversies and Pendulum Educational Assessment, vol. 7, no. 1, 1 Feb. 2001, pp. MISSION STATEMENT / FairTest, FairTest, 18 July 2007, www.fairtest.org/mission-statement. Santelises, Sonja Brookins. Much Testing? Or Not Enough Quality The Education Trust, 16 Feb. 2015,. We The Education Trust, The Education Trust, edtrust.org/who-we-are/.