Bedi 1 Sean Bedi Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059 12 February 2017 Finding Common Ground - Vaccines The debate over vaccines is one that has garnered a substantial amount of attention throughout its gaining popularity over the past decades. There is a divide between those that believe that vaccines are beneficial for general healthcare and those that believe that it is a harmful practice that can lead to disease. Two large stakeholders of each view include the Immunization Action Coalition and the Vaccine Resistance Movement. Both of these organizations hold strong opinions on the use of vaccines that are completely opposites one The Immunization Action Coalition supports the spreading use of vaccines while the Vaccine Resistance Movement, as its name indicates, completely opposes the administration of vaccines. Even though these organizations are polar opposites, a feasible compromise can be made by both organizations if they give some leeway to allow the other party to spread their respective ideas. On one end of the spectrum of the vaccine debate, stands the Immunization Action Coalition. Their purpose is to support the administration of immunizations to as many people as possible. This is shown within their core beliefs where it is stated , Immunization Action Coalition (IAC) works to increase immunization rates and prevent disease by creating and distributing educational materials for health professionals and the public that enhance the delivery of safe and effective immunization (Immunization Action Coalition). Their stance on vaccine usage is obvious that they advocate the spreading of immunizations across the country. Within their mission statement also includes the spread of info about the safety of Bedi 2 vaccines to patients, parents, healthcare organizations, and government health agencies (Immunization Action Coalition). To summarize the intentions, the Immunization Action Coalition strives to improve the health of the general public by providing the info about health benefits offered by vaccines, as well the possible medical consequences that can occur. An example of the type of info that could be spread by the IAC includes studies on subjects that were immunized and its results. One such study by Mark Doherty et al, a group of professors ranging from Universities around the world, mentions a case study that concluded that the use of immunization of babies that were at high risk for liver disease due to mothers having Hepatitis B were successful over a 20 year period after the babies were born. According to the case study, none of the children that were at high risk for contracting liver disease ended up developing any illness relating to the Hepatitis B or the vaccine itself (Doherty et al 6710). On the complete other side of the spectrum, lays the Vaccine Resistance Movement. Within their mission statement contains the roots of their ideas and beliefs. These beliefs include the preservation of self-determination of what to do to own body and to expose that vaccines have a synergistic effect that allows for further infections and diseases to be contracted (Vaccine Resistance Movement). From their perspective, it is seen that vaccines are a form a fraud that is inhibiting the human body from gaining natural immunity from certain diseases. Because of this viewpoint, it can be concluded that the Vaccine Resistance Movement is a group that is opposed to vaccines as a whole. They determined that they have no purpose or place in human health and wish to keep the right over what can be done to their own bodies. A major spark towards the Vaccine Resistance Movement gaining traction began with a sudden increase in autism in children after receiving a measles vaccine. Coinciding with the views of the Vaccine Resistance Movement, an article by Alberta Di Pasquale et al, a group of Bedi 3 professors and researchers at Universities ranging from the Americas to Europe, included an example of how the measles vaccines during the late were linked to autism after over 100 annual cases after the immunizations occurred (Di Pasquale 6673). This correlation caused people to support the Vaccine Resistance mission for the end of vaccinations. Having the public exposed to this info reinforced the Vaccine Resistance cause to have more validity than before. Even though both of these organizations may have the complete opposite viewpoint from one another, it is possible for the two to come to terms if both parties can find something in common that can be worked upon to come to a compromise. For these two parties in particular, both of them want to protect the general public from naturally occurring diseases. Although their methods in doing this may differ completely, their desire to protect can be a basic building block for future progress. If both of these organizations realize this, they can take steps to communicate with each other in order to find the best solution to satisfy their common goal to keep people safe. There have not been many studies about the possible compromises between the pro- vaccine and anti-vaccine communities due to the sheer extreme opposite values they possess. However, the idea of compromise itself is one that has lasted the tests of time throughout humanity. If its basic principles can be applied to the two vaccine groups, it is clear a compromise can be met. But in order for a compromise to be determined, it must first be fully understood. According to Barry Hoffmaster and Cliff Hooker, both professors of Philosophy at University of Western Ontario and University of Newcastle respectively, a compromise is when not all of the several obligations we acknowledge in a situation can be fully met, and we cannot avoid the conflict because inaction will generate a worse (57). In Bedi 4 this scenario, the Immunization Action Coalition and the Vaccine Resistance Movement cannot be satisfied fully due to their differing views on vaccine usage. To add, leaving the conflict as is would only increase the divide between the two organizations, making a compromise even more difficult than before. So a viable compromise would be one that will benefit both parties, but may also go against some of their beliefs. A compromise that would at least partially satisfy both parties would be for both groups to advocate for mandatory vaccinations up to an age of 13, but then allowing those that do not believe in vaccines to discontinue them without any repercussions. Doing this allows for the Immunization Action Coalition to enable more infants and toddlers that would have otherwise not received vaccinations to immunize them, while maintaining the right to self-determination that the Vaccine Resistance Movement seeks. This puts the Vaccine Resistance Movement to less threat to a law being passed that requires vaccinations for all ages. Both groups would have to start discussing the possibility of such a medical requirement to each state government and have it individually approved by each state. From the Immunization Action point of view, they gain the practice of required vaccinations towards younger people, but lose total control after the age of thirteen. From the Vaccine Resistance perspective, they successfully maintain their right to self-determination after a certain age rather than losing it all together, which was an impending threat. However, they are forced against their beliefs by losing that right of self-determination under the age of thirteen. Even though these two organizations end up losing some authority, they do end up gaining something, even if it is in the slightest. It is a textbook example of compromise in that is fulfilling obligations partially, and it could be the start of an even greater compromise to come (Hoffmaster and Hook 55). Bedi 5 The Immunization Action Coalition and the Vaccine Resistance Movement are two organizations that have two conflicting perspectives on vaccine usage. The Immunization Action Coalition wants to spread the effectiveness and emphasize the necessity of vaccines while the Vaccine Resistance Movement acts to spread the possible dangers and the lack of need for vaccines to fight disease. However, both organizations have one thing in common, the desire to protect people from contracting naturally occurring diseases. If both parties can come together for this purpose, a compromise that requires children under the age of thirteen to receive vaccines while preserving self-determination of own body after that age, could be the beginning to an even bigger and better compromise in the future. Bedi 6 Works Cited Us: The Immunization Action The Immunization Action Coalition, 8 July 2016, www.immunize.org/aboutus/ . Accessed 11 February 2017. Us: Vaccine Resistance Vaccine Resistance Movement, . Accessed 11 February 2017. Di Pasquale, Alberta, et al. Vaccine Safety Evaluation: Practical Aspects In Assessing Benefits And  Vaccine 34.The Changing Face of Vaccines and Vaccination (2016): 6672- 6680. ScienceDirect. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Doherty, Mark, et al. Vaccine Impact: Benefits For Human  Vaccine 34.The Changing Face of Vaccines and Vaccination (2016): 6707-6714. ScienceDirect. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Hoffmaster, Barry, and Cliff Hooker. The Nature Of Moral Compromise: Principles, Values, And  Social Theory & Practice 43.1 (2017): 55-78. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 15 Feb. 2017.