Castaneda 1 Mariana Castaneda Professor Ryan ENC 1102 15 February 2017 Project 1: Finding Common Ground- Abortion There is almost no topic more heavily debated than the issue of a right to terminate a pregnancy. The 1973 Roe v Wade decision to legalize abortion on a federal level brought about a massive wave of controversy that is still heavily prominent in society today. The center of the argument has been a matter of agency over own body and the right to life. The issue of abortion is habitually viewed by the general public as diverse and binary, leaving little room for compromise; however, Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org., building from a shared dedication to providing individuals with information and services contributing to sexual and reproductive health, can completely alter their landscape by taking on a commitment to decrease the number of abortions by improving contraceptive education and use. Get Your Care Organization was formed by pro-life and pro-women movements in America, and as stated in the mission statement found on their site, their goal is to women with information about the numerous health care resources available to They refer women to many other organizations that provide women with pregnancy and STD testing, sexual health counseling, and relational well-being education. All of the organizations associated with Get Your Care are pro-life, so although they provide services such as post-abortion counseling, they do not refer women to abortion services or clinics. According to the article written by Brandhorst and Jennings, pro-life advocates believe that freedom should be limited when it places another individual in way. Because of these and other strong pro-life core values, these Castaneda 2 organizations engage themselves in various activities in hopes of making abortion inaccessible to women. As published in an article by Hawkins and Enriquez, advocates of the pro-life movement have long made their attempt to amend the perception that they hold higher value to the life of the unborn fetus than the life of the mother. say that pro-lifers do not care about women would be a gross They fight for the equal rights of all humans, something made evident in their efforts to promote reproductive and relational health. The mission statement published by Planned Parenthood makes clear their belief in individual rights to his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or With these values in mind, they strive to give reproductive and complimentary health care PP also stresses the preservation of the privacy. In addition to this, they provide programs to educate and promote research and technological advancement in reproductive health care. In accordance with Brandhorst and Jennings, the values held by Planned Parenthood come down to six values core to Americans: agency, health, education, unity, and They use these values to reinforce their validity in the community as they face the daunting task of winning the battle of public opinion. The value of agency in particular is paramount to the argument of giving the individual the freedom to make decisions independently of others. In the eyes of PP, agency lies within the woman. They believe in the rights of women to make their own choices in regards to their reproductive health. The commitment to truth, health, and equality are made evident through their services and mission statement; as they give all women a confidential right to choose in a safe and protective environment. Planned Parenthood demonstrates their devotion to the value of health by placing much emphasis on the health services that they provide as well as the need for these services. Castaneda 3 As most individuals analyze the issue of legalized abortion, they typically assume that organizations holding opposing views are violently against each other, giving no room for one to take a step towards the other. However, when looking through the mission statements of the two organizations, and the services provided by them, it is evident that they are in reality not too far apart in their overall purpose and goals. Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org. hold similar objectives, including a commitment to providing individuals with information on sexual and reproductive health, providing pregnancy and STD testing, health screenings for women, pregnancy and abortion counseling, and relational well-being education for men and women of all ages. Both Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org. dedicate themselves to increasing the number of resources available to the public, in hopes of drastically decreasing the number of women affected by otherwise preventable diseases such as various types of cancer, STDs, and various adverse health effects from pregnancy. With this goal in mind, both stake holders either provide women with these services, or at least refer them to places that will provide them. After analyzing the values and beliefs of the organizations, the most viable compromise Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org. could make is to come to an agreement to lower the number of abortions and increase the services available to promote health. In Get your hopes to lower the number of abortions, Planned Parenthood would only refer and perform abortions during the first trimester of pregnancy, instead of throughout the pregnancy, as they do so currently. Exceptions would be made only in extremely valid cases, such as a pregnancy that presents a physical threat to the woman herself late in pregnancy, which, according to Nancy K. article, is an exception that is typically unproblematic, as many opponents of choice agree that abortion should be allowed if the woman faces a substantial threat by continuing the pregnancy. Other valid reasons include a pregnancy where the mother has any disease that could Castaneda 4 be passed on to the child, if the pregnancy is the result of rape, or if medical screenings show any type of sickness or defects in the embryo, such as an anencephalic fetus, who is never viable. Brandhorst and Jennings prove that the effects of pro-life efforts to defund PP have been catastrophic, as such organizations have turned to publicizing information and videos portraying PP engaging in illegal activities and profiting from abortions. Despite being declared deceptive, the videos provided a platform for pro-life advocates to call for the investigation and subsequent defunding of Planned Parenthood, which currently receives more than $500 million dollars from the federal government annually. The crisis threatened the existence of the organization by placing its funding at risk. In the interest of pro-choice advocates, Get Your Care org. and its associates would solve this issue by no longer pushing to defund PP, which would allow them to reinforce their value and validity in the community. In hopes of preventing deaths from either health issues or even illegal abortions, they would refer these women to Planned Parenthood so they can receive the necessary care. The compromise proposed is viable from various standpoints. In accordance with Roden, it has been made clear that pro-choice groups find working for early abortions important, not only because many persons find them morally less problematic, but also because it is better for the health to terminate an unwanted pregnancy as soon as possible. article clarifies the United States, of the 0.9 percent of abortions performed after week twenty, 99 percent are performed by the twenty-fourth week, most of which are performed for fetal It is definitely time for both pro-choice and pro-life groups to begin to work in conjunction to make abortions in the United States as safe, early, and rare as possible. By compromising and working together, the organizations would also work to improve contraceptive education and use. Additional funding and effort would go into making Castaneda 5 contraception techniques acceptable and available to everyone. All of this will ensure that those abortions that do occur are performed as early in pregnancy as possible. It is highly unlikely, that the debate on abortion will ever end. The topic has been highly contested long before the decision made in the Roe v Wade case and will likely always continue. While the issues of pro-life or pro-choice groups might never come to a conclusion, it is entirely possible for both sides to come to the compromise proposed. If Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care Org. work hard to limit the public need for abortion through the improvement of contraceptive education and use, then it can become less of a divisive issue. Castaneda 6 Works Cited Brandhorst, Jaclyn K, and Freddie J Jennings. for Funding: Values Advocacy and Planned 25 June 2016. (www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0363811116300145). (Date Accessed 15 February 2017). Hawkins, Kristan, and Lauren Enriquez. Messaging: The Strategy to Win the Mushy 2016. Human Life Review. Summer2016, Vol. 42 Issue 3, p17-30. 14p. (eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=063881dd-280f-45eb- 8188-f8214fa12a60%40sessionmgr101&vid=1&hid=117). (Date Accessed 15 February 2017). Get Your Care, 2015, getyourcare.org/. (Date Accessed 15 February 2017). Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood, 21 May 2014, www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/who-we-are/mission. (Date Accessed 15 February 2017). Rhoden, Nancy K. Compromise on The Hastings Center Report, vol. 19, no. 4, 1 July 1989, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3562300?ref=search- gateway:ffe5513fddbf207713c046e3d912846b. (Date Accessed 15 February 2017).