Angela Apicerno Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059 28 January 2017 Finding Common Ground As with all controversial topics, it can be very difficult to find common ground for compromise between two sides. When it comes to the issue of the death penalty, there are multiple interest groups fighting to keep it alive or have it expelled from our justice system. Amnesty International is one group fighting to remove the death penalty not only in the US but from justice systems around the world. Justice for All is a non-profit organization that supports are two interest groups on opposite ends of the spectrum when it comes to the issue of capital punishment. By examining their values and goals, the underlying motivator of justice may be all these two sides need to reach a sound compromise. Amnesty International is an organization that works to provide basic human rights for all humans throughout the world. Battling many common issues, one they focus on is the death penalty. Internationally the death penalty is used as a punishment for various crimes with some as feeble as being unfaithful to a spouse to more serious crimes like murder or harassment. Their goal is to eventually abolish the death penalty all around the world by promoting different, more humane forms of punishment. Their biggest battle is the US government and fighting for the removal of the death penalty from their system completely. They reject the death penalty at all times; no matter what the crime. After being banned for being unconstitutional, in 1976 the US Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment deeming it legal (Part 1). They oppose the common point that the death penalty deters crime, saying there are no facts or studies to back it up. According to Amnesty, the death penalty infringes on two of our basic human rights, the right to life and the right to live free from torture (Death Penalty). On the other hand, Justice for All highly promotes the use of the death penalty as a form of punishment for appropriate crimes. They are a Justice reform (Justice for All). Their purpose is to act as an advocate for change within the criminal justice system which they believe is inadequate of protecting citizens and their property. They try to bring change through private citizens and corporate membership to peacefully push the influences necessary in changing the paths of the criminal justice system. Out of the 3500 inmates on death row, many of them have claimed the lives of multiple victims and therefore Justice for All sees it fit that the death penalty is the only way to insure crimes like these happen again (Justice for All). Despite their differences, the two organizations have very clear goals in mind when it comes to the death penalty. One common goal they do have is providing justice for the people the represent. Both recognize that without the support from victims, they would have no fight, no solid platform to base their campaigns from. This one similarity could greatly work in their favor in reaching a compromise in realizing that there are avenues available for them to both partially achieve their respective goals in regards to the death penalty. One of the most seemingly possible compromises would be for the two to come together as one and push for a common cause. Currently, the federal government tries six types of cases for capital murder including espionage, treason, and large scale drug-trafficking, all of which are non-murder related (Capital). On the state level, the government has set restrictions on who can or cannot be tried for capital punishment i.e. criminals can only be tried if they have committed murder (Capitol). Despite its legality, 19 states have chosen to ban the death penalty (Part 1). A viable compromise could arise if both parties chose to fight to eradicate the death penalty on the state level and let in remain within the federal courts. This plan would eliminate the vast inconsistencies in how and when capital punishment is carried out. This could be a case both parties could bring before the federal court supported by numerous facts and studies. For instance, since 1973 more than 150 prisoners on death row have been released in lieu of evidence proving their innocence. A report by the National Research Council concluded that claiming that the death penalty has a deterrent effect on murder rates are or that in the state of Florida alone enforcing the death penalty costs $51 million dollars more a year than life sentences (Part One). By fighting at the state level it gives each side a small win, Amnesty International lessens the use of the death penalty but Justice For All has the satisfaction of knowing that cases deemed severe enough have the option to try the defendant with the consequence of capital punishment. Conclusively, it is extremely difficult to find a compromise between two forces that are stuck at opposite ends of the spectrum. By coming together to enact on their one similarity though, each party can find a way to gain a small win for their cause. Sometimes the best option is putting aside ones opinions and prejudices and compromising to benefit the greater good. If Amnesty International and Justice for All can do this and put the people they are fighting for above their own opinions, the ultimate compromise could have an overall greater effect on our judiciary system as a whole while also helping them accomplish what they set out to change. Works Cited Death  Death Penalty. Amnesty International, 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Justice For All - A Criminal Justice Reform  Justice For All - A Criminal Justice Reform Organization. Justice for All Inc, 2011. W Part I: History of the Death  Death Penalty History Information Center. DPIC, 10 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Capital Punishment at the Federal  Findlaw. Thomas Reuters, 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017.