Shapiro 1 Matthew Shapiro Professor Ryan 28 January 2017 ENC 1102 045 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Since back in the day TV viewers have complained to Media Industry for leniency on censorship. Dating back to 1942, Tweety bird was to be redrawn with more plumage to not seem so nude or in 1952 when in an episode of Love the word was not allowed. Moving slightly ahead in the timeline in 1973, in a first season episode of in the the toilet is flushed, not seen, but heard. It is quite shocking how we have evolved through media while still having to abide by rules to avoid any criticism or disapproval. The argument on censorship is still at hand, even with the complete different dynamic of the rating system from then versus now. The FCC attempt to defend the case regarding that the Parent TV Council is building against them. The constant portraying of shows that contain indecent scenes are too said to be too common and unwanted. The FCC, or Federal Communications Commission, regulates communication between TV, Radio, Wire, Satellite, etc. They operate under a and business, which appeals to the viewers/consumers because they are the people suggesting the adjustments. The FCC opposes the beliefs the accusations that indecent shows are aired too often. For years they have defended their name and reputation from the liabilities they face towards unhappy groups. This group is an independent government agency that is overseen by Congress, but is known to be the primary authority in the US Shapiro 2 for communication laws and regulations. The Commission is faced with some conflict because the very own people who critique and advocate the changes in the TV are the same people who complain about the indecency. What puzzles the Commission is that either the content is either legally indecent or not. So the constant struggle to try and please the viewers will affect the quality of what is produced or what is chosen to air at certain times. They cannot please everyone while still doing a full diagnostic on what each and every scene will exhibit. To add to that, when shows are aired live the FCC and media industry are shamed for unplanned incidents that occur. Small errors like that are unforeseen and unavoidable. The Parents TV Council, the media watchdog group originated around 1995, are the voice of any angry parent or guardian who believe the media industry are inaccurate with the ratings and are not happy with their judgment when airing programs. Their mission statement is protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful Their biggest concern is their inability to completely block a harmful or inappropriate show that is being aired. The need for a parent to want to be able to filter every thing their child sees is their main priority. Yet they feel even with all the filters and parental locks they enable it still fails. The use of separate TV accounts has become a go to concept; this will allow everything aired to be filtered and kept away from their children if rated anything higher than TV-14. PTC vision is to provide a safe and sound entertainment media environment for children and families across America (ParentsTV). A study shows that there are fewer programs on prime-time broadcast TV shows rated TV-PG and there is fewer difference between the contents of TV-PG and TV-14 (Gildemeister). They have Shapiro 3 continuously through the years fought for stricter regulations regarding indecent viewings, Although these two parties disagree with each other, they share some common beliefs and goals. The complaints of reoccurring indecent shows are made aware with both groups, the FCC does not intend for shows to contain too explicit material, or believe that they are being insensitive. Partly because they themself are not in charge of what is aired, the broadcasters are. The Parents TV Council believes content is too explicit and/or is not rated properly for their children. With this being said, The FCC has come out strongly to support the cause to make sure all children are watching safe shows that do not risk showing them any inappropriate scenes. They both want what is best for the children and by tightening some regulations there will be no possibility of indecent programs. Compromise between these two companies is to be sought out and I believe the mutual understanding between both entities would create a less harmful, appropriate media outlet for their children. Within some recent years, the V-chip device has come to surface. It allows for the parents/guardian to scan shows/programs and notify them what material is showed. Though parents believe it does completely block out or warn any graphic material that is not wanted. FCC has come out to enforce stricter regulations and said that broadcasters who do not comply will face revocation of the license. That with an updated V chip that thoroughly scans shows and can even evade the bad ones from a child will bring resolution to the both parties. The controversy between the FCC and the Parents TV Council regarding indecent shows being played in front of their children can be resolved. Both parties are credible Shapiro 4 and successful entities that contribute to society in any way they can. In addition, they share much more in common than they do separately. Both aspire to create safe television programs for viewers, especially the children. Mediating the two groups to update the chip and review/tighten regulations will allow less complaints and more enjoyable moments in front of the TV with family. Shapiro 5 Works Cited Lendier, Ian. A Timeline of TV  CNN. Cable News Network, 1 Aug. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gildemeister, Christopher. Protecting Children from  Protecting Children or Protecting Hollywood (2010): n. pag. W2.parentstv.org. Parents TV Council Board. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sasso, Brendan. group fights FCC bid to loosen indecency  TheHill. N.p., 03 Feb. 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Copps, Michael J. Search  Federal Communications Commission. FCC, 21 July 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Smith, Lynn. For Watchdogs, Work Is a Day Full of  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 10 May 2004. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.