Davison 1 Bradley Davison DeCarion ENC1102 11 February 2017 Campus Concealed Weapons Carry With ongoing criminal involvement on campus, some organizations are in support of allowing students with a concealed weapons permit to carry a firearm on campus. While others are not so supportive of this idea, the problem lies in the inability to come to a consensus. Several organizations are at odds in this ongoing issue rather than solving the true problem, the amount of students who are constantly victims in criminal acts, they continue to not see eye to eye. Students for Concealed Carry is an Organization that is run by students who believe in their human right to self-defense regardless of the location. On the opposing side, The Campaign to Keep Guns off Campus, has a very specific goal seek. This organization is the National organization of its kind and has helped stop concealed carry on campus legislation in 18 (KGOC). The purpose of this paper is to merge both of these organizations ideas and create a common ground between the two of them without bias. This is possible if a separate state ran agency is implemented to help examine the physical and mental capabilities of concealed weapons permit holders to ensure that the students and/or faculty have the ability to carry on campus. Students for Concealed Carry on Campus is an organization ran by students who feel it is necessary to be able to defend themselves to any life threatening situation regardless of the location, specifically on campus. Students for Concealed Carry plays a crucial part in the concealed carry and gun rights community. The organization is widely supported with advocates Davison 2 and followers in all 50 states. organization also specifies that they are a non-partisan organization meaning that they support members from any political party or (SCCC). SCCC focuses not on partisanship, but on the ability to form a common goal of an organization based on evidence and statistics. They use evidence and statistics to prove that college campuses are not the safest places on earth. campuses, though typically safe, do play host to every type of violent crime found in the rest of society, from assault to rape to murder. Recent high- profile shootings and armed abductions on college campuses clearly demonstrate that free serve to disarm only those law-abiding citizens who might otherwise be able to protect (SCCC). The organization argues that campuses being free is just an enabler to criminals that see a highly populated area with individuals who have no means of protection or self-defense as an advantage. Some explain that in the time of an emergency such as a mass shootings it will necessary to have individuals with concealed carry permits on campus. of concealed carry laws claim they protect the rights of licensed gun owners and may help save lives during an (Hultin 1). Placing individuals on campus with a means of self-defense could not only protect themselves but could protect others in an emergency situation. numerous independent researchers and state agencies agree that concealed handgun license holders are five times less likely than non-license holders to commit violent crimes; because no other type of location has seen an increased rate of violent crime since concealed carry became legal (Students For Concealed Carry). Some organizations would argue that most all campuses have safety precautions implemented already so that students have a means of communication with a nearby by police agency or an on campus security agency. SCCC argues that these precautions are useful in practical situations and realize that in not every situation does the individual have the ability to reach an emergency communication device and if Davison 3 they have the ability to contact a security agency the ratio of students to officers is extremely small. The Campaign to Keep Guns of Campus is an organization with a purpose as simple as the title. They feel that guns being on campus would cause a rise in crime. The Campaign to Keep Guns of Campus believes that there are other ways to lower the amount of campus crime without the implementation of more firearms. In fact in a study conducted by the journal of American college health it was determined that most students are not in support of guns being on campus. prevailing stance of students was not supportive of people with a permit carrying a concealed handgun on campus (79%) or carrying them off campus (53%). The majority of students (79%) felt most students would not feel safe if faculty, students, and visitors carried concealed handguns on (Thompson et al.). The majority of student feel actually unsafe knowing that students and faculty etc. would be carrying on campus. The Campaign to Keep Guns of Campus feels that the ongoing security of campuses is already keeping college campuses safe enough. Colorado, the instances of forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault increased over the past four years with the last two years allowing concealed carry on campuses. In Utah, the rate of forcible rape fluctuated over the 10 year period but ultimately increased in 2012 and 2013. Robbery and aggravated assault increased (Gavran 2). By conducting this comparison study of two universities that allow and do not allow concealed carry on campus they were able to see that the implementation of guns on campus does not actually lower the crime rate through statistics. They also have posted a study that shows that the relationship between gun free zones and mass shootings does not exist and that it is a myth. The beliefs of these two organizations are opposite to say the least so building a compromise will not be easy but it is the only way to make both of the and their Davison 4 supporters feel successful, because of the fact that their ideas are so contrasting you cannot pursue one of the organizations beliefs without completely overlooking the others. This is why common ground needs to be formed so that we can lessen the crime rate on college campuses while enacting both beliefs. This is very possible by creating a separate agency that would monitor all concealed weapons permit holding individuals on campus. Individuals who wish to carry on campus would have to undergo extensive tests and checks further than just having an average concealed carry permit. The agency would create ways of evaluating an capabilities both physically and mentally. This would rule out the common thought process that people have were they think that anybody and everybody with a concealed carry permit could just walk on campus not knowing anything about the protection of others. This would also limit the amount of individuals carrying on campus and ensure that the ones who are carrying are in fact individuals who meet the criteria and are not going to have a mental breakdown and cause another mass shooting on campus. In conclusion, the fear of guns and unnecessary death caused by guns has just recently started to become common in society. It has only significantly existed for the past 2 decades so there are not so many past attempts at coming to a compromise, but at this point it is most certainly necessary. In order to consider both sides we need to present an idea that not only lowers the campus crime rate, but also fill minds with the fear of someone carrying a gun on campus that have the mental capability of doing so. We can accomplish this by including a separate agency within the campus that oversees the distribution of on campus gun licenses. The agency will provide the proper training believed necessary for the individuals to carry on campus. Thus, giving the proper individuals the ability to carry on Davison 5 campus will eliminate the fear of any mass shootings and will also lower the on campus crime rate. Davison 6 Works Cited About - The Campaign to Keep Guns off  Keep Guns Off Campus. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://keepgunsoffcampus.org/about/>. Students for Concealed  Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://concealedcampus.org/about/bout/>. Gavran, Julie. on Campuses That Permit Concealed Campaign to Keep Guns off Campus. 2015 Hultin, Suzanne. Campus In Your  State Legislatures 7 (2015): 13. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Thompson, Amy, et al. Student Perceptions And Practices Regarding Carrying Concealed Handguns On University  Journal Of American College Health 61.5 (2013): 243-253. Academic Search Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.