Arcay 1 Fernanda Arcay Dorinda Davis ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Death Penalty The death penalty has not only raised numerous ethical questions, but it has split people into different groups, those in favor and those against capital punishment. Amnesty International is one of the many groups against the death penalty. This purpose, as stated in their portal, is as follows, International is a global movement of people fighting injustice and promoting human (Amnesty International). Amnesty International has many goals, however, one of their main goals is to stop the death penalty. They have released several advertisements with the idea of not only raising awareness worldwide, but also to change perspective and feelings in this issue. In the first image provided, raising awareness is the main goal. With a combination of evidence and appealing to our emotions thanks to the hanging ropes, Amnesty International succeeds in doing so. On the second image, we see an alcoholic shot, which attracts the audience more, only to let us then later realize it is really the mix used to kill inmates. Here we also get a grasp on the research done regarding lethal mixes. On both of the advertisements provided, Amnesty International uses a combination of ethos, pathos, and logos by including the top five executioners, the ingredients to lethal mixes and hanging ropes; in order to reach their ultimate goal: raising awareness to stop the death penalty worldwide. Awareness, that is what Peter Benenson had in mind when he decided to found Amnesty International on July 1961 in London, United Kingdom (Amnesty International). Benenson was Arcay 2 enlightened by the idea of founding a non-profitable and governmental organization after he read about an injustice on the newspaper. According to Amnesty International, Benenson became enraged after reading that two Portuguese students were arrested for raising their glasses during a toast dedicated to freedom. He decided to take action and became soon the founder as what today we know as Amnesty International. This organization is an organization with its main headquarters in London, however, they have over 68 organizations in different countries, as stated in Amnesty International (Amnesty International). They are an organization dedicated to human rights from torture, to political prisoners, to the death penalty. Their mission, as formally expressed in their portal is as follows, Our vision is of a world in which every person regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity enjoys all of the human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and other internationally recognized human rights standards. Completing these missions and tasks is not an easy job, however, Amnesty International aims to do so by conducting researches and later taking action worldwide. They have worked with celebrities, and famous Harry Potter author J.K Rowling described her experience with Amnesty International as follows, people, whose personal well-being and security are assured, join together in huge numbers to save people they do not know, and will never meet. My small participation in that process was one of the most humbling and inspiring experiences of my  (Amnesty International). Being an organization protecting human rights, Amnesty International has released several advertisements in order to raise awareness and change perspectives regarding the death Arcay 3 penalty. Ethos is one of the main rhetorical devices used in their advertisements. On the first image, we can observe how Amnesty International decided to portray the top 5 executioners in 2015 of the death penalty in order to reach their main goal: the halt of capital punishment. By using evidence, they make the audience believe in what they are saying and at the same time they raise awareness on the issue. On the second image, we see ethos again when reading the actual advertisement. After reading the chemicals used for lethal mixes and their side effects, Amnesty International is building their credibility even more by demonstrating to their reader their seriousness and research done on the topic. This helps them maintain a strong stance in this topic, while at the same time it helps them get closer to their purpose. Not only is Amnesty International using evidence to reach their purpose, but they are also appealing strong to the audience emotions with their use of pathos on the advertisements. On the first image, there is a very strong sense of pathos. When being first confronted by it, the image makes the audience feel shocked and sorry for inmates being executed. By deciding to include hanging ropes that stand out from the dull background, Amnesty International hopes to change the perspective on the serious issue of the death penalty. They use black as their background to make the audience feel empathy for those being executed, while at the same time they use yellow to highlight only the words 5 dragging more the attention to the audience and making them want to take action. Hanging has been a method used for hundreds of years worldwide. According to researcher Rob Gallagher in his article, Before the Needles, 9320 people have been executed by judicial hanging from 1622 to the present day, most being hanged in public and usually drawing a large crowd of (Wayback Machine). This ad makes the audience feel sad and almost guilty for not taking any action to stop the death penalty in the countries shown. On the second image, pathos is used when seeing the Arcay 4 words recipe to die The audience thinks that the shot being shown is delicious. However, as further analyzing the ad, you notice that this recipe would literally kill you. This is a strong appeal to pathos because the ad makes the audience feel even sorry for the prisoners. It makes the audience develop a sort of empathy for the prisoner on which this recipe is being used on. Comparing this lethal mix to an alcoholic beverage is even worse. It makes the audience even feel as bad people, for they then realize that they were only attracted to this ad because of the belief it was an alcoholic shot; leading them to want to take action and help even more in Amnesty purpose, the abolishment of death penalty. Facts about capital punishment are not commonly known, Amnesty International in order to achieve their purpose used a lot if information in their advertisements to inform people about the death penalty. On the first advertisement, they use logos by providing statistics about top 5 executioners worldwide in 2015. They named China as having more than 1000 people executed in 2015, and USA qualifies in this list in fifth place (Amnesty International). On the second image, logos is used by naming the three chemicals used to execute. Because Amnesty International identifies the three chemicals used and explain its side effects, this makes them appear as a strong, reliable organization. It not only raises awareness but it also makes the audience feel horrible for not doing anything about it. They then provide more facts when mentioning that people are not only killed by these chemicals, but that they can also be killed by hanging, firing squads, and beheading. Amnesty International also includes other facts in their advertisement, those of many inmates not giving a fair trial and many more being wrongfully convicted. Horrifying stories have been published online about executions gone wrong. CNN published a story where an innocent man was executed for a rape and murder he did not commit. According to CNN, Arcay 5 In 1996, 18-year-old Huugjilt was convicted of the rape and murder of a woman and executed in a matter of months. Nine years later, convicted serial rapist and murderer Zhao Zhihong confessed to the crime, sparking a review of the case and intense media coverage. Inner high court overturned conviction in December 2014, and gave his parents 2 million yuan ($320,000) in compensation for the wrongful execution of their son. This story helps build Amnesty credibility even more, by also making the audience feel extremely awful for the injustice that occurred in China. Injustices and executions are a constant event that keeps repeating up to this day. Amnesty International fights for the human rights of people today. They are one of the biggest organizations today dedicated to human rights, which led them to eventually win the Nobel Peace Prize (Amnesty International). On both of these powerful images we get the message and the urgency of stopping the death penalty. Amnesty International appeals to our emotions while at the same time building their credibility to reach their ultimate goal. They use statistics, proven by other sources as well, to prove their stance and commitment to this topic. Arcay 6 Arcay 7 Arcay 8 Works Cited A Recipe to Die For. Digital image. Amnesty International. Amnesty International Org, 20 Aug. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <https://www.google.com/search?q=death+penalty+ads&espv=2&biw=1220&bih=604& site=webhp&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiAu9i8443SAhVHylQKHc +to+die+for&*>. Digital image. Amnesty International. Amnesty International Org, 6 Apr. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <https://www.google.com/search?q=death+penalty+ads&espv=2&biw=1220&bih=604& site=webhp&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiAu9i8443SAhVHylQKHc QORdiFnl8mz2M:>. Gallagher, Rob. BEFORE THE  BEFORE THE NEEDLES. Wayback Machine, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Griffiths, James. China Remains Top  CNN. Cable News Network, 07 Apr. 2016. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. U.S. Death Penalty  Amnesty International USA. Amnesty International, May 2012. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.