Crockett 1 Darrell Crockett Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059S17 15 February 2017 Standing Rock vs. Sunoco America has had a history of domestic conflicts dealing with fossil fuel access and usage. After the British Petroleum (BP) oil spill in the Gulf Coast in 2010, which, per the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, was the worst oil spill in United history, our country has made great efforts to find efficient, alternative forms of energy. Our efforts under the Obama administration have been towards solar energy and electric-powered engines instead of fossil fuels such as coal and oil. Since newly-elected President Donald Trump has been in office, he took steps back toward fossil fuels, which has outraged many citizens of our country. Recently, one major conflict to hit the news involved the Dakota Access pipeline (DAPL), an oil pipeline that travels through North Dakota to Illinois. President Trump signed off on its continuation after a nearly year-long fight prevented from its current development route. Besides the major differences between the two stakeholders, Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. and the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, a common ground can be negotiated amongst them, which will lead to a beneficial and feasible proposal. mission and values are crucial to finding a compromise. Sunoco manages a portfolio of fossil fuel and refined product pipelines throughout the country for transportation purposes. According to their and page, mission revolves around a specific set of values that entails that their company works under the standard of integrity and Crockett 2 excellence in performance and customer satisfaction. Additionally, Sunoco looks for, and better ways, and maintain an open, responsive, and entrepreneurial (Mission and Values). As alternative, eco-friendly fuel has yet to be established as a primary source of fuel in our country, Sunoco generates an enormous amount of revenue from the quality of management of their assets, and they are capitalizing on our current political and economic state in our country. However, they are up against a stakeholder that has put up a fight for the last three years and are still fighting strong. opponents are the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, and Standing ideals are very important to understanding the conflict between them and Sunoco. Standing Rock has its own council set aside to protect the ideals for the benefit of solely their people. According to their & page, they wish to the health and wellness of the people of Standing (Visions & Mission). Additionally, they state that they are to promoting an environment for a self-sufficiency of all tribal (Vision & Mission). In conjunction with each other, these two ideals set a foundation for their independence from outside regulation and interaction politically and economically. There is a common ground here that will lead to compromise.. According to article published on Global Research, written by author Makia Freeman, an editor of the independent news site The Freedom Articles, the pipeline passes a point that comes 500 feet within Standing reservation; therefore, the pipeline has become a concern of theirs. Any size oil spill will affect the reservation, and because Sunoco holds strong value on integrity and innovation, Sunoco, as well as Standing Rock, both wish for safe construction of the pipeline so that it is not endangering the lives of the Standing Rock people. For instance, there needs to be durable pipelines, and Sunoco wishes to find a route that is safer, but still efficient. Because Sunoco and Crockett 3 Standing Rock, as stakeholders in the matter, both want a route that will not affect any people in surrounding environment, there needs to be a compromise in which executive officials from both parties need to agree upon. There are only a few compromises that are doable by both parties; however, the most feasible one involves Sunoco rerouting their pipeline yet again, but this time, not from the preexisting route they have set up. Sunoco will have to do the following in order to appease Standing Rock: a) Build facilities going the opposite direction of the starting point of the first facility to receive the oil. b) Lay pipeline between these facilities that will lead to the same destination. Sunoco will be conceding a lot of money; however, it will create an even larger amount of jobs than the original project. From this, Sunoco will also be paying less for the pipeline as it will decrease the amount needed to be lain than the original pipeline, thus leading to an increased amount of profit from the oil accessed. Also, Sunoco will not be acting alone. To aid Sunoco in laying pipe elsewhere, the Standing Rock tribe must be able to contribute to the laying of the pipe in these ways: a) Use a portion of their donations that, instead of going toward their own community, will be put toward the building of new facilities and new pipe following the direction of said facilities. b) As the pipeline must cross a body of water that might affect their drinking water, the tribe needs to pay to build the appropriate reinforcements that will protect their water supply from possible contamination if the new pipeline were to leak. Crockett 4 Even though the Standing Rock tribe will be conceding some revenue that they could put toward their own community, in turn, they will be gaining a safe environment out of way if the pipeline were to leak just five hundred feet from the reservation, and they would not have to diminish or move their reservation. Granted that President Trump signed executive order to continue with the construction of the pipeline as it is, it will be a tough battle, where tribe members must stand up for their land along with their sympathizers. With their win in November 2016, it is very possible that another protest will lead to the Army Corps of Engineers halting the construction again; however, the tribal council must be able to offer some form of assistance to Sunoco for their delay. It is only fair, but it is the only other option they would have besides having the pipeline be built right next to the reservation and receive compensation for the inconvenience it causes for their tribe. As a company steadily losing money from a delay such as this one, their executive officers must be willing to look for a feasible agreement between them and the Standing Rock tribe before it becomes a drawn-out debacle. Although this seems to be reasonable, the Standing Rock tribe might not be willing to negotiate. Since we are a primarily capitalistic country, Sunoco must do what they need to do to bring in revenue/profits. The only thing missing from this conflict is a voice of reason that will be patient in dealing with Standing Rock and Sunoco long enough to realize the compromises that can solve this problem. Maybe then, and only then, will Standing Rock and Sunoco, both, get what they want out of this. Crockett 5 Works Cited Aisch, Gregor, and K.K. Rebecca Lai. Conflicts Along 1,172 Miles of the Dakota Access The New York Times, 7 Feb. 2017, www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/11/23/us/dakota-access-pipeline-protest- Standing Rock, KK Bold, standingrock.org/environmental-profile/. Freeman, Makia. Rock 2017 and the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL): The Fight Is Not 7 Jan. 2017. Frost, Emily. Oil Ocean Portal Smithsonian, National Museum of Natural History, 5 Jan. 2017, ocean.si.edu/gulf-oil-spill. Palma, Bethania. Signs Orders to Advance Dakota Access and Keystone Snopes.com, Snopes, 24 Jan. 2017, www.snopes.com/2017/01/24/trump-signs-orders- advance-dakota-access-keystone-pipelines/. Mission and Values Sunoco Logistics, Sunoco Logistics Partner, LP., 2009, www.sunocologistics.com/About-Us/Mission-and-Values/201/.