Gabrielle Campone ENC 1101 Sabah Uddin 2 Feb 2017 Annotated Bibliography Roe v. Wade (1973) was a Supreme Court decision that ruled it unconstitutional to ban abortions. According to the Merriam Webster Dictionary, abortion is the deliberate termination of a human pregnancy, most often during the first 28 weeks. Women should have a safe place to have abortions as there can be many complications if performed improperly. Many organizations such as Planned Parenthood are safe and welcoming environments. In order to run these operations daily, they rely on funding through the government. Their role is to make women feel comfortable and advise them of all available options. However, these organizations are fast losing funding. This begs the question; should government continue to fund female reproductive health organizations? Sources Breslin, Angela. Wall Of Legislative Obstacles In The Path Of A Woman Exercising Her Right To An Abortion: Planned Parenthood Arizona, Inc. V. Golden Gate University Law Review 1 (2014): 53. In this article, Angela Breslin talks about the Arizona legislature trying the limits of legal abortions. The statute prevented any medical facility that performed abortions from receiving funding from Medicaid. With this statute violating federal law, Planned Parenthood and a few individuals sued to have it repealed. The district court came to a decision that instructed the state to not follow the statute. However, if the state would have been able to go through with the statute, it would have been detrimental for women. Their rights would be violated. For women who had Medicaid as their insurance, they would not be able to go to any medical facilities that performed abortions. This prevented women from making choices on their family-planning and preventive-care services. Also, facilities that performed abortions lost funding so people who had Medicaid had to pay out of pocket to have abortions performed. Under the statute though, women would have had to pay out of pocket for all types of family-planning services, not just abortion. This article was written by Angela Breslin. written articles about medical issues like cancer and specifically, leukemia. The publisher is through the Golden Gate University which is private, non-profit university. The article was published in 2014, which is right around the time that tax payers and others started to become concerned with government funding towards abortions. This relates to the question above because its showing how some states are already pushing the aspect of a women choice. Ahmed, Aziza. Decision Making And Abortion: Crisis Pregnancy Centers, Informed Consent, And The First Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 43.1 (2015): 51-58. This article, written by Aziza Ahmed, talks about how lawmakers and judges set up false abortion clinics to misinform women about abortions and try to prevent them from having abortions performed. These fake abortion clinics are known as Crisis Pregnancy Centers (CPC). There are about 1,800 abortion clinics in the United States and anywhere between 2,500 to 4,000 The receive their funding from the federal government with funding from the Community Based Advocacy Education and Title V. are also receiving funding to operate by selling license plates in several states. While the fake abortion clinics are becoming bigger and more popular, more and more abortion clinics are closing. The ones that stay open though, they can run if they follow specific rules and guidelines with consent; these consents include trying to prevent women from following through with the abortion. In 2014, states enacted abortion-specific laws requiring any woman who wished to get an abortion had to counseled on the repercussions of the abortion. This article reflects the question by showing what government funding goes towards. They can support fake clinics that misinform women about the procedure instead of going towards abortion clinics that advise women to take the best possible course of action when going through with it. Devi, Sharmila. Groups Target Funding Of Planned Lancet 386 North American Edition.9997 (2015): 941 This article talks about how anti-abortion advocates are fighting against the government providing funds to Planned Parenthood. They claim that community health centers should provide health services to women, as they can help a clear majority of women, while the health centers say theyre too overstretched. What they know is that planned parenthood provides a lot more than just abortions. A great deal of what Planned Parenthood does is provide health services to women who afford it. Only 3% of services provided there are abortions. A group known as the Center of Medical Progress caused a lot of commotion when they accused Planned Parenthood of illegally profiting by selling fetal tissue as well as releasing a video stating that Planned Parenthood was changing abortion procedures to obtain intact fetuses. When Texas stopped funding abortion organizations, abortion statistics dropped. This account for the women who might have gone to different states to have abortions performed. Sharmila Devi is a reporter that has worked for The Lancet, The National and Financial Times. She specializes in current affairs in the US, UK, and Middle East. This article was written in 2015, a time that people really started frowning upon Planned Parenthood, is relevant to the question because it shows what happens in places that fund reproductive health organizations. Women miss out on various health screenings because organizations the provide them at low cost are shutting down due to loss of funding.