Fiallo 1 Joshua Fiallo Professor de Carion ENC1102 29 January 2017 College Athletics: Free College, or Free Labor It has been debated for years, should college athletes be paid for their contributions to the school outside of a free education? What discussed however is the athletes who are putting in hours of work for their team, with no scholarship money in return. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) governs college athletics for the whole country, thus giving them to power regulate how many scholarships schools can provide for players. The National College Players Association (NCPA) believes that restrictions on scholarships leaves too many student athletes without support for numerous things. For the well-being of student athletes, both organizations need to reach a compromise that will allow colleges to grant more scholarships to student athletes, allowing them to focus more on school, and their sport. Established in 1906, the NCAA has served as the governing body of college athletics, and has represented pursuit of excellence in both academics and (NCAA.com). The mission of the NCAA is always academics first. A big reason the NCAA believes school should come first is because, for the majority of sports, less than 3% of college athletes go pro (gcic.peachtree.edu). Being that a vast majority of athletes sports careers end their senior year of college, the NCAA believes that school should come first so their athletes go on to be successful in the non-sports world. In order for school to come first, best for schools to have limited scholarship money in the opinion of the NCAA. This provides incentive to work hard and receive an academic scholarship, opposed to their sport being the main focus. Fiallo 2 Another organization that holds a stake in college athletes is the NCPA. Like the NCAA, the National College Players Association wants the best for student athletes, but feels that there is more that the NCAA can do to aid. Ran by ex-college athletes, one of the main goals of the organization is to raise the scholarship amount schools are allowed to allocate to their athletes (ncpanow.org). College athletes put in hours of hard work for their athletic programs, in some cases enough hours to be equivalent to working a full time job. For the work they put in, the NCPA believes that they should have the opportunity to receive more than just a free education, and that schools should be allowed to give out more scholarships if they wish to. According to an article published in the Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal, NCAA and its member institutions reportedly earn upwards of $11 billion per (Jorgensen, 3). With numbers like that, the NCPA is puzzled as to why schools cannot give out scholarships to more athletes if the money is there. Hundreds of thousands of nation-wide play college sports without being on full scholarship. An excerpt from the Chronicle of Higher Education states that than 200 of NC 558 athletes last year had 20 percent or less of their costs covered by athletic aid. Outside of football, basketball, and the four other sports that can award full athletic scholarships, just 27 Wolfpack athletes were on a full (Wolverton). This article showed that players for sports who bring in less revenue for the school receive less scholarship money, and are left paying for their own schooling. The website mentions this issue, and discusses how athletes from these sports are historically less successful academically. This is a direct cause of their money situation, as these athletes have to both work a job to pay for school, as well as be a full time athlete for their team. (Jorgensen, 2) Fiallo 3 The NCAA however believes that by allowing for schools to allocate more scholarship money to their athletes, it would make the top athletic programs even more dominant, creating monopolies, and ultimately defeating what college athletics is all about. According to NCAA member Richard Worsnop, 70 percent of major college programs now lose money, many of them operating deeply in the (Worsnop, 1). This means that only athletes at 30 percent of the schools nation-wide will likely be receiving extra money for scholarships if the NCAA were to remove the limit on the amount of scholarships allowed per sport, doing more harm than good. Though the NCAA would never submit to all of the rule-changes requested by the NCPA, a small compromise in regards to scholarship money is feasible. Given that just ten percent of athletic revenues for schools goes to scholarships (Gaines, 1). A new rule by the NCAA that would increase this number to 20 percent, taking the new 10 percent from TV revenues that go straight to the NCAA, would double the amount of full scholarships schools could give. By giving more money to the student athletes, the students are more likely to succeed academically as they now can focus more on school, and less on finding other ways to make money. The change is minor, and comes from TV revenues, meaning that Universities who are struggling to make money off of their athletic programs would not be affected negatively. This would allow for smaller athletic programs to make a larger imprint on the market of college, helping grow the market even more, increasing the revenue over time, all while helping out their student athletes even more. In conclusion, despite having conflicting views, the NCAA, and NCPA both want student athletes to succeed. By coming together in compromise, more student athletes will be able to focus on their schoolwork, and sport without a financial burden. In slightly raising the amount of Fiallo 4 scholarships that are allowed to be given out by Universities, the tradition of amateurism is still upheld by the NCAA, while also aiding thousands of student athletes nation-wide. Fiallo 5 Works Cited Official Site of the NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/. Career Information Georgia Career Information Center, www.gcic.peachnet.edu/. About NCPA National College Players Association, www.ncpanow.org/about. Jorgensen, Amber. Why Collegiate Athletes could have the NCAA singing a different  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 33.2 (2015): 367-420. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wolverton, Brad. The Myth of the Sports  Chronicle of Higher Education 25 Nov. 2016: A12. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gaines, Cork. Shows How Little of College Sports Revenues Goes to The Business Insider, Business Insider, 24 Sept. 2014, www.businessinsider.com/college- sports-revenue-athlete-scholarships-2014-9. Worsnop, Richard. College Sports: Will Reform Efforts Help Or Hurt Student  CQ Researcher 4.32 (1994): 745. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.