Cabreros !1 Eldin Cabreros Alison Misler ENC 1102 February 14, 2016 Controversy among Physician Assisted Suicide Physician-assisted suicide gives patients the opportunity to choose how and when they will pass instead of suffering naturally from their intolerable situation. Dead with Dignity and Patients Rights Council are two groups that were developed in regards to the legalization of physician-assisted suicide. Both groups have set missions and goals that revolve around patients who are experiencing a crisis between life and death as well as medical institutions providing end-of-life care. Its legality is impeded in Florida from the values of religion, conservatism and authoritarianism that such American society is set in. Those debating its legality discusses the bias that occurs with whom the primary decision belongs to, the patient or the physician, when deciding whether or not an artificial death is fit. Some discuss the financial incentives that physicians receive when providing end-of-life care (Huntoon). To prioritize the importance of patients, health care professionals and less on cultural values, these groups should collaborate in proposing a compromise that incorporates not just their personal beliefs. If Dead with Dignity and the Patients Rights Council were to join together to create one organization and work with the local government of Florida, their missions will have a larger impact on its audience. It will cause people to be more aware of the freedom of choice in regards to health care, therefore embodying the decision of the patient. Cabreros !2 Physician-assisted suicide is defined as voluntarily terminating a patients life through the administration of a lethal substance with the assistance of a physician (MedicineNet). Such definition addresses the various ways a patient can face an artificial death, which often reveals the controversy with the practice. The Patients Rights Council is an organization that opposes the the legality of physician-assisted suicide, desiring compassionate treatment to those who are most vulnerable. Their mission statement includes having right to know all the facts about the critical issues of life, death and assisted (Patients Rights Council). Furthermore, they desire to inform their audience on issues relating to euthanasia, advance directives, disability rights and pain control. Placing importance on administering such great deal of information divides their mission statement in to in to two responsibilities: to inform and to provide. The Patients Rights Council achieves their mission statement by dividing it in to responsibilities of informing and providing. The responsibility of informing includes offering the public with factual information about assisted suicide while the responsibility of providing requires them to provide understanding and practical support to those facing critical situations (Patients Rights Council). They offer the public with factual information by giving them access to news documents, documents and other sources relating to end-of-life issues which often the public do not have access to. They provide support through strong networks with individuals and organizations that display concern over the dangers of physician assisted suicide (Patients Rights Council). The groups opposition to the legality of physician-assisted suicide and its dangers is derived from the idea that individual physicians are deciding rather than the patient. The physicians decision is then ultimately dictated by his or her ethnicity, culture, religion and Cabreros !3 personal experience (Curlin, et al. 118) Although the group is in opposition towards some aspects of physician-assisted suicide another group supports it. Dead with Dignity is a group that supports physician-assisted suicide as an end-of-life treatment. They define their mission statement by defending the Oregon Death with Dignity Act that allow terminally-ill residents to request and receive a prescription medication so that they can die in a peaceful, humane (Dead with Dignity). Such statement further expands their support of physician-assisted suicide through the administration of a lethal substance. Dead with Dignity is a nonprofit organization that provides drafts for Dead with Dignity laws in accordance to Oregon model and advocates it legislation in states that lacks them like Florida. Despite their support of physician-assisted suicide the group still believes that greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our desires and (Dead with Dignity). They achieve their mission statement and such core belief by dividing it in to two responsibilities: to expand and to provide. The responsibilities of expanding and providing are the steps that Dead with Dignity take achieve their mission statement. They desire to expand the freedom of terminally ill patients to make their own decisions about end-of-life treatment as well as to provide education and support about Death with Dignity as an end-of-life option to patients, family members, legislators and (Death with Dignity). In addition to their responsibilities, their primary focus as a physician-assisted suicide advocate is to organize community leaders and offer them with a political structure that processes controversial legislation. Their motive of supporting physician-assisted suicide is revealed through the personal stories that they incorporate in their movement. Many of the stories share the personal experience of ending Cabreros !4 unbearable suffering and the importance of patient-decision (Dead with Dignity). The advocacy of many groups like Dead with Dignity towards physician-assisted suicide is derived from the idea that it some citizens with the prospect of being trapped in the agony or indignity from which they could be delivered by a death they (Kamisar). Despite the difference in core beliefs, as one supports and the other opposes physician- assisted suicide, the similarities within each organization can spark a compromise. Dead with Dignity desires to inform and provide support just as the Patients Rights Councils desires to inform and provide support. Their priorities are different in which Dead with Dignity organizes to propose legislation in support of physician-assisted suicide in states lacking such law, like Florida, while the Patients Rights Council prioritizes on educating the public of the unfair treatment that physician-assisted suicide can cause. In addition to the similarity in responsibilities, both groups share the common ground of letting patients decide and make their own end-of-life option. A compromise that would highlight their similarities would be for Dead with Dignity to join together with the Patients Right Council and create a larger organization that works with the local government within the state of Florida. The compromise would be suitable in Florida because other groups have already attempted it and had a successful collaboration. The compromise organized in Florida consisted of a service arrangement whereby public agencies would come together and money, staff, and the use of a facility to provide a local government (Lee and Hannah-Spurlock 15). The public agencies in this case would be Dead with Dignity and the Patients Right Council. The service their organization would provide would be an informational presentation to terminally ill patients held by supporters and those who oppose physician-assisted suicide Cabreros !5 without acknowledging their positions, ensuring that patients receives facts from both sides. Before letting the patient decide whether or not such end-of-life treatment is suitable for them, they would be required to go through a mental screening to ensure that they are mentally stable to make decisions. The managers who followed such process of service arrangement allowed them to go forward and establish collaborative agreements (Lee and Hannah-Spurlock 17). In a state where Dead with Dignity laws are not in legislation, such compromise in Florida would be suitable as it would ensure that the patient is making the primary decision, not the health care provider, when receiving end-of-life treatment. A collaboration between Death with Dignity and the Patients Rights Council is possible for they share underlying goals and responsibilities. They both have opposing views on physician-assisted suicide; the Patients Rights Council fear that it causes an unfair treatment by the physician while Dead with Dignity believes that it can end unbearable suffering. Despite such difference, they share a common ground of educating the public with factual information about end-of-life treatment and a belief that the decision of receiving it should be the patient, not the health care provider. Such commonality allow the establishment of a larger organization that works with local government of Florida, providing a service that offers the public and patients with information about physician-assisted suicide and ensuring that the primary decision is by the patient not the health care provider. The values that Dead with Dignity and the Patients Rights Council respect should reveal the importance of the patient, the one receiving care and the one that should be deciding on their wellbeing. Cabreros !6 Works Cited the Patients Right Council. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017 Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017. Curlin, Farr A., et al. To Die, To Sleep: US Religious And Other Objections To Physician-Assisted Suicide, Terminal Sedation, And Withdrawal Of Life  American Journal Of Hospice & Palliative Medicine 25.2 (2008): 112-120. PsycINFO. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Patients Right Council. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017. Huntoon, Lawrence R. Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: The Destruction Of Morals, Ethics, And  Journal Of American Physicians And Surgeons 4 (2016): 98. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 January 2017. Kamisar, Yale. The Reasons So Many People Support Physician-Assisted Suicide--And Why These Reasons Are  Issues In Law & Medicine 12.2 (1996): 113. Business Source Premier. Web. 12, February 2017. Lee, Robert, and Sarah Hannah-Spurlock. Bridging Interests On Local Government Collaboration: Florida Managers Share Their  Public Management 7 (2015): 14. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Definition of Physician-Assisted MedicineNet 24, January 2017 N.d. 13, February 2017. Dead With Diginity. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017.