Aboderin 1 Cherelle B. Aboderin Professor Robert Ryan English Composition II 23 January 2017 Finding Common Ground: Embryonic Stem Cell Research in America The ethical debate concerning the use of embryos for scientific research has been going on for over a decade. This is because, in order for their stem cells to be obtained, the embryos must first be destroyed. Those who oppose embryonic stem cell research do so because they believe it is morally wrong to take lives in order to save lives. However, researchers are adamant about the continued use of these embryos because it was discovered that embryonic stem cells are pluripotent. This means that, as they have not yet differentiated and become specific types of cell, they can be manipulated in order to grow any type of tissue. As embryos grow into zygotes and then fetuses these stem cells differentiate into other cell types and, thus, are no longer pluripotent. There are many stakeholders involved when it comes to embryonic stem cell research. Some, like Susan B. Anthony List, continue to oppose it despite the medical advances made as a result of studying embryonic stem cells. Others, like the Americans for Cures Foundation, believe that the gain is far too great for the research to be abandoned. In order for either of these two stakeholders to move closer to achieving their goals, they must agree on a compromise based on a shared common ground: the desire to save lives. Susan B. Anthony List is a pro-life organization centered on the prevention of the termination of embryos and fetuses. According to its mission statement, SBA List wishes to promote people in power with pro-life beliefs while also educating voters and advocating the creation of new laws supporting their cause. To achieve its goal, practices such as abortion and the use of embryos for scientific research would need to be prohibited. At the very least, Aboderin 2 SBA List wishes to raise awareness for its cause so that the general public can be more informed on pro-life matters. Angeliki Kerasidou, a researcher in Global Health Ethics, wrote that people against human embryonic stem cell research believe that all life, from the point of conception onward, has moral worth (Kerasidou 167). This ties in with the beliefs of SBA List that embryos have the same rights as fully developed human beings and should be treated accordingly. More so, the use of only discarded in-vitro fertilization embryos will not solve the issue because there is no resulting overall reduction in the number of embryos destroyed to further scientific studies (Kerasidou 168). This is why SBA List wishes to put an end to all forms of embryonic stem cell research; it believes that there is no way to make the use, and resulting destruction, of any embryo morally right. In order to ensure that it achieves its goal of a pro-life-centered nation, SBA List often supports politicians and other public figures who have shown their support for the same causes as those of SBA List. The Americans for Cures Foundation is an organization which promotes the use of stem cell research and therapy development. It believe that these two, hand-in-hand, could help scientists find the cures to many chronic illnesses and injuries. This organization strongly encourages the use of stem cells, as it believes that the possible resulting discoveries would result in massive steps forward in medical science. According to Promise of Stem an article from the Nature Neuroscience journal, embryonic stem cells can be differentiated into neurons, cells of the nervous system, in order to treat patients suffering from disease in a process called cell replacement therapy Promise of Stem This process is not perfect and will require years of further research in order to improve. Cell replacement therapy is just one of the many uses of embryonic stem cells and the information gathered from studying them. The stem cells have also been used to grow organs for patients who are in need of transplants but do not have the luxury of waiting for a donor to become available. This proven usefulness is why Americans for Cures supports the Aboderin 3 continued study of embryonic stem cells. It believes that, through the study of these cells and their pluripotent capabilities, many of the illnesses that cut life short or interfere with it can be eliminated. However, there is no way of knowing with certainty until further research is carried out. While both SBA List and Americans for Cures have drastically different methods, they share a common goal, and that is the preservation of human lives. SBA List sets out to save embryos that have not begun their lives yet while Americans for Cures focus on people whose lives have been interrupted and/or cut short by diseases. In a book written by Future Search Network co-directors, Marvin Ross Weisbord and Sandra Janoff, Future Search : An Action Guide To Finding Common Ground In Organizations And Communities, it is said that, the discovery and use of common agendas and shared ideals rather than the replaying of old interactions [makes ready, willing and able to do now [what they could not and Janoff XII). This means that common goals, such as the one shared by SBA List and Americans for Cures, encourage groups that are not like-minded to work together and improve their overall potential. Thus, a compromise, on the basis of this common ground, will give SBA List and Americans for Cures a chance to collaborate and improve their methods of achieving their aims. In order for a compromise to work, both Americans for Cures and Susan B. Anthony List must understand why the other has taken its stance on the issue of embryonic stem cells and must be willing to consider the issue from the point of view. A possible compromise would be equal numbers of representatives from each organization meeting, on a monthly basis, and conversing about their respective issues with one another in a neutral environment. This will provide the opportunity for ideas to be shared and agreements to be reached. Perhaps this may highlight even more similarities between the two groups. This joint body can then work together to raise the awareness of the public about what they both believe Aboderin 4 in. For example, the stakeholders could collaborate on a tour of universities all over America. They can educate people on the importance of the preservation of lives. This way, both organizations are able to promote the cause at the foundation of their different beliefs and goals. While they might have been able to do this separately, working together will show people that their common goal is important enough to warrant the cooperation of two contrasting organizations. As with any compromise, there are gains and losses to be had by both Americans for Cures and SBA List. Although it may seem minimal, being willing to give in and listen to an opposing party could be difficult for both stakeholders because of how strongly they believe in their causes. The cooperation of one organization in this situation will encourage the other act accordingly. By collaborating, they can pool resources and, thus, be able to afford, orchestrate and execute a campaign that will help each organization move one step closer to achieving its goals. The profits made from fundraising events and ventures can then be split equally between SBA List and Americans for Cures. Although each group may be unwilling to help the other, they will need to realize that, by helping the other group, they are helping themselves. In conclusion, a compromise cannot be found without establishing a common ground between the opposing parties. When faced with two stakeholders as seemingly contrasting as Susan B. Anthony List and Americans for Cures, the key is to help them acknowledge that they are not as different as they initially thought. They need to believe that they are, to some extent, on the same side of their shared issue. This will let them see the bigger picture outside of their unwavering beliefs; how their issues can be resolved and their missions can be accomplished through symbiosis. Joining forces will ensure that the limited resources of these stakeholders will be put less towards trying to surpass one another and more towards saving lives, which is what they have both set out to do. Aboderin 5 Works Cited Americans for Cures. Americans for Cures Foundation, 2016, http://americansforcures.org/. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017 Kerasidou, Angeliki. Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research: Middle-Ground Positions And Moral  Studies In History & Philosophy Of Biological & Biomedical Sciences, 2016, pp. 167-169. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Susan B. Anthony List Advancing Pro-Life Leadership. Susan B. Anthony List, 2017, www.sba-list.org. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017. The promise of stem  Nature Neuroscience Oct. 2004: 1013. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Weisbord, Marvin R., and Janoff, Sandra. Future Search : An Action Guide To Finding Common Ground In Organizations And Communities. San Francisco, CA : Berrett- Koehler, 1995, University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.