Francisco 1 David Francisco Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Immigration Controversy In 2006, there was an 10.5 to 11 million unauthorized immigrants residing in the United (Lemay 1). With this many people entering the United States the question of why should there be control on immigration, comes up. Some organizations form to protect their idea on the topic. Two examples of organizations who have different views are Undocumedia and Americans for Immigration Control (AIC). While these two organizations have views that oppose one another it is possible to suggest a compromise to have both of their ideas. Undocumedia is an organization that was founded by Justino Mora, who is an immigrant rights activist, entrepreneur, and self-taught programmer. The mission is to help with the rights of undocumented immigrants by petitioning for acts to be established. Before Undocumedia became a group, they relentlessly with other leaders and organizations to help pass the CA Dream Act and pressure the Obama Administration to grant Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Ivan Ceja). The Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) act is an American legislative proposal for undocumented immigrants in the United States that would first grant conditional residency and upon meeting further qualifications, permanent residency. Then the DACA which certain illegal immigrants to the United States who entered the country as minors to receive a renewable two-year period of deferred action from deportation and eligibility for a work permit. Many organizations just like Undocumedia believe that immigrants should have the same rights as citizens and can work in the country. Ramanujan Nadadur, an author from Oxford University, agrees with the effects of Francisco 2 illegal immigration by stating, low-wage undocumented workers immigrate to the U.S. to fill the secondary labor market, products and services become cheaper because illegal immigrants work for lower wages, thus providing a kind of subsidy to American (9). While Undocumedia state this as an excuse with Nadadur they both believe having immigrants in the U.S. going to hurt the economy nor create any issues. Nadadur continues giving information on the benefits of allowing immigrants as they help boost the U.S. labor market. This removes the theory as many believe immigrants steal jobs and accept to be paid the minimum wage. While the second part may be true the fact that unskillful workers often take jobs, most Americans do. This is a point that Nadadur states to counter those who believe their jobs are being taken. Unfortunately, the opposing side could say the same, meaning both sides have vailed points in their ideas. The AIC has a lot to say about the situation but go against them entirely. The AIC is a foundation that raises public awareness about immigration control. Some of their publications and arguments assist in establishing laws designed to control the flow of immigration. They prevent immigration but just help maintain the flow preventing chaotic problems. While other organizations view this as a discrimination due to what they do they believe they are many different ethnic groups and backgrounds, AIC Foundation supporters have a deep commitment to preserving our common heritage as Americans, and to help inform American citizens on the disastrous effects of uncontrolled (AIC). Valsamis Mitsilegas, who is the head of the department of law and professor of European criminal law, argues that, securitization of immigration control in a global context is evident in the first major multilateral convention aiming to develop global legal norms to counter the threat of transnational organized (Mitsilegas 4). Basically, stating control helps the US to Francisco 3 prevent any terrorist threats. This has been the issue since the event on September 11, 2001 which gave America the need to enforce strict laws to prevent the catastrophe from occurring. Thus, criminalization on illegal immigrants was created and somehow allowed the distribution of drugs to decrease. Both sides cannot come to an agreement therefore creating a compromise requires both ideas. The ideas of both sides have different issues that they cover such as the AIC focuses on the economy factor of the United States. While the Undocumedia concentrates on the equal rights of people who enter the US giving them shelter and an opportunity to have freedom where in their own country it is prohibited. But, a common ground both organizations have is both discourage immigration and know it is morally wrong to mandate a law to ban any entrance to the US, or majority. They both want to allow immigrants to have a place to be free while having citizens safe from terrorism and crimes. While this may seem impossible since in the year 2017 it is a controversial topic that been resolved for a long time the compromise created may give a suggestion on what can be done with the border of the United States. With the common ground, it is possible to have an economic growth and still have immigrants enter the US with rights like citizens. The plan is to re-evaluate the current policies for immigrants working in the US. It is evident that the reason Undocumedia feels that immigrants given the same treatment as citizens is from Ana Avendano and Victoria Bruce who both wrote their solution on the situation suggesting that, for improved workplace standards, by maintaining and improving wages and working conditions in the United (1). Some flaws that can come from this include those who are disabled or are not able to work which causes a disruption with the economy. So, an idea to give the AIC a part of their ideas is to mandate a Visa or a temporary passport that allows foreigners to enter even if they are Francisco 4 minors. The only was to be deported or sent back to their home country was if they committed something unconstitutional or against the federal or state law. Every person is given a specific time but can gain more time by working under the labor market or help in their community. Now that both the Undocumedia and the AIC have their ideas mixed in a compromise they can work together to make an organization that sustains a flow of who enters while giving right to those who are eligible to enter. Overall, Undocumedia and the AIC have different goals. With the discrimination occurring over the years it is not a surprise the organizations like Undocumedia want the right for illegal immigrants, but with the rights and access like citizens more will be influenced to enter the US which causes an unstable increase of people in the US. There may not be enough resources to help all the new incoming people. So, AIC grew into an organization that helps raise awareness of an unstable economy. With both having a valid view, a compromise that has both of their ideas may prove to be a difficult setup. Some suggestions to a future solution would be to have right for the working immigrants but to have only those who assist with the economy of the US, but the few flaws prevent from this happening. In a simple term having both, the US and the immigrants, a safe procedure. Ever since the threats of terrorism and illegal smuggling finding a solution is a troublesome experience as many viewpoints can arise from the immigration controversy. Francisco 5 Works Cited Avendano, Ana and Bruce, Victoria. Labor Solution to Illegal Social Policy Spring2009, Vol. 39 Issue 1, (2009), p17-19, 3p. Mitsilegas, Valsamis. Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, and Strengthening the Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies, Vol. 19, No. 1 (2012), pp. 3-60. Mora, Justino. http://www.undocumedia.org DA: Jan. 28 2017. Nadadur, Ramanujan. Immigration: A Positive Economic Contribution to the United Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies Vol. 35, No. 6, (2009), pp. 1037-1052. Vinson, John. AIC http://www.aicfoundation.com/about-us DA: Jan 27 2017.