Physician Assisted Suicide 1 Physician Assisted Suicide Maria A. Chancafe University of South Florida Physician Assisted Suicide 2 Physician Assisted Suicide Physician assisted suicide is one of the most controversial topics to be consulted in the medical field. This is due to the many different viewpoints on what physicians should do in terminally ill cases. The first legal practice of physician assisted suicide began in 1998 in the United States (Josefson). Even in this case, the act was only able to be done with the small margin that approved the Death with Dignity Act. This act is a fairly lengthy process in which a patient must first be above 18 years of age and a resident of a state that allows for the Death with Dignity Act. Then the patient must find a doctor in the practicing state, the patient must also have a terminal illness with less than 6 months to live. This is only the basic criteria for a patient being eligible for physician assisted suicide. Once a patient passes these initial criteria they must then make two oral requests to partake in the practice being 15 days apart. Then the patient must make a written request to their physician and another physician is then brought to consult on the case. Once these two physicians agree on the prognosis, with the possibility of a psychologist or psychiatrist being brought in on the case (Johnson). The process to get approved for the act of physician assisted suicide can take a long period of time depending on the individual patient themselves and the length can change from patient to patient. The key to allowing Death with Dignity and Not Dead Yet is to exist with peace is to have stricter rules that allow for patients to still participate is they would like yet still make certain that there is no harm to a patient that still has a chance of living. One major viewpoint that we see in the debate of physician assisted suicide is from the organization called Death with Dignity. Death with dignity is an organization that advocates for patients and their Typically, patients and their want to be able to have this right to decide what they do with their own bodies and to end their suffering on their own terms Physician Assisted Suicide 3 rather than losing control of their entire bodies. Not only do the patients receive comfort in having their own choice. Even though it is always hard for a family member or friend to lose someone close, families and friends can also receive comfort in knowing that the patient did not die in vain and they were able to make their own decision on when they were ready to die and save themselves from seeing the pain and torture the patient will face in the following months. Another viewpoint that we see a lot when it comes to the practicing and legality of physician assisted suicide is the viewpoint of the organization called Not Dead Yet. It is never easy for a physician to lose a patient, especially a patient that they have been taking care of for an extensive amount of time, which is typically the case when coming to these terminally ill patients (Van Delden). In most cases the family is left in utter distress and morning due to the loses and some families even feel relieved that they do not have to worry about dealing with the disability. Not Dead Yet speaks for the patients and families in a way that brings concern to physicians underestimating life span, possible coercion, and discrimination. Not Dead Yet explores how a health status can determine whether the physician will go the extra amount to push them to get better or simply side with the easier option- physician assisted suicide. A valid point that is constantly brought up on how can a person simply judge the capacity of another life and if this should be allowed. The morality between the entire process of physician assisted suicide can be questioned. This Hippocratic Oath states that a physician will not prescribe a lethal dosage (Hippocratic Oath). Since this is the vow that every health care provider is required to make why should they be prescribing lethal dosages. A person can does not need to die in order to have dignity. Lawmakers also make a very big impact in the legalization of physician assisted suicide across the country. As of today, the United States has four states that are permitted to practice Physician Assisted Suicide 4 physician assisted suicide, and one state that is allowed to practice only if a judge were to say it was allowed (Death With Dignity). Due to the slow growing approval rate it can be determined that lawmakers do not really see physician assisted suicide as a necessity to the medical field and that patients and the country would be better off without it. When a survey was taken to see whether or not people believe that physician assisted suicide was ethical, it was founded that at first it was unethical, but after being informed more people found that the practice should be considered ethical (Frileux, et. Al.). As explained in this paper, physician assisted suicide has many different viewpoints or stakeholders that contribute to the legalization of this practice across the United States. The organization Death With Dignity can compromise with Not Dead Yet by understanding that they are worried about their loved ones in different health statuses and compodenscy of physician care. Not Dead Yet can compromise with Death with Dignity by understanding that even though there is no right time to give up with a disease, there are patients out there that do not wish to lose complete control of their bodies. Overall, a law could be passed that allows for all states to have access to physician assisted suicide practices, if the physician permits it. Yet, this law would have a longer process to make sure that there are absolutely no other options for said patient. For example, instead of six months to live- the law could be changed to three months to live and have three different physicians agree that there is no other course of treatment, instead of two physicians. This would allow for a better judge of a life. Physician Assisted Suicide 5 References Frileux, S., C., Sastre, M., Mullet, E., & Sorum, P. (2003). When Is Physician Assisted Suicide or Euthanasia Acceptable? Journal of Medical Ethics, 29(6), 330-336. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/27719114 Guides: Bioethics: Hippocratic Oath, Modern version. (n.d.). Retrieved January 18, 2017, from http://guides.library.jhu.edu/c.php?g=202502&p=1335759 Home. (n.d.). Retrieved February 8, 2017, from https://www.deathwithdignity.org/ Johnson, B. (2008). Death with Dignity Act.. Encyclopedia of Aging and Public Health,. 256- 257. Retrieved on January 18, 2017. Josefson, D. (1998). US Sees First Legal Case of Physician Assisted Suicide. BMJ: British Medical Journal, 316(7137), 1037-1037. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/25178781 Not Dead Yet. (n.d.). Retrieved February 12, 2017, from http://notdeadyet.org/ Van Delden, J. (1998). BMJ: British Medical Journal, 316(7143), 1543-1543. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/25179261