Austin 1 Hunter Austin Bob Botkin ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Non-Profit Hospitals vs. For-Profit Hospitals Throughout history, people have been getting sick and needing a way to either get rid of a sickness completely, or better deal with that illness. As time went on, more and more people started performing in medical practices. Eventually, these people opened up hospitals for their communities. Hospitals started to be a form of business to make money and these hospitals also started to be a form of charity tending to those in need who can not necessarily support themselves. This is now a conversation amongst many elites: non-profit hospitals or for-profit hospitals. This analysis will be on the two opposing views, the for-profit hospitals wanting to make money from their service and the non-profit hospitals wanting to help more charitable cases, and how these two types of hospitals will come to a compromise. That compromise can be that each type of hospital can agree to do certain tasks just like the others, like giving cheaper healthcare, giving quality care, and use the profits to better the hospital organizations. First, the views of the for-profit hospitals are based around care and making a profit for the care that they give. To start out with, the chairman of Hospital Corporations of America stated their mission right on the website, which says, HCA, we believe delivering a quality patient experience is central to fulfilling our mission of care and improvement of human (hcahealthcare.com). This simple phrase tells anybody reading this site that the hospitals which are a part of this organization are there for the people and to provide the best possible care. More views that the HCA, or other similar for-profit hospital organizations, hold are the idea that their Austin 2 doctors are payed more. According to Francesca Barigozzi and Nadia Burani, average wages in non-profit firms relative to for-profits have been (358). The for-profit hospitals also strive to have all of their bills paid, whether that be slowly, or quickly. This means that charity cases are not accepted. According to an article by Sean D. Hamill, 9 out of 33 of the for-profit hospitals in Tennessee do not accept any of the charity cases that come through their doors (usnews.com). Since these for-profit hospitals are in the business to make money, they have to pay taxes as well. The presidents of the Florida division of the HCA wrote to Governor Rick Scott about their taxes. They mentioned that they had to pay million in provider and they also paid million in income taxes, real estate taxes, other taxes and licensure fees in (1). This simply shows the immense amount of taxes the for-profit hospitals have to pay to make their profit. All in all, for-profit hospitals, like the HCA, are in the business to make their money and provide care for those in need. The care is more expensive than that of a nonprofit, but the care is still their purpose. On the other end of the spectrum, there are non-profit hospitals. There are more non- profit hospitals than there are for-profit hospitals along with differing circumstances for the non- profit hospitals as well (Barigozzi and Burani 358). What are these differing circumstances? Well, for starters, one of those circumstances are not having to pay taxes. Since these hospitals have communal benefits, the IRS believes they should be exempt from these taxes, which are equivalent about $24.6 billion dollars (Rosenbaum et al.). This tax exemption is how the nonprofit hospitals can care for so many patients at little to no cost, which only helps the cause of healing those in need. A specific organization that does this is St. Hospital for children. This organization believes that you give the brightest minds the resources to do something those minds can give (stjudes.org). This organization not only Austin 3 serves to make people well, but they are working towards finding those cures that have not yet been found (stjude.org). That is what they are passionate about, just like HCA is passionate about giving a healthcare (hcahealthcare.com). The difference between the two is that St. does this without giving a bill to those families who afford it (stjude.org). With this form of charity, the doctors do get paid less than those that are a part of a for-profit organization (Barigozzi and Burani 1). Another thing that the non-profit organizations are known for is non-profit firms provide higher quality than their for-profit counterparts (Barigozzi and Burani 1). Even though non-profit hospitals are more in it for the giving back to the community aspect, there are still things that them and the for-profit hospitals could come to a compromise on. These two hospitals, for-profit and non-profit, are different in some ways that might not be able to be compromised on, but there are differences that can be compromised on. For instance, the quality of care can be improved upon in the for-profit hospitals. According to Barigozzi and Burani, status serves as a commitment device to provide softer which is saying that the non-profit hospitals give a better quality for their cheaper price (1). These non-profit hospitals strive to give the better quality and the for-profit hospitals should be more focused on this. There are countless accounts where the workers themselves believe that their former for-profit employer, HCA to be specific, only care about making money and not how the patients are treated (allnurses.com). On the other hand, the non-profit hospitals could probably make a compromise in the aspect of seeing their patients with a quicker pace. When a patient is diagnosed, they might need care faster than they can receive it. So, the profit are seen a for patients who seek rapid health (Andritsos and Alfaki, 1812). This compromise would be better for the overall mission, to care Austin 4 for all of their patients. Another compromise the non-profit hospitals could make is to give back their profits that they make. According to USNews, profit was the nonprofit Gundersen Lutheran Medical Center in La Crosse, Wisconsin, which generated a profit of $302.5 million from patient care This amount of money is an ample amount of money that a non- profit hospital should not be making. Instead of using this to line the pockets of their workers, maybe the non-profit hospitals could put this profit to good use. The hospitals could put it to research, put it back into the remodeling of the hospital, or even donate it to another non-profit hospital that is struggling. This is a compromise that definitely should be made. Even though there could be more compromises made, these are the most viable options for both kinds of hospitals. With all of the evidence provided, the stakeholders have one common goal that they can compromise on. That compromise is that they both are working towards providing the best possible health care for their patients. For-profit and non-profit achieve this goal in different ways. One does so by making money off of the business and the other achieves this goal by providing for charitable cases each and every day. Overall, the two stakeholders can definitely come to a compromise and they both can exist at the same time. Austin 5 Works Cited Andritsos, Dimitrios A, and Sam Aflaki. and the Operational Performance of Hospitals: The Role of Hospital Production and Operations Management, vol. 24, no. 11, Nov. 2015, pp. doi:10.1111. At2726. Wrong With HCA All Nurses, Nurse Nature, 23 May 2007, allnurses.com/kansas-nursing/whats-wrong-with-225996.html. Barigozzi, Francesca, and Nadia Burani. and Screening with Motivated Health Journal of Health Economics, vol. 50, Dec. 2016, pp. 358 371. Science Direct, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167629616300303. Hamill, Sean D. Hospitals Provide Less Charity Gale Business Insights:Essentials, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 2016, bi.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/essentials/article/GALE%7CA462417172/ e36edd25c46e5f4516539f984d74fe?u=tamp44898. Hcahealthcare, HCA Management Services, 2017, hcahealthcare.com. Joseph, Michael, et al. Corporation of Health and Hospital Commission, HCA, 5 May 2015, www.healthandhospitalcommission.com/docs/051815GovernorScottLtr.pdf. Risen, Tom. Nonprofit Hospitals Generate the Most U.S.News, U.S.News, 2 May 2016, www.usnews.com/news/articles/2016-05-02/study-nonprofit-hospitals generate-the-most-profit. Austin 6 Rosenbaum, Sare, et al. Value of the Nonprofit Hospital Tax Exemption was $24.6 Billion in ProQuest, The People to People Health Foundation Inc., July 2015,search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/docview/1695969943?accountid Jude Research St. Jude Research Hospital,www.stjude.org/. Jude Research St. Jude Research Hospital, www.stjude.org/.