Should marijuana be legalized and taxed to help improve the United States economy? With the state of economy being one of the biggest problems in modern society, we look towards taxation to better elevate this economic struggle. There has been a relatively new form of taxation and that is in the form of legal, recreational marijuana in Colorado. The tax revenue from marijuana has been given to the state and schools with minimal crime attached to recreational marijuana. I believe that the taxation of legal recreational marijuana could help the U.S economy in this time of poverty for America. Hill, Kevin P. Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed. Center City, MN: Hazelden, 2015. Print. This book was created by author Kevin Hill, leading clinical expert on marijuana. The pros and cons of marijuana are gone over with scientific facts and no biases. He goes over different myths about marijuana. This will help in my paper to prove why it is a good idea to legalize it for recreation. This would also give me some arguing points for the opposite side. In the book, it discusses some clinical benefits to the drug and how it could help people. The book also talks about the ability to abuse the drug and why people might not want to try it. He uses medical statistics to validate and justify his facts. He also looks at different films like to find myths and why people might think that the myth is true. The people expected to read this are those in the medical field or those who are curious on the effects of certain drugs. The author is credible because he is a clinical expert and studies the drug thoroughly. This book was published in 2015 in a time where marijuana laws were starting to show some leniency. Mohebbi, Nima H., Sam Greenberg, and Ian S. Speir. Crafting a Constitutional Marijuana  N.p., 19 Nov. 2013. Web. This is an abstract written to develop a very functional and constitutional tax on marijuana. They state that the distribution of marijuana is still government issued and so they can tax it and benefit from the tax. It uses a lot of facts about marijuana and how it could help the economy with taxation. It goes over the history of marijuana legalization efforts. It briefly goes over some of the aspects I want to go more in depth about in my argument, like the legalization of marijuana and the ways it can be taxed. The authors claim that recreational marijuana usage is a good thing and that with taxation it could help the government, they even state might enjoy a substantial rise in revenues from marijuana excise The majority of this abstract however is about how they can tax marijuana in a reasonable way and also help the economy. The people expected to read this are most likely those who are interested in the legalization of marijuana or those who want to also legalize recreational marijuana. The authors who wrote this however, have much credibility but the do source a lot of their information from other credible sources like the Huffington Post. This abstract was made in 2013, which is very recent and it also around the start of legalization of recreational marijuana. Caulkins, Jonathan P., Angela Hawkin, Beau Kilmer, and Mark A.R. Kleiman. Marijuana  Google Books. Oxford University Press, 2012. Print. This book is about the legalization of marijuana and what that would mean. It talks about the effects legal recreation marijuana would have on society. It explores the potential problems of marijuana like drug trafficking as well. Just like Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed, this book talks briefly about the medical purpose of marijuana while also stating the benefits and the side effects of the drug. Also like Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed, this book is unbiased even stating Everyone Needs to Know will provide readers with a non-partisan primer about the This book will mostly help me in my argument to find out the current laws and the effects the legalization of marijuana will have on society. It may also offer arguing points on which marijuana could have a negative effect on society and force me to argue against it. The potential audience for this book are those who are interested in the laws pertaining to marijuana or those who might have the same argument as I do. The authors hope to educate the reader about the laws and the effects of legal, recreational, marijuana usage. The authors all that reliable however the publisher is. Oxford University Press is a very reliable, educational publisher. This was also published recently in the height of marijuana legalization. National Institute on Drug Abuse. Marijuana Abuse. Bethesda, Md: National Institute on Drug Abuse, 2005. Print. This is an article about the effects of marijuana and how it negatively effects. This article even talks about the addictive effects of marijuana usage with the title of it being It goes over the basics of marijuana, the street names of it like or It goes over the ways it is traditionally smoked and the ways it effects your body. They talk about statistics on the usage of the drug. This article will give me something to argue against and it will also give me more scientific effects of marijuana. This article claims that marijuana is addictive and can have a number of bad side effects. One of the bad side effects it claims is that user of the drug can expect negative results in school like failure and dropping out, however this is correlation and causality meaning there could be a number of reasons for people who flunk to also smoke marijuana. The audience for this article could be those just learning about what marijuana is which means this articles purpose is educational. The source all that reliable because the author and publisher of this article is the National Institute on Drug Abuse. The National Institute on Drug Abuse is notorious for trying to scare people out of every drug even tobacco and alcohol. Even though they have many sources, they are all out dated with the latest being in 2005. In 2005, not even Colorado had legalized recreational marijuana, and everyone was still skeptical of its medical use.