A l a h m a d i 1 Muataz Alahmadi Prof. John Williams ENC1102 14 February 2017 Regulating the Sharing Economy With the evolution of new technologies. Companies are being developed to compete with traditional businesses. Taxis has been one of the most convenient ways to transport since cars has been invented, but as time goes by businesses develop and try to find new ways to beat the competition of other businesses. Which later on led to new business model which is the sharing economy. The sharing economy is an upcoming business model that is taking over the market. The sharing economy is a peer to peer business model that uses the unused resources which makes it cheaper for the customer and makes it more profitable for the worker. A primary example of the sharing economy is Uber. Uber is a smartphone application that is used to request car rides at very cheap prices. Ever since Uber started at 2009 the taxi industry has been struggling to compete. Simply because Uber offers cheaper fares in almost the whole world. Uber and other sharing economy businesses has been controlling the market, which led to protests that later on led to Uber being banned in many countries. Like South Korea, Spain and Israel (Malhotra, 2014). Ironically Uber had some issues following the international transportation regulation which caused the ban in the first place. With the emergence of the sharing economy. Uber has the taxi business, and although Uber has been banned in many cities, other cities like Broward County, Florida have managed to reach a compromise. The compromise is that Uber register all of their drivers in order to get unbanned in Broward County. A l a h m a d i 2 has been one of the most important ways to transport from a destination to another and it still is. Before Uber and other ride sharing companies. Taxis was our only and most convenient way to get a ride even though sometimes you had to call a day before to get a ride to the Airport. Taxi drivers has been struggling ever since the ride sharing applications and companies like Uber, Lyft and much more appeared. According to the Los Angles times since Uber started operating, trips taken in taxis have dropped nearly 30% it also described the situation as really painful. Some have even left to drive for Uber, he said, lured by the popularity and its lower overhead costs, including no vehicle leasing fees. Still, per-mile rate is lower than that of taxis, which have their rates set by city (Nelson, 2015). The yellow cab in Los Angles costs 2.7 dollars per mile and the base fare is 2.85 (Los Angeles Taxi Cab Company) which is way more expensive than Uber, but it has a very strong advantage over Uber during Holidays and crowded celebrations. The advantage is, that is during Holidays or crowded celebrations. Uber fares rate increases, sometimes it doubles and sometimes the fare reaches ten times as much as the original fare. As Uber has only one disadvantage comparing to Taxis. With the evolution of technology Uber filled the void that Taxis had. In other words, as it were with the easy to use application. Uber is filling the needs of the customers. Also fares are really affordable. Uber costs 0.90 dollars per mile and a base fare of zero dollars, with a minimum fare of 5.15 dollars (Dough, 2016). Not only that Uber is cheaper than taxis it is also more convenience for the customer, simply because it has a very easy to use application, which gives Uber a lot of advantages like. The driver knows the costumers location while the customer also knows where the driver is exactly by live GPS through the mobile app. This advantage plus the drivers rating system does not only make Uber more A l a h m a d i 3 convenient it also gives the costumer more of a comfort feeling. Meanwhile instead of calling or looking for a Taxi. Uber costumer use the smartphone application to request a driver at the same moment or schedule a ride for later while giving the customer a fair estimation for the ride. Regardless all the great features Uber has, it also has a lot of issues. Uber does not require a background check it only require a driving record check, which led to a lot of issues including fake rides. According to Huet Ellen and Chen Liyan Drivers have figured out how to scam the system. In one scheme they buy phones that are hacked to have multiple phone numbers, which allows a driver to himself from a passenger account, hop in a car and collect the bonus. Uber has said its fake-ride rate is around 3%, but local media estimate the fraud rate at 30% to 40%. (Huet Ellen and Chen Liyan, 2015) This is not the only issue that Uber is having, Uber having many other issues including consumer fraud as mentioned earlier, unfair competition and deceptive business practices. (Posen, 2015) Both Taxis and Uber are having a lot of issues that are not easily solvable. Taxis are struggling to compete with Uber and their rivals for a share in the market. As was stated earlier in the research, according to the Los Angles times since Uber started operating, trips taken in taxis have dropped nearly 30%. In the other hand Uber is having a lot of issues to including a major issue that Uber as an application is not certified to transport people because it is against the regulations to schedule a driver for third party. But Uber founder Travis Kalanick explained than being a transportation service, Uber is in the business of delivering cars. [Uber delivering a car to you that you, then, can do whatever you want with. Well, the car has a driver as (Posen, 2015). Uber is not following the international transportation regulation which led to Uber being banned in many countries like Netherlands, Thailand, Spain and many other A l a h m a d i 4 countries, it is also banned in many cities in the United States like Las Vegas, Eugene and Panama City (Huet Ellen and Chen Liyan, 2015). Regardless of the issues of the two opposing sides have both sides have a lot of things in common. Uber and Taxis are both driving people around or how both Uber and taxis focus on creating jobs. Regardless both sides are getting hurt from the competition, so coming to a compromise should not be that hard. Actually in Broward County, Florida where Uber was suspended for not following the regulations. The county of Broward suggested a compromise because the demand on Uber was pretty huge. The county of Broward proposed The city proposed compromise gives transportation network companies the option to register their own drivers or vehicles or allow the county to do it, while giving the county authority to audit records to make sure county standards are met, the Sun Sentinel reports (Mendoza, 2015). This compromise might be the way to end both of Uber and Taxis problems. For Uber if the company decided to register their drivers and follow the regulations it is not going to get banned anymore. In the other hand it will benefit the Taxis because if every car is in the system that means that the competition is going to be easier. Simply because there will be less Uber drivers which is going to make the competition fairer for both sides. A l a h m a d i 5 Works Cited Dough. How much does Uber cost? Uber fare  RideSharingDriver. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. HUET, ELLEN, and CHEN LIYAN. World War  Forbes 196.4 (2015): 94-98. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Malhotra, Arvind, and Marshall Van Alstyne. The Dark Side Of The Sharing Economy ... And How To Lighten  Communications Of The ACM 57.11 (2014): 24-27. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Mendoza, Jessica. One Florida county works to find compromise between taxis and Uber (  The Christian Science Monitor. The Christian Science Monitor, 12 Aug. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Nelson, Laura J. Uber and Lyft have devastated taxi industry, city records  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Posen, Hannah A. Ridesharing In The Sharing Economy: Should Regulators Impose Uber Regulations On  Iowa Law Review 101.(2015): 405. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Rates and Services - Los Angeles Taxi Cab  Rates and Services - Los Angeles Taxi Cab Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.