Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 February 2017 Single-sex Education 1 Single-sex education is more than likely found in other countries, such as Australia, Belgium, New Zealand, and even Saudi Arabia. Here in America co-education is more of the norm. Single-sex education is the teaching of only girls or boys in a school setting. Commonly referred to as an or Recently in America, there has been an increasing interest in single-sex schooling. Now, there are currently over 90 single-sex public schools. In addition to that, there are over 400 public schools that offer single-sex classes. Some believe that single-sex schooling is a more effective schooling environment for women. Some may say that an all-girl environment boosts confidence when learning and test taking resulting in better performance and, in the long run, more prestigious jobs. An opposing argument is that single-sex schooling hinders either sex being that, in the adult world, whether it be in a job or even at home, everything is not single-sex and they be well prepared. This paper will look deeper into which side is closer to the truth and what that means for women. It will look to question of how single-sex education affects the success of women in America in contrast to coed education. Patterson, M. M., & Pahlke, E. (2010). Student Characteristics Associated with Success in a Single-sex School. Springer Science+Business Media. This article acknowledges that single-sex schools are relatively rare in the U.S. but there is now an abundance of single-sex public schools in the U.S. and even more public schools that offer single-sex classes. The study examined the utility of certain variables of students for Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 February 2017 Single-sex Education 2 predicting one of three outcomes; perceptions of school connection, academic performance, and persistence. Scholars called for research examining whether the efficacy of single-sex schooling varies as a function of student characteristics. This study tested whether individual differences in socioeconomic status were associated with student success within a single-sex school. Some research shows that the students with egalitarian gender role attitudes should react more positively to single-sex environments than students with traditional gender role attitudes. It studies questions that mainly affect women which is the focus of this paper. The scholars involved in this study studied what may affect the performance of those in single-sex schools beyond just gender to pinpoint other things that may hinder the success of children that attend single-sex schools. Meagan M. Patterson is an associate professor of educational psychology at the University of Kansas. She received her degree in psychology and linguistics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and her MA and PhD in developmental psychology from the University of Texas at Austin. Erin Pahlke graduated from Wellesley College then went on to study psychology at the University of Texas. Jackson, J. (2010). how single-sex schooling reifies false notions of sex, gender, and sexuality. Boston: Taylor & Francis Group. This article brought up the fact that as the amount of single-sex schools grow, something decreasing in other countries. It considers why other countries who are accustomed to single-sex education would be decreasing their numbers of single-sex schools. It Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 February 2017 Single-sex Education 3 goes into the fact that we look at single-sex school as but when it That claim comes from the assumption that people come in the two varieties being male and female but ignores patriarchal systems. different because an article advocating for co-education coming from the lines of single-sex schooling is believed to accommodate sex differences which appeals to the notion that males and females are fundamentally different instead of considering how these differences are constructed or if they even exist. This article has a very psychological way of looking at my research question. All my former readings have been psychological but this seems to look deeper than why single-sex schooling differs and affects sexes differently to whether this difference is real or not and if it is, where does it come from and how can we change it instead of changing schooling based around these differences. Information from this article could take my paper from the next level. My paper originally looked at single-sex schooling only in the direction of the schooling and not from the direction of the differences in sexes. Cherney, s. D., & Campbell, K. L. (2011). A League of Their Own: Do Single-Sex Schools Increase Participation in the Physical Sciences? Omaha: Springer Science+Business Media. This study was tested because of underrepresentation of women in STEM fields being a problem that has gained national attention. based off a survey of 548 U.S. high school boys Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 February 2017 Single-sex Education 4 and girls from single-sex and co-ed high schools from the Midwest. Their study concluded that girls in single-sex schools had higher achievement motive and self-esteem than girls from co-ed schools but girls from single-sex schools were not most likely to pursue STEM careers even though they outperformed those of co-ed schools in a math test. They mentioned the common stereotype of women being poorer in math compared to men and that studies have shown that when women are primed with a reminder of their gender before taking a math test, they perform worse than they would have with any prime. The context in which tests are administered have been shown to affect girls more than boys. Being that this paper will talk about the effect of co-education versus single-sex education on females, this article did a lot of good research and surveys that can support the research question. It focuses on how single-sex education leads to girls working in STEM fields which the specific focus of this paper but in its information on that, it does give lots of information that can be used about the different level of success and confidence of girls in co-ed versus single-sex schooling. This article was published from Creighton department of psychology. Dr. Isabelle D. Cherney is the Dean of the School of Education and Social Policy at Merrimack College. She came from Creighton University in Omaha, NE where she served as the Associate Dean of the Graduate School and a professor of psychology. Spielhagen, & Frances. (2011). It all : Middle School Teachers Evaluate Single-Sex Classes. Newburgh: Middle Level Education Online. Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 February 2017 Single-sex Education 5 This article was based off an experiment in which middle school teachers (chosen or hired) taught single-sex middle school classes and the teachers were the ones being studied opposed to the students. It studied the experiences of the teachers as they tried to implement a new and somewhat controversial school reform in a large urban center in the U.S. The conclusion of the teachers in the study on whether single-sex classes were effective or not was that it depends on different factors. In the study, by the end of the year, the attitudes of the teachers toward the students had changed in a negative way. The study revealed that both sexes are more well-tended to in single-sex environments because they are treated fairly there for producing better test scores because freed of the distraction of competition that comes from being in class with students of the opposite sex. The information from this article offers a different perspective from other articles considered. Many of the articles are based off surveys and observations of the children while this is done then gets information from the teachers. Teachers will have better knowledge of the outcome of their school work, how it differs in different environments. Keener, E., Mehta, C., & Strough, J. (2013). Should educators and parents encourage other- gender interactions? Gender segregation and sexism. Boston: Taylor & Francis. Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 February 2017 Single-sex Education 6 This article appear to back up the research question because initially it seems to only talk about the segregation of genders while or in a social environment but the more it was read into, the more it was understood how it then tied into co-education. different from other articles because it seem bias to succeed more in a single-sex It looks at how isolating a gender hinders them from performing in the real world because they have that same privilege of being isolated. It looks at gender segregation in both the home and school context. The study states that its main aim is to examine preference of same-gender peers in home and school settings where they have the choice to interact with the same or other gender with hopes to expand the conversation of the benefits of mixed-gender peer involvement in homes. This article comes from; the Department of Psychology of Slippery Rock University along with Emmanuel College in Boston, Boston Hospital, Harvard Medical School, and the Department of psychology of West Virginia University. Dr. Strough graduated summa cum laude with distinguished honors from Boise State University with a B.S. in psychology. The paper focuses on the success of women depending on whether they studied in a co- educational environment opposed to a single-sex educational environment and this article tells how a single-sex education may be more of a hindrance to either sex. Johnson, A. E. (2005). Single-Sex Classes in Public Secondary Schools: Maximizing the Value of a Public Education for the Students. The H.W. Wilson Company. Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 February 2017 Single-sex Education 7 This article explores single-sex education by considering the fact some schools are failing to educate students with drug problems, violence, and deteriorated home situations playing a factor in many of lives. As well as parents battling to help these students attain education that will get the children to a place where they can achieve more than their parents financially. That being the case, schools as well as parents explore different methods of education. As well as considering single-sex schooling, parents are now more likely to teach their children at home. This article says how some argue that single-sex education decreases classroom discrimination and improves learning experiences for either sex student. also believed that separating students by sex could increase options available to poor or minority children whose parents may not be able to afford private single-sex education otherwise. This article can benefit the paper by giving it a point of view that only benefit the student in a way that they get a better understanding of teachings in single-sex classrooms but also how it benefits them financially as well as the parents. Ashley Johnson achieved her Master education at The Ohio State University and her bachelor of science at Miami University.