Box 1 Hannah Box Emil Smith Composition 1 - Section 2 2/19/17 Home Education and Academic Success in College Institutionalized education in America was established to create academic success and prepare students for college, but is it questionable whether formal education is the only way to accomplish this goal. Formal education became state-mandated in the early twentieth century. This research begins in the early which is around the time when home education was beginning to be normalized (the home education movement began in the (Riley 11). This research covers recent studies as well, taking advantage of the ample scholarly data that is available as home education continues to grow as a schooling option. Over two million children are home educated in the United States today (Riley 12). As the definition of education broadens, there has been a push to evaluate which form of education is most effective in terms of preparing for future academic success in college. Institutionalized education is centered on formalized curricula that have the intention of providing the foundation for college learning. On the other hand, home education often lacks the courses that are supposed to aid academic success. Additionally, there are many assumptions that home education hinders a academic success in college due to a perceived lack of socialization and independence during their pre-college years. This research will question whether home educated children can be academically successful in college. Box 2 Thomas, Alan, and Harriet Pattison. Informal Home Education: Philosophical Aspirations Put Into  Studies In Philosophy And Education 2 (2013): 141. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Formal education, even in the primary age group: ages 5-11 (which is the age group discussed in this study), consists of lesson plans and learning benchmarks for a child to meet. While informal home education lacks these boundaries, Thomas and research and interviews of families who home-educate showed that the home-schooled children still hit the same learning objectives as the children in a formal education setting. The home-educated children may not hit the benchmarks in the same way or at the exact same time, but giving the children a chance to be self-motivated in their learning can allow a child to excel past the level that a formal curriculum would allow them to. Through informal home education, children are able to learn through observing the world around them, speaking with adults or other children, and learning skills for necessity or pleasure. Even though these actions are ordinary, they are a large part of a young learning process (Thomas, Pattison 147). Home education allows a child to learn without following a guidelines. A disadvantage of home-education is that the parents are sometimes unable to tell if or what their children are learning. This article reveals that it is nearly impossible to quantify learning, and that there are downfalls to both types of education evaluated. The authors conclude that there needs to be a wider range of understanding of what learning is and how it happens (Thomas, Pattison 152). This study will be relevant to this paper because it presents a summary of informal home education and showcases both the positive and negative sides of the different types of education. It also showcases a recent perspective on education because it was published in 2013. Harriet Pattison is a Ph.D student researching home education and literacy at the University of Box 3 Birmingham and a research associate of the Institute of Education, University of London. Pattison, a homeschool mother, has studied home education professionally with Alan Thomas since 2008. Alan Thomas is a developmental psychologist who has taught at all levels across Europe. Thomas is a Visiting Fellow at the Institute of Education, University of London and a researcher of home education. Snyder, Marc. An Evaluative Study Of The Academic Achievement Of Homeschooled Students Versus Traditionally Schooled Students Attending A Catholic  Catholic Education: A Journal Of Inquiry And Practice 16.2 (2013): 288-308. ERIC. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 This study evaluates the academic success of traditionally educated students versus home educated students at a Catholic university in South Florida. 408 students (137 public-schooled students, 142 Catholic-schooled students, and 129 home-schooled students) were evaluated based on their SAT or ACT scores, college grade-point-average, GPA based on major, and core GPA. The hypothesis was that the home-schooled students would score significantly higher on all fronts than the traditional students (Snyder 296). The home-schooled students had an average ACT score of 26, Catholic-schooled students had an average of 24.53, and public- schooled students had an average of 24.22. The average SAT scores were 1864.94 for home- schooled students, 1761.04 for Catholic-schooled students, and 1706.76 for public-schooled students (Snyder 299). The average GPA for home-schooled students was 3.14, 2.88 for Catholic-schooled students, and 2.66 for public-schooled students (Snyder 300). Home-educated students had an average GPA based on major of 3.20, Catholic-schooled students had an average of 3.12, and public-schooled students had an average for 3.07. The average core GPA for home- Box 4 schooled students was 3.11, 3.02 for Catholic-schooled students, and 2.97 for public-schooled students (Snyder 301). This data shows that on average, home educated students had the highest scores on all fronts. This study presents data that gives an example of a circumstance where home educated students have higher academic achievements on average than both public-schooled and Catholic- schooled students. This particular study is useful because there is a relatively equal sample size of all three types of schooling and was published recently in 2013. Marc Snyder has his Doctorate of Education from Nova Southeastern University. He is currently the Headmaster of True North Classical Academy. Riley, Gina. Differences In Competence, Autonomy, And Relatedness Between Home Educated And Traditionally Educated Young  International Social Science Review 90.2 (2015): 1-27. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This study tested the differences in competence, autonomy and relatedness between homeschooled and traditionally schooled students. The researchers tested 100 students aged 18- 25 with high school diplomas on these traits. Out of the 100 students, 58 were homeschooled, 41 were traditionally schooled, and 1 failed to release what type of schooling they received (and was thus removed from the results). 32 of the participants were male, 66 were female, and 1 did not reveal their gender (Riley 13). The study used the Basic Psychological Needs Scale: a 21 item scale that used the Self Determination Theory and the Cognitive Evaluation Theory to test and evaluate the competence, autonomy, and relatedness (Riley 13). The test found that homeschooled students scored higher than traditionally schooled students when it came to competence (the mental capability to do something successfully): 6.27 versus 5.27 out of 7. Box 5 Homeschooled students also scored much higher on autonomy (independence): 6.02 versus 4.75 (Riley 17). The study found no difference between the two types of students when tested for relatedness (ability to work with others) (Riley 18). Gina Riley is an educational psychologist and Clinical Professor of Adolescent Special Education at Hunter College. She has her Ph.D in Psychology from Walden University and this study was her dissertation. She has over fifteen years of teaching experience. This study showcases three other important elements of student success in college - competence, autonomy, and relatedness by using recent data from 2015. Home-educated students did not only score as well as traditionally educated students in these fields, but was found to be stronger in two of these fronts. This data shows that homeschooled children can be considered to have many qualities that allow them to be very successful in college. Cogan, Michael F. Exploring Academic Outcomes Of Homeschooled  Journal Of College Admission 208 (2010): Academic OneFile. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This study analyzes the academic outcomes of home educated students attending a medium-sized doctoral institution in the midwest and how they relate to the Catholic educated, privately educated, and public educated students attending the institution. This study used the comprehensive data warehouse to collect its data. The home-schooled students scored an average of 26.5 on the ACT, while private-schooled students scored an average of 25.6, Catholic-schooled students scored an average of 25.1, and public-schooled students scored an average of 25.0. The average high school GPA for home-schooled students was 3.74, 3.43 for private-schooled students, 3.49 for Catholic-schooled students, and 3.56 for public-schooled students. Home-schooled students had an average first-year GPA of 3.41, private-school students Box 6 had an average of 3.13, and both Catholic-schooled and public-schooled students had an average of 3.12. The average four-year GPA for home-schooled students was 3.46, 3.18 for private- schooled students, 3.13 for Catholic-schooled students, and 3.16 for public-schooled students. The average graduation rate for home-schooled students was 66.7%, 51.5% for private-schooled students, 54.2% for Catholic-schooled students, and 58.6% for public-schooled students (Cogan 23). This data shows that home educated students had the highest average pre-college elements such as ACT scores and high school GPA, as well as on college elements such as first-year GPA, four-year GPA and graduation rate. Michael Cogan is currently the Strategy and Operations Manager at Huron Consulting Group. He has conducted research as a professor or faculty member at various universities, including the University of St. Thomas and the University of North Dakota. Cogan has his Ph.D in Quantitative Research Methodologies from the University of North Dakota. This study shows that homeschoolers have a high level of academic success in both high school (when it pertains to college acceptance) and in university in 2010. This data shows that home educated students are academically successful at university and are, in some cases, superior to their peers from different educational backgrounds. Reich, Rob. The Civic Perils Of  Educational Leadership 7 (2002): 56. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 This text showcases the civil risks that appear as home education becomes more and more popular. it is not just the left-wing unschoolers or the right-wing religious fundamentalists who are keeping their children at more middle-of-the-road suburbanites are homeschooling (Reich 56). Reich believes that the main reason why homeschooling has Box 7 become so popular is because it allows parents to customize their education. It allows parents to select what, how, where, and when the children will learn. This customization may be beneficial for the academic education, but can harm their ability to be a culturally educated citizen (Reich 56). When a child can only learn what their parents present to them, it hinders the child from learning about different aspects of the world that they may encounter naturally in a more diverse public school environment. In a diverse society, it is a duty to respect the fact that others may have different opinions or beliefs from their own and still consider them equals (Reich 58). Citizenship is also the way we can relate to one another based on shared experiences. Reich believes that home-schooled students miss on on the social institution that is public education, so they are lacking an element of common group with their fellow citizens (58). Although the home-school parents are using their rights of freedom to choose how to raise their children, Reich states that the children lose freedom of being exposed to diversity and forming their own beliefs based off of that (59). Rob Reich is a Professor of Political Science, Philosophy, and Education at Stanford University. He is the director of the Center for Ethics in Society and co-director of the Center on Philanthropy and Civil Society. Reich has been an educator at all levels since 1992. This article shows a downfall of home education - the potential for the child to not be able to be an engaged and active citizen. It also gives a common opinion on home education in the early 2000s. This relates to the research question because the ability to be an active and tolerant citizen is often considered an important factor in being successful in college. Romanowski, Michael H. Revisiting The Common Myths About  Clearing House 79.3 (2006): 125-129. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Box 8 This article looks at four common myths about home education: produces social fails to prepare good who homeschool have difficulty entering and people homeschool only for religious This first myth, that homeschooling produces social misfits, was obtained from the belief that home-schooled children are isolated from the outside world, rendering them socially and educationally handicapped (Romanowski 125). This myth is untrue because it is based off of the assumption that school is the only time and place a child socializes (Romanowski 125). The author found that homeschool parents often work especially hard to supplement their social lives with various extracurricular activities. The second myth, that homeschooling fails to prepare good citizens, stems from the concern that home education only teaches the student how to take care of themselves, and not how to work in a society (Romanowski 126). The author found a study by Brian Ray (who surveyed 7300 homeschooled adults) from 2003, that found that home educated individuals were very active in their communities, with 71% of homeschool graduates actively participating in community service (compared to 37% of US adults) and 88% of homeschool graduates are members of a community organization (compared to 50% of US adults) (127). The third myth, that students who homeschool have difficulty entering college, comes from the assumption that it is difficult to be accepted into a university without a regular high school diploma, and if a student is accepted, they will struggle socially once they get there (Romanowski 127). The author found that home educated students are accepted to universities each year due to their average to superior ACT scores (found in ACT data dating back to 1997) (Romanowski 128). Romanowski found a study conducted by Galloway and Sutton in 2003 that found that home educated students experienced no significant social skill deprivation from being home educated (128). The final myth, that most people only homeschool for religious reasons, is Box 9 one that assumes that only conservative Christian families homeschool their children to pass along their values (Romanowski 128). Romanowski found that home education is actually vividly diverse - ranging from the conservative Christian families to extremely liberal families wishing to escape the close-minded educational system (128). Michael H. Romanowski is Professor of Education and Coordinator of the Masters of Education in Educational Leadership at Qatar University. He earned his Ph.D from Miami University. His research focuses on educational issues on a worldwide scale. This article disproves many of the common myths about homeschooling and also reflects many of the opinions on homeschooling in 2006. This article relates to the research question because it showcases how home educated students are diverse and have the ability (on average) to be successful in college, as well as in life after university.