Gil 1 Ariana Gil Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 15 January 2017 Cannabis Compromise Marijuana has been around since 2700 BC and was used as a method of medical treatment until the 1900s (Boerner 28). During this time the Mexican revolution happened and many Mexicans began to immigrate into the US; many of those people where frequent marijuana smokers. This frightened people and made people believe that marijuana would make them like the Mexicans, causing a ban on marijuana (Boerner 28). The Drug Enforcement administration (DEA) and National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) are both well- known organizations that are at opposite ends with the idea of legalizing medical marijuana. The two stakeholders have many valid concerns and reasons on their position on the legalization of marijuana. Even though these two organizations seem to be polar opposites, they share a common interest; doing what they believe is right for people safety wise and health wise. With a compromise between these two companies, the legalization of medical marijuana may help people. The main goal is to enforce substance laws and regulations in the US and to stop the ongoing trafficking of illegal substances into the US (Drug Enforcement Administration). This organization was created in 1973 and now has about 5000 special agents working for the DEA to stop the growth of the use/transportation of illegal substances (Drug Enforcement Administration). this agency was created after President Richard Nixon declared war on drugs. Nixon wanted to stop this drug abuse and he said, public enemy number one in the Gil 2 United States is drug abuse. In order to fight and defeat this enemy, it is necessary to wage a new, all-out offensive (Sharp, 1994, Marijuana is seen as a drug meaning that once one uses marijuana regularly they want a more powerful effects which then turns them to harder drugs (Wen et al. 109). This is exactly what the DEA does not want; increase the use of other drugs once medical marijuana becomes legal. Not only does the DEA want to prevent the use of illegal drugs but they also want to prevent the abuse of any drug, including alcohol. Marijuana and alcohol both have similar yet district effects to an individual which could cause someone to turn to alcohol when marijuana is not attainable causing an increase in alcohol use. Also, alcohol increases the longevity and intenseness of the marijuana is consumed at the time which could cause people to drink often when already intoxicated with marijuana (Wen et al. 109). The DEA and other organizations, just want what they believe is best for the people and does not want people to abuse the use of any substance. The National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) main goal is to educate the public on marijuana and to legalize the use of marijuana at a safe, convenient and affordable cost (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). The NORML organization was founded in 1970 and it successfully decriminalized offences in 11 states during the 1970s (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). They also have a sister organization called the NORML Foundation which sponsors public advertising in order to educate the public about effects and benefits of marijuana (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). In a study, animal models were given marijuana as a way to treat types of cancer and researchers concluded that the chemical CBD, a chemical found in marijuana, inhibited the progression of glioblastoma, breast, lung, prostate, and colon cancer (Birdsall 1). With studies like this, NORML is motivated to push for the legalization of medical Gil 3 marijuana in order to help people dealing with cancer to get proper and effective treatment. There are now 28 states that have medical marijuana legalized and 3 states that legalized marijuana for recreational use. The NORML organization believes that once marijuana is legalized it would eliminate the crime and violence that there is in the black market for marijuana and get replaced with regulated shops where people could buy marijuana at a safe place (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). this organization just wants the best for people and they believe that the legalization of marijuana would keep people safe from the dangers of the black market and treat people for chronic medical conditions. From each mission statements, it Is clear that what they both want is the safety and good health of people. The DEA is constantly enforcing substance laws and regulations in order to save people from crime and violence by preventing the use and trafficking of illegal substances. The NORML organization is trying to legalize marijuana because they believe that once marijuana is legalized, the crime and violence in the black market would decrease. They also believe that marijuana is a better alternative to harder, prescribed drugs such as oxycodone. These two organizations just want best for the people and they could potentially come to a compromise in the legalization of marijuana. These two stakeholders can come to a compromise on only legalizing marijuana for medical purposes and for those that are in chronic pain and have a severe medical condition. Also, the marijuana that would be sold as medicine should have a high level of CBD and a low level of THC since CBD is concluded to be the main component in treating pain and cancer (Boerner 29). The states that now have medical marijuana legalized will have a change in regulations so it can follow this compromise. This should be a good compromise between the stakeholders since the main common interest that these two share is the safety and health of Gil 4 people. The compromise benefits NORML because this will lower the crime and violence that there is in the black-market and it will also decrease the amounts of drug related arrests. Since only high levels of CBD and low levels of THC will be sold, the cannabis will be use more as strictly medicine since there will be little to no psychoactive effects. This compromise also benefits the DEA because since the levels of THC are too low to actually get an intense psychoactive experience, people would not be using it as a drug but as a medicine. This would insure that people are not abusing the drug and/or turning to harder drugs. These two stakeholders should also be able to support one another after the legalization by implementing information about the benefits and effects of marijuana on their websites. This would then allow people to get legitimate and unbiased facts about the substance before they decided on whether or not to start using it. This would also allow society to get educated on the substance so it could become more socially acceptable. The DEA and the NORML organizations are two stakeholders that are at opposite ends with the idea of legalizing medical marijuana. The DEA is completely against the use of any illegal substance and wants to prevent the use/trafficking of these illegal drugs. The NORML organization on the other head is for the legalization of marijuana and believes that it will benefit the people with more safety and better health. Even with their differences, they both share a common interest; wanting what is best for people and keeping them safe and healthy. They can come to a compromise on only legalizing marijuana for medical purposes and prescribed to those that are in chronic pain and have a severe medical condition at a high level of CBD and a low level of THC. Gil 5 Work Cited Birdsall, Shauna M., Timothy C. Birdsall, and Lucas A. Tims. The Use Of Medical Marijuana In  Current Oncology Reports 7 (2016): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Boerner, Heather. Medical Cannabis: From Legal To Illegal To (Sometimes) Legal  Physician Leadership Journal 3.6 (2016): 28-30. Business Source Premier. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Drug Enforncement Administration. Mission United States Drug Enforcement Administration. Web. 15 Feb. 2017 Accessed. NORML. NORML Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. Web. 15 Feb. 2017 Accessed Wen, Hefei, Jason M. Hockenberry, and Janet R. Cummings. The Effect Of Medical Marijuana Laws On Adolescent And Adult Use Of Marijuana, Alcohol, And Other  Journal Of Health Economics 42.(2015): 64-80. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.