Roehm 1 Chuck Roehm Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102 28 January 2017 College Costs and Taxpayers Attending college can be a costly investment, especially as the price continues to rise year after year. Bernie campaign, while unsuccessful, shows how much of a need there is for financial aid in college. The idea of a completely free college for anyone who wishes to attend is not exactly feasible, due to the sheer cost of it. What many people can agree on, however, is that the opportunity for higher education should be available to anyone in America. After all, our country is called the Land of Opportunity. The Campaign for Free College Tuition firmly believes that everyone should have free access to college, while a company called Norton Norris believes that is a bad idea and that taxpayers would bear the expenses. The cost of college is too high for many low to middle income families, but there is a reasonable compromise for taxpayers to help society and give students the opportunity to graduate without crippling debt. With an average of $30,000 in debt per student, no wonder why many college students struggle with the cost of college (The Institute For College Access and Success). In a survey, 96% of participants said post secondary education is important, but only 21% believe it is affordable (Goldrick-Rab). It is clear that the cost of attending college is too high for most people, and the cost is increasing faster than financial aid can cover it (The Institute For College Access and Success). Many have proposed making community college completely free, but the solution to this problem is not as simple as just making college free for everyone. Somebody still has to fund free college, and the funding in this situation would come from taxpayers. Taxpayers generally want what is best for the country as a whole, but they willing to pay Roehm 2 the tremendous cost of college. 2016 College proposal sparked some controversy, and some groups were against the idea of free community college, with good arguments for why it is a bad idea. The first argument brought up by Norton Norris against free community college is that the completion rate at so many colleges is very low (NortonNorris). The completion rate among low income independent students at two-year colleges was a mere 22 percent. Even the dependent students only graduated at a rate of 42 percent (Kelly). These rates are not promising, and taxpayers do not want to throw their money away for college dropouts. Some may argue that paying for students tuition and books will increase graduation rates. Evidence shows that this is not the case, and this funding may actually decrease graduation rates. The K-12 School Improvement Grants program provided more than $5 billion in federal grants to the 2,000 lowest performing schools in the United States. Two thirds of these schools did register modest gains in reading and math, but one third actually declined over the period (Kelly). For the $5 billion invested, this is a terrible return for the money provided. This was done for K-12 schools, and if this was done for community colleges, results would be worse. If students were given free college for these institutions, it would draw a much larger amount of students, which can be described as a (Kelly). The financial aid might not help student success and this flood of students would drop out without any losses to them, but losses to the taxpayers who invested in them (Kelly). Despite all of the problems with the idea of free community college, supporters like the Campaign for Free College Tuition have good reasons for how it would benefit so many people. The CFCT states that economy requires the country to make higher education Roehm 3 affordable for everyone if we are going to have a workforce with the skills needed for us to compete in the global (CFCT). Goldrick-Rab supports this claim when she states that ago, a high school education was enough for most folks to earn a middle class living, build a family, and live out the American But the american economy has changed. Completing 12 years of school cut it in the current job (56). A high school diploma put you in the middle class, and it is clear that post-secondary education is necessary to achieve middle income class status in America. The difference between low income and middle income could simply be an associate degree (Goldrick-Rab). People with an associates degree make significantly more than those without one. Additionally, if a person receives their associates degree by the time they are 20 years old, they end up getting a higher degree 60 percent of the time (Goldrick-Rab). In 2015, an act called the Tennessee Promise went into effect, offering high school graduates to attend community college for free. At a certain Tennessee community college, they noticed a number of positive results from this act. Enrollment spiked, students took more classes, and students stayed on campus longer (Joan). Information about the graduation rates of these students were not included in the study. If community college was offered for free on a nationwide scale, many more kids would pursue a college education, just like with the Tennessee Promise. More people getting community college degrees would also lead to lower unemployment rates and a stronger, more skilled American workforce. The main concerns for the stakeholders involved in this issue may be different, but there is a common ground between them. Almost everyone believes higher education is important. There is a compromise that would address both the concern of the taxpayers and how much they Roehm 4 will pay, and the concern of students for an opportunity at higher education without the crippling debt. There are two main points in this compromise, the first being that taxpayers would pay for community college, but not during the education. Students would not pay for tuition as long as they stay in school. Should they choose to drop out, they would have to pay for all of the tuition over a certain time period. If they pursue their degree and earn it, they would receive all of the money needed for tuition. This part of the compromise addresses a main concern of taxpayers, which was that most of their money was going to college dropouts. Instead, their money will be guaranteed to go to graduates, and not wasted. It also gives incentives for college students to pursue their degree rather than dropping out. A similar program has been implemented in Texas public universities, called for all The purpose of the program is to a financial incentive for you to complete a degree For All Texans). The program gives a $1000 rebate for Texas students completing their degree by taking as few courses outside of a degree plan as possible (College For All Texans). The second main point of this compromise is to give students more time to complete their education, so that students who need to also have a job to get through college will be able to handle both the job and the schoolwork. Students would have free tuition as long as they are taking just 6 credit hours per semester. Decreasing the minimum credit requirements would take some of the stress out of college, which would help to increase the completion rate and help both the CFCT and taxpayer organizations like Norton Norris. This would also give more students flexibility to finish at their own pace, depending on their situation, while still being able to work a full time job. This compromise would offer an opportunity for those ambitious enough to pursue a degree without weighing too heavily on the taxpayers. Roehm 5 Taxpayers would also be assured that their money is effectively transforming students into skilled members of the workforce. In an age where a college education defines your standing in America, there needs to be an opportunity for anyone with work ethic to attain higher education. A completely free post secondary education is not feasible, but just getting an associates degree could lead to a better life. With this compromise, students could graduate debt free while taxpayers would feel confident in where their tax dollars are going. For ambitious students who come from low or middle income families, it would offer a brighter future. Works cited Http://twitter.com/FreeCollegeNow. Who We  Campaign for Free College Tuition. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. College for all  College For All Texans: $1,000 Tuition Rebate for Certain Undergraduates. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. GOLDRICK-RAB, SARA, and ANDREW P. KELLY. Should Roehm 6 Community College Be  Education Next 16.1 (2016): 54-60. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hope, Joan. Free Community College Brings Campuswide  Enrollment Management Report 7 (2016): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Why Free College is a Bad  Norton Norris. N.p., 11 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The Institute For College Access and  State by State Data The Institute For College Access and Success. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.