Rismay 1 JoLynn Rismay Kristin Gocinski Composition II 30 January 2017 Right to Die: Should the Terminally Ill or Disabled Choose when the die As of 2016, euthanasia and assisted suicide are legal in only nine countries, including only a few states in the U.S (Pro.Con.org). Assisted suicide has had many groups and organizations at odds for years, debating the morality of ending life by own terms. Death with dignity organizations, and physicians who are pro-euthanasia, like physician Philipe Nischke, a physician who has advocated for the rights of patients who request assisted suicide, and the organization Dignitas believe that people have the right to choose when and how they die, if their life is under extreme turmoil. However, groups with missions to defend the disabled like Not Dead Yet advocate the right for people with disabilities to continue living their lives successfully and happily. Under what circumstance can assisted suicide be viewed as aid to a life rather than a sentencing to death? This question has no simple answer, for Dignitas and Not Dead Yet to come to a compromise, they must realize that their common interest is the satisfaction of the patient and use certain conditions to judge whether a person should receive euthanasia or not. One of the most prominent groups involved in the support of assisted dying is Dignitas, an organization that was founded in Switzerland in 1998. Imagine a life you were unsatisfied with, where every day was a struggle for comfort, happiness and overall purpose. The very basis of human life is dependent on the feelings of freedom and self-agency. Many of the patients who Rismay 2 request euthanasia go through this process of struggling through life in their condition. To them, assisted dying is a way for them to take back control of their life. Dignitas motto is, live with dignity, to die with (Who Is Dignitas, Dignitas.ch). Many view the idea of dying with dignity as sacred, especially those who have met people whose lives are directly affected by illness and disability. In an article written by Dr. S. P. Kalandri, he discusses the role of a doctor in their life, and how respect for human life is an essential understanding for any physician. It is no secret that the physician plays a prominent role in the process of assisted dying, as they are typically the ones who give clearance on the patient to receive the treatment. Kalandri also notes the desires of patients close to death as pain and symptom management; detest inappropriate prolongation of dying, wish for a sense of control, and desire strengthening relationships with loved (Kalandri 260). Often individuals will feel comforted by the fact that they have time to prepare themselves. Deaths may occur every day, but that does not change the dread associated with the uncertainty of it. The easier a doctor can make the process for their patient, the more confident they can feel in their decision. While some are confident that assisted suicide is the solution for their handicap, others see that life can continue beyond these ailments. Although some believe they should have the right to choose when they die, others believe that assisted suicide is immoral and unethical. Not Dead Yet is an organization against the legalization of assisted suicide. Their website describes them as, national, grassroots disability rights group that opposes legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of (Who We Are). The goal of the group is to defeat what they call a suicide double standard, that suicide is considered terrible in society but assisted suicide is acceptable. Humans naturally treasure life, life is what defines the human identity. It is not irrational for some to think Rismay 3 that life is too sacred to be given up on own. Not Dead Yet fights against the idea that a disabled or ill life is worth less than an able-bodied person. In many cases, terminally ill patients strongly support the idea of assisted suicide. A study on terminally ill patients was done by Ezekiel Emanuel, Diane L. Fairclough, and Linda L. Emanuel whose associations include the National Institutes of Mental Health, Cancer Research Center, and the American Medical Center. In the study 998 patients with any terminal illness (besides human immunodeficiency virus infection) were surveyed, as well as 893 caregivers. Within the study 60.2% of patients supported euthanasia but only 10.6% claimed they would ever seriously consider it. The stereotype of the terminally ill is that they all want to end their suffering through death, however from the 256 descendants in the group, only one died from euthanasia, which can support the idea that although come support the idea of euthanasia, very few would go through with the act. Despite the opposing opinions in regards to assisted suicide, both Dignitas and Not Dead Yet want what is best for the patient and their ultimate goal is to keep their patient happy and satisfied. In both mottos for each organization, they explicitly detail how they feel patients should be treated, which a clear indication that no matter what each feel is the or idea, each has the interest of another individual as a top priority. Dignitas has known for years the opposition of some on the topic of assisted suicide and they continually work to spread their ideals and appeal to the public. Not Dead Yet seeks to refute the idea that people with illness or disability cannot lead the same life as those who are able-bodied, and they continually protest the use of assisted suicide and euthanasia. Although they have differences, each organization can work together to develop a compromise that will still appeal to what they support. Rismay 4 To come to a compromise, both sides must consider a viable option that will satisfy at least one part of their goals. One such compromise might be that for a patient to receive euthanasia, they must fall under the following three conditions; be given six or less months to live by an approved physician, have no use of their body besides head or neck, or be classified as completely brain dead. They can work together by both counseling patients and posing their opinions on why they should go through with treatment or not. By partnering they are giving many the opportunity to see in a firsthand perspective what they can do with their life and they are making the decision of the patient easier by giving them more options. The benefit from working together comes down to giving the patient the resources they need to making a decision that is right for them. In a study written in the New England Journal of Medicine, patients said their views on euthanasia changed throughout the progression of their diagnosis. Some went through counseling and experienced a change in heart through extensive therapy. With this information, it can be concluded that patients should be under extreme medical conditions to be considered suitable for the treatment. While certainly a controversial topic, assisted suicide comes down to the terms of the patient. Dignitas advocates for dying with dignity, while Not Dead Yet believes that the lives of the disable can be lived just as fully as those who are able bodied. Each stakeholder has a common interest, to will be in the best interesfindt of the person they are caring for. The compromise for these two stakeholders is to observe the health status of the patient and only be administered if the conditions of living were extremely critical. This solution gives satisfaction to both stakeholders as well as the most important character in this situation, the patient. Rismay 5 Works Cited Karin. Who Is  Who Is DIGNITAS. DIGNITAS. 30 Jan. d=44&lang=en We  Not Dead Yet. Not Dead Yet, 05 Apr. 2012. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.http://notdeadyet.org/about Emanuel J Ezekial , MD, PhDD; Linda L. Emanuel, MD, PhD. Attitudes and Desires Related to Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide Among Terminally Ill Patients and Their Caregivers. 15 November 2000. 27 January 2017. http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/193281 Dr. S. P. Kalantri. DYING WITH DIGNITY.260 Indian J. Anaesth. 2003; 47 (4) : 260- 262.2003.27 January 2017. Van der Maas, Paul J. Physician-Assisted Suicide, and Other Medical Practices Involving the End of Life in the England Journal of Medicine 1996; 335:1699-1705. 27 January 2017. http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJM199611283352227#t=article Rismay 6 ProCon.org. Euthanasia & Physician-Assisted Suicide (PAS) around the  ProCon.org. 20 July 2016, 7:31 a.m., euthanasia.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=000136