Stamm 1 Melissa-Lynn Stamm Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 19 January 2017 Quality vs. Quantity: A GMO Compromise The first plant to be a genetically modified organism was discovered by scientists in the southwestern region of Asia during the time period of 7800 BCE (Rangel 3). This was thousands of years before Charles Darwin introduced the theory of artificial selection to explain how GMOs first came to exist in dogs from domesticated wolves (Rangel 3-5). Currently most of the crops and food consumed have been modified with different traits to ensure survival, with Syngenta as one of the top leading businesses in the manufacturing of new biotechnology products used today. Many farmers rely on Syngenta to provide them with products that are both affordable in price and greatly enhance crop growth. The non-profit organization The Non-GMO Project spends all their money and time educating the public on the effects of genetic modification and how to receive your Non-GMO certification for your product, business, or restaurant. Both Syngenta and The Non-GMO Project want to support their consumers to the best of their ability, however the ongoing controversy over GMO labeling makes it arduous for the two to work together. While productivity needs must be met, preferences should also be taken into consideration to assure a positive net profit, a common goal between Syngenta and the Non-GMO Project. Working together Syngenta and the Non-GMO Project can come to a compromise by using their knowledge and technology to create a Non-GMO seed treatment product for consumers. Stamm 2 The global agriculture business Syngenta has made it their mission to achieve global food stability for all the consumers, farmers, and growers struggling with poverty (Syngenta). The production of crops and food for farmers increase as the population increases, and with that comes an increase in farmers demand for new affordable products. With new growth plan and seed-care facility, they have developed with the population, and are now working on improving their business with more enhanced technology to make new products for consumers. In the article Seed-Care facility Opens, the author Willie Vogt talks about the future plans Syngenta initiated to expand their company globally by opening a new facility in Stanton, Minnesota devoted to fulfilling their mission. This facility will improve their research, experiments, and training. According to Vogt, Syngenta has invested a lot of money and time into their new facility for seed treatment, has been producing seed treatment products for more than 35 and plan on using this technological improvement to better their business, products, and service all around the world (Vogt 5). The president of Syngenta, Vern Hawkins invests $1.3 billion in research and million in seed treatment to support (Vogt 5). The facility is a new addition meant to focus on seed treatments and finding new innovative ways to test our active ingredients in real life situations, observe the outcomes, and compare results to past treatments for strength/weakness trends. Syngenta ensures that all their products go through bench testing, where a series of evaluation tests are performed to establish the product perfection before hitting the market. With all the new innovations this facility offers, only does bench testing on new tools, but also offer extensive training (Vogt 10). It is clear to see in article that Syngenta is a developing Stamm 3 business working towards customer satisfaction, similar to the goals of other organizations that may have opposing views on the topic. The Non-GMO Project is one of the fastest-growing verified labels in the retail sector thanks to their dedication in reaching their goals of supporting, building, and educating consumers on Non-GMO products (The Non-GMO Project). The Non-GMO mission statement explains their goal to provide as many forms of programs to better educate the public and support products/ businesses that are Non-GMO verified, or that are planning to be. By becoming Non-GMO verified you must admit your product for an evaluation to receive your certification by the Non-GMO board of researchers. This certification entails that the food, and products have gone through a series of steps and inspections before they were verified and allowed to use the Non- GMO label. In the article Megan Westgate, the author credits the Non-GMO Project for all of their success in spreading awareness about the effects of GMOs and the amount of products, companies, and restaurants that have achieved verification: of Non-GMO Project Verified products increased 219% between 2010 and 2011, when the seal first started appearing on (Westgate 1). The article also includes some of the responsibilities the project has to focus on, such as expansion and participation with their labeling, explaining to retailers the importance of understanding GMOs and how to ensure your crops do not become contaminated organization Month in October, helping retail partners convey information about GMOs to staff and (Westgate 6). The Non-GMO Project wants only the best and highest quality for their consumers by spreading their label around the world as best as they can. Stamm 4 Above all, Syngenta and the Non-GMO Project are both working towards common goals. The two of them consistently putting their consumers needs first and striving to provide the population with the best possible products, all the while maintaining consistent food stability. There is such a diverse culture when it comes to consumers. People are no longer searching for the cheapest, most popular products. Within the variety of options currently available they can choose from organic, Non- GMO certified, conventional, or gluten free (Vogt). The Non-GMO Project and Syngenta understand that they must continue to grow with the population, meet the high standards that are expected of them by reaching out, and expand to other businesses and companies. While Syngenta and the Non-GMO Project have such strong differences in their beliefs on the genetic modification of organisms, these two companies should combine their efforts, coming together to create a time-efficient, affordable, and Non-GMO verified product. This innovative collaborative product will be both beneficial to the consumer, and the environment. Syngenta would benefit from the increase of their consumer size, due to the ability to sell not only to the general population, but also other diverse groups of people who prefer to buy Non-GMO products. The Non-GMO Project will also benefit by taking part in the first Non-GMO verified product of Syngenta, which is a huge step for their business as well as setting a standard for biotechnology companies. By working with the Non-GMO Project, Syngenta will focus more of their investments in research for new products at their new seed-treatment facility, and the Non-GMO Project will improve through their constant dedication for high quality products. Both organizations have boundless potential to greatly benefit from this compromise. Willie Stamm 5 Vogt goes into detail on upcoming new products and the expenses required for research in his article Company Leaders Embrace Change. He summarizes the different topics discussed at the summit with Vern Hawkins, the president of Syngenta and other members of the keynote panel. A highlighted topic that was discussed revolved around other companies merging together to eliminate competition while using resources from both companies to experiment with, and also cut costs to save money and time (Vogt 8-9). Creating new products is an immensely long process takes seven years of breeding to see the result of new years to bring a new GM trait to the (Vogt 11). If Syngenta and The Non-GMO Project teamed up they could cut the time it takes to make a new product in half while keeping harmonious control, cooperating as a team. Most of all, Syngenta and The Non-GMO Project are trying to ensure they fall behind other businesses, and intend on taking the initiative to broaden their knowledge, assuring their businesses and products will remain long-term. However, neither company wants to give up their mission, so a compromise is necessary. Working together to create a time efficient, affordable, and Non-GMO verified product would satisfy both Syngenta, and the Non-GMO goal while meeting all needs including the consumers. Stamm 6 Work Cited Rangel, Gabriel. Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO SITN, 9 Aug. 2015, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/from- corgis-to-corn-a-brief-look-at-the-long-history-of-gmo-technology/. Accessed 29 January 2017. We Syngenta Global, http://www4.syngenta.com/who-we-are. Accessed 29 January 2017. NON GMO Project, https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Vogt, Willie. Facility Farm Industry News, Vol. 49, Issue 8, 1 Nov. 2016, pp. 12-13. Business Source Premier, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d54 d658b-e572-4e7d-b80c-ff9812d34535%40sessionmgr104&vid=2&hid=127. Accessed 26 January 2017. Westgate: Megan Westgate leads the nonprofit Non-GMO Project, whose reach is Nutritional Outlook, Vol. 15, Issue 10, Dec. 2012, pp. 36. General OneFile, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T003&resultLis earchForm&currentPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA339015801&docType=Articl e&sort=RELEVANCE&contentSegment=&prodId=ITOF&contentSet=GALE%7 CA339015801&searchId=R1&userGroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true. Accessed 26 January 2017. Stamm 7 Vogt, Willie. Leaders Embrace Farm Industry News, Vol. 49, Issue 9, Dec. 2016, pp. 6-7. Business Source Premier, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=ad5cd8b9-b067-4efe- 89e6-56ce58fdfc33%40sessionmgr4007&vid=2&hid=4102. Accessed 26 January 2017.