Almamri 1 Rawad Al Mamri Professor Williams ENC1102.091F16 January 29, 2017 Protection of Endangered animals Endangered animals have always been an important topic to animal lovers and those who love branded goods. There is almost Seven hundred twenty-two endangered species around the world and most of these species are located in the tropical and developing countries. Scientists have always had their fears that these endangered species may have a disadvantage to the environment, also because many of these species go extinct before they even find out about them. is a natural phenomenon, it occurs at a natural rate of about one to five species per year. Scientists estimate now losing species at 1,000 to 10,000 times the rate, with dozens going extinct every P.1). Some of the main reasons why some species become endangered is because climate change due to global warming. Also human interaction with the natural habitat of these species, as well as urban sprawl. There are two stakeholders in this situations which are the organizations that aim to save endangered animals and keep them around longer. The other stakeholder is that some very major Almamri 2 brands are very proud of using animals to make their products more sophisticated for their high end customers. Such as, Gucci, Chanel and other famous brands. Many people are against using endangered animals for their own benefits and luxury products. They believe that these species should be saved and put in nature reserves that will save them from hunters and companies that use animal fur or skin. The international union for conservation of nature (IUCN) is a worldwide organization that was created in 1948 to fight for animals rights and find solutions for environmental challenges. The IUCN have said to be a major player in the governmental and non-governmental conversation for the environmental issues. By protecting these endangered species less misuse will happen and more people will be aware of this issue. Protecting nearly 7,000 land and marine species classified as threatened by the IUCN, the researchers found dangerous places of biodiversity loss to hundreds of products and their faraway markets. The IUCN have done so many great things and they are yet to start. Most people nowadays love being expensive products such as handbags, wallets and leather strap watches. Many of these products, if they were really fancy, are made from real leather, fur and animal skin; most of these animals are endangered. Famous brands such as Gucci, Fendi and Dior have admitted of using real animals to make their products more sophisticated to satisfy the consumers. In addition, the famouse brand Fendi selles some leather goods such as handbags, wallets and leather strap watches for good prices. However, when you Almamri 3 visit their website they sell the real leather, fur and animal skin three times higher than the regular prices of the other products that made of animal fur or leather. Fendi and many other brands get their fur from China where they raise millions of animals like foxes and rabbits in farms. Animals are being tortured and locked up in a very small cages, and then they tortured them by beating them alive and kicking them by farmers. After the animals lose consciousness they take off the fur from the alive animals without any mercy. Later on some rich people say that it is okay to use animals for their skin, fur and leather because they care because they are not aware, or maybe because they just want to show off. Even though it seems like these two stakeholders are very different and have contrasting ideas about endangered animals, they do share one similar objective which is providing funds for saving endangered species. The IUCN have done many campaigns in order to collect money for endangered animals. Gucci, for example, have done the same thing with a different strategy. They have put an ad stating that when someone buys a product from them they send a certain amount of money towards non-profitable animal saving organizations. There is an agreement that both sides could consider to help the endangered animals. The IUCN could get a contract with high end brands to give them already dead animals to use their fur, skin or leather and in exchange these companies must not hunt, kill and use these endangered species for their products by breaking the contract. In addition, the IUCN should force those Almamri 4 brand companies to sell the truth to their customers by telling them that they use dead animals which saves the endangered ones and the environment as well. In conclusion, endangered animals is a very important and sensitive topic that people should be talking about more and non-beneficial organizations should aware the world about. The IUCN and other organizations are doing a fantastic job helping, funding and researching these species and they should not stop until the number of endangered animals is increased. Huge brands should stop using animals as their main meterial to sell expensive products and start spreading awareness to their customers. Almamri 5 Work Cited 11 Facts About Endangered  Volunteer for Social Change . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Humane Society International  Society International (Australia) . Humane Society International (Australia), 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. International Union for Conservation of  . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fendi. FENDI Official Online  Online Store . N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Gucci Official Site United  Official Site United States . N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.