Penland 1 Ryan Penland Professor Sarah Basil English 1102 29 January 2017 Achieving Peace in the World of Technology Technology has become a prominent factor in all of our lives. As citizens, we see a piece of technology every single day. What people do not realize, is the ongoing challenge that organizations and thousands of people are trying to overcome every single day. There are plenty of good things about technology, but there are plenty of bad things that organizations want to destroy. Every day a controversy is shared about technology, whether it can benefit the average citizen, or assist in the dangerous process of online file sharing. Fortunately, there are plenty of organizations like the International Society of Technology (ISTE) that attempt to bring this technology further into the hands of our people, giving them the chance to learn beyond what a textbook can share. There are also organizations such as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) that believe this technology is extremely harmful to the ecosystem of America, and believe it will create more harm than good. Each organization has their own side to the issue, the ISTE believes that teaching through technology can benefit everyone as it is the way of our future, and the RIAA believes that teaching people how to use technology will influence scandalous acts such as piracy to spike in interest. Both organizations are able to make very valid points for their side of the issue, and there is a common ground to be met that will benefit both sides of the issue with little compromise. The world of technology can be a beautiful one, or at least the International Society of Technology believes so. The purpose of the ISTE is not only to spread the use of technology, but also to share the belief that technology gives people the tools they need to succeed in the future ISTE 3). By doing this, they believe that this form of teaching can change learning in a way that it can be more meaningful and impactful ISTE 3). Richard Overbaugh conducted a study that recorded thousands of input about the widespread use of technology in a school environment, Penland 2 and most of the results proved to show a positive attitude towards the influence that technology has had on students (Overbaugh 2). Many teachers had found that students had a higher level of preparedness in class, and were more willing to work with others when technology played a part in the classroom environment. Another study looked into the role of tablet personal computers in the classroom, where the levels of learning were recorded amongst different genders, and similar results were found. Having a tablet showed a higher level of self-directed learning when inside the classroom and that level of response is only increasing every day (Gokcearslan 4). Given the results of these studies, it is easy for the ISTE to further the use of technology for learning, as there is a mostly positive response within learning environments and which helps push the agenda they have set forth. The ISTE plans to continue growing the use of technology, as learning is clearly positively impacted in tested environments. Not everything is always positive contrary to what the ISTE is founded on. Another organization, the Recording Industry Association of America, is against some of the ways technology is used simply because there are plenty of issues with copyrights and fair use, and continuing to influence the use of technology will only harm more than it can help 4). Since the late forms of technology such as computers have influenced the process of sharing files online illegally, labelled piracy (Brunton-Smith 2). This allows for files and documents that are sold online to be distributed for free illegally. Many artists and producers, specifically in the entertainment industry, have suffered from the effects of online piracy. A study conducted by Matthew Appleyard states that musical artists are losing very conservative estimate of 10 percent of music due to online piracy. This means that there are artists that can be losing up to $3.5 million dollars yearly (Appleyard 6). This clearly is not fair to the artists, and is a prime example of why the RIAA would be against the widespread use of technology becoming more wide. If more people begin using more forms of technology every day, creators of any paid media are going to be more at risk to lose even more money on their creations, whether it be music, movies, or even programs that are used in classrooms every single day. This can conflict with the ISTE because classrooms are going to need types of educational software to spread knowledge, but obviously some schools will not have the funding to supply these programs, allowing Penland 3 online piracy to occur.There would need to be a compromise from other organizations in order to reduce the amount of piracy while still allowing technology to grow at the alarming rate it already is. Both of these organizations have goals that are against each other, but share a common relationship of wanting the best for the world of technology, and the people using technology every day. While the ISTE believes in spreading use of technology for learning environments, they can be setting a risk for more students to pirate their favorite form of media, as a result of learning how to operate these machines fluidly. This ideal conflicts with the RIAA considering the amount of piracy is already climbing and hundreds of thousands, even millions of dollars are going to be lost by the end of the year. But while the RIAA is against piracy, there is no way for the amount of technology used to be limited on a day to day basis. Resolutions have not been met yet due to the relative infancy of the internet. While the internet has been around for a long time, 15 years is not a long enough time for these problems to develop and be solved. Fortunately, there is a middle ground can be reached given both of these situations. There can be an agreement for the development of a program that can help combat piracy while still increasing the use of technology. This program can help encrypt files online and secure them in a sort of database where it can only be decrypted through the use of a certain that unlocks the file. The can be anything from a randomly generated number, or a certain online requirement to be achieved in order to unlock the file. Many companies such as Apple use a checkout system that allows a payment to unlock data online through their music sharing platform, and if a file is pirated, the file cannot be played because it is missing a certain license that allows it to work (Woodford, 6). If both organizations are able to come together and help fund this kind of program or system, the amount of piracy will decrease, and the rate of the use of technology can still rise safely. This way, the relationship that the organizations share of wanting a safe and effective world of technology, can be achieved with little compromise. This can benefit both parties and keep a peace between people who spread technology, versus those who condemn it. Technology usage is a topic that is very controversial in the way that many people are enthusiastic in the continued spread of its use throughout the world, and the people who fear its takeover. Penland 4 The International Society of Technology are among those who believe technology should be spread for its positive impact on the classroom environment, and continue to support it as long as it continues to support teachers. The Recording Industry Association of America are an organization that are against the spread of online piracy, which is at odds with the ISTE since if the use of technology spreads, the rate of online piracy will inevitably rise. Fortunately, there is a middle ground that can be reached by using a high security online system which encrypts files and only enables them to those who purchase the material, which can be funded through both organizations if this method is chosen. This can benefit both parties as the spread of technology can continue to rise, and the effect of piracy can slowly dim down. Both stakeholders will be able to be at peace while maintaining an online environment that is friendly to everyone using it. Penland 5 Works Cited About Piracy. (2016). Retrieved February 12, 2017, from https://www.riaa.com/resources- learning/about-piracy/ Appleyard, Mathew. Corporate Responses To Online Music Piracy: Strategic Lessons For The Challenge Of Additive  Business Horizons 58.(2015): 69-76. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Brunton-Smith, Ian, and Daniel J. McCarthy. Explaining Young Involvement In Online Piracy: An Empirical Assessment Using The Offending Crime And Justice Survey In England And  Victims & Offenders 11.4 (2016): 509-533. Criminal Justice Abstracts. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gokcearslan, Sahin1. Perspectives Of Students On Acceptance Of Tablets And Self-Directed Learning With  Contemporary Educational Technology 8.1 (2017): 40-55. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Overbaugh, Richard C.1, Ruiling2 Lu, and Mark1 Diacopoulos. Changes In Attitudes Toward Instructional Technology Attributed To Completing The ISTE NETS*T Certificate Of Proficiency Capstone  Computers In The Schools 32.3/4 (2015): 240-259. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The ISTE Story. (2016). Retrieved February 12, 2017, from https://www.iste.org/about/iste-story Woodford, Chris. How does e-commerce  Explain that Stuff. N.p., 14 Sept. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Zilkha, Genan. The Troubling Solution To  Fordham Intellectual Property, Media & Entertainment Law Journal 20.(2010): 667. LexisNexis Academic: : Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.