Barr 1 Chris Barr Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Student athletes on college performance Participating in a sport while being a college student is not easy. If it were, everyone would be a collegiate athlete. Trying to perform well in class while also performing well in your sport at the time is very likely to cause stress. Exams, studying, tutoring, study hall and going to class plays a huge roll on being a college student but not all; running, weights, film study, and practicing that will be the athlete part of being a student athlete. Today, the demands on student athletes are much heavier than they were in the past. College was not as difficult as it is today, years ago. Completing the requirements to receive a degree was much easier and the level of competition in sports was not as high. On the other hand, by being a athlete there are benefits such as all expensive paid college tuition, incentive to stay in shape, and media exposure. There are many benefits and limitations to being a collegiate athlete, but how does being a student athlete affect college performance? Beron, Kurt J.1, and Piquero, Alex R.1. Studying The Determinants Of Student-Athlete Grade Point Average: The Roles Of Identity, Context, And Academic  Social Science Quarterly, vol. 97, no. 2, 2016. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1111/ssqu.12235/abstract;js Barr 2 essionid=B2D56354BCE2BAF6E4C5D9F5251BD010.f01t02. Accessed 19 February 2017. This article discusses the GPA of student athletes in NCAA division I schools. The article compares the of male athletes to female athletes to determine if gender has an effect on GPA standings. Results provided in this article show that there is no evidence that proves gender has an effect on the GPA of athletes. Also, there is no evidence that proves schools ranking from the athletic perspective have an effect on GPA. This article is relevant to my topic because it explains the role gender plays in the success of student athletes in college. The authors provide evidence to support this claim. Authors Kurt Beron and Alex Piquero, are both professors at The University of Texas at Dallas. Kurt Beron has his PhD in economics and teaches in that field. Alex Piquero is the associate dean for graduate programs in economics, political and policy sciences. McArdle, John J., Thomas S. Paskus, and Steven M. Boker. A Multilevel Multivariate Analysis Of Academic Performances In College Based On NCAA  Multivariate Behavioral Research, vol. 48, no. 1, 2013, http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1080/00273171.2012.715 836?scroll=top&needAccess=true. Accessed 19 February 2017. This article talks about student academic performance during their freshman year of college. Studies show that it is unclear whether a student GPA increases or decreases after enrolling into college. The article also talks about previous classes student athletes took in high school and how they could possibly determine the success Barr 3 they will have in college. Studies show that the higher the school is ranked in terms of athletics, the harder the training will be. The article then goes on to discuss how transitioning from high school to college is difficult due to the increase in the intensity of training and the amount of time needed to study. This article is relevant to my topic because the article shows data on student athletes performance their freshman year of college. The author has evidence behind his research that shows the transition from high school to college. Author Thomas Paskus, has a PhD in psychology and works at the national collegiate athletic association. This makes him a qualified representative to discuss collegiate student athletes. Miller, Kathleen E., and Joseph H. Hoffman.  Mental Well-Being and Sport Related Identities in College Students: Sociology of Sport Journal, vol. 26, no. 2, 2009. http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1080/00273171.2012.715 836?scroll=top&needAccess=true. 19 February 2017. In this source the author focuses on the mental stage of student athletes. The article discusses how physical exercise can reduce depression. A series of test were explained throughout this article to support this fact. One of the experiments performed showed the probability of student athletes committing suicide. The results found this to be rare. Student athletes are less likely to be a target for suicidal thoughts than regular students. This topic is relevant to student athletes on the college performance level because they give an overview on the mental and physical stage as student athlete. The author, Kathleen Miller has research behind her claims that relate to my research question and Barr 4 give multiple studies on college athletes and their performance. Kathleen Miller has her PhD is sociology and is an assistant professor at University at Buffalo. The source Sociology sports journal is credible because they only allow well research article and peer review articles submit their research to their journals. Umbach, Paul D., and Megan M. Palmer, Intercollegiate Athletes and Effective Educational Practices: Winning Combination or Losing  SpringerLink. Vol. 47, no. 6, 2006. http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11162-006-9012-9 . Accessed 19 February 2017. In this source the authors main focus is on the way college athletes are different from the regular student body. They recommend that the athletes will not be isolated from regular students and interact with the whole student body instead of other student athletes. The paper also talks about how the athlete grades are lower from non-athlete but the grades are equally the same as a non-athlete. The paper also discusses the difference from athletes from non- athletes on the educational database. The schedule of student athletes is more complex than non-athletes. Student athletes have many responsibilities to account for on a day-to-day basis. The everyday life of students who participate in a sport involves class, tutoring, practice, treatment, meetings and more. However, non-athletes have at most, one major responsibility. They attend class and study to prepare for those classes. Barr 5 This article is relevant to my topic because the article states important facts about the difference between student athletes and non-student educational wise and bonding with the student body. The authors are credible because they have studied at prestigious universities on the topics of educations and social interaction. Paul Umbach is a professor at North Carolina State University who specializes in educational leadership, policy and human development. Assistant dean and professor Megan Palmer, works at Indiana University School of Medicine with a PhD in pedagogic theory, educational policy and adult education. This source is credible because it is not narrow the source allows many people from different concentrations