Ibraahim Badat Elizabeth Ricketts ENC1101-010 January 29 2017 The effect of steroids on professional sports Anabolic steroids were first created for medical purposes in the early and were used to treat the medical condition, hypogonadism, which is a condition that decreased the amount of testosterone in the body. Later on the effects of steroids were taken advantage of by bodybuilders to increase the size to which they could grow. Dutch and Italian cyclists were among the first sportsmen to make use of steroids, specifically the amphetamines that are extremely dangerous and taxing on the human body. The first athlete to die from the use of steroids was the Danish cyclist Knut Jensen in 1960 at the summer Olympics in Rome, the presence of amphetamines in his blood caused his body temperature to be raised to unnatural levels, causing him to collapse in a race which intern fractured his skull resulting in his death. Another cyclist, Tommy Simpson died in 1967 due to the use of amphetamines and the consumption of alcohol, this sparked the International Olympic committee to establish rules to fight doping. In 1968 athletes were drug tested at the Olympic games for the first time at both the winter Olympics in Grenoble, France, and the summer Olympics in Mexico City. Due to the number of deaths and to maintain a level of honesty in professional sport, the Anti-Drug Abuse act of 1988 was signed to officially make steroids illegal. Steroids interfere with the integrity of sport, and give its users an advantage over other competitors, the question can be asked, have steroids affected professional Engelberh, Terry. final frontier of anti-doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping Sport Management review, vol. 18, no. 2, 06 Sep. 2013 ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.smr.2014.06.005 The authors begin this article by giving the first hand accounts and experiences of professional athletes who have used steroids. The main reason for the research was to find the motivation for using steroids and exploring the psychological issues associated with using banned substances. The study comprised of interviewing 18 professional athletes from the sports of, bodybuilding, powerlifting, cricket, sprint kayak, rugby league, and swimming. All the athletes had been found guilty of using banned substances, by their respective federations. Most of the athletes admitted to using steroids very early in their careers and some had made their way to the professional leagues having already made use of the banned substances. Researchers found that the only that held athletes back before they gave into using steroids was their moral compass, and once they were able to suppress it, the thought of doing steroids became a lot easier for them. The article also explores ideas related to future anti-doping policies, which include improved ways of limiting access to the drugs, and more in depth blood tests to catch athletes using In this article the author, Terry Engelberg, goes in depth on the topic of steroids in professional sports. Engelberg is a professor at James Cook University, with a degree in Social Psychology, a Master of Science degree and a PhD in organizational behavior; she is highly qualified and credible to speak about the psychological effects of steroids in professional athletes. The way in which she researched the topic is extremely unique but her ability to give the first hand accounts of athletes, makes her research all the more important. Heisler, Sarah R. Steroid Regulation In Professional Sports: Sarbanes-Oxley As A  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, vol. 27, 4 May. 2009, pp. 199-241. HeinOnline, http://www.heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle= hein.journals/caelj 27&div=9. Accessed 12 Feb 2017. According to the article, all people that compete want to be the best and want to win, whether it is competing in professional sports or in the economy. In professional sports athletes have found the need to resort to the use of Performance Enhancing Drugs. By doing so they taint the playing field by gaining an unfair advantage against their competition. The fact that these professional athletes have managed to compete before getting caught makes younger and amateur athletes think that they can make use of and not get caught. The American youth are said to be the ones most at risk as they are looking up to people who have made use of illegal and banned substances. The corporations and companies behind the teams that have been found to make use of the drugs may not agree with the fact that their players are using them, but at the same time done much to speak out against the use of Sarah Heisler is a researcher who has published a number of articles with regards to steroid use, and even more articles surrounding issues related to professional sports. The journal that published her work focuses on the major issues with regards to social system, from Hollywood to the NFL, and has a lot of experience with regards to controversial topics such as the issue of the use of steroids in professional sports. Lindqvist, A. S. retrospective 30-year follow-up study of former Swedish-elite male athletes in power sports with a past anabolic androgenic steroids use: a focus on mental British Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 47, no. 15, 2013, pp. 965- 969, http://bjsm.bmj.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/content/47/15/986. Accessed 19 Feb. 2016. This article explores the effect of long term use of Andergonic Anabolic Steroids (AAS). Researchers conducted interviews and ran blood tests on users and focused mainly on the mental effects of steroid use. This study is a follow up of a study done 30 years prior, as the same individuals were interviewed. The study focused on Swedish male elite power sport athletes, which included swimmers, wrestlers, and Olympic weightlifters. The study found that 20% of these athletes admitted to using AAS at some point in their lives. The athletes who admitted to using AAS also admitted to taking drugs to combat mental health issues, and the study concluded that a relationship did in fact exist between the use of AAS and mental health stability. Professor Andrew Lindqvist is a researcher with the Swedish government, his former work include working with the British Olympic committee and a professor at Cambridge University. His specialities include psychiatric treatment and his focus is on mental health. While the majority of his work is done with special needs individuals, he is still a credible source with regards to the effect of steroids on professional sports. His study explores a topic that has little to no research. Millman, Robert B. and Nutritional Supplement Use in Professional American journal on Addictions, vol. 12 no. 6, 2003. ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.steroids.2012.11.009 The author begins the article by talking about the two types of supplements available to both athletes, as well as the general public. The two types of supplements include, Anabolic Androgenic steroids and nutritional supplements. Anabolic Androgenic steroids, being the performance enhancing drugs that release unnatural amounts of growth hormones into the human body. Nutritional supplements are seen as supplements used by and the general public uses these too. There is not much regulation in the supplement industry because the FDA is limited in testing new supplements that are brought into the market. The side effects of nutritional supplements are not as dangerous as those of anabolic steroids. For many athletes, whether it be professionals or amateurs they all face serious pressure to excel, but the potential benefit in taking these substances have been shown to outweigh the risks associated with them in the minds of most professional athletes. This is the reason athletes choose to use the drugs in the first place, as the possible glory outweighs the health risks associated with drug use. The author, Robert Millman is an American Physician and professor at the Weil Cornell Medical College. His position as director of the Drug and Alcohol Abuse Treatment and Research Service at New York-Presbyterian Hospital, gave a direct insight on the use of drugs, which included steroids. His research has been referenced in several scientific studies. And he continues to research issues related to drugs in sports. Willick, Stuart E. Sports Medicine Concepts and Controversies: The Anti- Doping Advanced Sports Medicine Concepts and Controversies, vol. 8, no. 3, 6 Mar. 2015. ScienceDirect doi:10.1016/j.pmrj.2015.12.001 The use of or as we know it has been going on since the time of the Greeks. Before the invention of steroids, drugs such as cocaine were used to give athletes the edge over their competitors. Since the death of the first athlete in 1960, committees around the world have done as much as they can to combat the use of They have taken steps by, warning athletes not to use the drugs and educating them of the health risks associated with the use of these illegal substances. Most elite sport competitions have changed the way they test athletes for drugs, as people have learned more and more ways to hide the drugs and prevent the use of them from showing up after tests have been taken. The Olympic Committee has started blood-testing athletes a year in advance of competition and a blood test every month is required in order to be able to participate in the Olympics. The NFL has a very strict policy in place; if any player is found guilty of making use of these band substances they face automatic suspension from the NFL. The author, Stuart Willick, M.D. is a certified sports medicine physician. He spent his entire career working with all types of athletes from the US Bobsled team to speedskaters. He is an elite consultant with the International Olympic committee. He is a credible source as his work entails him to be around athletes and work with different organizations. He has done a lot of research on the use of banned substances and the effects they have on the health of their users. He has formulated new tests that organizations have adopted which will help prevent players that have used banned substances from competing N.A. Drugs and the Olympics - Drugs and the Olympics;  The Economist Business Insights: Essentials, vol. 372, no. 8387, pp. 81-83, 2004 doi:64.803node/3062111. Accessed 29 January 2017 According to the article, by 2004 the use of steroids had affected sports from every angle. Athletes all over the world were being caught for having used the Performance Enhancing Drugs. Major league Baseball had caught a number of its athletes using steroids. President Bush helped spread the word against steroids, using the 2004 State of union address to add the banning of steroids to his attempts in fighting the war of drugs. There were two main arguments against the use of steroids, the first being that by using these drugs athletes were endangering themselves, which is a valid argument, but athletes are put at risk everyday by pushing themselves to the limit. The second argument against the use of steroids is that they uneven the playing field, and this is the argument that appeals to more individuals. The Economist is one of the largest news agencies in the world and while the author of the article is not known, only the most qualified journalists have published with the company. This article deals with the use of steroids and its effect on its users in professional sports; this topic directly ties in with how steroids have affected professional sports.