Orie 1 Shamon Orie Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 12 January 2017 Are Steroids a drug or a necessity for Body Builders Living in a world filled with people that have all types of shapes and sizes, you often see people who almost look unreal. While carrying out everyday activities you may stumble across people who are in good shape and this makes you want to work out more. Other times you find yourself looking at someone and thinking this person is too muscular to the point it makes you uncomfortable. These people have a sport designed just for them known as bodybuilding. Bodybuilding is sport that consist of individuals working out intensely to transform their bodies to have the most muscle possible. athletes take a form of steroids known as anabolic androgen steroids or just anabolic steroids to increase their muscle mass and (Mayo Clinic Staff 1). The use of steroids is a common practice that body builders use to help them grow muscle faster and to enhance their physical attributes. Alpha Pharma is a health care company that is for steroid use and feel they are needed when trying to improve self-image. The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), is a foundation that is against the usage of steroids when it pertains to athletes. (WADA 1). Though both organizations see eye to eye on when it comes to steroids usage their still can be a compromise between both organizations. Orie 2 Positive self-image and beach bodies are common characteristic that individuals who use steroids have. Alpha Pharma is a health care company that view using steroids as a positive way of life. Alpha commitment is improving the quality of life for every individual (Alpha- Pharma 1). Alpha Pharma feel that if steroids make an individual feel better about themselves than they should be entitled to use them. believe that medicine should be available to all people regardless of their location, and affordable for them at any income level such that the cost of medical treatment should not be a concern for any part of the (Alpha-Pharma 1) Alpha Pharma not only view steroids as a positive way of life but they work hand in hand with consumers to make sure steroids are affordable. Alpha Pharma makes using steroids seem simple and makes it easier for customers to feel comfortable using steroids. With promising results and low cost rates, Alpha pharma broadcast steroids in a beautiful light. Steroids improves a physical strength, energy levels increase, recovery time increases, and body fat is reduced in the human body (Effects of Steroids 1). As far as physical appearance, steroids are a go to option because it greatly reduces body fat on a human body. Alpha Pharma realizes the demand for steroids and have shaped their establishment to be the perfect place to receive steroids. Steroids are simply a body builders cheat sheet when competing in bodybuilding tournaments and makes it easier for body builders to gain muscle fast. Arnold Schwarzenegger won Mr. Olympia numerous times, which is a national body building competition. Arnold Schwarzenegger did use steroids but only two months per year. In Fact, your body can never look like Arnolds without drugs no matter how hard you train (Mehdi 1). Famous body builders like Arnold Schwarzenegger, need steroids to win national competitions because without steroids there would be no other natural way to get their bodies like national champion levels. Body builders feel that steroids are essential to the sport and depend on companies like Alpha Pharma to Orie 3 support them. Without companies like Alpha Pharma supporting steroid usage many successful bodybuilders careers would have been drastically impacted. The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), is a foundation that fights against athletes using drugs in sports to enhance their performance. (WADA 1). WADA feel that the usage of steroids in sports gives unfair advantages to users and that it damages their health. Side effects of steroids consist of hair loss, shrinking of testicles, depression or suicidal tendencies, bad breath, high blood pressure and many more side effects (Anderson 1). World Anti-Doping Agency was founded with the aim of bringing consistency to anti-doping policies and regulations within sport organizations and governments right across the (WADA 1). WADA feels that the usage of steroids in sports results is an unfair advantage when playing sports. WADA are aware that steroids have positive effects on the human but feel it greatly impacts a person in a negative way more. The health issues that come with the usage of steroids and other drugs are severe. In order to protect individuals, WADA work yearly to ban certain steroids entirely and in certain sports. The World Anti-Doping Code (Code) is the core document that harmonizes anti-doping policies, rules and regulations within sport organizations around the world. (WADA 4). WADA is the reason why most sports are banned from allowing their athletes to use steroids and with the rise of the harmful health issues bodybuilding could be next. There have also been serious cases where prominent bodybuilders who were active steroid users who completely lost their selves. Gordon Kimbrough, was a well-known builder who life changed forever in 1993. Steroids can change even the gentlest personalities. San Francisco bodybuilder, Gordon Kimbrough was a perfect example. Family members described him as shy but once he started using steroids he turned into a completely different person. In 1993, Gordon snapped and murdered his wife. When police arrived to the scene they saw him trying to kill himself (Jensen 3). Steroid use can Orie 4 have serious effects on a person and can change their life forever. Although steroids have some positive effects on an individual, bodybuilders should avoid steroids to ensure they live a healthy life. The World Anti-Doping Agency works hard to limit steroid use and ban them from sports because they know the deadly power steroids have on humans. Companies like WADA feel that using steroids in sports are unfair and that they overall dangerous. Major companies such as Alpha Pharma and the World Anti-Doping (WADA) have different views on athletes using steroids. Steroids have both positive and negative effects on their users. biggest problem concerning the association of drugs with sports, was the disorganization surrounding the various testing policies, governing bodies and sports authorities, a state that would often result in differences of opinion on policy, sanction, definition and the procedures used and to what extent as they related to the use of and testing for certain (Robinson 1) The deeper issue is that individuals who use steroids have no guidance and this could lead to abusive and harmful usage. There can be a compromise on whether body builders should be allowed to use steroids or not. Body builders should be able to use steroids but there should be restrictions on how much body builders can use. Every body builder should be assigned to their own personal doctor and this doctor would monitor how much steroids the body builder intakes. When body builders undergo side effects the doctors would be there to help them cope through the difficulties and give them the proper medication needed. If body builders exceed their limit of steroid intake they should be fined or punished in some way. Through monitored steroid intake, this will limit the horrific tragedies that steroid usage can lead to and also result in fair competition amongst bodybuilders. In conclusion, body building is a sport that involves intense training that leads to massive full body muscle growth. Many body builders use steroids to help grow their muscles at fast Orie 5 rates, increase recovery time, and to reduce body fat. These positives that result from body building attract many body builders but there are many negative side effects to body building. Steroids can lead to major health issues and causes individuals minds to be damaged for the rest of their lives. Though, steroids have more negative effects long term on an individual there can be a compromise where a body builder would be limited on how much steroid intake they could practice. Works Cited 10 Bodybuilders Who Went Too  CraveOnline. 16 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Anabolic Steroids - Abuse, Side Effects and  Drugs.com. Drugs.com. Web. 29 Jan. Orie 6 Mehdi. To Guys Who Think That Arnold Got Big with  STRONGLIFTS. N.p., 04 June 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Effects of  Effects of Steroids - Positive and Negative Side Effects. Web. 29Jan.2017 Performance-enhancing Drugs: Know the  Mayo Clinic. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Alpha-Pharma. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. World Anti-Doping  World AntiDoping Agency. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. David Robson. Drugs In Bodybuilding: An View On The Effects Of  Bodybuilding.com. N.p., 05 Aug. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.