Su 1 Yang Su ENC1102.106S17 Sarah Basil 1/29/2017 Environment or Economy Since the 21st century, many developing countries in order to develop national economy destroy and pollute their environment the fog haze, dust storms and other natural disasters emerge in endlessly. Lead to living environment are going to terrible by now. China is one of the most serious countries. But there also have a lot of people accept this kind of developing, because it can bring a lot of benefits for them. It can create more jobs for people to improve the employment rate. Caused by industrial pollution haze is becoming more and more serious in China, there have a contradiction between environmental protection and industrial development. The Chinese government has to make a correct decision between these two choice. The first choice is developing economy. People who want to develop economy think economy represents the level of development of a country. If a country develop economy well, the country usually get more recognition. However, Those who prefer to protect environment believe that having a good environment is the most important thing for the country. Do not stop developing economy and protecting the environment seems impossible task. The Chinese government must protect the environment in the first place. The first stakeholder is people who want to develop environment. having a good environment for a country is conducive to develop economy better. the Dome is a documentary made by a famous news reporter names Jing Chai in China. The video is recording Su 2 from the winter of 2013, northeastern China and northern China a large area of haze talking about air pollution in mainland, the relevant governance and the existence of administrative omission. This video describes the haze definition, hazards and causes and how we do, put forward the seven people can do environmental protection measures. In early 2013, Jing Chai pregnant, and her unborn child was diagnosed with benign tumor, need surgery after birth, coupled with increasing public attention in recent years, air pollution problems, so Chai Jing began the investigation of haze. (Jing Chai) In this documentary she Referred to the Los Angeles (once occurred photochemical smog event) and London (London smoke occurred) and how are they resolved that natural disasters. In this video referring to the many government officer are nonfeasance and there are many goods do not meet international standards, such as the gas. Unfortunately this video banned by the Chinese government. The official reason was given is that part of the data in the video is draw up. In my opinion, the reason of banned this video is in order avoid panic in public. Beijing is capital of China, and there also is suffering most serious fog area. Red alert is highest level in four tier system for air pollution warnings. Beijing in the fourth quarter alone, there are 23 days was red alert in 2015. Even extraordinary for a few days.(Ma Xuejie)When speaking about PM2.5, the harmful particles found in smog, greater the particle diameter, the poorer the experts said. Now Beijing government set out a policy, in order to protect environment. From April 14, 2014, Beijing began to limited Numbers to driving. Mon-Fri Limitation Vehicle license plate tail numbers are: 5 and 0, 1 and 6, 2 and 7, 3 and 8, 4 and 9, respectively. On the one hand is to reduce traffic congestion on the other hand is to reduce car pollution to the environment. I Su 3 basically agree with this policy, but as the protect environment way is not enough. I think Chinese government should improve the gas quality, not only find question from citizens. The second stakeholder is people who prefer developing economy. Developing economy is the most important thing for a country. if a country have a good environment but the economy is not good, people believe that cannot explain anything. In recent years, as every knows, China became one of the fastest growing countries around the world. rapid development at the rate of annual growth of nine percent of GDP. Industry has made a great contribution for development. Some cities in northeastern China is give priority to with heavy industry. In that area more than fifty percent of workers are related to industrial. So environment pollution is inevitable. How to solve the contradiction between the industrial development and environmental protection has become the problem for the government. Chinese government suggest that, slow development speed, close the factory which pollution is more serious and transformation to others such as service industry. For those backbone enterprises, purchase environmental protection equipment. The maximum reduce unemployment and environmental pollution. People who are likely to protect environment really disagree that country should develop economy first. If a country want to improve economy, doing heavy industry may be a great idea. However, heavy industry pollute seriously environment. For example, some cities like Dongbei, Shandong, etc, develop heavy industry. Even though these cities have a great level of economy development, the environment also is the most serious problem. China should have a warning many years ago when an environment problem was happened in London. In 1952, a mysterious fog swept through London, covering the dense layer of contaminants, At the point when the haze initially moved through in December of 1952, Su 4 inhabitants took little notice; hazes have since quite a while ago encompassed the city. Be that as it may, in the days to take after, perceivability was decreased to only three feet in a few zones, transportation was closed down, and a great many individuals experienced breathing issues. After the overwhelming occasion, it was suspected that no less than 4,000 individuals had kicked the bucket, alongside a great many creatures, and more than 150,000 individuals were hospitalized.(Cheyenne) The nation has encountered huge modern and assembling development in the course of recent decades, and the emanations to a great extent originate from power plants, vehicles, and manures. distinction in China is that the fog begins from much littler nanoparticles, and the sulfate arrangement process is just conceivable with smelling salts to kill the Zhang said. Although composition of haze and fog in London is not exactly the same, but the cause is same, the reason is caused by pollution. London government ordered to reduce pollution emissions and has obtained the good effect. I think the Chinese government can learn from them, it might be a good method. Now people who live in the northeast of China are suffering serious smog, it has affected life. The blue sky is kind of wild wish for the children. Everyone could not see each face, because they must wear surgical masks. My hometown is place in serious smog area. Every time I sent picture about weather to my family, they admire and miss, because in a dozen years ago my hometown also has the blue sky. I hope that the Chinese government attaches great importance to the environmental pollution. Nobody can accept their children live in a gray world. Now we know the real harm of fog, maybe a few year in the future people are getting sick because of the fog. Protecting the environment is Su 5 responsibility, Chinese government also should strengthen the environmental education, let every citizen has the consciousness of protecting the environment. Su 6 Works Cited Dailymail.com, Cheyenne Macdonald For. Mystery of killer fog solved: Researchers reveal how chemicals combined to form acidic haze that killed 12,000 in  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Li Song. Capital to cut number of license  Capital to cut number of license plates - China - Chinadaily.com.cn. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mailonline, Sophie Williams For. China issues first-ever national red alert for fog as air pollution continues to smother parts of the  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 06 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Magnier, Mark. Economic Growth in 2015 Is Slowest in 25  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 19 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tharoor, Ishaan (3 March 2015). biggest viral video right now is this two-hour-long documentary on The Washington Post. Retrieved 3 March 2015. Wildau, Gabriel (2 March 2015). Smog film captivates Chinese . Financial Times. Retrieved 3 March 2015.