Lloyd-Gage 1 Marissa Lloyd-Gage Kirsten Gocinski ENC 1102-078 15 February 2017 Common Core Controversy The future of America depends on the education of our future leaders, and that is something everyone can agree on. Common core is a system designed to ensure consistency throughout education in America. This system sets expectations of what each student should know at the end of each grade level in regards to reading and math. Standardized testing is used to ensure requirements are met. The goal of common core is to prepare each and every student for life beyond high school, whether it be college or the work force. Organizations such as Parents Against Common Core (PAAC) argue that common core is too generalized and does not accommodate for all learning levels. This organization believes that education paths should be designed according to different learning paces and unique to each student. On the other hand, the National Education Association argues that common core will allow equal opportunities for all students to learn at the same pace and level and is therefor beneficial and fair. While the PAAC desires a new education system, and the NEA stands with common core, both parties can agree that in order for children to one day reach their highest potential, education is priority. The PAAC and the NEA should come to a compromise that will allow both quality and fair education to all students. One way both parties can come together is if we allow more individualized learning while keeping learning goals and expectations for each grade level. Lloyd-Gage 2 As common core standards spread throughout the United States, disapproval spreads equally. Parents Against Common Core (PAAC) is an organization of parents that do not believe common core is beneficial to their children. Their mission statement mentions a quote from the Declaration of Independence, we are all created equal, endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights, and among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of There is no greater provider of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness than a quality education. Together, Parents Against the Common Core (. . .) will continue to support and nourish the successful efforts of anti-Common Core citizen (About Us). Parents Against Common Core works alongside American Principles in Action to fight for what they believe is fair education, which does not involve the government regulating what is taught to children. Instead, PAAC believes that it should be the right to govern the education of their (About Us). Teachers should be able to make their lesson plans based on their what they believe their students are capable of learning next. Director of Harvard School Program on Education Policy and Governance, Paul E. Peterson, wrote an article on the results of a survey taken over the years on the support of common core. The survey asked the general public, democrats, republicans, and teachers whether they support the use of common core in their respective states each year from 2012 to 2016. Results of the survey are shown on a time graph that indicates decreased support from all parties. The PAAC is against the idea of education standards being in the hands of the government. national standards and tests of student performance against those standards gather broader public backing than do the specific sets of standards and tests known as the Common (Peterson 17). This supports the idea of Parents Against Common Core that education must be put back into the hands of teachers, Lloyd-Gage 3 students, and parents, rather than the government providing specific guidelines to teach students. While there are protestors, like Parents Against Common Core, supporters of common core are also fighting for what they believe is fair education. Common Core has become the go-to form of education in many of the United States since Barack presidency. The National Education Association (NEA) supports the use of common core as they believe these standards have potential to provide access to a complete and challenging education for all children (. . .) provides educators with more manageable curriculum (Our Position & Actions, NEA). Temple A. Walkowiak, Assistant Professor of Mathematics Education, wrote an article called, Information Is A Common Core Dish Best Served First: Engage Parents With Information About The Common Core That Dispels The Myths And Helps Keep Students  in support of common core that explains why parents should get on board with these standards. In the article, Walkowiak explains that parents are not understanding of the new system simply because it was different for them as children. She explains that we must, parents on the truths of Common Core (. . .), Harness the power of videos posted on your school/ classroom web site and/or social media news feed (. . .), Engage parents and community to build a math (Walkowiak 63) in order to get everyone on board with the common core system, parents should take the time to educate themselves on this new form of education via videos, news, etc. With this, parents will be able to better understand what is being taught to their children and allow them to help their children with homework. This article proposes that it is not the standards that are the problem, but the lack of understanding that common core is beneficial in providing equal opportunities for all students to learn at a common pace. Lloyd-Gage 4 Although some are for and some are against common core, everyone can agree that education is crucial in raising successful children. Both Parents Against Common Core and the National Education Association express their beliefs in the importance of education for each and every child. Weighing the pros and cons of common core, all stakeholders must keep in mind that without a quality education for all students, the future of America is at risk. One side says that government regulations are too strict and too narrow as the other side believes that government mandated standards will make for a fair way to educate students. However, to provide great education, meeting in the middle is the best option. One of the biggest keys to the success of America has always been compromise. Our Declaration of Independence states that men are created However, both supporters and protestors of common core take this differently. Parents Against Common Core believes that common core does not represent equality but represents restriction. On the other hand, the National Education Association believes that common core represents equality by providing all participating students with an education that is the same as others. Parties can meet in the middle by providing an education that is the same for all students, so that no one is left behind, but also making the system more flexible for students to learn in a way that is personally beneficial, since everyone has a different way of learning. In the article With Mathematics: How Play Supports Learning and the Common Core State Jennifer Mary Zosh proposes a way for schools to educate their students in a way that is individually flexible but also focuses on the necessary material. learning addresses learning goals through a variety of child-directed play methods, including free play and guided (Zosh 45-46). She explains that the guided play method allows students to interact with an adult through play while the instructor incorporates teachings in the game or Lloyd-Gage 5 activity, whether it be done in groups or individually. This method is a great middle ground because it will accommodate for both the beliefs of Parents Against Common Core and the National Education Association, allowing education to be put in the hands of educators while incorporating learning standards. This system will work for all ages because it does not necessarily have to be but any method that makes learning more interesting for students. Teachers will not have to be certified in this form of education, but they must be able to think outside of the standardized box. Incorporating play in education allows learning goals to be met, in favor of the NEA, while paving an individualized path in learning for the PAAC. In the constantly growing country of the United States of America, the common core controversy has become a rising issue. The question is whether common core is useful in providing a fair, quality education to students. Parents Against Common Core believes that common core is too narrow and an unfair mean of education. On the other hand, the National Education Association believes that common core provides equal opportunities for all students to obtain education at their respective levels. However, both stakeholders believe that education is the most important aspect in raising the future leaders of the world. Parents Against Common Core and the National Education Association can meet in the middle by individualizing education while incorporating common learning goals. One way to accomplish this goal is to incorporate play in learning, which will accommodate for all learning levels and needs while getting necessary information across. Works Cited About Us Parents Against the Common  Parents Against the Common Core. Web. https://parentsagainstthecommoncore.com/about/ Our Position &  NEA. Web. http://www.nea.org/home/56614.htm Peterson, Paul; et al, COMMON CORE BRAND TAINTS OPINION ON STANDARDS. (Cover  Education Next 17.1 (2017): 8-17. Education Source, Web, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e6184470- 85af-4f3d-9831-2170227c6bc4%40sessionmgr103&vid=2&hid=111 Walkowiak, Temple A. Information Is A Common Core Dish Best Served First: Engage Parents With Information About The Common Core That Dispels The Myths And Helps Keep Students  Phi Delta Kappan 2 (2015): Academic OneFile, Web, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=98fa49ec- 57b0-4b4c-8f31-d910f02831ef%40sessionmgr104&vid=0&hid=111 Zosh, Jennifer Mary, et al. Playing With Mathematics: How Play Supports Learning And The Common Core State , Journal Of Mathematics Education At Teachers College 7.1 (2016): 45-49, Education Source, Web, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=9f09c311- f62c-4902-999d-a8d769022bf5%40sessionmgr4009&vid=0&hid=4205