Alshamsi1 Rashed Alshamsi Nancy Carr ENC1101 19 of February 2017 The Development of The Computer Generation There will be three parts of this project. First, talking about the development of computers in history it means talking about the developments of computer generations. Till now, there are five computer generations. Second, since 1940s computer generations are upgrading so this part will address the up-gradation process throughout history. Each generation changed the way in which people used computers. From as early as 1940 until present day, computers have become more effective and reliable for human beings. With each generation, size, performance, and price of these devices have become small, efficient, and cheaper. This was the technological part. Third and the last part will be the negative impacts of computers on our daily life. This part will address the inevitable possibility for the wrong use of this powerful device. Like human nature is good as well as bad, in the hands of a human either he uses computer for a good purpose or a bad purpose. We all know most of the good uses of computers but in this project the pessimistic approach will be used to analyze the up-gradation of computer and impacts on human life in a negative way. This will be the socialistic part. Moreover, I have summarized two sources about the development of the computer generation, and the first one is about the depression test the computer doing to us. On the other hand, is the development of the trust in computer and I have chosen for my argumentive essay is the development of the trust in social media because it has been a major issue in our generation. Alshamsi2 Work cited Herbert, F. Janine, B. Otto B. Walter. J B. Bjorner. Burghard F. Klapp, & Matthias R. (2005). Development of a Computer-Adaptive Test for Depression (D-CAT). Quality of Life Research, (10). 2277. As society is going towards advancement, people are facing major health problems. People have a really busy and unhealthy lifestyle as compare to old ages. Due to stress and burden of work, depression is a basic problem many people facing now days. Depression is one of the brain problem, this society is facing. Even a research shows that children under the age of 15 are facing this type of issues these days. Depression measurement was not possible in past but current era demands such technology that can match with human emotions and solve the mysteries of human mind. Computer Adaptive Tests (CAT) based on Item Response Theory (IRT) are aimed to measure such depression levels on a precise scale. This article is about Depression Computer Adaptive Test that can measure depression on a precise level. This is the advancement of computer technology with the passage of time and growing technological advancement in the computer generations. This shows that how computers can be beneficial for humane purpose. Medical revolution can take place if advancement will go on with the same rate. CAT was used by many other departments in past but use of CAT for understanding the results of human minds is a whole new level. Alshamsi3 Wilson, J. M., Straus, S. G., & Mc Evily, B. (2006). All in due time: The development of trust in computer-mediated and face-to-face teams. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 9916-33. doi: 10.1016/j.obhdp.2005.08.001. Advancement in computer technology specially in terms of generations of computers is an important part of this project. With the passage of time computers are proving to be an alternative to the face to face interactions among people. More than half of the world is now connected via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, snapchat, etc. This article is about an experiment about how much of it is true that people are relying on technology for interacting each other. Traveling is now not essential for seeing someone you can simply use skype or any face-time app to do so. So, advancement in computers has not only changed the society in one way it has a deep impact on the way people were living in past, on a way how people were thinking in the past. This article used the study of face to face team and virtual team by different experiments. The results were mixed with both face to face and virtual interaction liked by teams. But the question here is that how much computers are essential. Will there be a time in future when people will only interact with each other via technology or virtual means? If so, this part of project will address this question. Alshamsi4 Young S. Kimberly. Abreu de Nabuco Cristiano (2011). Internet Addiction: A Handbook and Guide to Evaluation and Treatment. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey. Internet addiction: A Handbook and Guide to evaluation and treatment provides a look into current mode of internet addiction like gaming, gambling, and cybersex addiction. Authors deserve praise for providing such comprehensive view of the current situation. In this modern world, internet is taking grip on societies. With the concept of Internet of Things, we cannot find a person who is not connected to internet in one way or another. Human psyche is so complex they become addicted to human beings when they spend too much time with them so how can a person prevent from being addicted to computer and internet if he is spending half of is day on computer. This book has 15 chapters. From the first chapter of models in which authors try to justify addiction of internet with various models to the 15th and last chapter in which they discussed future implications of internet addiction. This book is beautifully written and can help in last section of this project because without internet computers are nothing today. So, internet addiction will be included in the social impact section of this project. This book will also help to device future plans for treatment of this new addiction. Alshamsi5 Rosenberg S. Richard. (2004). The Social Impacts of Computers (3 rd edition). Academic Press Professional, Inc. San Diego, CA, USA. The Social Impacts of Computers by Richard S. Rosenberg is a book that highlights the impacts of technological advancement in the field of computers on society. This book helps the readers to understand how computers become essential for humans and how every field is affected by technology in contemporary era. Computer is a manmade technology for the purpose of easing workload. But where there is a good side of everything there is a bad too. Even security of humans is now dependent of computer systems. This is an alarming situation for humans. This book is also divided into different parts. From the history, social impact of computers to role of current governments in technology race, the use of computer for insecurity of enemies, and cybercrimes. Author gives a clear view about the use of computer for negative purposes. In most of the cases, he also wrote about the solutions to these problems but third part of this project is about analyzing negative impacts of computers so we will take certain parts from this book. Humans can be easily manipulated. Some scholars think that technology is taking control of the world in a negative sense. That is what this project is going to draw from this source for last part. Alshamsi6 Sixth Generation of Computers (AI). (Jul. 17, 2011). In Technology Warehouse. Retrieved from http://www.techiwarehouse.com/engine/a7ad8fdd/Sixth-Generation-of-Computers- (Artificial-Intelligence). This article is published on an online technological website having many such useful articles. This article is about the sixth generation of computers that is Artificial Intelligence. As the world is growing faster day by day technology is the reason behind all of this. Where there are humans there is always a desire. That desire in this era is to expand technology beyond limits. Computer technology is already on the skies. Latest developments are made on daily bases. In the presence of famous technology industries, the competition is tough in market. The latest changes are occurring in technologies on an alarming rate. This article will help in this project by providing the information about latest technological advancement in the fields of computer science. This will also help in understanding that what is going to happen in future. No one has seen the future yet only predictions can be made. What we are experiencing today in the form of Siri, Cortana and Google Assistance all of these AIs are connected to the sixth-generation technology of computers and tech giants are racing each other for improvements in these AIs. This article will be like a cherry on the top of all this project. Alshamsi7 Campbell-Kelly, Martin.; Aspray, William. (2014). Computer: A history of Information Machine- The Solon Technology Series(3 rd edition). Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press. Computer: A history of Information Machine is a book written by Martin Campbell Kelly and William Aspray that was first published in 1996. This book is one of the most understandable and effective book for studying the history of computer generations. It not only tells the reader about the generations of computer but helps understanding the way computer effect the lives in old times. It tells the readers about that time when computer was a miracle for human beings. Basically, it is divided into four parts each of it contains a separate aspect of computers throughout history. First part is about the life before computers exist. Authors wrote about the paper era when only source of storage was paper in ever place. Then the dream of making the computer was created. Second part is all about the creation of computers it is all about how computer came into existence and what was the first form of computer. Third and the most important part that contains the data we will be using in this project is about innovation and expansion of computers. Fourth and last part is about personal uses of computer, this will be used in the third part of project that is about social aspects of computers.