Vanessa Torres Instructor Carr ENC 1101 02/19/2017 Title: Reasons for Neonatal Nursing Everyday people casual walk through their day asking themselves simple questions like what should I wear to school today, what homework do I have due tomorrow, or what should I eat for lunch? I am not here to ask simple questions though, I am here to ask why babies are born prematurely? What are the contributing factors that cause a child be be born before the due date? What does the mother or genes do wrong? See these question are not simple ones that everyone would ask themselves on the daily, and quite frankly they are not questions I can answer as easily as the other questions. Historically dating back from to now premature babies birth rates have increased a third percent. Prematurity was not as common as they are now a day and there are many contributing factors behind the change in these rates. Some factors include medical advances, socio-economic level, congenital anomalies, multiple births at once, maternal diseases, and a lot of premature babies are born prematurely for unknown reasons. With all the possibilities of babies being born prematurely let known to mothers maybe they can do something within their control to prevent their children from being born before the 40 week mark. Oftedal, A., Busterud, K., Irgens, L. M., Haug, K., & Rasmussen, S. (2016). Socio-economic risk factors for preterm birth in Norway Scandinavian Journal Of Public Health , (6), 587-592. Preterm birth is greatly affected by socio-economic factor and new medical inventions. Based off of a study completed by Anne-Marie Oftedal, Kari Busterud, Lorentz Irgens, Kjell Haug, and Svein Rasmussen in Norway, medical inventions such as induction of labour, caesarean section, and an increase in multiple births resulting from in vitro fertilization is a contributing factor to premature births. Also mother who are single,and have low maternal education have been more associated with preterm births then a mother who is married, and have high maternal education. The study also concluded that in many countries there is a connection between ethnicity and premature babies. Immigrant groups tend to have an increased risk of premature babies compared to a stable family in their country. Lastly, Anne-Marie Oftedal connects cigarette smoking, maternal age, and parity to preterm babies. With regards to maternal age- if a younger female was to give birth to multiple babies at once she would have a high risk of having preterm babies, and if an older woman decides to be a mother for the first time when her biological clock has already ticked, she too has a greater risk of having a preterm baby. Anne-Marie Oftedal, Kari Busterud, Lorentz Irgens, Kjell Haug, and Svein Rasmussen study is very relevant to my topic question of what are common reasons why babies are born prematurely, because of all the valid reason provided to me that I know are credible based off of all the scholarly people whom studied, and they provided visual graphs to support the information that was provided during the course of reading this article. Also this information has denotation that will take anyone directly to the study that is backing up what is being told. The reason listed are also understandably correct because of what they mean medically, like is a medical term meaning complication at or before birth, which directly correlates to having a child being born prematurely which is a complication. Patel, R. M., Kandefer, S., Walsh, M. C., Bell, E. F., Carlo, W. A., Laptook, A. R., & ... Stoll, B. J. (2015). Original Article: Causes and Timing of Death in Extremely Premature Infants from 2000 through 2011. New England Journal Of Medicine , 372331-340. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1403489 Dr. Ravi M. Patel and his fellow doctors and nurses tell us that the babies that were born prematurely and ended up dying right away was due most frequently to the baby not being mature enough, and that faced difficulties like respiratory distress syndrome or infections like bronchopulmonary. Then Dr. Patel continues to deaths among premature babies after 12 hours of being born, and he says that these preterm babies also have the same problems of immaturity, and sadly the babies who were not intubated within 12 hours after being prematurely born die as well. In relation to the previous article called risk factors for preterm birth in preterm babies mainly was caused by congenital anomalies, and Dr.Patel includes necrotizing enterocolitis. The article Article: Causes and Timing of Death in Extremely Premature Infants from 2000 through 2011 was a very interesting read, and allowed me to better understand how time plays its role in babies being born prematurely. One if the baby does not develop fully in the 9 months time frame being in the womb , then is comes out immature and facing many complication such as one born prematurely would face. Secondly helped me understand how quickly death can come to a premature baby and what are the reasons for the death. The credibility based off the source information at the end of the article. All of the sources are from Pediatric Departments from all over like Emory University School of Medicine and Health of Atlanta, Department of Pediatric of University of Iowa, the Division of Neonatology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, etc,. The time frames, cause, and the proportion of death of premature babies is also very clearly graphed, and the overall cause of deaths among extremely premature babies is given to us in a table that had denotation that helps us to further understand what is being presented to us, and over all the information has support to back it up at the end of the article, and the site is scholarly. Batieha, A. M., Khader, Y. S., Berdzuli, N., Chua-Oon, C., Badran, E. F., Al-sheyab, N. A., & Al-Qutob, R. J. (2016). Level, causes and risk factors of neonatal mortality, in Jordan: Results of a national prospective study. And Child Health Journal , (5), 1061-1071. doi:10.1007/s10995-015-1892-x Anwar M. Batieha, Yousef S. Khader, Nino Berdzuli et al. explain neonatal deaths that are preventable, possibly preventable, and not preventable at all. Discussing statistics like 79% of all neonatal deaths are within the first week of being born, and 46% are within the first day. Most of these deaths occurred 27.2% by congenital anomalies, 26% by multiple births, or 21.7% unexplained immaturity. Some other causes included maternal diseases by 6.7%, specific infant conditions by 6.4%, and 4.9% unexplained asphyxia. One of the tables that was provided to us with information regarding the causes of babies being born premature shared information that congenital heart disease accounted for 25.8% of congenital deaths also showed us that pre-eclampsia accounted for more than 75% of the deaths in the category of and lastly the table from study showed us that sepsis was 70% the cause with regards to infant and 50% were due to milk aspirations in the category of The last table provided regarding causes told us how respiratory distress syndrome was the leading cause of death in premature babies. Anwar M. Batieha, Yousef S. Khader, Nino Berdzuli et al were one of the more respectable studies because a panel of experts such as neonatologist, a gynecologist, an epidemiologist, and a biostatistician reviewed all the information discovered, and decided the direct/underlying factors of neonatal deaths. Also throughout the presentation of the information regarding the causes behind premature babies, and the mortality rates readers were provided with statistical proof, tables that provide the information stated in paragraph before it in the table, and everything was very well organized therefore a lot of thought had to be put behind each heading/subheading. Simmons, L. E., Rubens, C. E., Darmstadt, G. L., & Gravett, M. G. (2010). Preventing Preterm Birth and Neonatal Mortality: Exploring the Epidemiology, Causes, and Interventions. Seminars In Perinatology , (Global Perinatal Health), 408-415. doi:10.1053/j.semperi.2010.09.005 Dr. Simmons, Dr. Rubens, Dr. Darmstadt, and Dr. Gravett inform their readers very well that the reasons why babies are born prematurely vary vastly! Some of the reasons for preterm babies are where they are born, for example babies born in least developed regions of the world like Africa have greater counts of babies born prematurely. Though the regions matter, there are many motherly issues that can lead to preterm babies like genetic connective tissue disorder, vitamin C deficiency, tobacco use, short cervix, intrauterine infection, preterm premature rupture of the fetal membranes, previous cervical surgery or laceration, multiple gestation, also being medically induced. Readers also learned from these doctors that malaria can affect fetal growth, stress increases preterm births rates drastically, and environmental factors such as air pollutants like carbon monoxide, lead, and soiled fuels that people use to cook in their homes everyday, but if that home if poorly ventilated then the pregnant mother is just inhaling the harmful chemicals. Overall Dr. Simmons, Dr. Rubens, Dr. Darmstadt, and Dr. Gravett presented an extremely interesting read, and provided so much relevant information to my topic regarding common reasons why babies are born prematurely. Many would have never known if it was not for Dr. Simmons, Dr. Rubens, Dr. Darmstadt, and Dr. Gravett that malaria and air pollutants are contributing factors to babies being born prematurely. Throughout the study Dr. Simmons, Dr. Rubens, Dr. Darmstadt, and Dr. Gravett provided with statistical proof, figures, and tables that allows to visually related all the possible reasons for neonatal death, and preterm labor and delivery into a diagram. Overall the information was connected to my research topic, and was supported by other credible articles, and people. Tsimis, M., Lei, J., McLane, M., Arif, H., Xie, L., Eloundou, S., & ... Burd, I. (2017). 330: Chronic increase in maternal systemic causes preterm birth, decreased pup survival and leads to neurodevelopmental sequelae. Journal Of Obstetrics & Gynecology , 216 S200. doi:10.1016/j.ajog.2016.11.588 Very straightforward topic and research process occurred by Michael Tsimis, Jun Lei, Michael McLane et al. , to informed readers that Chronic exposure led to 26% increase in preterm birth. The process occurred by observation and an analytical perspective of preterm birth occurrence after receiving either no injection, injection of phosphate buffered saline, or injection of mouse recombinant for four days in a row. Also let readers learn that this is one of the first studies done regarding and its connection to preterm births. The connection was made clear that the two do relate, but also relates to perinatal brain injury. The information provided in this research by Michael Tsimis, Jun Lei, Michael McLane et al. project further let readers understand some contributing factors to preterm births, and this corroletected to my topic of what are some reasons why babies are born prematurely. Also found the information by Michael Tsimis, Jun Lei, Michael McLane et al. to be credible because all of the information was very relevant, specific, and the readers were able to look at logical figures that helped them further understand the research topic visually. Masho, S. W., Munn, M. S., & Archer, P. W. (2014). Multilevel factors influencing preterm birth in an urban setting. Planning & Transport Research , (1), 36. doi:10.1080/21650020.2014.896223 The preterm rates amongst non-Hispanic African American women is about 58% more compared to non-Hispanic White counterparts, but it is proven that amongst all ethnicity those in poverty or low-income experience high rates of preterm babies being born. This was discovered by individual level factors being thoroughly examined like race, ethnicity, education, and age. Dr. Masho, Dr. Munn, and Dr. Archer explained how mothers who experience pregnancy complications had an issue with one of the following: diabetes, hypertension, eclampsia, incompetent cervix, anemia, or maternal infection. Whites tend to have an issue with nulliparity in relations to preterm births unlike blacks. African Americans tend to have issues correlating with preterm births with increasing maternal age, maternal smoking, and previous birthing. Those women in poverty environments are likely to experience preterm births because have high levels of stress, and inability to afford prenatal care. Understandable a very informative piece by Dr. Masho, Dr. Munn, and Dr. Archer that not only provided support, but answers as to what are common reasons why babies are born prematurely. Furthermore they go into details of how of multifactorial preterm births are. Dr. Masho, Dr. Munn, and Dr. Archer helps their readers by telling them how race, ethnicity, economic status, and maternal issues all correlate to preterm births. Dr. Masho, Dr. Munn, and Dr. Archer seem to be credible because they included direct denotations to other articles that supported their claims being made. Dr. Masho, Dr. Munn, and Dr. Archer also made sure to include quantitative information that was valuable and relevant to the rates of preterm births, and allowed the readers to really understand how much really plays a role into preterm births.