Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 26, January, 2017 P1 Final Draft There are many controversies that are discussed heavily in the world; some that may be argued scientifically and others logically. Stating that, the question many individuals have is is climate change and does it really affect We will examine climate change and the negative effects it is having in our environment by researching through valid and credible sources that can gives us the right answers to this question. This topic has been researched and examined for many years by many scientists, politicians, environmentalists, etc. Through research and citing, we will discuss this point and examine the history of how drastically the climate has altered over the past few centuries. In essence, the researched gathered, gives us plenty of information and data that solidifies the causes and effects of climate change on the world which will gives us plenty of credible answers to our question. Inconvenient Dir. Davis Guggenheim. Prod. Laurie David, Lawrence Bender, and Scott Z. Burns. Perf. Al Gore. Paramount Pictures Corp., 2006. To begin, through the abundance of research presented by many sources, the one constant data figure that stood out the most is the levels of carbon dioxide being released into the atmosphere. According to Al book and documentary Inconvenient Truth over the years the unethical trend of carbon dioxide correlates with the rising temperatures of the Earth He states, temperatures are intensifying and in fact the ten hottest years occurred over the fourteen-year span dating back from It became more evident when we look back at the year of 2005; as many catastrophes such as typhoons, hurricanes and tornadoes reached an all-time high. This source does a great job of allowing audiences to visualize the drastic changes over the past few decades. is because it gives us a detailed portrayal rather than an article with data filled numbers. He provides in depth, credible information that supports the research question by displaying data that reflects the causes of climate change and if we as a society are doing anything to reduce the toll. Impacts on  GlobalChange.gov. U.S Global Change Program, 11 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Furthermore, as the effects of climate change becomes more prevalent, Society faces tough decisions about what methods work best to prevent and reduce the harm. The U.S. Global Change Research Program has worked tirelessly to find solutions. In fact, in 2013, President Obama, signed off on an inclusive Climate Action Plan for the U.S. Government to reduce carbon pollution, provide climate preparedness tools and information, and lead international efforts to address climate change. This governmental organization directly addresses the notion of our question in what we are doing to help the issue. Their site mentions that the work is carried out by 13 agencies, where each has its own distinct roles. This in itself gives us reason to believe that we are off to a great start and we are getting closer to finding solutions to the issue. The credibility of the organization is not to be discredited as it has surfaced through many of the top governmental officials in our country. The reason I bring it up, is because they allow us to see the work that is indeed being done to help the issue. The site mentions, that these and other aspects of climate change are having increasingly complex and important impacts on the American economy and quality of In reading that, we as a society can understand the complexity with this issue and the amount of work put it that is required. Sass, Ronald. Global Climate Change. Houston: Rice, 2014. Ronald Sass / Chris Bronk. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. There are frequently asked questions regarding climate change that reflect on the overall research question. Thus there are limited and certain sources that give valid information and data that can support our research question. Climate text from Rice University written by Chris Bronk and Ronald Sass, is a perfect example of a source that has updated information and data that has been thoroughly examined to explain climate change and how it takes an effect on us. Chris Bronk and Ronald Sass gives us very detailed explanations on how the trend of climate change has become more evident over the years and what has actually been happening that not many people recognize and take for granted. They also describe the real cause of climate change by the types of patterns that climate change leaves every year. Climate connects to the overall research question mainly by displaying the research done to verify that climate change is legit and continuously affects us on a yearly basis. of the ten warmest years ever recorded occurred during the past decade /other changes in climate have been observed such as precipitation patterns, droughts, floods, storm intensity and polar and glacial (ch.3 pg5 Bronk/Sass) Again this text clearly displays the different reasons why and how climate change takes a toll on us and the earth thus has the credibility to be a reliable source to the research question. Archer, David, and Stefan Rahmstorf. The Climate Crisis: An Introductory Guide to Climate Change. New York: Cambridge UP, 2010. Print. With all the research done and examined, climate change is observed and explained neatly by David Archer in his book Climate in which he displays all of the data collected into graphs and scales that were noted throughout the past decades to distinguish and compare them to updated recent data. Archer, one of the U.S highly intelligent computational ocean chemist, gives us a guide that demonstrates how climate change began and how it evolved over the years and how much of an effect we as humans changed the trends of climate change. Archer included many organizations and scientific information from upper level groups that investigated climate change over the years and credited them and their work to support his similar findings. In the reading Archer thoroughly defines what climate change outlines; climate change or global warming is complex however it consists of the different patterns of weather that drastically take effect on our (235) Climate is another source that I read and found very interesting because of the respected and valuable information put forth by Archer that led to many of the answers to what climate change really is. Therefore, Climate by David Archer solidifies as a credible source that goes in-depth with many observations and conclusions regarding climate change. University of South Florida, Tampa Library, GIS Unit, Coastal Areas Climate Change Education (CACCE) Educational  (2011). 02 Feb. 2017 This additional source I happened to find takes on a different perspective towards our knowledge and recognition about climate change. This source is a devoted program that to establish a coordinated national network of regionally- or thematically-based partnerships devoted to increasing the adoption of effective, high quality educational programs and resources related to the science of climate change and its Furthermore, their goals are to create a new generation of individuals to become scientists, climate engineers and technicians that can innovate and mitigate climate change and its impact. With such a high task of understanding what climate change really does to our world, the Areas Climate Change Educational program encompasses a team ingrained from USF investigators and from Hillsborough County Public Schools researchers. With that being stated, this program is an ideal source to take from because of its ability to stretch forward to younger generations and people to gain more insight on the impact of climate change. Athanasiou, Tom and Paul Baer. Dead Heat: Global Justice and Global Warming. New York: Sven Stories Press, 2002. Seeking another valid source that can overall answer what climate change is and the impact it has, was somewhat rough. However, after reading some texts this book caught my eye instantly. This book foreshadows the and dire of how the world would be and why that the changes made enough and that since politics get too involved it becomes worse. Anthanasiou and Baer argue the ethical and humanitarian influences of climate change and emphasize on different ways people who are less fortunate in terms of poor and rich would be effected. With different debates and settlements towards what cause such suffering, they merge social justice as a legislation to outline climate change.