Long Term Health Effects of Running Throughout years of scientific research and countless varying arguments, a fully conclusive argument on the long-term health results of aerobic running has yet to be reached. While running offers multitudes of health benefits such as heightened cardiovascular strength, lower body mass index, and increased vascular performance of major arteries and veins, running also includes a long list of lesser - known health drawbacks. These health hazards can include deterioration of joints and tissues, potentially life altering blood mineral deficiencies, and in severe cases heart attacks later in life due to the rigorous nature on the hear t that distance running catalyzes. While these drawbacks could be considered hazardous to health, we must also consider the weight of these drawbacks in comparison to the imposed by a total lack of exercise. In most cases, the health impairments associated with rigorous exercises outweigh the risks associated with less active lifestyle habits as the trade-off between the two lifestyles results in a net gain for those who consistently work and better their bodies through exercise. However, recent advances in exercise science have proposed the idea that in order to achieve physical optimality, people should reduce the amount of running in their regimen and replace it with less stressful exercise such as swimming or biking. With all of this taken into consideration, we must test the legitimacy of common stereotypes associated with exercise and compare them with the running building or destroying our bodies? Bibliographic entry 1: John A. Hawley. 2000 January 18 th Oxford; Malden, Mass. Oxford College. January 29. This book pertains mostly to the drawbacks of running, listing several unwanted side effects and long term ailments associated with distance running. More specifically, in Chapter 6, titled Considerations for we find an in depth analysis of the unwanted health drawbacks brought on by running. Chapter 6 lists how running can seriously damage the intestines of runners and how they digest different foods, posing a serious threat for long term damage to digestive tract if not given medical attention. Another common and often times undetectable side effect of running is dangerously low iron levels in the blood brought on by the bodies natural tendency to deplete iron levels during strenuous long term exercise. Perhaps the most prominent side effect listed in chapter 6 is how badly running can impact the bodies immune system. Regular long distance runners have been proven to be more susceptible to contagious diseases and infections due to the body having to work to help itself recover from strenuous exercise, thus taking energy from the immune system to support its own physicality. Bibliographic entry 2: Petra Wolseiffen. The Effects of Running on Brain Activity, Mood, and Cognitive Performance. Stefan Schneider; Lisa Anne Martin; Hugo A. Kerherve. (2012) Institute of Movement and Neurosciences, German Sport University Cologne. Cologne, Germany. January 29. In this article, several authors explore the effects running has on brain activity, mood, and cognitive performance. The text claims exercise has been linked with the psychological model of The article summarizes sound research conducted by scientists specializing in cognitive ability seeking to find how long duration exercise can improve or impair the way our minds think. The results concluded substantial increases in cognitive performance following long duration exercise as well as an increase in perceived physical relaxation. Some sections of the article even claim that with the increase in exercise came a noticeable increase in overall motivation and optimism throughout the day following strenuous exercise. This article is substantial to my research as it poses a very strong argument for how running can improve not only physical health but mental health as well. Bibliographic entry 3: Anderson, L. M. (2007). Body Image (Vol. 17). New York, NY: Body Image. doi:6 February 2017 In this book, the author discusses how running positively affects physiological aspects of a life even after they stop running. The introduction explains an experiment conducted on 9 different healthy males running the same intensity and duration on a treadmill. The results consistently showed improvements in posture, balance control, lower body weight and lower blood pressure after exercise. These results strengthen a staggering argument for the long-term benefits of running and why the pros outweigh the cons. The improvements in posture and balance help strengthen the spine and prevent injuries and sorenesses brought on by long term muscular imbalances most people notice until their later stages of life. The lower body weight and lower blood pressure do volumes for any persons health as it reduces the amount of stress the body is typically put through in a lifetime; thus contradicting the stereotype claiming running adds wear and tear to the body causing aches and pains later in life. This book relates to my research as it provides studies that address stereotypes about running with actual facts as well as test results that I can cite in my paper to provide insights on how running really affects people long term. This book offers a multitude of summaries about experiments conducted to see how a human body reacts to long-term exposure to long distance running. I plan on citing this writing frequently to contrast common misconceptions from truths based off experiments described in this book. Not only does this book offer feedback on experiments, but also an impartial vantage point on health effects of running as opposed to a book dedicated to proving why running is necessarily a good or bad thing. This aspect is important because it will potentially offer research for both sides of my argument so that a weighed, unbiased decision can be accurately made. Bibliographic entry 4: Jensen, B. R. (2004). Journal of Applied Biomechanics (4th ed., Vol. 32). Copenhagen: University of Copenhagen. doi: 6 February 2017 In this study conducted and summarized by Lisa M. Anderson, we discuss the mental drawbacks of long distance running that eventually turn into physical problems and dietary deficiencies. The article entails that through a combination of general sociocultural influences and mental habits brought on by the need to improve imposed by distance running, people over time begin to develop unhealthy eating tendencies such as anorexia and a common condition referred to as body dissatisfaction. In several studies conducted on habitual distance runners, nearly half (47%) reported an elevated feeling of dissatisfaction with their physical appearance and abilities. Apparently these tendencies can occur naturally in the brain due to a chemical imbalance also brought on by exercise in athletes ranging from teens all the way up to adolescents in their late Since 2000, there has been a 17% increase in these cases in the U.S. in non-athletes and a 33% increase in athletes, indicating that distance runners are at a major predisposal for this disorder as they feel much more obligated to engage in unhealthy dietary habits and dangerously high amounts of running that can and have caused hormonal imbalances and ultimately long term damage to minerals and vitamins in the blood such as anemia and hemoglobin deficiencies. This article is extremely relevant to my research as it poses a very strong argument against distance running and why it causes more problems than it fixes in long-term health. I will use this research to offer a counterargument to my own opinion stating that long distance running is a healthy cardiovascular activity. It is important that I include this argument in my paper so that I offer a proper contrast to my opposing research. It is imperative to compare different biased viewpoints side by side so that the reader can make an educated decision and have full awareness of the pros and cons of each side to create a well-balanced and thorough argument. I plan to continue reading this book and cite more details on the research such as how the results differed between male and females and any possible flaws in the research that could taint the outcome of my argument. Finally, I will be using this research as it also offers its own opposing points to the research conducted later in the book in the same style I have presented my information in my paper to neutralize the argument and prevent bias and disposition. Bibliographic entry 5: Caroline Mueller, Elizabeth Ackley-Holbrook. 2016. (Vol. 30 Issue 1). http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail In a book entailing extensive research weighing the benefits and drawbacks of distance running, author Caroline Mueller compares moderate runners to elite distance runners in terms of general health. Mueller cites that while the elites have a multitude of advantages, such as heightened cardiovascular strength and lower BMI, bodies tend to undergo levels of stress unsustainable for the human body. These stresses include pounding on bones and joints that over time destroy their structural nature and often times lead to cracking and bending. Short term, this can mean stress fractures or tears; however, long term it is almost certain these same athletes will experience chronic use pains such as arthritis. While moderate runners do not possess the level of fitness and efficiency as these elite runners, their bodies will develop better over time as they do not undergo the strenuous activities that destroy bones and joints at such a high volume or intensity. Rather, they will gain just enough fitness to improve their overall quality of health whilst nearly eliminating the drawbacks associated completely. This article does volumes for my research as it explains the trade-off between pros and cons in running through proven science and observations. This source will help answer my research question as it provides sound, logical explanations for how running impacts a persons health and furthermore implies much is too in an effort to reach a point of optimality. The source is credible as the author has a PhD in exercise science and has conducted several studies similar to the one entailed in her book which have been reviewed and confirmed by other members of the running community. This source ties into my research question as it addresses how common stereotypes can be misleading and what you can do to prevent yourself from going overboard when exer cising. I plan to use this source to reinforce my stand on the topic by concluding that running is beneficial for health if implemented in a safe and sensible manor. With all this taken into consideration, I think it is safe to say that when summarizing this book, the author would agree that in moderation running is one of the best ways to improve your quality of life with minimal drawbacks in comparison to other forms of strenuous exercise. Bibliographic entry 6: Oborny Josef. 2016. and holistically Interpreted (Vol. 26). http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail In this book, author Oborny Josef writes based on interviews with veteran runners and how they feel running has impacted their life. The objective of the research was to find how a runner feels rung has affected them through opinions and retrospective thoughts. This differs from my previous source as it details personal experiences rather than mere statistical data. Throughout the book, we hear detailed descriptions of how running has changed each individual runner life and whether it was a positive or negative impact. To summarize each runners response, they generally felt that while running improved the way they felt throughout they day, they also experienced a substantial increase in random aches and pains throughout the day. Several outliers claimed to have a net loss in overall health due to delayed recovery and mineral deficiencies brought on by suboptimal dietary habits. Runners also credited distance running to improving self-discipline because it served as a regular long-term challenge. However, when the author asked older audiences of former runners, the general response consisted of long term gains in mental strength and discipline but reported serious pains with joints and nerves in their legs. When directly asked if each runner thought that running was a positive or negative impact on their life, over 75% answered positive, providing substantial evidence for the argument for running to improve general health. This book ties into my research very well as it provides personal opinions for people to interpret themselves without any sort of statistical bias. I plan to make full use of this research in my paper as it is possibly the most accurate way to analyze and conclude whether running has a positive or negative impact on our health. This said, this source will also serve as an effective contrast to articles supporting opposing information conducted in a statistical manor rather than an opinion based one. The source connects to my research question by offering a realistic, well- supported answer without being too biased to be considered legitimate. Perhaps the most important part of this source is that opinions are shared without a tainted bias from statistical data listed in other sources.