Al-Ghaithi 1 Ghaith Al-Ghaithi ENC1101.004S17 February 19, 2017 Safety of self-driving cars Rapid advances of technology in every front is transforming the society at an alarming rate in a continuous manner. Automated methods make the life easier as computers and machines gradually take over the manual operations previously done by humans. Comfort and the speed achieved through the adaptation of technology in day to day activities encourage humans for more innovations and technology use. The latest trend of developing self-driven cars adds to the phenomenon that humans becoming more dependable on computers and automated machines that need only minimal human intervention in operating them. However, operating a vehicle on the road without consistent handling by an experienced human raises the question of safety of commuters as well as others. The question of far we can trust self-driving cars and their use in daily needs the consideration of many aspects related to safety and reliability of this novel technology. It is stated that self-driving cars hold out the promise of being safer than manually driven cars since human errors are the major cause of accidents (Nyholm and Jilles). However, it is not possible to ensure 100% safety because programming computers to be sensitive for various unpredictable scenarios still needs to address many issues. This also raises another question of how people would tend to pass the responsibility of safety on to machines. Developing full faith in self-driving technology may gradually discourage drivers to fulfil their responsibilities and dedication towards the safety associated with driving. Self-driving cars may struggle to acquire the needed knowledge on the impact of its trajectory, speed at the moment of collision and the actual weight when making decisions on avoiding a crash (Evans). While self-driving technology may be safer than manual driving, it is important to Al-Ghaithi 2 address the issues related to sensitivity levels of this technology and humans taking less responsibilities on safe driving. Annotated Bibliography Nyholm, Sven. and Jilles, Smids. The Ethics Of Accident-Algorithms For Self-Driving Cars: An Applied Trolley  Ethical Theory & Moral Practice 19.5 (2016): 1275- 1289. Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The article titled Ethics of Accident-Algorithms for Self-Driving Cars: an Applied Trolley highlights that although self-driving cars may deliver higher safety than manually driven cars, there is more to be done to ensure the 100% safety level. Programming the self-driven vehicles to give the ability to make quick decisions in the face of imminent accidents is a challenging task since it needs the collaboration of many aspects of different technologies. The article discusses many issues related to moral and legal responsibilities, ability to make decisions when complex situation arises, how the programmers who develop algorithms really react a risky situation during driving. The above article was published in 2016 and it covers many areas related to self- driving technology. Although the technology has come so far to make computers reliable machines to be source of quick decision making abilities, sensitivity of driving decisions exceeds the decision making abilities of automated systems. This article provides insightful information to debate the safety of self-driving cars with options on how to improve the challenges to make the technology to perfect level safety. Its focus not only on technology but also the human thinking process and how it affects the development of self-driving experience are valuable details to cover the topic. Al-Ghaithi 3 Evans, Leonard. influence of car mass and size on driver fatality Am J Public Health 91.5 The article titled Influence of Car Mass and Size on Driver Fatality discusses the factors other than computer technology that would impact the acquiring of needed level of knowledge to make the automated systems sensitive enough to avoid crashes. It uses the historical data and research conclusions to show the impact of weight of passengers and cars on the risks of involving crashes. These are important when designing self-driving technologies to avoid or minimize risks in order to enhance the confidence in this technology. The technology needs significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car that need to consider all these factors and integrate the impact. Although this article was published fifteen years ago, it discusses interesting points on the latest technologies and challenges faced with regard to self-driving technologies currently being developed. The historical studies based on crashes and causes of the accidents and fatalities associated with manually driven cars need to be integrated when designing automated systems. These facts provide needed information to develop a research paper on the safety of self-driving technology. It can be used to show where computers may lack the needed knowledge in order to deliver the safety levels as expected. The paper can discuss where the technology currently stands to address these issues. Urmson, Chris, and William Whittaker. Self-Driving Cars And The Urban  IEEE Intelligent Systems 2 (2008): 66. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article titled Self-Driving Cars And The Urban  Highlights that the use of improved technology in self driving cars has the potential to reduce safety risk related to manual vehicle operations. It is estimated that millions of people are killed due to traffic accidents worldwide. Authors also stresses that GPS and mapping technologies provide cars to understand the road conditions and control the movements accordingly. Automated cars will deliver not only safety benefits but also the environmental benefits because they enhance Al-Ghaithi 4 the fuel efficiency. Although testing of automated cars has proven to deliver the expectations of researchers and engineers, the challenge of fully autonomous urban driving has not yet been met. This article was published in 2008 and provide great many details on engineering research done on self-driving cars to become more reliable by overcoming challenges associated with urban driving. Urban driving needs more vigorous automated operations with greater sensitivity of equipment to detect and implement needed changes to guide the car to reach the destination safely. The authors provide the latest development on this research area an express the confidence in achieving the goals by engineers. Although eight years passed since the article was published, it seems that the total overcome of the challenges is still an issue. Coeckelbergh, Mark. Responsibility and the Moral Phenomenology of Using Self-Driving  Applied Artificial Intelligence 30.8 (2016): 748-57. Web. According to Coeckelbergh, traffic congestions and other disturbing events experienced by drivers on the road lead to frustration and being panic. This can diminish their attention and therefore, increased of crashes. Self- driving technology can address the issues related to traffic congestions because of increased efficiency in operating a car without frustration and lack of attention. They can exhibit discipline in driving according to computer algorithms that control the sensors and movements. The argument of higher safety has not changed over time and focus has been on how to improve the safety further and transfer complete control of a car to computers. The technology needs significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car that need to consider all these factors and integrate the impact. These areas have been consistently on the focus over the years as to who is responsible for traffic accidents; driver, manufacturer or the car itself. These issues need to be addressed in order to maximize the utilization of his technology. Al-Ghaithi 5 This article was published in 2016 and the authors focus on how self-driving cars can help stressed drivers avoid placing themselves in a risky situation while driving. It stresses the need of improving the operational capabilities of this technology to get the benefits at its maximum. Hassler, Susan. Self-Driving Cars And Trucks Are On The Move [Spectral  IEEE Spectrum 54.1 (2017): 6. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The article titled Self-Driving Cars And Trucks Are On The stresses the fact that CEO of auto manufacturers are in an arms race to develop and market self-driving vehicles. It shows the potential of this technology and the next big move by car companies to make profits in the future. According to the authors, only place driverless cars seem to be turning up anytime soon is Rest of major auto manufacturing countries are in this race in addition to other technology companies that are interested in this technology. Google and Baidu are such big tech giants that partnered with auto manufactures to realize the goal of self-driving cars taking over human operations. Reputable univerties are also in this competition. For example, MIT spin-off has been experimenting with its software- and sensor-loaded Renault Zoes in Singapore since last The article published in 2016 highlights the intense interest in self-driving car technologies in many fields. This shows the potential of this technology and provides the evidence to prove the arguments in favour of this technology. Also, the article is helpful in analysing the contribution of many key players around the world because of the promising future for this technology. Evolution of Self Driving Autonomous  RobotGlobe. ROBOT GLOBE, 10 May 2010. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article titled of Self Driving Autonomous discusses the evolution of self driving car technology and provides the performance tested cars in the years on 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. It provides large of data on the vehicles that competed in achieving the Al-Ghaithi 6 speed and operating without any incidents proving the success of the technology. These testing helped researchers and engineers to identify the areas of improvements and make further advances in these cars. The cars involved in the competition were provided with GPS technology to traverse the course in competition with each other. goal of these self driving car was to follow the way points while negotiating the obstacle (which were mainly static in nature) which come in the Analysis of the performance of different technologies used in the vehicles helped select the best performing technology as a way to move forward. The authors of the article describe transformation of the technology and the efforts made by many factors with substantial investments in the early 2000s. These efforts have helped the current researchers and engineers to build much safer and more efficient automated cars to build common automated cars on the road with enhanced safety.