Emily Coniglio Instructor Carr ENC1101 January 25, 2017 Controversial Presidents: Andrew Jackson Andrew Jackson was the seventh President of the United States of America, and is seen by many political figures as a role model to work by. Even after his departure from office and death in 1845, he influenced a new era of politicians and morals known as the Jacksonian Era. Should Andrew Jackson be idolized as a great example for the presidency? There were many moments during his presidency when he was questioned, including the Indian Removal Act of 1830, which was the removal of Native American tribes from their homelands in the Southern states. This legislation was the leading cause to the infamous Trail of Tears that was responsible for around four thousand Cherokee Indian deaths. He was also known to veto the proposition for the Second Bank of the United States because he widely believed the United banking system was corrupt. These and many more actions by the war hero made researchers conclude that he was an overpowered lunatic. Bertman, S. (2004). Andrew Jackson: savage sophisticate; Andy choice of trappings for the Hermitage, his home near Nashville, Tennessee, reveals a literary, scientific, compassionate side of the warrior, Indian hater and ruthless politician. American History , (2), 40. Jackson knew tragedy his whole life, having lost every single member in his immediate family all before the age of fourteen. He was a rather rebellious adolescent, despite becoming a lawyer at the age of twenty. He was twenty-four years of age when he married Rachel Donelson Robards, who was already married to another man, when they first met. The two went on to adopt and bring in many children; including, oddly enough, an Indian boy named Lyncoya. Jackson experienced more death when he lost both his wife and Lyncoya. During the nineteenth century, death and illness were abundant, while knowledge of medicine was scarce. So many presidents after him sympathized with his losses and encourage him to go on with his life and aspirations. The biggest argument, that Bertman stated, to counter Andrew hot-tempered, controversial behavior was adopting Lyncoya, whose race was discriminated and killed by Jackson during his days as a General and as President. Jackson stated about Lyncoya how much he sympathized with him for being alone after both of their families have died. Smith, J. (2005). Lords (and ladies) of misrule: Carnival, scandal, and satire in the age of Andrew Jackson. In American Humor , (12), 53. Andrew Jackson was known as the president, which could be considered a positive and a negative to his legacy. On his inauguration day, he allowed anyone and everyone to his presidential celebration; this included lower to middle class citizens. The people were so wild that Jackson had to sneak out of his own event. His cabinet was filled with all people he knew personally, calling this method the spoiled system. Because of this, he defended his staff greatly, even the wife of his secretary of war, claiming her innocence in an infidelity scandal. This the only scandal in the eight years of term; many of his appointed secretaries were not fit to help run the country. Because of his questionable, but overbearing decisions, criticizers called Jackson Appointing a Supreme Justice, who regarded Cherokee Indians as inhumane enough to not make their own legal decisions, also made Old Hickory resemble an overpowered Monarch. People who were against Jackson for this compared him to Ma-Ka-Tai-Me-She-Kia-Kiah, also known as who was a Sauk warrior and leader of a rebellion against the Indian Removal Act. This form of satire displeased the war hero. There are many accounts of this behavior towards controversial policies throughout history, categorized by political cartoons and, nowadays, comedic performances. These only occur when an amount of people do not support new legislations. Appointing his colleagues as the congressional staff, who clearly had no experience, shows how little he cared for the nation. Though a change of experience could be seen as a positive to the people of the nation who were scarred from John Quincy presidency, in this case it due to the scandals that the staff were responsible for and how Jackson defended them. Kirn, J. F. (2016). Jacksonland: President Andrew Jackson, Cherokee Chief John Ross, and a Great American Land Grab. Of Southern History , (3), 672. Under Old rule, he stressed about his dislike of the Native Americans that resided in the country. Having fought tribes throughout his years as a General, he continued to battle them when he passed the Indian Removal Act of 1830, stating that specific Indian tribes to be moved to reservations in the Southern Midwest. Whenever Jackson attempted to buy land from the Natives, he would only follow particular orders, use his leadership positions as an advantage, and dismiss anyone who countered him. John Ross, the principal chief of the Cherokee Indians, was an important opponent of this act. Unlike many tribal leaders in the past, Ross and his people took the case to the Supreme Court to be exempt from removal process, and ultimately won. However, this was short lived due to John dismissal of Native Americans, to bring forth issues to the capitol. Though Native Americans died during the Trail of Tears, Jackson truly believed that relocating them would save their race from extinction. He may have had good intentions, but his decision was made with poor choice and consideration of all factors. Many U.S. Presidents demonstrate this similar process of thinking. For example, President Donald J. Trump and former President Barrack Obama created similar acts postponing and blocking the transport of Middle Eastern refugees. These men have argued that this is for the safety of American citizens; but why not consider the safety of those who seek freedom from the strict takeover of extremists? considerations as this that leaders examine, and is a terrible flaw when leading a country. Remini, R. V. (2001). Andrew Jackson Versus the Cherokee Nation. History , (3), 48. Continuing with the Indian Removal Act, Jackson wanted the Indian owned land to prosper his country; making it grow in population and conform under civilized rule. What the nation know was that the Cherokee Indians were inspired by the United way of government, and adapted many habits from the Americans. Despite this, Supreme Justice John Marshall concluded that the Cherokees were a dependent and eventually stated that any Georgia law involving the Cherokees as unconstitutional. Instead of confronting this court order, Andrew Jackson deemed issues with South Carolina were more important. Therefore, it allowed Georgia missionaries to decide what the Natives can and do. This is when John Ross, a mixed-blooded man who was only one eighth Cherokee, became the principal chief of the undeclared nation. His determination and hopeful personality started the self proclaimed Treaty Party, which was made up of different tribal chiefs who were against Andrew Jackson, but understood how persistent the leader was. Jackson was so resilient towards the party that his supporters constructed assassinations lists, and carried out three of them. Jackson despised Ross, and refused to acknowledge the Cherokee Constitution. However, he agreed to have a meeting with the Chief about a possible treaty. Despite attempts to make a deal to protect his people, Jackson made clear that all he would do was move the Cherokees over to Mississippi. The President lost his temper each time Ross tried to compromise, spouting how absurd his suggestions were. Later, Jackson scolded Natives that came to Washington D.C. of how their protest at the court was uncalled for, and now, as punishment, must be relocated to the West just like all of the other tribes in the South. With that, the treaty was passed to remove all Cherokees from their land and gave them a two year limit of when they all should be gone. John Ross tried to fight this, but many of his people listened to the President.When the two year warning expired, and Jackson left the presidency, President Martin Van Buren ordered militia to force the Cherokees out of their homes. This resulted in known now as the Trail of Tears, where as many as eight-thousand Indians died. Though this occurred after Old presidency, many proclaimed this to be his legacy. This author demonstrates inconsiderate feelings for the Natives, and how much he persisted to remove the Indians from their land. His legacy moved forward with his Vice President Martin Van Buren when he became President. He respected wishes to relocate the Cherokees and even consider his own views of them. Even Presidents after Van Buren continued legacy; for example, James K. Polk relocated Indians similar to Jackson to go forth with Manifest Destiny which spanned all the way to the West Coast of the United States. Though we have such a huge and great nation now thanks to past Presidents, were the cost of Native American lives necessary? Anderson, G. C. (2016). The Native Peoples of the American West: Genocide or Ethnic Cleansing?. Historical Quarterly , 47(4), 407-433. The removal of Native Americans is typically compared to mass genocide. Andrew Jackson was not the only U.S. President to have a feud with the Natives. Throughout the years after term, tribes were relocated or destroyed by white Americans.The author explains how genocide and murder were two different concepts when describing what happened to the Native Americans. No brutal attack on Native soil reached more than three-hundred casualties, except those executed by Andrew Jackson during the War of 1812 where he slaughtered over eight-hundred. However, Jackson did not kill only tribal warriors, but women and children as well. Therefore, this is seen as a war crime, and not for justice of the nation. Many researchers have argued that the Natives were removed because of settler sovereignty. This can be countered with colonists and Indians agreeing to adjust to each ways and purchasing land from one another. It was proven that Natives could coexist along with a white colonist society while they still had their own customs. Consequently, racism was the sole purpose of removing the Indians. While Presidents before Jackson tried to negotiate with the Indians, Jackson believed that negotiations were absurd when it came to the savages. He never believed that Indians had legal rights to their land, and barely any rights to occupy. Further explanation shows that the Indian Removal Act relocated almost 130,000 Natives to the Mississippi River, which totals to forty percent of the population at the time. Over ten-thousand Indians died during the removal process, declaring this as ethnic cleansing. Racism has always been an issue in our country, and it still is today. Presidents may not have directly quoted that Andrew Jackson inspired them; but, have shown similar attitudes towards people of color. For example, Andrew Johnson reinstated domestic slave laws known as Jim Crow to separate African Americans from white society, Franklin Delano Roosevelt put forth Japanese internment camps for Japanese-Americans after Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, and today, Donald Trump believes all hispanic immigrants will take American jobs and plans to not allow Muslims in the country. This shows how tolerated racism is when electing a President; and we allow this anymore. Whaples, R. (2014). Were Andrew policies for the Independent Review, (4), 545. Jackson had more flaws than just the Trail of Tears and his spoiled system. He widely believed that the banking system was corrupt. Thus, leading the country to the Panic of 1837. He believed that his American people should prosper and expand. He executed the Indian Removal Act so his white men could own more land to boost the economy. They understand why Indians needed so much land to survive, and frankly thought it was unfair. Though this was thought to be a success economically, war with the Second Bank of the United States caused the prosperity to tumble. He had always been suspicious of banks for their support of capitalism. He feared that capitalism would override and corrupt the government and presidency. Thus, he sought to destroy the proposition of the Second Bank, though it was proposed to help the economy. He issued the Specie Circular, a law where land could only be purchased with hard money, to destroy capitalism. It worked; but only two months after presidency, the Panic hit. Scholars argued that this was the main reason why the depression began. Though other factors, such as cotton shortage, may have caused the panic, many critics declared that if the Second Bank was put into place, the economic shortage would have been far less chaotic. As a result of Andrew fears, he was not one to spend on luxuries. He only believed in spending money on necessities. His doubts clouded his mind of what could have been an economic necessity for the nation. To conclude, the Second Bank of the United States could have saved us from any future depression, or at least make it less stressful on the economy. However, Andrew Jackson was defiant that this would destroy his goals for America and vetoed to continue with the new bank, resulting to the Panic of 1837 after his term ended.