Zamorano 1 Student Professor Pequette English Composition 1 February 19 , 2017 The Arts in Schools Most schools require that a student completes a fine arts course upon graduating high school rather it be theatre , chorus , painting, creative writing, or any other subject the school sees as a fine art . There are constant debates on whether states should stop funding these programs in schools and put that money towards other things for the students. Under current federal law , the arts are considered a part of a well-rounded education , which means they receive as much funding as reading , math , science and other subjects. Some may argue that that is ridiculous and that other school departments need more funding, like the athletic department .Most often , the same individuals who propose terminating funding to the arts are the same individual who suggest giving the athletic programs more funding .It seems to be a constant fight between who receives more funding but the real question is : is it worth keeping the arts in schools? Martin, Andrew J., Marianne Mansour, Michael Anderson, Robyn Gibson, Gregory A. D. Liem, and David Sudmalis. The role of arts participation in academic and Zamorano 2 nonacademic outcomes: A longitudinal study of school, home, and community  Journal of Educational Psychology 105.3 (2013): 709-27. Web. According to the journal The Role of Arts Participation in Academic and Nonacademic Outcomes: A Longitudinal Study of School, Home, and Community Factors , the arts have always faced issues when it comes to funding and getting space in schools. They conducted a study and found that students who participate in theatre and music are engaged in academics more than those students who are not . The study also concluded that the arts also help with identity-related development and is helpful for self-esteem. The arts may also have something to do with self-determination. This journal basically discussed the benefits that the arts have on the young minds of school kids. This relates directly with the topic because if we were to not have the arts in schools anymore, kids may not get the same development as they would with the programs. This journal and similar studies should be thought of when the time comes to make a decision on whether to keep the arts in schools or if the funding should be used for a different department . This journal was written in 2013 and was a part of the Journal of Educational Psychology and was peer reviewed. Miksza, Peter. Arts Education Advocacy: The Relative Effects of School-Level Influences on Resources for Arts  Arts Education Policy Review 114.1 (2013): 25-32. Web. Zamorano 3 In the article Arts Education Advocacy: The Relative Effects of School-Level Influences on Resources for Arts Education, several were written discussing the effects of the arts on students . The one that particularly stood out was the No Child Left Behind and Fine Arts Classes study . In this article , the No Child Left behind Act ( an act of congress which brought back the Elementary and Secondary Education Act which helps those students who are at a disadvantage compared to the rest and authorized several federal funding programs one of which sent funding to the arts) was discussed along with its disadvantages with scheduling and funding . The main point was that it iis very difficult to find the funding and to fit the arts into a students already busy schedules. Compared to the previous journal , this one serves as a counter argument discussing the disadvantages of keeping the arts in schools. This journal was also written in 2013 , but the article discussing the No Child Left Behind Act was written in 2010 before Obama took over the presidency and replaced it with the Every Student Succeeds Act in 2015. The journal was also peer reviewed. David Sudmalis. Student, home, and school socio-demographic factors: links to school, home,and community arts  The Australian Educational Researcher 43.2 (2016): 221-44. Web. Zamorano 4 In this study , it was discovered that the role the student plays at home is directly correlated with their participation in the arts. The more the student is involved in home , school and their community , the more likely they are to be participation in the arts. It was also discovered that the caregiver career and education also affected their participation in the arts. This relates directly with the topic because this article is stated there is a direct relationship with the involvement in their homes and community with their participation in the arts. If we were to cut funding for the arts program, just imagine the decline of the student participation be around the community. The arts seem to be a form of motivation to get students involved. This article was also peer reviewed. Russell-Bowie, Deirdre. An Ode to Joy or the Sounds of Silence? An Exploration of Arts Education Policy in Australian Primary  Arts Education Policy Review 112.4 (2011): 163-73. Web. This article is different than most because instead of discussing the benefits of the arts, it discusses how the arts have not had much influence on the lives of Australian children. The article states how the Australian school system has had a lot of policies that have done nothing to benefit the art programs in schools, and instead of having the expected negative effect on the students , they seem indifferent. This article is vital to the topic because it serves as a counter argument. Most articles would fight the idea of removing the arts programs in school, while this study showed Zamorano 5 how the students seemed unchanged without a good art program in school. This is a very important finding because it could possibly mean that we could move funding to programs like school athletics programs which have been proven to have a positive outcome on the students instead of funding a program that seems to not be effecting the students in anyway. This article is also peer reviewed. Nathan, Linda. Expanding the Vision of Self: Why the Arts  Harvard Educational Review 83.1 (2013): 47-53. Web. In this article , the author explores the effects the arts have on students and their academic Success. The author tells a story about a student named Ronald who would be in constant trouble in school for fighting. Ronald would almost always be in suspension and the odds of him graduating middle school were looking slim to none. That is, till he found his passion in singing. It served as an outlet for him and a way to express himself without getting into trouble. This story helped proved the point that the arts do change lives. The credibility for this article is that it is a scholar peer-reviewed article published by Harvard. This article shows us how the arts was able to change one life for the better which makes us question arguments made against keeping arts in schools like the previous article. If we make the arts more accessible in schools , there could be more success stories like , and that could be worth the funding it takes to keep the arts in schools. Seidel, Steve. Foreword: Exploding Parameters and an Expanded Embrace: A Proposal for the Zamorano 6 Arts in Education in the Twenty-First  Harvard Educational Review 83.1 (2013): 1-4. Web. This article serves as a proposal to help expand the arts in rural and urban areas. In areas with not so great economic standings , the arts are hard to find because when funding goes down , the arts are the first to go. The author of this article explores the differences between students from independent and suburban public schools and those from rural and urban areas. The differences were major when it came to academic success and success in their future careers. The students from suburban schools went on to good colleges and universities and were able to find good paying jobs, while the students from rural schools barely went to college and if they did it was mostly a few years in community college. The author blames this differences on the fact that suburban students had more access to the arts than rural students. He proposes a plan to expand the of the arts in more rural schools and give those students a chance at a bright future as well. This article is also a scholar peer reviewed article published by Harvard. Since this article compared students who had access to the arts to those who did not, it is hard to believe that the arts do not have an effect on success in life. This article supports the idea of not only keeping the arts in schools but also expanding it to those schools who do not have the funding to support it because it is that important in the lives. Zamorano 7