Li 1 Kailun Li Instructor Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 29 January 2017 The Impact of Climate Change on Human Living Environment The issues of climate change have been widely worried, the earth is now the only environment that we can survive with. Climate change will undoubtedly impact the environment we are living in. Although those impacts are mixed, global warming brought by climate change has become an important issue for the future survival of mankind. Sea-level rising is one of the major problems of global warming. The accelerated melting of the polar ice caused by global warming has an increase from 4.4 mm/y to 8.8 mm/y (millimeter per year), which means that sea-level rise will continue to accelerate and sea-level will increase by two meters in the next 100 years (Masciopinto,2016). Therefore, the rise in sea-level will directly lead to significant impacts on human living environment such as that land area is reduced and freshwater resources are destroyed (Breslyn,2016). So, in this situation, human living environment and resources will be changed, how people respond to the changes brought by global warming is the topic following below. Based on the research questions how people face the impact of that sea-level rise has led to a reduction in coastal urban areas, to explore the decisions that how people are going to make about climate change and find out the answers will be the future problem for human survive. Masciopinto, Costantino, and Isabella Serena Liso. Assessment Of The Impact Of Sea-Level Rise Due To Climate Change On Coastal Groundwater  The Science Of The Total Environment (2016): 672. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Li 2 The first article I have chosen as my secondary source is written by Masciopinto Costantino. In this article, he explains the impacts of sea-level rising on groundwater resources in coastal areas. He extrapolated the height of future sea-levels by studying the rate of sea level rise, which he predicts the rising sea-level will destroy the scarce groundwater resources. In many countries, such as Spain, Chile and Australia, agricultural development will be constrained by the lack of groundwater resources. Water-scarce country such as Greece, where agricultural development is the mainstay of the economy, will be deeply suffered from water scarcity. The reason for all the issues is caused by melting two glaciers brought by global warming. This article is the main information source of my topic, because it accurately analyses the reason how sea-level rising impact life and environment. I have learned a lot of information about the influences of global warming to human, not only because this article is so suitable for my research question, but also the writer is an environmental research expert. Masciopinto is one of the members of the institute of water research IRSA from Italia, all of his articles were written about environmental sciences. In addition, his articles are made of large data and citations, which shows the basic credibility. Breslyn, Wayne, et al. Developing A Learning Progression For Sea Level Rise, A Major Impact Of Climate  Journal Of Research In Science Teaching 10 (2016): 1471. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In the second article, the author Breslyn Wayne describes the impact of global warming on sea level by introducing a learning process. In fact, this learning process is what this article tries to deal with. Even through climate change is not the main point that the author wants to explore, this article also describes the negative impact of climate change on human civilized Li 3 societies in general. According to literature review of the article, climate change is becoming more and more important in the field of scientific research due to the rapid rise in sea level. Global warming will be harmful to human society, whether it is economic or the environment. In order to improve the quality of the climate, educational activities should be undertaken to enable students to understand the climate change system. This article introduces the basic result of climate change; this is a great resource for getting started this research paper. It briefly introduces the problems of climate, which eventually led to changes in the direction of education. The author is a researcher at the University of Maryland working on the Maryland and Delaware Climate Change Education, Assessment and Research program, so he has a strong professional on researching climate change. In addition, this article was published by Journal of Research in Science Teaching in 2016, in terms of timeliness and research, it has a certain degree of credibility. Hansen, Henning S. Modelling the future coastal zone urban development as implied by the IPCC SRES and assessing the impact from sea level  Landscape and urban planning 98.3 (2010):141-149. Web. According to the article, the author Hansen states out that Future urban planning and land- use systems will be the means of combating global warming in order to mitigate the effects of catastrophic impacts of sea-level rise on cities. three aspects of research and analysis illustrate the complexity between activities and climate change in coastal areas. Firstly, research on urban emissions, pollution emissions caused by population growth and economic development is a major cause of global warming. Secondly, research on flooding due to sea level rise. The author makes a study based on the previous flood disaster to speculate the impact of Li 4 flooding on the coastal cities. Finally, after collecting the data from the first two data, the author creates the land-use system model to access the relationship between activities and climate change. How do people change their living environment due to the sea level rising? This article is a good illustration of how people should face of climate change in the future. The research of climate change and urban planning management are the best answers I want, because the most efficient way people can do to deal with sea level rising is urban planning. Also the data from this article can be the strong evidence for my project. This article is reliable; author Hansen was appointed to Aalborg University in August 2008 following a career in the world of GIS. Since he was primarily interested in climate and climate change, he ended up as a climatologist, so this article has an academic dimension in geography. I. Reducing the impact of climate change by applying information technologies and measures for improving energy efficiency in urban  Energy and buildings 115(2016):102-111. Web. According to the article, the authors Maric, Pucar and Kovacevic state out that information technology affects urban planning and architectural design. With the increasing awareness of climate change and its consequences, information technology is becoming more and more important. By using information technology, the authors can simply analyze the future changes in land using and planning of cities, the negative effects of climate change will be subject to the corresponding restrictions. This article presents two projects that rely on information technology to promote the urban planning process. The first one is the development of mountain construction, the second one is the urban residential area reconstruction. This article analyzes the cause and result of climate change through the research of information technology, Li 5 and the main reason is human energy use and economic construction. And the solution to it is to start from exploring the two projects. From my research questions, the information brought by the information technology is undoubtedly my best research information. Furthermore, the focus of this article is also on human actions that how they are going to fact climate change. To explore the credibility of this article, it is based on information technology research, information technology must use a lot of other resources as evidence of logos, which provide very solid arguments. Walsh, K. J. E., H. and J. Church. Using Sea Level Rise Projections For Urban Planning In  Journal Of Coastal Research 20.2 (2004): 586-598. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The main study in this article is to explore the forecast of sea level rise as a mean of urban plaining. The authors Walsh, Betts and Church described two sources that cause the rise of sea level, which are the amount of greenhouse gas and the ability of models to predict the impact of increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases. Therefore, these problems will cause the sea level rise by 3-30 cm by 2040 and 9-89 cm by 2100. In this paper, through the inspection of the coastal of Australia, the local governments will make changes to future urban plaining based on the sea level impacts. For the future plaining of local governments, the assessment can be done by measuring the flatness and intensity of the storm. This is a very good literature for my topic, it focuses on the urban planning change caused by sea level rise, which is what I want to research for my research question. This article analyzes the causes and effects of the sea level rise, and according to these effects, what changes people make in the future for the environment is the thesis of the article, so everything in this Li 6 article can correspond to my research questions. This article was published by Journal of Coastal Research, it is one of the leading international journals for coastal studies. All the professional studies about coastal are included here, the journal should have credibility. Eisenstadter, Ingrid. Bobbing In The Big  Sierra 88.4 (2003): 38-68. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article Bobbing in the big apple by Eisenstadier states out how mankind can cope with the rise of sea level to New York City and the future of urban construction. Sea-level rise increases the risk of storms and floods, which can cause fatal blows to urban traffic in New York and threaten drinking water and electricity. Although the sea level has been steadily rising for thousands of years, it has risen more than usual in recent years. This means that the environment people living in the city need to be rebuilt, all of these problems need to be highly concerned. The government must make a response, although it will lead to a lot of money to pay. Eisenstadter in this article generally describes the sea level rise, he mainly explores the efforts that how human deal with this problem of sea level rise such as traffic control, government commitment and beach planning. Those can be the perfect answers for my research questions. However, there are not so many sources being used as evidences, I cannot find the information about the author. So the credibility of this article remains to be seen in future research.