Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !1 Johnathan Clarke U15228936 Fidel Impact Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !2 Due to the passing of Fidel Castro Former President of Cuba and Commander of the famed Revolutionary Army. Many like myself have taken the time to reflect on his impact not only in Cuba but in the long list of countries aided in some way or the other. This Bibliography will venture to the beginning of legacy looking at: where he began ,the famed Bay of Pigs Invasion , the trials and tribulations both he and Cuba endured together, the influence he had as a world renowned leader, as well as the legacy he made for himself and for Cuba. Though many like myself regard Fidel Castro as a great leader and a hero for his country ,many others would deem him a ruthless dictator thus causing a level of disparity for those who are interested in becoming educated about what the man really did for his country. Leading to the Question Castro, Dictator or National In shadows of Cold War over Latin America: the US reaction to Fidel nationalism, War History Pettina details the issues the republican North America had with the idea of a third word country such as Cuba undergoing a Latin American Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !3 nationalist movement a thing of concern. The biggest issue fro America was the similarities between nationalism and soviet foreign policy with obviously they would be against due to the unstable relationship with Russia at the time. Meaning the United States saw call for nationalism in Cuba instead as a soviet strategy and as a result strengthen their rivals though they might not have been entirely wrong. The article also details the benefits of both Cuba and the soviet union and how the development of this relationship would be detrimental to their national security. The article also details the means by which Castro came to power as well as the reasoning behind his ideologies. The relevance of the article is that it highlights both the issues that Latin American Countries were facing at the time as well as the reservations the Us administration had about the newly developing relationship between these developing countries and the USSr. By extension the article details some of the issues Fidel Castro and his government had to deal with, the emergence of a new ally as well as the growing concern and surveillance from their strongest neighbors. As far as the question. Fidel Castro, Dictator or National Hero? the article presents factors to consider when determining a distinction by providing an over view of the political environment of that time during emergence. In the Journal Of Third World Fenyo details influence in South Africa and more specifically the presence he established in Angola in aid of their liberation. the excerpt also details the humanitarian acts led by cubans in Angola during this time such as Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !4 medical support that were of great need in the country due to both lack of personnel as well as the navigational challenges Angola presented. It also refers to a number of speeches made by Castro himself in which he clarifies that the aid he provided to Angola were not ones that required payment but were in aid of the defense of freedom and sovereign rights. The relevance of this article is present due to the explanations of aid of a foreign country without the expectation of benefitting from his actions. It further specifies his actions were purely in support of the nationalistic views he shares as well as their right to freedom. This article aids in the view of Fidel Castro being a National hero in my opinion as it shows his belief in supporting what he believes. The Survival Adaptation And Uncertainty: The Case Of Cuba presents both an overview of issues both post and pre Fidel Castro more specifically the socioeconomic and political issues Cuba would still have to face during the transition of power between the Castro brothers. The article also specifies both the economic and political strategies that were employed during reign as leader as well as the difficulties he had to guide the country through after the decline and successive fall of the soviet union. There was also a small portion of the article devoted to the concerns of what will occur after the end of the terms of the Castro brothers as well as if the successor will be able to steer the country in the same way they have both been able to. Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !5 The legacy Fidel Castro left behind will never be forgotten this being due to the fact he led the country for the better part of 7 decades as well as afforded to give Cuba a certain level of stability in terms of their economic situation. The stability brought about by Fidel Castro was not easily attained and therefore just as difficult to maintain. Leadership such as this is not frequently seen and worry from the people about whether or not his legacy can be continued only boots the reasoning for the title of national hero. extract from the Journal of World details the policies and regulations being put into place for the timely death of their leader Fidel Castro. these policies were put in place in order to ensure a stable transition in avoidance of Cuba going back into a period of political and economic turmoil. Policies such as Agreements with Venezuela to continue trade and supply of certain items now that the once upon a time benefactor no longer existed. The issue of replacing not only Fidel Castro the President but also Fidel Castro the character was also discussed. Certain developments and policies were only able to be successful due to the charismatic and authoritative persona of Fidel and many fear that this presence will be missed and rightly so. In the Brown Journal of World Affairs Gonzalez exemplifies the importance of what Fidel left behind due to the mere fact that they created policies that were to be continued after his death and could not be changed. This Article supports the claim of Fidel Castro being a great Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !6 leader because he ensured that his Country even in his death would have the tools to continue its development with a certain amount of ease. Washington details Raul transition into power after the ceding of his time as leader. the article states that unfortunately due to his illness and surgery his appearances in the public have been limited to what seem like choreographed sitings in order to allow at the least a small expectation that he could return to office. Washington states that his stepping down was a smooth transition and that most cubans had in fact expected it and thus moved on. Most expected this transition to be greatly difficult due to the Fidel being in charge of : the government , his communist political party as well as the military responsibilities. The Washington Quarterly described the conditions of environment during this some would say questionable time , Would he return to power? And if so, when? Regardless of the uncertainty of many, society transubstantiated Fidel Castro into a historical artifact while he was still in power. This smooth transition of power as well how highly he is held in the hearts of many goes to show that he is an undoubtable leader instead of the arrogant dictator many would like to label him. Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !7 African adventures details the happenings and influences Fidel Castro organized while finding in the french Congo. A trustworthy alliance was formed due to lack of seeking regional dominance over the country. Foss indicates that africans were allowed by Castro himself free travel to Cuba in order to extend their education for the sake of being able to aid their own country. The article also specifies the instance in which the cuban army presence was instrumental in saving Massamba -Debat president from a coup to over throw him and as a result Castro Increased the military presence in Cuba from 250 to 1000 serving primarily as presidential guard. The politically charitable acts like the ones described in African adventures paint a small picture of what Castro offered people with similar views and belief that they had the right to protect them. Acts like these though not formally but in my eyes atlas declare Fidel Castro a national hero in many countries. Fidel Castro Dictator or National Hero !8 References Pettina, Vanni. The Shadows Of Cold War Over Latin America: The US Reaction To Fidel Nationalism,  Cold War History 11.3 (2011): 317-339. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Foss, C. (2010). African adventures: in 1959 Fidel Castro came to power in Cuba after a masterly campaign of guerrilla warfare. Drawing on this success, Castro and his followers, including Che Guevara, sought to spread their revolution, as Clive Foss explains. History Today, (3), 10. Raul Castro: Confronting Legacy in Cuba. (2007). The Washington Quarterly, (3), 53. Gonzalez, Edward, and Kevin F. McCarthy. Uncertain Future After  Brown Journal Of World Affairs 14.1 (2007): 27-39. Business Source Alumni Edition. Mujal-Leon, Eusebio. Survival, Adaptation And Uncertainty: The Case Of  Journal Of International Affairs 65.1 (2011): 149-168. Business Source Premier. Web. Fenyo, Mario. Castro, Fidel, Raul Castro, Nelson Mandela. Cuba & Angola: Fighting For Freedom And Our  Journal Of Third World Studies 1 (2015): 352. Academic OneFile. Web.