John Keever Sabah Firoz Uddin 9:30 - 10:45 1/31/2017 Annotated Bibliography In 1971 United States president Richard Nixon officially declared a on on a global scale. Since then, drug prohibition policies have been implemented worldwide in an attempt to minimize drug abuse on a global scale. Prohibition policies are focused around the idea of in an attempt to stop drug use altogether. It has a very aggressive approach- implementing policies that; incarcerate drug abusers and traffickers, eradicate the supply of drugs, and prohibit the use of drugs in mass. The harm reduction approach enacts policies that focus on the drug users as individuals, and rehabilitating them back into the working class. Drug rehabilitation centers are opened, allowing drug users access to clean drugs and provide social workers that assist with finding housing and work for the drug users. Discussion about this topic mostly revolves around these two approaches (harm reduction and drug prohibition) and argues which is more successful in minimizing drug abuse. Which begs the question: Which is more effective at minimizing drug use within the United States, drug prohibition based policies or harm reduction based policies? This paper will analyze both approaches, weigh the pros and cons and come to a valid conclusion on which of the methods are considered The Harvard Law Review Association. the War on Drugs: A for Nonviolent Drug Harvard Law Review, vol. 113, no. 6, 2000, pp. The Harvard Law Review Association goes into detail in four total parts about the negative effects of War on Drugs. It discusses the major consequences that have occurred to African Americans in particular, due to increased incarceration and drug enforcement in part I. Part II talks about non-violent drug offenders; and their specific needs and wants and how sentences effect the drug offenders. In Part III, they introduce their own alternative drug policy created by Harvard Law School Professor Charles J. Ogletree, Jr, Former New York City Mayor Ed Koch, and civil rights activist Reverend Al Sharpton. Part IV adds final thoughts on their alternative idea. the War on Drugs: A for Nonviolent Drug provides me with a paramount amount of credible evidence towards my research question. It gives me logical supporting evidence about the effects of incarceration and the effects of United States drug policies. It identifies, in detail, how the on effects individuals and identifies drug abusers needs. This allows me to make a logical argument on what is best for the drug abusers. The author Harvard Law Review Association, publishes articles by professors and lawmakers that undergo a rigorous editorial process. In addition, former president Barrack Obama was the President of the Harvard Law Review. Patten, Daniel. The mass incarceration of nations and the global war on drugs: comparing the United domestic and foreign drug  Social Justice, vol. 43, no. 1, 2017, p. 85+. Patten argues how, currently, the war on has a close correlation with the current ideas of the United domestic war on drugs. It discusses the consequences of this; the incarceration of entire countries. Patten argues that ever since the implementation of domestic drug policies within the United States, other countries have followed suit, or have been by the United States. To prove this, he uses as evidence of how the United States have justified their of other countries. He also explains the economic burdens a country has to go through in order to implement drug policies. In addition, he discusses the main methods of these policies, and the effects of such methods. Patten excerpt is vital to providing me with evidence that helps support what method we currently are using to deal with substance abuse on a global scale. Although this source does not deal with the United States directly, it allows insight into the methods that are used on other countries. It provides more examples of the effects of implementing drug policies in an attempt to stop drug trafficking, drug violence, and reduce gangs and cartels. It shows the effects that drug policies have on nations other than the United States. Daniel Patten, has a Masters Degree in Sociology from Old Dominion University. He is completing his doctorates degree in sociology at the Western Michigan University. Csete, Joanne, et al. The Lancet Commissions: Public Health And International Drug  The Lancet 387.(2016): 1427-1480. ScienceDirect. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The Johns Commission on Drug Policy writes this article in an attempt to inform and encourage drug policy debates. To accomplish this, they want to ensure they use grounded and emerging scientific evidence. They argue that this idea that all drug use is considered detrimental and has led to hardline based policies. These policies focus on prohibition and the outlawing of drug use all together. Csete and her peers argue that the these policies are ineffective, and actually create more problems rather than solve any. To move into this idea, they discuss how the united nations recently implemented Sustainable Development Goals. These goals were implemented with the idea of human well being based approaches that will benefit the health of all man kind. In April of 2016, they discussed the control of illicit drugs. Encouraging the Lancet Commission to write this article. Having article as a source provides me with evidence that supports the claim; drug prohibition policies are ineffective. Article suggests other effective alternatives towards drug prohibition that are proven to be effective. Csete is a professor at Columbia university, and has a PhD from Cornell University in philosophy, and public health nutrition. Most if not all the extra authors working on the project also have a PhD, MD, or are notable professors. Ritter, Alison, and Jacqui Cameron. A Review Of The Efficacy And Effectiveness Of Harm Reduction Strategies For Alcohol, Tobacco And Illicit  Drug And Alcohol Review 25.6 (2006): 611-624. PsycINFO. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Ritter and article focuses on just how effective harm reduction policies are in producing results. They discuss how well it works on alcohol, tobacco, and other illicit drugs. It mostly discusses how little data there is to support the effectiveness of this approach. Whether the method is cost- effective. And go into great detail of the process and some of the key principles of the harm reduction approach. They go into detail about the effectiveness outreach have on reaching their intended audience. And how effective they are in producing results. They go into detail in this same way with education about illicit drugs, brief interventions, and how well peer network support works. Although this article focuses on alcohol, and tobacco- it also focuses on illicit drugs as well. Their article gives me a birds eye view into the opposite end of the spectrum. Which is; even though harm reduction policies are adopted universally as a Is it logical to implement them? What are the pros and cons of these sort of policies? and how does this policy compare to abuse of non-elicit drugs, such as: alcohol and tobacco? Alison Ritter is a professor and a leading drug policy researcher and director of the Drug Policy Modeling Program at the National Drug and Alcohol Research Center at the University of New South Wales.