Malik Fitts Composition 1 Nancy Carr 4 February 2017 Intermediate Draft In America, 1 in 5 children are living in poverty. For these children, poverty has a large impact on not just their physical conditions, but their mental development. 15 million adolescents in America struggle to keep up with their peers developmentally simply because they are below the poverty line. This socioeconomic disadvantage leaves them behind in many areas of their life academically, emotionally, behaviorally, and through their language development. A child raised in impoverished conditions faces many setbacks and is held at a great disadvantage, with a much higher risk of falling back into the cycle of generational poverty. McAra, L. (2003,). Theory and Method in the Edinburgh Study of Youth Transitions and Crime. Oxford Academic. This peer-reviewed journal article takes data from the Edinburdg Study of Youth Transitions and Crime. This study is focused on 4,300 children around the age of 13 (because this is the age where violence peaks) and focuses on multiple risk and protection factors. The results of this study found that gender and poverty are greatly related to violence at and neighborhood This remains even when risk and protection factors are controlled. This states that that is linked to victimization, relationships between children and their care- givers and school. In conclusion the theory of was supported. Negotiated order suggests formal and informal orders have a key role in the development of offenders. This source also states violence reduction is best when there are support for the victims, parenting skills are fixed, school-curricula is transformed and poverty is tackled. Finishing with the conclusion that adolescents in poverty are at great risk for becoming violent and should be seen more as vulnerable children than offenders. The author on this scholarly source includes Lesley McAra. She is the co-director as the Edinburgh Study of Youth Transitions and Crime, holds her pHD and works as a professor. Kim, J. (2015, December). Trajectories of Parent-Adolescent Relationship Quality Among At- Risk Youth: Parental Depression and Adolescent Developmental Outcomes. HHS Public Access, 434-440. . In this article, Trajectories of Parent-Adolescent Relationship Quality Among At-Risk Youth: Parental Depression and Adolescent Developmental Outcomes, the researchers conducted a study to examine how parent depression changes a parent-adolescent relationship. Parental depression is very common, especially in low-socioeconomic homes and this poor parental relationship can cause great setbacks for an adolescent. The methods of the research included using data from a large prevention study of 110 children at risk of dropping out of high school, the average participants being 15 years old. This study was conducted over 18 months. In the results it was found that there was a slight decline in parental support across time. Parent- adolescent support was in ties with adolescent depression found toward the 18-month mark. Adolescents experiencing depression and hopelessness reported their depression increasing because of dealing with parental depression. This increase of depression due to a lack of support leaves teens at a greater risk of dropping out and joining the poverty line. An author in this study was JaHun Kim. Kim is a graduate student from the University of Washington and holds a Ph.D. She focused in Nursing and Developmental psychology. Madariaga, C. (2015). The Care and Development of Children Living in Contexts of Poverty. , 25(12), 3637-3643. Retrieved from USF Libraries. This study, The Care and Development of Children Living in Contexts of Poverty was conducted to research the environmental and genetic factors surrounding childhood development factors. Researchers found poverty holds a large influence over childhood development. In the study they focused in a low-income area in Northern Colombia on 629 children, between 0 and 5 years old. The results showed the researchers that 17% of these children were showing developmental delays in their age group seemingly due to their impoverished conditions. It showed developmental delays increased when the child passed 1 year of age because the delays showed in their communication and cognitive actions. The study also went into preventative measures, stating to curve this delay their guardians need to intentionally stimulate them. This is a great source for my topic because it goes deep into why and how children can be affected by poverty and it was a case study that actively showed children that are being affected today. One of the authors on this study, Camilo Madariaga, is a scholar in Welfare Economics, Human Development theory and Development Economics from the University of Norte. Mokrova, I. The role of household chaos in understanding relations between early poverty and academic achievement. . Retrieved from 10.1016/j.ecresq.2016.02.004. In this study role of household chaos in understanding relations between early poverty and academic researchers examined the chaos associated with poverty and academic achievement in children. They focused on two types of household chaos, disorganization and instability. This study took place over a span of 6-58 months to view cumulative household chaos in relation to the family income (poverty). In the results it was found household disorganization related heavily to poor academics in children and causes the same longitudinal effects. The study however did show that household instability no longer held correlation to a lack of achievement. This correlates to my topic because it focuses on how poverty in a household has an impact on children. This particular study focuses on how poverty hurts their academic achievement due to strains in their living space. Irina Mokrova, a researcher on the study, hold her PhD in Human Development and focuses in Quantitative Psychology, Educational Psychology and Developmental Psychology. Lambert, J. Early adolescence behavior problems and timing of poverty during childhood: A comparison of lifecourse models. . Retrieved from ScienceDirect. In this study, the objective was to examine the effects of poverty between birth to late childhood and the behavior problems that came with it. The researchers used modeling life course models, corresponding sensitive periods and an accumulation of risk and social mobility models. In doing so they group three ages groups, 0-3, 5-7 and 8-12. The outcomes were teachers reporting hyperactivity, and physical aggression. Researchers found physical aggression problems were started between the ages 0 and 3 during the sensitive period, while it was prolonged poverty that created the hyperactivity and opposition reported by teachers. Concluding with, early exposure to childhood poverty assumed lots of behavior problems in children early on. This is directly related to my topic because it talks about one of the factors of adolescent development that poverty alters. This scholarly Journal takes it a step further by actually conducting a study on particular age groups to prove the hypothesis that poverty does bring out aggression and hyperactivity in children that effects all aspects of their life. One of the authors, Jean Lambert, is a member of the European Parliament and an English politician. She has conducted much research and writings on her topics of interest, (human rights, sustainable development, etc) and was awarded the very first and Human Rights in 2005. Payne, R. K., DeVol, P. E., & Smith, T. D. (2006). Bridges out of poverty: Strategies for professionals and communities. In this book, the author works to uncover all areas of poverty/generational poverty. The author Ruby Payne goes into depth about family structure and stability and the differences within them depending on ones social class. She also explains language discourse and the difference in language development between someone in high class, middle class or those of poverty. She also works to explain how families in poverty value relationships, humor, and language differently than that of people in upper classes. Meaning, relationships and family is wrapped more around the idea that as long as love you need anything else (such as success, money, etc), humor is more inappropriate and vulgar because of the lack in vocabulary and falls under a casual register, rather than formal. She also goes on to talk about how all of these characteristics among a family in poverty go on to effect the child being raised in poverty. Example, she states children in poverty are exposed to 3.75 million less words sounds and phrases than their peers by the time in primary school, leaving them 2 years behind other children their age, academically, by the time 14. This book is a great source for my thesis because of explanations and connections about poverty and how it starts among a family and the effects it leaves on the development. The author, Ruby Payne has a doctorate in educational leadership and policy and is a very well-known published author and public speaker.