Jamal Robinson Robert Ryan ENC 1102 January 28, 2017 FINAL DRAFT PROJECT 1: GUN CONTROL Guns are extremely powerful weapons. On many occasions, they have caused havoc, destruction, harm and sometimes even death. On the other hand, guns can be used to defend, protect, or to threaten and kill others; but here we are again. Another shooting, more lives have been ended senselessly. Guns are getting into the hands of the wrong people, and it would seem that any attempt to resolve this is always considered Society has to understand that guns have long-lasting affects not only physically, but mentally. The controversial issue of gun control has become a worldwide sensation among Americans. It is important to pay attention to the direction of where gun control laws are headed. The directions they take will not only affect our nation and society, but our future as well as we all move to communities and begin to raise families. There are two organizations who differ on the directions of gun control. National Rifle Association of America (stakeholder A) and Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (stakeholder B). National Rifle Association of America is devoted to preserving the rights of the American Freedom. Which is the Second Amendment that gives them the right to have the firearms and they should be able to have any kind of weapon of defense, anything other than that will be going against their human rights. While the organization is still not in favor of background checks for gun sales, they do not oppose it as much as they did in the past. The problem that lies here is Americans feel that guns are being put in the hands of people who can become very dangerous people. The mission statement of the National Rifle Association (NRA) is and foster the Second Amendment rights of all law-abiding Americans. These activities are designed to promote firearms and hunting safety, to enhance marksmanship skills of those participating in the shooting sports, and to educate the general public about firearms in their historic, technological and artistic Basically, it states that they want to be able to bear arms and those who do so also have an opportunity to enhance their gun skills and receive more information about guns so that there will be no harm to the owner or others around. They feel as though it is better to have a gun even when you may not need it, instead of not having a gun just in case you do need to use it. The NRA even gave their support to heavy the penalty on instances involving gun violence, but they still stand strong in their belief that the person is to blame and not the weapon (Grant1). There are countless amounts of organizations who aim to push for stricter gun regulation laws. One of the groups are Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, whose mission is seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy They also want fix the background check system for gun purchasers and close some of the loopholes in the law that allow criminals, drug abusers, and the severely mentally ill to gain easy access to (CSGC) So many people have used guns as mass destruction to communities and families and people continue to use guns in inappropriate ways. Without question the thoughts of banning guns such assault weapons and automatic guns as a whole has higher support among the American public but is deeply divided in the parties. With over 70% support from Democrats and almost none of Republicans in favor (Dimmock). That is a major concern, now with being said gun legislation is not going to be changed anytime soon. Therefore, gun control will continue to be a problem. The next best thing that can be done is within these two organizations. Of course, both sides are aware of the various incidents that have taken place over the course of ten years that have dealt with firearms and the mass killing of people. They both agree that these things should not be happening and wish to stop these things from happening in the future, but they must work together to fix the problem. Within these two organizations mission statements lies the common ground that can be used to work towards a compromise between the two on this very touchy subject. These groups have the interest of the public in mind. The National Rifle Association wants to educate the general public about firearms and hopefully this will help decrease accidents with guns, or even decrease the amount if people who as knowledgeable about firearms (NRA). Coalition to Stop Gun Violence is all about making sure that people of the community are feeling safe in regards to gun violence and goes the extra mile to ensure this by using research. With these two groups taking a step towards educating the public on firearms, they can come together and solidify a compromise where the public wins, along with their organizations. When you consider the groups being able to make a compromise, most people will picture this as impossible. National Rifle Association wants to keep their guns and will not let that right be taken away from them, while Coalition to Stop Gun Violence would like the uses of guns to be taken away from the public due to the increased amount of gun violence and deaths dealing with firearms. The question of whether or not they can make guns illegal as a whole is a very difficult point to make but there is a middle point where these two can agree. They cannot change the laws pertaining to getting a handgun could be changed to more a strict standard than what is put into place now. But, they can began giving very detailed classes when people are seeking gun ownership through their organizations. No, this will not increase the waiting time in states waiting periods but it can resolve the problem of states who have non-existent background checks and classes. This will ensure that people who exercise their right to bear arms will not only be able to do so but be able to have certain knowledge about the weapon. These groups can even make it a policy to take extra classes for people who want to own assault weapons. Both of these organizations will be losing support from their extremists on the issue, which means these non-profit organizations could be losing sponsors and other outlets for financial support. Some states are more prone to selling assault weapons due to the abundant amount of hunting done in those areas. Since people already enjoy firing these weapons you can use the classes as ways to appease the customers. They are learning safer ways to have the guns and are also able to have fun at the same time. Hopefully these things will reduce the availability of guns and make it difficult to gain access to own them and once granted access then help those who have guns to use them in a safer manner. NRA would have to conduct these classes and handling weapons under their watch which might make them lose some customers but as a whole it will help decrease the amount of gun violence in the long run. Many Americans may see this progress and not even mention taking away the second amendment. The possible loss of financial support I less important than saving life. Work Cited Grant, David. deal on background checks: Biggest gun control win The Christian Science Monitor. 10 April 2013 Accessed January 24, 2017. National Rifle Association. A Brief History of the NRA at the National Rifle Association, 2017, home.nra.org/about-the-nra. Accessed January 25, 2017 Partisan Divide On Gun Ownership, Bipartisan Support On Background Weekend Edition Sunday, 19 June 2016. Literature Resource Center. Accessed 25 January 2017 The Campaign to Stop Gun Violence. Statement of Principles at the Campaign to Stop Gun Violence, 2012, campaigntostopgunviolence.org/principles. Accessed January 25, 2017