Rocchio 1 Chris Rocchio Instructor Ryan ENC1101.059 26 January 2017 Finding Common Ground For years, some animals have lived in captivity and used for the entertainment of humans. Animals have been used in many different places other than their natural habitats. Recently and in the past, some organizations have arisen and have begun fighting for the rights of these animals. They believe that no animals should be forced to live in captivity whether it be a circus or even a zoo where the conditions for the animals could be believed the be like the wild. One of the main organizations who has fought for the animals, is the largest animal rights organization in the world, and is a major stakeholder is PETA. PETA is not willing to let the animals live in there without fighting for them and the and circuses are not willing to let the animals go because they are their money makers, these two sides are at a stalemate. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is the second stakeholder that can change the issue and help better it due to their extensive history of helping certain animals. Although the USDA helps some animals, they help all animals. The USDA is the department that is supposed to enforce the issue but cannot do so most of the time and is not willing to make changes to help all the animals. For these two groups to come to a positive compromise, they need to come together and create a law to propose to congress to ensure that no animals will feel out if place in their living scenario and will have proper treatment like the wild while not being abused in any way. The first stakeholder in the issue is PETA. PETA, also known as People for the Ethical Treatments of Animals, has over 5 million members and stretches across the world. PETA Rocchio 2 focuses on taking down the other major stakeholders which are and circuses because they believe the animals are more than entertainment, animals are living, breathing, creatures that deserve to live free just as us humans do. PETA understands that in the past there has been no research and not enough technology to educate everyone in the population, but now, in the present, there is plenty. Per PETA, world of virtually unlimited choices, animal exploitation is simply (All About PETA). PETA is unwilling to allow the animals which live in circuses, and other forms of entertainment facilities, to live there any longer without improved conditions. The second stakeholder in the issue is the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The USDA oversees enforcing the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) which governs the treatment of animals. This department has had to oversee the act for over the past 20 years and believes that it is doing its job by enforcing the act. The USDA want to deal with creating extensive laws and acts that must go through the process of passing the laws and acts and believes that the laws in place now are significant enough and no change is needed. For a compromise to be reached between PETA and the USDA, they must realize the common ground between each other. After all, the only thing that matter in the issue at hand between both sides, is the animals because neither of these organizations have any interest in gaining money off the animals and I think both sides need to realize this. Both stakeholders have seen animals in less than decent living conditions. Both stakeholders can see these living conditions as unacceptable. PETA did an undercover investigation in which it that circus trainers are using bull hooks to beat baby elephants or that workers in an animal research laboratory are slamming cats into cages and denying veterinary care to dogs with worm infestations, abscessed teeth, and open, oozing sores, PETA files complaints with the U.S. Rocchio 3 Department of Agriculture Enforcement of AWA) Both sides can both say that neither of them want this to happen to the animals and that they do not believe that this should happen in the past present or future. The only thing that matters between these two stakeholders is the animals and their treatment when in captivity. For the two stakeholders, PETA, and the USDA, to come to a compromise, both sides must come together with a member of congress who would help them create a law to propose to all of congress. Currently, the AWA says, minimum standards of care and treatment be provided for certain animals bred for commercial sale, used in research, transported commercially, or exhibited to the (Animal Welfare Info Center). This means that the animals that are kept in captivity are not required to be under the best living conditions. The animals can be under the most minimalistic living conditions and that is not okay. This law which will be proposed will have specific details that have been checked and accepted by members of PETA which inhibit the proper treatment of animals to a maximum level, not just the minimum level. The law must also force the organizations which hold the animals in captivity to create a more desirable living situation that is near identical to the wild. This law will obviously benefit PETA to high extent, even though the animals will still be living in captivity, their conditions will be more then favorable with this law. For this law to also benefit the USDA, they can implement a policy in which PETA must help better the conditions and treatment and use their nonprofit members to do all the work and to abide by the rules while doing it. This will help the USDA to focus on other issues because the animals are not there one and only focus. This law will work because it is what should have been done from the beginning and everyone must understand and abide by it no matter what. Animals are living creatures just as we are and should not be forced to live in a cell or a smaller version of their true natural environment purely Rocchio 4 for human entertainment. This law will work, if created, because both sides will be moderately happy for the time being and is better for the animals in every way possible. Once proposed, and hopefully once created, the animals that are protected under this law will live a better life for the rest of their life. Humans are animals and are not locked in cages and forced to perform in front of others. If a human was locked in a cage it would be against the law, so why is it not against the law for an animal to be locked in a cage. PETA and the USDA must both compromise just a little to ensure the protection of these animals. The sides must not only come together, but propose the law. The law is the only structured and certain way to get the animals what they need. The law should ensure the maximum protection and proper living conditions that compare properly to the wild then and only then, PETA, the USDA, and the animals will be happy. Rocchio 5 Works Cited Maroufi, Chogollah. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. All About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 10 Facts about  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Animal Welfare  Animal Welfare Act Animal Welfare Information Center NAL USDA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bromley, Ben. Circus World Rejects  White Tops 88.3 (2015): 19. International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Some of my sources have publishers so I was not able to include that in my citations