McDavid 1 Althea McDavid Instructor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 017 27 January 2017 Project 1: Finding Common Ground Baby Monitoring With the advent of newly innovative baby-monitoring products, like wearable baby monitors, came a controversial view on their uses by various parties. Some medical parties offered criticism as to the safety, accuracy and benefits of these items while other reviews by medical professionals and manufacturers stated that these products have great benefits and large potential for medical uses in the future. The (formerly known as the Emergency Care Research Institute) is amongst those who share their concerns about baby monitoring systems. Owlet Baby Care, on the other hand, makers of one such baby-monitoring product, advocates for the benefits that the products provide parents. Owlet Baby Care and the ECRI Institute have opposing views on the issue but a compromise where the two organizations conduct collaborative research on the product can help to move the argument in a more positive direction. In a website article, Owlet Baby Care spoke about their product, the they believe that their product parents take a proactive approach to their health and The creators are of the opinion that parents have a right to their physiological information, and they have provided a platform through which this is possible. They state that they have invested a lot to further knowledge of the issues affecting infant so that they may produce a quality product. Lori Sichtermann, in her RT magazine article, conveyed the feelings of medical practitioners in West Reading, Pa who McDavid 2 asserted that products such as the smart sock are very similar to monitoring systems used in their Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) p. 18+). If the monitor performs a similar service to that of medically approved products, then this article validates the benefits and shows that Owlet Baby Care is achieving its mission to the health and wellbeing of infants and their Executive Director of Health Devices at ECRI Institute, David T. Jamison, along with other medical professionals wrote about wearable baby monitoring devices, wanting their audience to consider lack of publicly available evidence supporting the safety, accuracy, effectiveness, or role of these monitors in the care of well Baby The article argues that instead of actually helping parents, the devices might be causing fear, uncertainty, and self-doubt in Baby The ECRI Institute comments on this issue because the group that seeking and finding the best ways to improve patient care require The Discipline of  and The Integrity of ECRI and they are concerned that these products do not have enough established scientific integrity to be appropriate for infants. An article in the British Medical Journal by David King, a clinical pediatrician, states that although manufacturers claim that the products are not to be used medically, they are marketed in such a way that they will be used in that capacity (349). He also surmises that the lack of clinical approval makes them dangerous since scientific data does not have to be released to validate them (King 349). David King therefore presents evidence to validate the ECRI concerns about the products. The ECRI Institute agrees that these products may one day have medical uses but not until proper studies are conducted and published about them. McDavid 3 Both organizations fail to realize where their objectives overlap and common ground is found. If the ECRI Institute aims to provide their consumers with research on the best medical options that improve patient care, and Owlet Baby mission is to provide a product that improves the care of infants, then they essentially want the same thing: to provide quality care options to their consumers. They just do not see eye to eye on the process of getting there. The groups may also agree on the basic factors needed to monitor infants properly; Owlet Baby Care uses pulse oximetry to fuel its products operation, which the ECRI cannot deny is a viable scientific approach. The groups therefore have the factors necessary for a compromise. The suggestion for compromise is this: The ECRI institute and Owlet Baby Care can collaborate to conduct research and tests on the smart sock device. The ECRI Institute will be required to enlist medical researchers while Owlet Baby Care provides the equipment used to conduct these tests and their own researchers. The two groups of researchers would work together on tests and concede to one another in the interest of both clinical appropriateness and convenient and profitable design. ECRI would not be allowed to share details about the test nor will Owlet produce a new product until the tests are completed. To be fair to both stakeholders, the tests should be conducted within a time frame agreed upon by both parties. A scholarly paper by Marianne Steino and Einar Rasmussen validates my compromise by addressing the effects of collaborations between Public Research Organizations (PROs) and Private firms. They state that these collaborations are tedious, but with efforts put towards clear communication and effective information transfer, the collaboration can result in greater knowledge and innovation than the organizations could achieve separately (Steinmo 1250-1259). Comparing this research to the situation presented to the two stakeholders in question, there should be no reason why this compromise is not plausible or cannot result in a similarly favourable outcome for both parties. McDavid 4 This compromise has benefits and drawbacks for both stakeholders. The ECRI Institute will not only have to sponsor their researchers financially, but also potentially have their reputation negatively affected by their affiliation with a private organization. An organization like the ECRI institute must rely on their neutrality to appear objective and credible to their audience; something this compromise would affect. However, having firsthand insight into this product will make them a sort of authority on the matter of baby monitoring as opposed to a secondary reporter or commentator. This may then override the seemingly negative effects of the collaboration and give them added credibility once the studies are completed. Owlet Baby Care will also be affected in that the ECRI researchers may find problematic aspects of the product, in which case Owlet Baby Care runs the risk of losing money from having to alter the product. On the other hand, the collaboration may most likely result in profit increases since more parents will be convinced to purchase the product due to support from a medical institute. Not only that, but it is likely that these studies will convince medical organizations to use their product as well, advancing production, recognition and profit. Infants are fragile creatures, they are susceptible to all sorts of dangers; they can suddenly stop breathing, hit their heads and lose consciousness and choke on their own vomit among other things. Now imagine a parent with the knowledge of all of these possibilities, they will be perpetually concerned for their wellbeing, checking with them constantly and barely getting any sleep for the first few months of their growth. To make life easier and less stressful, parents and prospective parents will always be on the lookout for ways to protect and monitor their children without having to hover over them. With the constant evolution of technology, the instruments produced to accomplish this have become more creative and complex and they provide more options. Sometimes, however, in the effort to create a McDavid 5 revolutionary product, convenience may supersede the main objective of the product, to safeguard the child. In order to not lose sight of this objective, the ECRI institute and Owlet Baby Care, instead of opposing each other, can ensure that this oversight does not happen by putting their respective medical and commercial ideas together to help protect and nurture that which is the future of this world; children. McDavid 6 Works Cited About ECRI . https://www.ecri.org/about/Pages/default.aspx. Accessed 27 January 2017. Baby Monitors Have Little Proven Benefit for Healthy 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.ecri.org/press/Pages/Consumer-Use-Baby-Monitors-Have-Little- Proven-Benefit-for-Healthy-Infants.aspx. Accessed 27 January 2017. King, David. Marketing wearable home baby monitors: real peace of . BMJ: British Medical Journal (Online) 349 (2014). Accessed 27 January 2017. Owlet response to opinion article in . 24 Jan. 2017. http://www.owletcare.com/blog/owlet-response-to-opinion-article-in-jama/. Accessed 27 January 2017. Sichtermann, Lori. Neonatal Monitoring an Extra Layer of Care: Patient Monitoring Technology like Pulse Oximetry is Providing a Safety Net for Newborns and Infants in Neonatal ICUs, while New Advances in Home Monitoring Look to Deliver Vital Signs to Smart . RT for Decision Makers in Respiratory Care, Oct. 2013, p. 18+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1& it=r&id=GALE%7CA360207958&sid=googleScholar&asid=93d963efccd69011a114080 b313cf916. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Steinmo, Marianne and Einar, Rasmussen. How Firms Collaborate With Public Research McDavid 7 Organizations: The Evolution of Proximity Dimensions in Successful Innovation . Journal of Business Research 69.3 (2016): 1250-1259. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017.