Shackleford 1 Serge Shackleford Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059 15 February 2017 Healthy Living with a Side of Guilty Free? Veganism is a lifestyle in which people abstain from consuming products derived from animals. Vegans do not eat any sort of meat, fish, poultry, cheese, or milk products. Vegans also tend to be adamant about refraining from wearing leather and fur. Not only is veganism a lifestyle, it is also a philosophy in which humans live in harmony with animals and do not use them for commercial purposes. Although many people eat a plant-based diet, some people very passionate about veganism, promoting the messages of well-known organizations like PETA. These supporters often cite many benefits from health improvement along with the reduction in carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere to the lessening of cruelty and suffering imposed upon animals. However, there are other organizations that support completely vegan lifestyles like how PETA proclaims. Major companies in the meat and dairy industry, like the International Dairy Foods Association (IDFA), emphasize the importance of meat and dairy as a means of maintaining a healthy diet. Having a well- balanced diet with nutrition coming from various means is what promotes true health. Removing vital sources of protein and that humans have used since their very cause dangerous vitamin deficiencies. Both sides of the issue-- those in complete support of veganism and those who stress the importance of eating meat and dairy products for their well-rounded importance--have the goal in mind of promoting healthy people and a healthy environment. Shackleford 2 Organizations like PETA are created with the goal of raising awareness for veganism and reducing animal suffering the world. mission is to take an oath to save animals, get healthy, and protect the environment by going (Mullins, 2017). PETA focuses on making veganism readily accessible, easy, and healthy. The aims of the PETA organization involve lobbying the government to create better laws to safeguard animals in meat plants and dairy farms. They even hold protests and stunts. PETA ran an advertisement campaign which displayed famous celebrities in the nude discourage people against donning fur, joining the likes of Dennis Rodman and Paul McCartney as notables who have stripped for the (Fletcher ,2009). PETA is convinced that society is better off by becoming completely vegan. Besides just plain and simple animal suffering and cruelty, PETA claims eating meat and dairy products is detrimental to human health. Eating steak for a special occasion might seem great in the moment, but scientists claim that there is a hidden price: a higher mortality rate. New research on the matter more evidence that vegetarians not only live better, but also (Fears, 2016). Veganism has been associated with lower rates of heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and even cancer. Because of the wonderful health benefits being vegan can produce, PETA commonly uses the health statistics to turn as many people as they can into becoming vegan. Being vegan is not only good for your own personal health, they argue, but for the good of the animals. In order to achieve this main goal, PETA works to promote the benefits of veganism while at the same time petitioning society to stop animal cruelty. Even with the increasing popularity of veganism due to the constant preaching of its supposed health benefits and the cruel environments the meat and dairy industry maintain, not everyone is on board with the vegan movement. In response to veganism and its message, the International Dairy Foods Association (IDFA) has created the Milk Life campaign to promote the benefits of drinking milk. The Milk Life campaign focuses on the high protein Shackleford 3 drinking milk delivers, especially since the public perception is that a vegan diet is lacking in protein. The IDFA also states that is the number one source of nine essential nutrients in the diets of children including calcium, vitamin D, and potassium, three of the four nutrients the 2015 DGAC found to be under-consumed. Dairy nutrient package can be hard to replace with other (Armstrong, 2015). This emphasis that milk and its benefits are hard to be replaced demonstrates opposition to having a completely dairy-free, vegan society. The main issue with veganism is that dairy products legitimately provide health benefits and not everyone can fit into a vegan diet. In fact, the recommends adults get three cups of dairy a day, including options like fat-free, low-fat milk or calcium-fortified soy (The Associated Press, 2015). Perhaps not everyone genetically falls into a single type of diet. Numerous research studies suggest that all animal products from a diet increases the risk of certain nutritional deficiencies. Micronutrients of special concern for the vegan include vitamins B-12 and D, calcium, and long-chain (omega-3) fatty (Craig, 2009). The IDFA makes note that the USDA still recommends that Americans have three cups of dairy per day, and that there is significant research to back up these claims. Veganism threatens sales of milk as more options, such as almond milk, become more readily available. To fight back, the IDFA continues to promote directed advertisements supporting milk because of its high nutrition value. The IDFA confidently supports the drinking of milk in order to promote a healthy lifestyle and to improve health. The common goal of both PETA and the IDFA is to promote health to the American people so that they can live longer, healthier lives. PETA tries to accomplish this goal by emphasizing a plant-based diet with no animal products since going without meat and dairy is the healthiest option, they claim. The IDFA tries to send out its own advertisements praising the high protein and vitamin dense component of milk. Drinking milk is a scientifically Shackleford 4 proven means of getting vital nutrients since humans have evolved to consume dairy. main problem is that organizations like the IDFA are involved with animal cruelty as they claim their cows kept in the best conditions. However, there is a compromise. are farms in which cows are not restricted to their barns with no range of motion. These farms allow for cows to run free and consume straight from the land. Not only that, these actually name their cows as that has been proven to produce more milk, a beneficial point for organizations like the IDFA. One of issues with the dairy industry is their heavy use of antibiotics. But when some dairy farmers have begun using and have started to withhold antibiotics, the health of the cows have actually improved. The main point is long as cows are kept clean and are given pasture rather than cooped up in filthy barns, no need to shower them with antibiotics and other (Nicholas, 2012). So, by creating these PETA have to worry about cows being ill-treated and the IDFA can have healthier, more productive cows. Although it may seem that groups like and the IDFA might not be able to reach any sort of compromise, it might be possible. Both sides of the argument have the goal with increasing the health and well-being of people. Turning everyone into a vegan might not be completely realistic due to certain demands on the diet and the fact that human beings have evolved by eating meat and dairy. Despite the numerous health benefits being vegan potentially may bring, some people are not able to be healthy with a solely vegan diet. PETA is passionate about promoting the well-being of animals. PETA has fought against the IDFA by claiming the companies they represent do not treat their cows very well. On the PETA website, they provide numerous examples of how the dairy industry abuses its cows. In order to compromise the two ideologies, could be employed which would Shackleford 5 ensure that animals are not abused while at the same time assuring those who cannot become entirely vegan are still able to get the nutrition they need. Shackleford 6 Works Cited Armstrong, Peggy.  Dairy Industry Reaction to New Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee Report. International Dairy Foods Association , 19 Feb. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Craig, Winston J. Health effects of vegan  Health effects of vegan diets. N.p., 01 May 2009. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Fears, Darryl. The added cost of eating red meat a quicker death, scientists  The Washington Post. WP Company, 2 Aug. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Fletcher, Dan. Outrageous PETA  Time. Time Inc., 11 Nov. 2009. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Happy cows produce more  Happy cows produce more milk Scientist Live. N.p., 4 Mar. 2013. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Mullins, Alisa. This and Want to Make America  PETA. N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Nicholas. Where Cows Are Happy and Food Is  The New York Times. The New York Times, 08 Sept. 2012. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Press, The Associated. Milk industry fights back against vegan groups,  NOLA.com. N.p., 26 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.