Nguyen 1 Anh Nguyen Robert Ryan ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Fossil Fuels or Renewable Energy, Not Right Now fuels versus Renewable is one of the most heated issues in the 21st century, it argued which one is the better energy choice. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, percent of the energy is accounted by fossil fuels while nuclear power supplies about 5 percent and the rest is supported by sustainable (Williams 2016). This issue is very important since, not only human and organizations are involved but the environment as well 350.org and Exxon Mobil are two of many organizations out there that are part of this controversial topic. Unfortunately, these two organizations are on the opposite view with each other. A compromise is what they need in order to coexist and achieve what they are aiming for. It is not easy to solve this issue right as it has always been here for a long time. Even so, if the two stakeholders separate themselves from their ego and start working together, they can provide a better living standard along with sustaining a better environment for the future generations. One of the two organizations that was mentioned above is 350.org. The organization was originally founded by a group of college student in the U.S. with Bill McKibben, author of the first public books on global warming. First of all, number 350 means climate safety: to preserve a livable plant, scientists want people to reduce the amount of CO2 from 400 ppm (parts per million) to lower than 350 ppm. 350.org focuses one three main goals: keep carbon in the ground, help build a new, more equitable low carbon economy, pressure governments into Nguyen 2 limiting emissions. The organization want people to united and put pressure on governments and stand up to the fossil fuel industry, since 350.org believes that humans are stronger when they collaborate. Ever since this company started, 350.org has grown from one country to become available in almost every country in the world on successful campaigns. Fighting coal power plants in India, stopping the Keyston XL pipeline in the U.S. are one of most successful achievements. Panwar claims that renewable energy deserves have more support because it is considered as sources of energy and optimal use of renewable energy minimize environmental impacts, produce minimum secondary wastes Dr. James Hansen looked at paleoclimate evidence and ongoing climate change then later come up with a statement. He suggested that if human want to continue to live on the sharing home called Earth, people will need to reduce the CO2 levels as of now. Fossil fuels are not perfect, however it still has many more benefits and that is why the other stakeholder is not going to change its stance. The second stakeholder, Exxon Mobil Corporation is the opposing organization, their stance is essential to understand the differences between the view. Exxon Mobil is a one of the biggest enterprise that has been fueling America since 1870. Exxon Mobil proudly claims have been developing quality fuel products to get people where they need to go for more than 135 (Exxon Mobil). product was used in the Wright brothers historic first flight at Kitty Hawk, N.C. The corporation is committed to being the premier petroleum and petrochemical company. Fossil energizes are found in 96% of the things humans utilize every day. One noteworthy utilization of these items is as heating oil, gas for autos, fuel, plane fuel and natural is need for power production. Not exclusively does the oil and regular gas industry supply countless, the duties and eminences produced from income the business specifically subsidize schools, streets, crisis administrations and just the beginning. The Nguyen 3 items delivered by fossil energizes are fundamental to everyday lives, making materials like plastics, prescriptions, and technology devices like computers. Since the economies continue to grow, the energy demand will increase. The outcome will be more travel and commercial shipping. So in order to meet the ever growing demand for energy, businesses like Exxon Mobil will require an even bigger workforce. Therefore, fossil fuel industry creates 1.7 million American jobs. Even though fossil fuel is not the best option for the planet, will account for 3 million jobs by the end of the (Tillier 2014). Exxon Mobil and the 350.org do not share the point of view, yet they do have some common ground that can be the connection for both sides to come to a compromise. That common ground is creating good living standard for the people, useful energy to transport and bring the world closer together. Unfortunately, these two stakeholders promote that common goal in different ways. In the case of Exxon Mobil, they believe in fossil fuel as it is the what this corporation has been providing for the years. Exxon Mobil is moving toward efficient energy producer, as they have able to reduce 40% of their emissions of VOCs, SO2, and NOx since 2002. Fossil fuel accounts for millions of jobs not only in the U.S but the whole world as well. Countries like United Arab Emirates is rich for being a big fossil fuel provider. It brings the economy up and hence improving their living as Dubai is known for one of the most luxurious city in the world (Said 2013). The goal is to promote renewable energy and educate them about it. Additionally, they are gathering people to stand together and protest against fossil fuel industry and government as well. They want to help build a more equitable low-carbon economy while providing with the best living condition as possible. Because one of their main goal is supporting an economical but green lifestyle. This information validates their common ground with Exxon Mobil. Nguyen 4 The compromise is not impossible to reached if the two stakeholders put aside the differences and focus on what they both share. If they can collaborate together, both will reach a higher position comparing to where they are right now. Exxon Mobil is already working on efficient energy distribution and 350.org is all about green renewable energy. This is opportunity for Exxon to provide not only fossil fuels but renewable energy as well. With that together, the two can spread how important energy is and everyone need to choose to most efficient energy option. advantage is its ability to unite the people and they can recommend the people to use product because of their fossil fuel and renewable option, along with the green movement. They can attract a lot of investors to come in and gain support. It is not easy to switch up to entirely renewable energy, due to the reason that society are depending too much on fossil fuel. With this compromise, these organizations can create a strong movement that will slowly but surely change the lifestyle and the environment. Fossil fuel versus renewable energy has always been a hot debatable topic around the world. There are many perspectives to look at, still we a solution this long time problem. Nonetheless, it is better if 350.org and Exxon Mobil can cooperate and create a movement that can change the outcome of this issue to a more positive result. It is never too late to start Nguyen 5 Works Cited About  ExxonMobil. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. How We  350.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Tillier, Martin. The Fossil Fuel Industry May Not Help the Planet, But It Employs  OilPrice.com. N.p., 09 July 2014. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Panwar, N.L., S.C. Kaushik, and Surendra Kothari. Role Of Renewable Energy Sources In Environmental Protection: A  Renewable And Sustainable Energy Reviews 3 (2011): AGRIS. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Azar, Christian, et al. Carbon Capture And Storage From Fossil Fuels And Biomass -- Costs And Potential Role In Stabilizing The  Climatic Change 1-3 (2006): 47. Academic OneFile. Web. 16 Feb. 2017.