Staton 1 Zachary Staton Adjunct Professor Robert Ryan Composition II 15 February 2017 Finding Common Ground: Abortion Abortion is one of the most controversial issues in America. The issue on pro-life versus pro-choice ranges all the way from the living room debates of Americans to ultimately having an effect on who may get put into the office of the White House. When the issue of abortion is brought up there is a melting pot of mixed emotions and feelings toward the issue. In a rationale debate, typically there are two main viewpoints. The first viewpoint is pro-choice. The National Abortion Federation (NAF) is a pro-choice organization that believes the time life starts is a grey area and abortion is completely acceptable within a certain time line or the life is in danger. The second side of this debate is pro-life. Heartbeat International is a pro-life organization that believes life begins during conception and any aborted baby is murder. Though the issue seems completely binary, finding a common ground (or shared goal) could provide a compromise between the NAF and Heartbeat International on whether or not abortion is acceptable in society or not. The NAF is a firm supporter of abortion. This organizations main mission, according to their website prochoice.org, is ensure safe, legal affordable abortion care. The NAF believes every woman has the right to her own anatomy. Additionally, they also believe every women has the ability to make informed decisions about her own Staton 2 reproductive health. The NARAL Pro-Choice America backs up the NAF on the home page of their website stating, pro choice means protecting access to safe legal abortion. It also means working on ways to help reduce the need for abortion, like improving access to birth control as well as supporting women who choose to carry their pregnancies to Bertha Alvarez Manninen, an established professor of Arts and Cultural Studies at Arizona State University discusses just what it means to be pro-choice in her book, She states that the term pro-choice means just what it says, is about giving women a choice between continuing a pregnancy then either raising the child or giving it up for adoption, or having an Manninen uses this to say that many opposed to pro-choice believe all pro-choice activists are encouraging abortion, when in reality they just believe the women should have a choice when it comes to their bodies. Heartbeat International is a pro-life organization, which strongly believes that no matter the circumstances, abortion is murder. Their mission statement as an organization is to make abortion unwanted and unthinkable for future generations. This organization plans to reach out to those seeking abortion and simply have a conversation with them. They also plan to open pregnancy centers in cities where abortion clinics are the only option for women. Dr. Joe McCarroll, an anti-abortion campaigner in Ireland states: unborn are the weakest of the weak, and the right to life is the most fundamental of human rights, so it is appropriate an necessary in a democracy to have legal protection for the right to life of the (McCarroll). McCarroll has the same views as Heartbeat International, that abortion is just not morally right. Staton 3 The common ground between these two organizations is that both establishments want to help give care and attention during the pregnancy. The NAF wants to provide the mother with options and care. The NAF wants to give the mother the option of abortion, keeping the child, or adoption. Throughout any of these processes the NAF wants to help provide healthcare and emotional support for women going through any of these three situations. Heartbeat International similarly wants to help the mother, by providing pregnancies centers and emotional support as well. Both organizations want to help women who are pregnant. By using these common similarities between organizations they can begin to think and create a viable compromise between the organizations on the controversies of abortion. A compromise to the abortion debate for both these organizations is essentially to be supportive of the other side. The NAF needs to generate fundraisers and come up with ways to make money to provide more comprehensive sex-education courses and supply free or cheap contraceptives. While, Heartbeat International needs to add crisis hotlines for not only women who know what to do, but also women who have had abortions and need support. Since both organizations main goal is to provide support for women, both organizations need to work together to come up with more ways to support women no matter what the circumstance is. Both organizations need to take a step back and realize the circumstance about them individually, but about the women overall. Nancy K. Rhoden, a professor of Law at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill states, groups should actively support birth control and education measures likely to reduce the number of unwanted She also goes on to say to ensure that abortions to occur are preformed as early in pregnancy as Were Staton 4 opponents of choice to adopt a of the approach, they would at least question the advisability of restrictions whose effect may well be to eliminate some abortions, but to make many others simply occur later than they otherwise Rhoden is simply saying that by providing a more comprehensive education and providing forms of birth control they can limit the amount of unwanted pregnancies more drastically. Also, by supporting and helping women who have abortions early in the pregnancy (before the 24 week) it can create a lesser of the two evil situation. Neither side is going to be completely satisfied, but by having the NAF create and develop more ways to educate and provide contraceptives, Heartbeat International gains having the amount of unwanted pregnancies gradually decrease, overall resulting in less abortions. By having Heartbeat International support not only women who keep the baby, but also those who decide to go the abortion route, the NAF gains more supporters to help women in need. Practically, making this compromise work might not be as hard as it seems. The NAF will need to come up with some creative ways to raise money to put on their classes and provide birth controls. Some ways to do this might be through calling fellow supporters and seeing if willing to make donations. Another way is to put on a fundraiser or show that proceeds will go to helping fund these classes and contraceptives. As the NAF does this, the effect will spread and it will ultimately create more classes and more birth control. Thus, ultimately reducing the amount of unwanted pregnancies. Heartbeat International will need to get in touch with pro-choice groups and see if they can get lists of women who need support and simply start with phones calls to offer support. By starting here both organization can help women all over the country; which is both their overall goal that they share. Staton 5 Both organizations have opposing views, but if they take a step back and open their eyes they can find common ground that they both share and they can both work together to help advance the goal that they do share. By exploiting this common ground the organizations NAF and Heartbeat International can help improve the lives of women who face an unwanted pregnancy. In any compromise no one is going to be completely satisfied, but the nature of a compromise. a difference between a compromise and a victory. If both organization take a step back and look to see what they can do to support women, no matter the circumstance, abortion will be a less hostile topic in society. Staton 6 Works Cited Abortion Federation. prochoice.org, National Abortion Federation, 2017, https://prochoice.org, January 30 th 2016. -This website was the main site of one of the stakeholders I used. It helped to find their mission statement and what they were about as an aorganization. Heartbeat International. Heartbeatinternation.org, Heartbeat International, https://www.heartbeatinternational.org/, Januaray 30 th 2016. -This was the website of the second stakeholder. It also helped to find out their mission statement and what they were about as an organization. Manninen, Bertha. Pro-life, Pro-choice, Vanderbilt University Press, 2014 - This book had good information about what it meant to be pro-choice and helped me support my first stakeholder. McCarroll, Joe. Studies International Forum, Vol. 25 Issue 3, Elsevier, 2002. - This book helped me to support what Heartbeat International was about. NARAL. Prochoiceamerica.org, NARAL Pro-Choice America, 2017, http://www.prochoiceamerica.org/, January 30 th 2016. - This website helped support the claims that the NAF was making. Rhoden K Nancy, A Compromise on Abortion, The Hastings Center, 1989. -This information helped to come up with a compromise for these two organizations.