Ryan Gardner Adam Carter ENC1102 1/28/17 Capital Punishment. Capital punishment is the legal killing of someone for punishment of a crime and is by far the most severe punishment a criminal can have. A punishment this severe is certain to bring up a lot of controversy and offend groups of people. One such group is the Innocence Project, a group meant to help innocent people convicted as criminals, and to prove the innocence of the formerly executed. Of course there are still many people that believe in the death penalty as well, such as those at Pro-Death Penalty. Pro-Death Penalty has a strong support of the families of the victims as well as the belief that it deters crime. With both of these sides being so extreme is should be no surprise that there has been years of controversy and disagreement, but there have still been no compromises that appeal to both sides. I believe that a temporary ban of the death penalty can help correct all issues within the death penalty and make future punishments safer and more fair. The Innocence Project was formed in 1992 with the purpose of proving already convicted criminals innocent, and proving previously executed innocent as well (innocentproject.org). They also work to improve the legal system to prevent these false convictions and to shed light on the inhumanity of the death penalty. The Innocence Project stems from the fear that the death penalty is unfair, racially biased, and that innocent people are possibly being executed (DeConto page 12). The distrust in the legal system that only issue people have with the death penalty. The main execution, lethal injection, has also been under a lot of scrutiny lately because of how untested it is, and how the chemicals in it are becoming increasingly expensive, and difficult to buy. Lethal injection has no way to truly be tested so there is fear that the criminal can feel pain during the execution, which would make the punishment illegal (Philpott page 2). There is also the issue that these chemicals are almost impossible to buy from reputable sources now, the cheapest way to get them are to buy them from companies that regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (Philpott page 2). The Innocence Project is against the death penalty because of the risk of wrong convictions and the immorality of the death penalty. Pro-Death Penalty follows the belief behind the deterrence effect, and the need for retribution for the victims. The deterrence effect was made from research that severe penalties, like the death penalty, reduce murder because criminals are afraid of the repercussions. Research shows that each execution reduces the murder of one white American, and one and a half African Americans. With the deterrence of murder, that makes criminals on death row executed at an average of 2.75 years quicker (Muhlhausen, page 1). Pro-Death Penalty focuses their efforts on showing the victims side, not the murderers. There are 1,000 murderers on death row, and 1,895 victims whose families are left scarred and broken. The death penalty helps relieve the pain and fear these families feel (prodeathpenalty.com). The death penalty is seen as good because of its retribution for families and for deterring crime. These stakeholders have two very different beliefs so needless to say they have a long history of disagreement. The main issue these two sides have is that beliefs are almost opposites. The Innocence Project claims that the death penalty is biased and immoral, but those at Pro-Death Penalty believe that it is the best way to prevent crime and that the need it. They have historically never worked together because both sides are not willing to compromise. As different as the two sides are they both have a similar end goal, severely punish criminals but keep it fair and safe for all sides. As different as these sides may be, it is possible to have a viable solution that appeals to both parties. Although the death penalty can be seen as a viable punishment, the legal system behind it is prone to too many errors. Over 150 people have been wrongly convicted and luckily released (Dodson page 1). If we could remove the errors behind capital punishment, we can appeal to both sides by punishing criminals without being unconstitutional. Other errors to resolve would include the issue with the actual execution. A temporary ban would allow time for proper research to be done lethal injections or other means of execution. A more morally sound execution would appeal to both groups. Temporarily banning the death penalty will allow proper time to work out the errors in the legal system and to research executions and to make sure they are constitutional, this will appeal to both The Innocence Project and to Pro-Death Penalty. The death penalty is a very controversial topic, and rightfully so as it truly is a matter of life and death. And although The Innocence Project and Pro-Death Penalty see eye to eye, they both want to fairly punish criminals and protect the innocent. A temporary ban on the death penalty will bring these two groups together and will help end all issues within the legal system and make the death penalty more fair, and safer in the future. Work Cited: 1) DeConto, Jesse James. Motion To  Against The Death Penalty (n.d.): 12-14. Web. 23 Jan. 2013. 2) Dodson, Adam. Americans Divided On Capital Punishment  The Crimson White. N.p., 11 Mar. 16. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. 3) Help Us Put an End to Wrongful  Innocence Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.. 4) Muhlhausen, David B. The Death Penalty Deters Crime And Saves  Testimony On Crime (2007): n. pag. Web. 5) Philpott, Sean. Execution By Lethal Injection: Illegal Policy and Politics (2014): 11-12. Web. 124 Jan. 2017. 6) Pro-death  Pro-death Penalty.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.