Catalano 1 Matthew Catalano Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Finding Common Ground: Should college athletes get paid? The argument over whether college athletes should receive payment has been debated upon for a long time. a very complicated issue considering how many athletes there are, what division they play in, and who deserves the payment. The College Athletes Players Association (CAPA) is a corporation that is for this endeavor. They are one of a few corporations that are in support of college athletes and feel that college athletes are entitled to payment due to the money they generate in college sports. However, on the opposing side of this debate is The National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA). They are the most well-known corporation that is against the payment of college athletes. The NCAA believes that no college athlete should be paid because of their belief in amateurism, which means that all incoming college athletes are amateurs and therefore not entitled to payment for participation in athletics. Since college athletes receiving payment is an ongoing issue between these two prestige organizations, the only way I see them both meeting halfway is if college athletes were granted a yearly allowance for personal expenses outside of sports. For the CAPA, they believe college athletes are entitled to more than they already earn, including payment. The CAPA believes that the rules of amateurism are fraud and belittles the athletes of money that should be theirs. Their president, Ramogi Huma, is a former college football player from UCLA and has fought for the rights of college athletes for years. Before the CAPA, Huma started the National College Players Association (NCPA), which is also driven to fight for college rights. Four years ago, Huma coauthored an article for the NCPA along with Ellen J. Staurowsky, professor of sports management at Drexel University. What Huma and Staurowsky found was that college athletes were getting deprived of money that they feel should be theirs. The article, $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of raised a lot of questions about the NCAA and how the money is handled. One major finding was about the fair market value of an average FBS football and basketball player. What they found was average FBS football and basketball player is denied approximately Catalano 2 $114,153 and $265,827 of their fair market value, The point they were trying to make was that many college athletes could receive a salary due to the vast amount of money the NCAA makes, but the rules of amateurism disregard those actions. However, the NCAA strongly believes in amateurism amongst college athletes. As stated on the NCAA website, the collegiate model of sports, the young men and women competing on the field or court are students first, athletes After all, most of these athletes are getting full scholarships to play their desired sport and receive an education, so is it fair for them to be paid like professionals? Mark Emmert, the president of the NCAA once said, individuals are not professionals. They are representing their universities as part of a university The NCAA wants to keep the purity of competition alive and well. They believe that maintaining amateurism in college sports is critical to the academic environment around campus and ensuring that the competitiveness is not ridiculed. Although the CAPA and NCAA disagree on almost everything, both corporations are in this business for the wellbeing of student athletes. Contributions to athletes everywhere is where they collide. The NCAA is constantly known for their contributions with student athlete scholarships. Divisions I and II schools provide more than $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships annually to more than 150,000 as stated on their website. As for the CAPA, their contributions come in the form of basic protections for athletes who may not be covered for certain expenses. talking about athletes who attending school on a full scholarship. One of those protections, listed on their website, is medical expenses. The CAPA will offer coverage for sports-related medical expenses for current and former Each corporation is also driven on the educational aspect of student athletes. One of the main goals is to raise graduation an educational trust fund to help former players complete their degree and reward those who graduate on The NCAA also believes in a strong mind in their athletes. NCAA funds many programs that directly support the and safety needs of as stated on their website. They keep a close track of their graduation rates and in most cases at Universities higher than the average student body. Looking past all the differentiating ideas and rules, a similarity Catalano 3 these two corporations share, the student athlete comes first. So, there is no doubt that a compromise can be made with this ongoing debate over salaries in college sports. A compromise in this situation can only be made if both organizations meet halfway. The way that happens is if college athletes are given a yearly allowance of no more than $2,000. This is a fair amount of money for an average student athlete in a two-semester year. Each semester, a student athlete will receive up to $1,000 for personal expenses outside of sports. That would mean no more than $200 a month in a typical five-month semester. This compromise was actually taken into effect in 2015. The NCAA granted what they call to certain athletes from conferences which Southeastern Conference, Atlantic Coast Conference, Big Ten, Big 12, and as stated from the Boston Globe. However, these stipends are only offered to Power 5 schools and talking about all athletes from every conference in both Division 1 and 2. The NCAA and the CAPA would be giving up a lot with this transition. In terms of sacrifice, the NCAA would have to make an exception for compensation and make a change on the amateurism rules which ensure that the main priority of student athletes is obtaining an education. As for the CAPA, this not exactly the kind of payout they feel college athletes deserve. They would be settling on a deal that is nowhere near their utmost desire for student athletes. However, about the athletes and best for them. Nobody wants college athletes to be spoiled, and then see their desire for competition deflated. Any college student, with room and board and a meal plan, should be able to live on two hundred dollars per month. fair. When it comes to the bright side for both organizations, the gains on this compromise are endless. The CAPA would finally see student athletes receiving gratuity from the NCAA, and the athletes have to seek it legally and risk losing their scholarship. The CAPA and NCAA would also see an increase in talented athletes staying longer at their school, rather than wavering off their final years to go play professional. If talented college athletes stay longer at their schools than that means a higher chance of those programs at those schools winning championships, which means recruits wanting to go to those schools, and that means more money for those schools and the NCAA. The NCAA will also not have to put up with so much emphasis from college athletes and corporations like the CAPA and NCPA. At the end of the day Catalano 4 all about best for college athletes and how they prosper during the most important years of their life. Since the birth of both the NCAA and CAPA, there has been no rest of argument. These two corporations are on opposing sides in nearly all categories except for one, the student athlete. It goes without saying, the students come first in every situation in college sports. Everyone loves college sports and rooting for their beloved schools, but most realize the time and effort college athletes are putting in to perform on and off the field. A little bite of gratuity would be appropriate. why a yearly allowance is the best way solve this argument. It goes without question that the aspect of amateurism is important to keep the purity of competition in college sports alive. However, college athletes need more than the average student, but not professionals so they should not be paid like professionals. No student athlete be able to pay for lunch at a fast food restaurant, or not be able to enjoy a night out with friends. No matter what sport he or she plays, a yearly allowance is necessary, and fair. Catalano 5 Work Cited Page College Athletes Players Association doing http://www.collegeathletespa.org/why College Athletes Players Association we Ramogi Huma, http://www.collegeathletespa.org/about NCAA is not for 3 November 2011, http://www.ncaa.com/news/ncaa/article/2011-11-03/stipend-not-%E2%80%98pay- play%E2%80%99-move NCPA Finally Getting Paid Thousands of NCPA News Articles, 31 August 2015, http://www.ncpanow.org/news/articles/players-finally-getting-paid-thousands-of-dollars Powers, John. stipends to college athletes remains a divisive 2 Sept. 2015, https://www.bostonglobe.com/sports/2015/09/01/paying-stipends-college-athletes-remains- divisive-issue/eQV4hEW5A0wbTfw3S1KgKO/story.html NCAA is the http://www.ncaa.org/about/resources/media-center/ncaa- 101/what-ncaa NCAA http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism NCAA http://www.ncaa.org/student-athletes/future/scholarships NCAA Asked Questions About the http://www.ncaa.org/about/frequently-asked-questions-about-ncaa Catalano 6 Scholarly Reviews Huma, Ramogi and Staurowsky, Ellen J. $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of NCPA and Drexel University Department of Sport Management Study. News 20 March 2013, Ganim, Sara. college athletes would hurt traditions, NCAA chief Emmert CNN. 19 June 2014, http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/19/us/ncaa-obannon-lawsuit-trial/ Catalano 7