Patel 1 Krishna Patel 1/26/17 Professor Ryan ENC 1102 Finding Common Ground With a wide variety of entertainment expanding throughout the industry, society is being influenced by what it is seeing, either negatively or positively. Specifically in the magazine media industry, the audience seems to believe everything published, further allowing it to impact their lives. For example, a headline may say 30 pounds in just 3 associated with a thin-figured celebrity in order to do its job and grab the attention. Such advertisements may cause the readers to change their lifestyle or even question their body image in response to the message. The Association of Magazine Media (MPA) advertises through modern strategies that satisfy the desires in order to increase profit, while The Dove Self-Esteem Project strives to promote self-esteem to women of all ages through education. They both, however, tend to utilize strategies that keep both organizations growing in success through either campaigns and projects or manipulation of expectations for body image. Although both goals are exceptionally different, there is room for a compromise through the incorporation of the relationship between fashion and self-esteem as Dove lacks the industry of fashion and MPA lacks the importance of self-esteem. This major turn would still benefit both companies as they would still be earning profit and respect for body representation. Patel 2 The Dove Self-Esteem Project wants nothing but an anxiety-free lifestyle for women of all ages. It believes that no female should be left uneducated on the issue of body appearance and gender stereotypes. According to the Dove Self-Esteem Project website, its mission statement is the largest provider of self-esteem education in the world, we help young people develop a positive relationship with the way they look. We raise their self-esteem with proven resources they In order to achieve this goal, Dove is reaching out to women by empowering their mentality on what they, themselves, should think body expectations are instead of what others think. These women are being educated on the psychological consequences that may occur if one were to think negatively of their body image. Parents of young females struggling with this issue are also being informed of this organization and what it has to offer. The article Controlled Trial of an Online Mother-Daughter Body Image and Well-Being discusses an experiment conducted to prove the effectiveness of the Dove Self-Esteem Project on mothers and daughters psychological behaviors on body image (Diedrichs et al.). Those mothers and daughters who were more exposed to the project had more of a psychological well-being and a higher self-esteem compared to pre-exposure to the website (Diedrichs et al.). The Association of Magazine Media, on the other hand, focuses on entertainment that fulfills the desires. According to the MPA website, the popular industry lives by the mission statement, Association of Magazine Media is the primary advocate and voice for the magazine media industry, driving thought leadership and game-changing strategies to promote the vitality, increase revenues and grow market In other words, the main goal of the organization is to increase profit through strategies that pull the Patel 3 attention. Majority of the female population specifically read Vogue, not only because of its widely known fashion sense but also because of its influence on women. These strategies in this case seem to be the presentation of female figures who exceed expectations of normal women. Either they are too thin, underweight, or even a face full of makeup in order to reach the level of perfection. It could either influence women or harm women, however, in this case, it is to make women of all ages feel great about themselves by finding a sense of fashion in whatever it is they are wearing. This is done by utilizing females with narrow hips and an hourglass figure on the cover and all throughout the magazine. According to the article Culture and the media: magazines in the public researchers discuss the effects of the culture of magazines in society (Jafari). These magazines are changing the mindset of readers who come across this type of media Jafari). Although the goal is to entertain consumers and pull their attention in order to earn profit for the industry, it is affecting them in the long-run by witnessing flawless, clear-faced women throughout the pages. Body dissatisfaction is very common among females in society, especially among those who are exposed to various types of media. With the Dove Self-Esteem Project focusing solely on psychological education and one-on-one support systems to help reach full potential and the Association of Magazine Media advertising fashion and beauty among female figures, both perfect body assumptions are adapting to those that they see. This is done by both strategies in which Dove formulates miracles for women through multiple campaigns and projects and MPA manipulates society by making them think that their way of representing women is the right way. In the article, body Patel 4 appreciation in young women: An integrated model of positive body researchers examined daily activities of young girls exposed to media and those who were not (Andrew et al.). Those who were exposed to media had low acceptance rates of themselves and their image, while those who were not had a fairly high acceptance of their body (Andrew et al.). As a result, the association of media with negative body image factors tends to manipulate mind, further leading to psychological/eating disorders (Andrew et al.). In order for the two organizations to come to an understanding of one position, Dove should be able to promote fashion along with natural ways of promoting beauty. After all, fashion is not just something picked up from someone, it all happened for the reason of expressing oneself. Therefore, the association of natural remedies and fashion could create a whole new innovation of positive body image. The Association of Magazine Media can also play a role in aiding Dove in this change by promoting self-esteem through the use of neutral makeup on celebrities/models, simpler clothes, and just simply things that the audience could relate to. This way, the audience will be able to relate more closely to both organizations and feel better about the fact that they too, can be beautiful like the women represented in our media industry. As new generations approach, body image expectations and mindsets of the society will continue to vary depending on the trend. In order to achieve the goal of breaking differences between body size and representations, females of all shapes and sizes can be introduced in popular fashion magazines such as Vogue. In addition to the change in the magazine industry, Dove can continue to expand on its support campaign by adding a little fashion to a bare, beautiful face. Representation of the plus-size community is being shown with its own clothing Patel 5 line in a variety of different department stores today, gradually spreading throughout other industries as well and Dove is gradually expanding its beauty line through a number of new projects that are helping women all around the world. Patel 6 Work Cited Girl Should Feel Free to Be Dove Self-Esteem Project Social Mission, selfesteem.dove.us/. Andrew, Rachel, et al. Body Appreciation in Young Women: An Integrated Model of Positive Body Body Image, vol. 18, 2016, pp. doi:10.1016/j.bodyim. 2016.04.003. Diedrichs, Phillippa C., et al. Controlled Trial of an Online Mother-Daughter Body Image and Well-Being Health Psychology, vol. 35, no. 9, 2016, pp. 1006. doi:10.1037/hea0000361. Jafari, Aliakbar. Culture and the Media: Magazines in the Public Journal of Marketing Management, vol. 30, no. 13-14, 2014, pp. doi:10.1080/0267257x. 2014.947731. - The Association of Magazine MPA - The Association of Magazine Media MPA, www.magazine.org/association-magazine-media.