Wiggs 1 Michael Wiggs Prof. John Williams ENC 1102 Due- Jan 29, 2017 The Ruling on the Field: Affecting Football to Be Safer for Athletes The game of football is one that many Americans adore, while adversely, a great number of citizens also disapprove of the sport due to its violent and dangerous nature. The National Football League (NFL) is one of the wealthiest organizations in the country, as they take in billions of dollars every year, providing millions of fans with high quality fun and entertainment. Unfortunately, this entertainment does come at a cost. Hundreds of players over the course of six to eight months experience thousands of what are sometimes career or life altering injuries due to the violent nature of the game itself. For years now, the NFL and doctors apart of the American Medical Association (AMA) have been at odds as they both seek to fulfill their own agendas. The NFL attempts to consistently provide high quality entertainment by way of a violent sport while doctors work to keep as many athletes healthy for as long as possible no matter the cost. These conflicting goals have led to a variety of rule changes and varying compromises for both parties. However, the compromise that would best suite both sides would force the NFL to make players wear more pads to protect themselves as well as making it mandatory to wear them during both practices and games, allowing them to continue to play physically while playing safer. Well respected and one of favorite pastimes, the game of football holds a special place in the hearts of many Americans. Originating in the late football has evolved over the years in a plethora of ways. From the equipment used, to the fan bases and Wiggs 2 support systems, to the actual players themselves, so much in relation to this great game has changed through time. The NFL as a whole is not necessarily an organization that seeks to harm players through malicious intent but is one that tries to on player health and safety while also keeping the game fun and according to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell in a Public address given back in 2013(A Safer Game, N.P). Football is a game that will certainly create wear and tear on an body no matter what position you play, but it does certainly have its benefits as most players that make it to the professional level find themselves leading lavish lifestyles and in. Even though there are many highly desired benefits, this is still by no means the safest job or contest in sports. Somehow the dangerous character of the sport seems to be one of the reasons that so many people enjoy the sport. Despite rule changes and different aspects of the game that may come and go, Commissioner Goodell stated in the same article most important job is to maintain the integrity of the This statement sure does speak volumes in terms of the overall goal, aim, and vision of the NFL as a whole. Even though safety is a major desire of the people in and around the NFL, the main goal is to preserve the physicality and tenacious essence of the game of football. Ultimately this in turn will continue to provide fans all over with the entertainment they desire, pushing the NFL to newer heights and allowing it to grow as one of the largest and wealthiest organizations. Any person will tell you, football here in the United States is a physical game, one that is not by any means for the faint of heart. There is so much physical contact and violence that is compacted into a 60-minute game; yet sometimes the game seems to be played with such grace. Ultimately, the grace and elegance runs out, and reality very quickly starts to sink in: football hurts! What some might consider to be one of the more dangerous sports to play in Wiggs 3 the United States, football undoubtedly takes a toll on an body over the course of their career. Over the course of the history, many doctors in many places have seen injuries come and go, injuries of many types, shapes, and sizes. Doctors such as those associated with the American Medical Association do all they can to help promote safety on and off the field and help athletes stay as close to injury free for as long as possible. The big thing in this instance to help make the game safer is to use more padding for players to help prevent injuries or things that may be minor or avoidable in most cases. According to an article written by Grant Garrigues and Claude Moorman entitled Football Injuries: The Lower most football players eventually succumb to some sort of injury at some point in their playing career, no matter how big or small it may be (G.E.Garrigues, C.T.Moorman III, N.P.). The injuries range from breaks and fractures to bruises and tears, but as you read the article it becomes evident that most of the injuries of these types occur in the lower extremities of most football players. Even outside of the lower extremity injuries that occur to the head and brain, similar to those seen from the research of Physicians such as Dr. Bennett Omalu are also very detrimental to human health. According to the Brain Injury research Institute, Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy or CTE be debilitating and may have life-changing effects for both the individual and for his or her an instance that is surely wanted to be prevented. Many of these cannot be prevented of course and usually occur purely on accident, but as a physician it is their goal to prevent small avoidable injuries such as bruises, concussions, and often in many cases several types of knee injures solely through the use of extra padding and a brace here and there. Wiggs 4 Unfortunately, there are some things that can and will be lost through compromise between the NFL and medical physicians, however, the good certainly outweigh the bad in this scenario. In an article written by Steve Silverman, the evolution of padding in football is discussed and how over the years the addition of new pads and new pieces of equipment have made things easier, harder, and safer (Silverman, N.P.). By forcing players to wear more pads more often, they put themselves in a better position to be protected when contact arises during competition. Padding such as rib protectors, shin guards, hip, tail, and back pads are all small additions that would certainly make a big difference. While adding padding is a major step, the most important part of this compromise is making the padding mandatory during all practices and competitions. This piece of the puzzle ensures that the extra padding is being put to good use. Being overly exposed can be very detrimental to the overall health of the athlete while being equipped with inadequate padding can also be very harmful. It is still important despite the addition of extra padding that the games overall integrity remain and not be diminished substantially. This would result in a slower game and one that is lacking of the high speed collisions that inevitably attract fans week in and week out. Although it is a pastime that is special too many it is one that is very controversial in a variety of ways. One of the more prevalent ways being player safety is a big concern among health professionals as well as the NFL, as they seek to maintain player safety while providing fans with quality entertainment. Even though Doctors and physicians may not entirely disapprove of the sport, they certainly believe that some changes can be made to make the game safer. Ultimately something as simple as adding a short list of pads to cover vital areas and making it mandatory for them to be worn is the start to fixing a problem that has been around for decades in the National Football League. Unfortunately as Wiggs 5 medicine evolves, so will the rules and regulations of the game of football as players become more and more accustomed to simply having surgeries needed to fix the injuries they sustain. However, it is up to the athlete and only the athlete as to what chances he is willing to take each and every time they suit up. Wiggs 6 Work Cited A Safer Game For All Who  Vital Speeches Of The Day 79.1 (2013): 006- 011. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Garrigues, Grant E., and Claude T., III. Moorman. Tackling Football Injuries: The Lower Extremity: Physicians Need To Recognize The Most Common And Dangerous Injury  The Journal Of Musculoskeletal Medicine 6 (2008): Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Silverman, Steve. How Has Football Equipment  LIVESTRONG.COM. Leaf Group, 15 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.livestrong.com/article/365785-how-did-football- equipment-improve-from-when-it-got-started/>. What Is  What Is CTE? Brain Injury Research Institute. Brain Injury Research Institute, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.protectthebrain.org/Brain-Injury-Research/What-is-CTE-.aspx>. MISSION AND  NFL - Careers. National Football League, n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nfl.com/careers/values>.