Carr 1 Brandy Carr Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Food Labels to Benefit Everyone The use of genetically modified organisms (commonly referred to as GMOs) in market is a growing concern, mostly because there is insufficient evidence to prove whether or not there are negative long term effects on a health. Over the past couple years there has been the issue of how to label genetically modified foods. Should they be clearly labeled or can they contain a scannable label (which is called a QR code and can be scanned by a machine or smart phone). In favor of scanable labels is the biotech company Monsanto and in favor of having products clearly labeled is the non-profit organization GMO Inside. As of now, there is a bill that has passed the House of Representatives which prevents both state and local authorities from regulating foods that have been genetically modified. In turn, this allows companies to use misleading labels, but this does not benefit the side of the topic that is against GMOs and wants clear, readily accessible labels (Spear). Because the labeling of foods containing GMOs is contentious, the compromise of having perishable foods clearly labeled while having processed foods use scannable labels can be implemented and beneficial to both side of the issue. On one side of this topic there are those that are against the use of GMOs in any foods, in particular, Genetically Modified Organisms Inside, which is an organization dedicated to getting people involved and knowledgeable to what they are eating and promoting a healthier life style. believe that everyone has a right to know in their food and to choose foods that are proven safe for themselves, their families, and the (GMOInside.org). This Carr 2 stakeholder would prefer if all foods were labeled clearly and all information readily available. Many common food crops that are consumed today were developed by biotechnological techniques such as radiation (causes genetic mutation, which was then assessed if the mutated genes contained beneficial traits like disease resistant) or chemical breeding (Ahmed, Farid E.). If all foods that have been genetically modified do not have to be labeled, this causes an issue for GMO Inside. recent International Food Information Council poll shows that public comfort levels with genetic engineering are declining, and support for labeling is (Nelson, Gerald C.). GMO Insides main goal is to get America informed and aware of what they are eating. The use of scannable labels would be time consuming and virtually impossible for people with no internet access or smart phones to know if they are consuming genetically modified organisms or not. Americans should have the right to readily and easily know what is in their food, and that some of these big name biotech companies that are opposed to this labeling are putting products on the market that are not adequately tested, turning America into the test subjects (GMOInside.org). Another stance on the issue is Monsanto, along with other companies that use GMOs in their products. Monsanto is a biotech company that sells bioengineered seeds and other farming products, and heavily rely on the use of GMOs. They believe there are no prominent adverse health, or environmental risks associated with the use of them, and their main research is improving plant breeding such as pest resistant soy beans or creating vegetables that have been genetically modified to deliver better nutrition. They also believe these products not only enhance the number or crops harvested by use of their genetically modified seeds, but the overall quality of the crops (Monsanto.com). There has been a growing stigma associated with GMOs and therefore it would be disadvantageous for companies using them to have to clearly label their Carr 3 products. Over the people have increasingly thought of GMOs as something negative but according to the Food and Drug Association as of now there is no research to prove that food produced using biotechnology (or genetically modified) is mysterious or unsafe (Weirich, Paul). If clearly labeled a consumer would take one glance and pass on a product just because they see the words GMO on the package. By use of scanable codes companies could avoid fearmongering amongst the consumers who are not invested on the topic of GMOs, while allowing ones who are an easy way to look up the information they want. These stakeholders share a common goal of wanting foods to be labeled in a way that is beneficial to the needs. The way a product is labeled could transform the way it is viewed; a consumer could potentially scan a label and have all the information at their fingertips. This is essentially what both sides of the issue are focused on, getting the information available to the consumers in a way that is easier and more efficient than ever before. Monsanto would like foods to be labeled with QR codes and GMO Inside wants foods to clearly be labeled but in essence both are just ways of labeling a food GMO or not. If only GMO foods are labeled with these QR codes then it would have a similar effect as just labeling it as so. A consumer could see the code and associate that with GMOs, therefore these two stakeholders that are seemingly at odds, do share a common goal. In the past solutions to this issue involved making it mandatory that all foods be clearly labeled or that it should be up to the companies how they want to label their products. Both of those solutions are one sided and do not benefit both equally and at the same time. There is still much that is unknown about the use of GMOs, and there should be further research on the long term health effects. It should also be taken into consideration the affects that labeling will have on both consumers and producers, consumer perceptions and purchasing Carr 4 intentions toward GMOs will help communicators, politicians, researchers, food producers, and food companies understand how consumers might react to GMO labeled foods and how to develop effective communication about (Pounds, Kacie L.). A proposed compromise that perishable foods should be labeled clearly and non-perishable foods do not will benefit both sides of the issue. This compromise benefits the first stakeholder because they will be able to clearly see if many of essential food items contain GMOs, and they can find comfort in knowing what they are consuming. The compromise will benefit the second stake holder because they will not be mandated to label all products thus the negative perception of the use of genetically modified organisms will not affect business. In conjunction both sides will have to give a little too, the newly proposed compromise will essentially split the labeling issue in half giving each side a little of what they want and a little of what they do not want. Along with this compromise there should be more research conducted about long term health and environmental effects on the use of GMOs. Labels are used to communicate nutritional information a consumer otherwise could not interpret on their own, and it is ultimately the consumers choice on what they are putting into their bodies. The compromise of these two sides will allow consumers the right to know. (WC: 1205) Carr 5 Works Cited Ahmed, Farid E. Testing of Genetically Modified Organisms in Foods. New York: Food Products Press, 2004 Bodiguel, Luc and Cardwell, Michael. The regulation of genetically modified organisms: comparative approaches. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010. GMO Inside. http://gmoinside.org. Accessed 16 Dec. 2016. Monsanto. www. Monsanto.com. Accessed 16 Dec. 2016. Nelson, Gerald C. Genetically modified organisms in agriculture: economics and politics. San Diego, Calif.: Academic Press, c2001. Pringle, Peter. Food, inc.: Mendel to Monsanto--the promises and perils of the biotech harvest. New York: Simon & Schuster, c2003. Pounds, Kacie L. Food Fight in Florida: Assessing Florida Residents Perceptions, Purchasing Intentions, and Labeling Perceptions of GMOs. Gainesville, FL: University of Florida, 2014. Spear, Stefanie. House Passes DARK Act, Banning States from Requiring GMO Labels on food. 24 July 2015. Web. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Weirich, Paul. Labeling genetically modified food: the philosophical and legal debate. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 2007.