Williams 1 Joseph Williams ENC 1102 Professor Ryan 11 February 2017 The Compromise of Energy Alternative energy vehicles are a controversial topic that has caused issues in need of resolution. Every year the environment is changing for the worse and an increasing number of people are starting to notice this. The environment is changing because of fossil fuels being burned which releases harmful gases into the atmosphere. People are searching for new sources of energy that do not have a negative impact on the environment, this kind of energy is known as alternative energy. The alternative energies movement has spurred a large interest in budgets towards a greener lifestyle. Electric cars are a product of this alternative energy movement that are increasing in popularity. Tesla is a one of the largest producers of electric cars. BP is one of the largest fossil fuel distributers. The issue, in need of a compromise is between Tesla and BP gas. Tesla seeks to increase the transition to alternative energies, and by increasingly selling these cars they decrease the amount of revenue that fossil fuel companies like BP are making. BP is slowing this transition to alternative energy by selling fossil fuels to consumers. BP, a large company, strives to increase their revenue and when a problem like this occurs it prevents them from completing this task. Companies set goals to improve themselves, if a goal cannot be accomplished it constricts a business from thriving. In order for both stakeholders to accomplish their goals they must agree on a realistic compromise. Tesla is a car company founded in 2003 that specializes in producing electric cars. According to Dr. Mathew Rimmer, Tesla designs, develops, and manufactures high- performance electric vehicles. (Their mission statement is accelerate the transition to (About Tesla). Their way of increasing this process is to sell electric cars (that run off alternative energy). Tesla targets the consumers that want to be environmentally friendly and save money. Driving an electric car saves an average of $60 per month compared to gas, and an annual savings from $800 to $1,250 (Driving on Electricity Is Cheaper than Gas in All 50 States). The cheapest Tesla model costs $35,000, which is designed for the mass market. Since last year Tesla has doubled their sales from 11,603 to 24,500 vehicles, this demonstrates the increasing popularity of electric cars (Disis). The more electric cars driven means the less gas will be used by consumers. This is impacting fossil fuel companies considerably, and this impact will get more relevant the longer time passes without a solution. Tesla encourages people to use alternative energy with electric vehicles, but these vehicles require a place to refill on energy. When owning a Tesla, there is a charging station installed in a garage. This charging station is the main, if not only location where the tesla is charged. Charging half of the battery of a Tesla typically takes around twenty minutes and seventy-five minutes for a full charge. However, they offer a charging that allows for twice the speed of a charge (About Tesla). There is a scarce amount of public charging stations available which is one setback to consumers who intend to drive long distances or just want that convenience. Although Tesla is aware that some consumers want to travel long distances, and Williams 2 they are willing to resolve this problem. This will negatively affect Tesla because less people will invest in their product which means they are not completing their goal as quickly as they can or want to. The second stakeholder, BP gas, is a multi-million-dollar corporation that seeks to perform at a world-class level (Jurevicius). They believe that the world will always need energy and they help this need by distributing fossil fuel to consumers. Their fuel is specifically made for vehicles. Ever since electric cars started to become popular their revenue has decreased. This has hurt them as a company since it prevents them from performing as well as they would like. The optimal choice for them would be for all vehicles to use the services that they provide. They value the fact that they fuel society to do their jobs and help the economy. Fossil fuel are dead plants and animals that are buried deep in the earth (Fossil Fuel). These fossil fuels are converted into crude oil which can make gasoline for vehicles. When these fuels are burned, they release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and this slowly increases the planets average temperature. This causes many environmental problems like stronger natural disasters that can force species to extinction. This type of fuel is not renewable, which means in the future we will run out of this resource. It is estimated that we will run out of fossil fuels around 2088 (The End of Fossil Fuels). This means that BP will not be able to distribute fossil fuels anymore, therefore they will no longer have a purpose in society. To prep for this issue, they need to start to cater to other consumers as well. This problem has struck many people to make a change, and this is the reason why Tesla was founded (About Tesla). Tesla believes in alternative energy and makes it their foundation which makes them who they are. Although BP promotes the sales of gasoline, they are willing to change if it means they can increase their revenue and keep afloat in the future. These two stakeholders are constricting each other from accomplishing their goals. Tesla is directly affecting goal since they are reducing the amount of revenue that BP can gain. BP is also constricting Tesla since they promote their product (a non-sustainable source of energy) to the consumers. Even though they are conflicting they do share some similarities. Both companies strive to contribute to society. According to Ovidijus Jurevicius, BP prides itself when it says that they fuel consumers to do their jobs. Also, both companies seek to better themselves and stay open minded to new ideas. This means that they will consider a compromise to better themselves. The issue between these two companies is relevant and it needs a compromise. Tesla would like to sell more cars to accelerate the transition of the world to alternative energies, but they are hindered by fossil fuel distributers. They also need to address the inconvenience of public charging stations for their cars. On the other hand, these Tesla cars are reducing the revenues of BP, which keeps them from performing at a world class level. They will also face a problem when fossil fuels are used up since that is the foundation of their company. Tesla requires convenient locations for their charging stations, and BP needs a new resource to distribute to keep their revenues up (due to the electric cars lowering their income). A compromise can be developed that can satisfy each of their problems. Tesla has partnered with gas stations in the past to develop charging stations, but it is still uncommon to find them Williams 3 (Green Car Reports). The compromise that I propose is this. Tesla needs to partner with BP to create these charging stations in a majority of gas stations. Even though electricity is cheaper than gasoline it will gain more revenue than not having them. By having these stations BP will be able to maintain their income even after fossil fuels run out. If this compromise is fulfilled, then sales will increase which allows them to further push the world to a sustainable energy source. Williams 4 Work Cited About  Tesla, Tesla Motors, www.tesla.com/about. Disis, Jill. Tesla Selling Twice as Many Cars as It Was in  CNN Tech, Cable News Network, 3 Oct. 2016, money.cnn.com/2016/10/02/technology/tesla-third-quarter- 2016-car-sales/. Driving on Electricity Is Cheaper than Gas in All 50  Plugless, Evantran Group, 2017,www.pluglesspower.com/learn/driving-electricity-cheaper-gas-50-states/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Fossil  Science Daily, Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Green Car Reports. Internet Brands Automotive Group, 29 June 2016, at-a-gas-station. Jurevicius, Ovidijus. Mission Statement of  Strategic Management Insight, www.strategicmanagementinsight.com/mission-statements/bp-mission- statement.html. Accessed 14 Sept. 2013. Rimmer, Mathew, Dr. Tesla Motors: Intellectual Property, Open Innovation, and the Carbon  Berkley Law, UC Berkley School of Law, Aug. 2014, Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. The End of Fossil  Ecotricity, www.ecotricity.co.uk/our-green-energy/energy- independence/the-end-of-fossil-fuels. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.