Francis1 Karelia Francis Professor John Williams ENC 1102. January 26, 2017. Affirmative action: Equal opportunity or reverse racism? action policies are those in which an institution or organization actively engages in efforts to improve opportunities for historically excluded groups in American (National Conference of State Legislatures.) Most publications and articles on the topic have been in support of affirmative action but there were some that were strongly against it. As stated in my thesis, there are two sides to the debate with some organizations such as the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) firmly believing that affirmative action is a means of diversifying a work environment or educational system by allowing oppressed groups to enter. On the other hand, organizations like the Tea Party Movement (TPM) of conservatives believe that it is reverse racism by giving opportunities to minorities therefore decreasing the amount of white people allowed into a certain program. Both of these organizations may be able to agree on equal opportunity given to those who are equally qualified with race being a non-factor. One approach to appease both parties is that organizations can begin using color blind acceptance program whereby applicants are hired based only on their achievements and qualifications versus hiring based on filling race requirements. It was noticeable that when people were interviewed about the issue at hand, they had very passionate answers on both sides but many had very little knowledge about the effects or need for affirmative action. Some of them seemed to have had twisted perceptions just based on word of mouth and the media but no actual research on how affirmative action even began. Francis2 1961, President John F. Kennedy signed Executive Order 10925, ordering that federally funded projects take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, creed, color, or national  (CNN). Feb. 12. 1909, the NAACP is the oldest, largest and most widely recognized grassroots-based civil rights (NAACP) and vision of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is to ensure a society in which all individuals have equal rights without discrimination based on (NAACP) This is the main point of the NAACP establishment. They seek to help everyone live in a society not ruled by racism, one that is accepting and allow for discrimination and degradation of anyone because of race/gender etc. Affirmative action believers stand up for equality and access to opportunities for all and there is tremendous support behind that law. The NAACP has a lot of information on their website to assist those who want to become more educated on the subject. They strive for equality in systems where there was traditionally no equality. The second stakeholder is The Tea Party movement which was founded in early 2009 in correlation to the Obama Administration. This group believes in similar principles when it comes to equality. The main reason for their opposition seems to be because they think it is a hand out and an unfair advantage that white people simply cannot have access to. The belief is that minorities get a free ride from generous means-tested government programs, while working (Edsall and Edsall 1991; Glenn and Teles 2009; Schwartz 2009). It is an interesting debate because most supporters of this movement are predominantly white males. However, they do just want to see an equal level playing field where they feel like everyone has earned their place based on their work ethic and achievements but not because of being a minority. They want to know that they are being looked at just as much as a minority and that Francis3 just because of their skin color, they given a chance to shine in a workplace or classroom setting because there are already too many caucasians in that particular setting. Hence why some people view it as reverse racism as it oppresses qualified white people who have also worked hard and achieved the requirements for whatever job or school. The science, technology, engineering and math fields tend to be the most lucrative, important and rapidly growing jobs in this day and age. However, the diversity in these jobs are appalling and shows exactly why affirmative action seems to be in place. These fields are predominantly dominated by white males on all fronts. The research show that high tech sector employed a larger share of whites (63.5 percent to 68.5 percent), Asian Americans (5.8 percent to 14 percent) and a smaller share of African Americans (14.4 percent to 7.4 percent), Hispanics (13.9 percent to 8 those in the Executives category in high tech, about 80 percent are men and 20 percent are women. (The Equal Opportunities Employment Commission). These statistics and similar others tend to be the basis of the argument for affirmative action. This conversation tends to be one often held by the two different political parties as well because of the opposing views on the matter. It really does come down to liberal vs conservative beliefs in most topics regarding race. Both sides are understandable but both sides could also use more education on affirmative action. If the affirmative action law could be modified to clearly state in the definition that it is the accepting of all people regardless of race and gender etc with equal qualifications then maybe there would be more support on the conservative side that tends to see things only in a negative and disadvantageous way. If there is, however, a leveled ground for everyone then a lot of bias would not exist and everyone would be happier with the law being Francis4 that way. If the law was formed in a way that was beneficial to all parties involved, then it would be a very different system and less controversial. The best solution that has come about is the color blind hiring policy that some businesses have already implemented. All submitted cover letters and resumes will be reviewed but every indicator of race shall be removed therefore only qualified applicants shall be given acceptance into the business place or the institution. This seems to be a solid solution to something that has been an ongoing debate within the United States. There is no complete fix to an issue as big as this one but this could be the first step in fixing such a problem until a more viable solution comes about. This would allow employers to hire based on skills instead of focusing on race, address, background etc. In doing so,it will lead to less people arguing about reverse racism and oppression in regards to affirmative action and more businesses focusing on getting the best applicants. The results have shown that who initiate blind recruitment practices virtually always see a more diverse workforce, which helps businesses (Grothaus) This solution will satisfy both stakeholders and eliminate the biases. Works Cited. Francis5 1. Legislatures, National Conference of State. Affirmative Action  Affirmative Action Overview. N.p., 07 Feb. 2014. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. 2. Oldest and  NAACP. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. 3. Arcenaux, Kevin. Who Wants to Have a Tea Party? The Who, What, and Why of the Tea Party Movement. N.p. Cambridge.org. Web. <https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/aop- cambridge- core/content/view/49B1773A21C29819E071B702D619A7E7/S1049096512000741a.pdf/who -wants-to-have-a-tea-party-the-who-what-and-why-of-the-tea-party-movement.pdf>. 4. Grothaus, Michael. How Blind  Works And Why You Should Consider  Fast Company. N.p., 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. 5. Diversity in high  The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. N.p., May 2016. Web. <https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/statistics/reports/hightech/upload/diversity-in-high-tech- report.pdf>. 6. 5 things to know about affirmative  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017.