Tan 1 Michael Alvin Catalan Tan Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Artificial Intelligence The topic of artificial intelligence or AI has been thought to be the thin line between scientific progression and technology going beyond restraint. Two organizations stand at odds regarding this topic, the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Life Institute. Organization one believes that AI needs to be understood and pursued further in order to progress humanity technologically. The second believes that artificial intelligence should be limited due to the possibility of it outpacing human control. However, if both pull their research collectively then there is the potential of safe AI application to the world. Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence or the AAAI, is a nonprofit scientific society devoted to advancing the scientific understanding of the mechanisms underlying thought and intelligent behavior and their embodiment in (AAAI). In order to have their goal satisfied; they set up conferences around the nation for researchers and other AI advocates. They work with AI practitioners, research donors, and other technological institutions in order to have optimal outreach to the public and AI projects. In regards to their stand on AI; they believe that AI has the potential for societal progression (AAAI). Precursor stages of AI research have yielded results that show the positive impact AI can have on a Tan 2 community. the eight scenarios, people believe that driving, disaster prevention, and military activities are more acceptable for option 4 (rely on IMS almost completely), compared to other () The addition of cyberphysical systems in these scenarios also allows for the implication of correct, logic-oriented algorithms in real world settings. This enhances the probability of positive interactions in AI-human relations. The Future of Life Institute, also called the FLI is a and outreach organization working to ensure that most powerful technologies are beneficial for (FLI). In this organization, the Future of Life Institute believes in the advancement of AI but with mitigations to prevent it from becoming beyond human comprehension. Their slogan states is giving life the potential to flourish like never or to (FLI). Their stake on AI is that it has the ability to bring about a new age in technology for society but without controlling its parameters, it could bring about unrepairable issues. Expounding on the issue of the AI-orientated break away; the application of AI to machines and robots could initiate them to outperform humans in work and social settings causing a rift between human and AI interactions. artificial Looking at the issue of AI going beyond human comprehension, the FLI sees it gain the need to succeed in goals despite the consequences it could bring upon its creators 2). This further augments the cause for AI mitigation in society. Although the organizations appear to be standing at odds, they have similarities that if were looked upon by both sides; then the establishment of commonality must be done. When looking at the commonality between both organizations, each one shares the belief Tan 3 that AI should be applied to society due to the potential it has to bring about new technological advances. Both organizations acknowledge the fact that AI needs to used responsibly when being applied to machines and kept under the supervision of human researchers. When looking at how they appeal to the AI community, both the AAAI and FLI reach out to similar organizations and researchers such as Elon Musk or the Future of Humanity Institute. Despite the two organizations being on opposite ends regarding AI overall, both wish to see AI used responsibly and applied successfully to the real world. Commonality aside, these organizations must come to a consensus for both of their goal of AI utilization. The AAAI accepts the mitigation established by the FLI, however they will still be able to further research AI based on current developed data. If the FLI pushes for the supervision of AI research, they need to accept the parameter of the AAAI that wants to apply cyberphysical systems to the AI machines. The cyberphysical systems would allow for the creation of responsible AI due to the nature of its increased positive reactions to in real-life scenarios. If these cases occurred, then both organizations will be able to start working together and pull their research on AI together, allowing for the creation of responsible and safe AI for the public. In conclusion, both organizations wish to see AI put to responsible usage in society through the allowance of a compromise. While both the AAAI and the FLI were at odds over the AI debate, further pursuit of their ideals showed that they could be able to come together in consensus. The AAAI had a mindset fully towards the pursuit of AI and embracing it but had not considered the possible consequences that could occur from it. The FLI had wanted to mitigate Tan 4 the research towards AI to a high extent; limiting the potential it could bear. However, despite the challenges that arose from debate, both are able to pull their resources together and create a better technological future for humanity and AI relations. Work Cited Page: Russell, Stuart, Daniel Dewey, and Max Tegmark. Research Priorities for Robust and Beneficial Artificial  AI Magazine 36.4 (n.d.): 1-9. USF Libraries. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Anticipating artifical  Nature News 532.7600 (2016): n. pag. USF Libraries. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nature.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/news/anticipating-artificial-intelligence- 1.19825>. Tegmark, Max. Benefits & Risks of Artificial  Future of Life Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Ema, Arisa, Naonori Akiya, Hirotaka Osawa, Hiromitsu Hattori, Shinya Oie, Ryutaro Ichise, Nobutsugu Kanzaki, Minao Kukita, Reina Saijo, Otani Takushi, Naoki Miyano, and Yoshimi Yashiro. Future Relations between Humans and Artificial Intelligence: A Stakeholder Opinion Survey in  IEEE Technology and Society Magazine 35.4 (2016): 68-75. USF Libraries. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. AAAI Name  AAAI Name Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Vincent C. Nick Bostrom. 2016. Future Progress in Artificial Intelligence: A Survey of Expert Opinion. Fundamental Issues of Artificial Intelligence, pages 555-572. Vincent C. Risks of general artificial  Taylor Francis Online. Taylor Francis Online, 24 June 2014. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/0952813X.2014.895110>.