McKinley 1 Dillon McKinley Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 27 Nov 17 Finding Common Ground College debt is among one of the most serious issues young Americans are facing today. Recent increases in college debt defaults is what many are predicting to be the next recession foundation for America, similar to that of the 2008 recession. Many people suffer with these debt obligations thanks to federal financial aid. The easy accessibility that the Department of Education (D.O.E.) (the primary disperser of these subsidized loans) allows is what has caused many people to go into debt, and on top of that, cause tuition prices to rise. Republican and Democratic policy makers play key role in the regulating of the D.O.E., and with their bipartisan cooperation, they could easily help prevent this potential economic crisis. A proposal for stronger cap on the availability of subsidized loans, implementing an income adjustable payment plan, and reduction in D.O.E. within both parties are three compromises and a step forward towards a more reliable college payment system. Republicans handling of the subsidized loan problem is directly targeted at the existence of the D.O.E. According to the Republican Party Platform found on https://www.gop.com/ platform/renewing-american-values/, the primary goals are to cut or severely reduce the spending on the D.O.E. and give that power to the private sector. The article Would Cut Student Aid More Than Budget Blueprint by Kelly Field brings up the comment, have proposed similar cuts in the Pell and student-loan programs in past budget McKinley 2 This comment is a perfect representation of the policy platform Republicans have tried implementing into legislation. The cutting of the student-loan program to Republicans would help reduce the power of central government, and force colleges to lower tuition costs to compensate for the loss of federal subsidies. The reduction in the amount of money students can attain from Pell grants and subsidized loans also keeps students from accumulating a large amount of debt after college, even with comparatively larger interest rates. According to https://www.democrats.org/party-platform#debt-relief, the Democratic handling of the student loan problem consists of optional programs to help the individual loaner, while keeping the D.O.E. at its regular state. Programs and concepts such as income- based repayment plans and allowing bankruptcy as an option are ways the Democratic Party want to handle the economic situation of subsidized loans. A good example of where Democratic ideals were consistently agreed upon was in 2007. In Kelly article, Lawmakers Approve Landmark Increase In Student they talk about how congress was able to pass a slash in private student loan funding, increase federal student loan funding, and raise the maximum Pell grant. These are all seen as good signs because reducing private sector investments and focusing on federal sector helps keep interest rates low. For increasing the federal student loan funding, and in junction with raising the maximum Pell grant, the federal government is able to lend out more money to students who might need it in order to attend college. First and foremost, both parties have the same agenda of trying to reduce the problem of subsidized loans. Even though they may have different ways of solving the student loan problem, they both want to see a reduction in student debt and a better system for students to obtain financing for college. Another aspect they both can agree on is that interest rates are too high and McKinley 3 it is this factor that causes so many problems for graduating students. The adjusting interest rates that college students deal with throughout college are what caused the loan amount payment after graduation to increase drastically. In Robert article, of Student Loans: A Proposal to Reform Federal Accounting, Reduce Government Risk, and Introduce Market Mechanisms as Indicators of Quality he brings up a perfect example of bipartisanship in reducing interest rates with a common purpose in both parties. This interest rate reduction was a response to the increase in interest rates back to 6.8% that was meant to take effect after a four year interest rate reduction plan ended (Proudfoot 25-26). The point of including this is to show that policy makers, both liberals and conservatives, are on the same page as far as addressing the issues student borrowers face with subsidized loans. The main action that needs to take place is have congressional member propose new legislation to their parties. Republicans need to propose the idea of stronger subsidy loan cap and the implementation of a better adjustable payment plan, and democrats need to propose a spending reduction to the D.O.E. With the Democratic Parties proposal, this will help fix the problem proposed in the idea of Bennett theory. In Merit-Based Aid Improve College Affordability? Testing the Bennett Hypothesis in the Era of Merit-Based by Jungmin Lee, she talks about Bennett theory, a theory that with the implementation of subsidized loans in colleges, tuition rates will increase to compensate for the subsidies being offered to students (Lee 67). With democratic legislators proposing reduction in D.O.E. spending, it will cause the D.O.E. to reduce the amount of money it can use for subsidized loans. When colleges see that they being compensated enough, they would eventually lower tuition prices to keep attendance up. With Republicans stronger subsidized loan caps, the D.O.E. will eventually have to reduce the amount of money it can use for subsidized loans, which means it too will also help fix the McKinley 4 bennett theory problem. For the Republians proposing the adjustable payment plan, this will help people with pre-existing debt obligations pay off their loans without the burden of stress. With payment plans are flexible to income coming in at the moment, this will help with the consistency of payments and the reduction of student loan defaults. When legislators propose these ideas to their parties, this will help set forth a change in the college loan process which over time will become a lot easier of a process for students. The financial aid system is something that has become ubiquitous with college financing. Even though the system is faulty, that mean that the system needs to be dismantled or overfunded for it to be successful. With congressional members coming together to increase the subsidized loan cap, implementing an income adjustable payment plan, and reducing funding, American college students will be able to expedite the student debt payment process and will one day be able to live without that debt. With more time and research into this educational funding system, new ideas on handling student obligations will be created, which could eventually lead to financial aid being a small percentage of your accumulated debt. The time has come to see the student debt crisis in America become a thing of the past. McKinley 5 Works Cited  Democrats.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Field, Kelly. House Would Cut Student Aid More Than Budget Blueprint  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 28 (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Field, Kelly. Federal Lawmakers Approve Landmark Increase In Student  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 4 (2007): Academic OneFile. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Lee, Jungmin1, jungmin.lee@uky.edu. Does Merit-Based Aid Improve College Affordability? Testing The Bennett Hypothesis In The Era Of Merit-Based  Journal Of Student Financial Aid 46.2 (2016): 51-78. Education Source. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.  GOP. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Proudfoot, Robert. Securitization Of Student Loans: A Proposal To Reform Federal Accounting, Reduce Government Risk, And Introduce Market Mechanisms As Indicators Of Quality  Umass Law Review 1 (2014): 6. Academic OneFile. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.