Morgan Craig Professor Ryan Abortion & Compromise As college students we are often faced with temptations such as drinking, sex, and drugs. While at this point in our lives like to believe we are invisible, this is not the case. According to a Guttmacher Institute study, 58% of abortion patients were in their 20s (Rachel K. Jones). For many years abortion has been viewed as a controversial topic, it affects us as young adults more than any other age group. Many abortion centered organizations are at a stalemate, thus making it difficult for us as college students to defy the statistics reported by the Guttmacher Institute. The Pro-Life Action League is an organization that does not agree with the concept of abortion. Their belief is that mothers are faced with other options other than abortion and they strive to stray mothers away from abortion. The National Abortion Federation believes abortion is a decision. They strive to ensure woman have access to safe abortions and pregnancy care. These opposing organizations, however do share a common ground. They are both concerned with the well-being of mothers. On the basis of this common ground, the PLAL and the NAF can come to a feasible compromise through a joint organization that educates and counsels young women and expecting mothers. This compromise would help us lower the statistic. The Pro-life Action League is an organization aimed at unborn children through non-violent direct (Pro-Life Action League). The members of PLAL, participate non- violent activities that promote the extinction of abortion. These passive protests include counseling, prayer vigils, and fundraisers to spread their mission and arouse action in their communities. PLAL also offers sessions to help mothers and families understand alternative options to abortion. The Pro-life Action League strives to help expecting mothers understand the options aside from abortion and lead them in the direction that benefits both the fetus and the mother. The National Abortion Federation believes every woman possess the ability to make informed decisions regarding their reproductive health. NAF stresses the importance of education on the topic of abortion and the other options there may be. According to the National Abortion Federation website, the NAF; as an international organization, works to increase access to quality abortion care by supporting in-country health care professionals with training and educational (National Abortion Federation). The NAF does this by holding medical conferences featuring abortion related news as well as supporting programs for continuing medical education (CME); dedicated exclusively to abortion care. The National Abortion Federation focuses on the decisions of expecting mothers and providing quality health care for those decisions. With an issue as intensely sensitive and controversial as abortion there seems to be nothing in common with the Pro-life Action League and the National Abortion Federation. While at first glance this may seem logical, the truth is far from it. Both organizations share the goal of ensuring the well being of the mother. The National Abortion Federation aims to educate women about pregnancy health care, abortions, and the options that women facing abortions have. Similar to the NAF, the Pro-life Action League reaches out to abortion-bound mothers and couples to help them through this emotional decision. The PLAL uses prayer vigils, counseling to educate mothers on their options and help them choose the best path for their situation. The Pro-life Action League believes abortions wounds a mother physically and emotionally, they focus on the well-being of the mother by providing her with options to avoid these life long wounds. Both the National Abortion Federation and the Pro-life Action League want to help mothers make educated and safe decisions in order to ensure their well-being. The idea of compromise seems impossible with these two organizations. Author Hannah Phillips states the two sides in abortion fights will never agree morally as long as one side sees only where the other sees only equality and (Phillips). While these two organizations may never agree morally, they can come to a compromise based on their common ground. With the common interest of the well-being of the mother at the core of both organizations, compromise between the NAF and PLAL is feasible. I propose that these two organizations partake in a collaboration that offers educational tours and counselling to help expecting mothers in need. While this compromise is feasible, it will require both the Pro-life Action League and the National Abortion Federation to give some things up. They will not have to eliminate their identity, however these organizations would have to relinquish some of their values. The National Abortion Federation would have to accept those who are pro-life and the Pro-life Action League would have to accept those who are prochoice. The NAF would have to accept and provide help to those who believe that a fetus counts as a life. Likewise, the PLAL would have to accept and provide help for those who consider abortion their best and only choice. The Pro-Life Action League offers counselling and educational services and the National Abortion Federation makes education one of their top priorities. By combining these two organizations, they would be able to reach double the amount of people they are now. Through counselling, this collaboration can give mothers and families all the facts and perspectives about abortion. They will be able to help mothers through the process whether she chooses to have an abortion or not. The joint venture would offer different aspects and options of abortion, from high quality abortions to education and down to earth, relatable counselling. Sex and reproduction education will benefit everyone the collaboration reaches. By educating the youth as well as the elder generations, this organization can spark change in current trends. The education provided to mothers and women can help them determine if and when they are ready for children and all the options there are if they are expecting one they are not ready for. This compromise between the NAF and PLAL will allow both organization to reach women in need and guide young women through the subject of abortion. Educational tours will educate those most susceptible to getting abortions about prevention and sexual health. Young mothers will get the education and guidance they need while dealing with their pregnancy. The National Abortion Federation and the Pro-life Action League would both keep their identities, and ensure the well-being of mothers, by promoting safe sex and offering help to expecting mothers. While abortion remains a controversial topic, there is hope that a feasible compromise will lessen the argument between pro-life and pro-choice organizations. Through collaboration, the Pro-life Action League and the National Abortion Federation can offer counselling and educational resources to women all over the world. College years are considered the best years of our lives. This compromise could help us learn how to deal with all the pressures we are faced with and break the statistics reported by the Guttmatcher Institution. Works Cited Marcotte, Amanda. Why Do Poor Women Have More Abortions? . 02 March 2015. 2017. National Abortion Federation. 2017. 2017. <prochoice.org>. Phillips, Hannah. CAN PRO-CHOICE AND PRO-LIFE ACTIVISTS RECOGNIZE THE SOCIOECONOMIC REALITIES OF ABORTION? March 2015. Febuary 2017. Pro-Life Action League. 2017. 2017. <prolifeaction.org>. Rachel K. Jones, Lawrence B. FinerandSusheela Singh. Characteristics of U.S. Abortion Patients, 2008. 2008. Febuary 2017.