McDonald 1 Robert McDonald Robert Ryan ENC 1102 February 10 2017 Since the creation of the internet in the the world has become reliant on gathering more information from the internet. As internet speeds accelerated, devices shrank, and information became more readily available, the unique challenges associated with privacy have presented itself as a serious conflicting concern for technology manufacturers and the justice system. Before information was sent as bytes across a vast invisible network of interconnected machines, the concept of laws and rights around privacy were limited to the physical touch. The internet has re-conceptualized many theories around the way we perceive privacy. Privacy is by far one of the most important rights that are still widely up for debate. More recently, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI.gov) and Apple (Apple.com) entered into a very public debate around user privacy rights and its connection to a terrorist attack that happened earlier in the year. The Federal Bureau initially petitioned to get a deceased terrorists phone citing it could potentially contain information that pertained to national security and the recent terrorist attack. A New York Times Article explaining why the government made the request, officials say that encrypted data in Mr. phone and its GPS system may hold vital clues about where he and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, traveled in the 18 minutes after the shootings, and about whom they might have contacted So the FBI says that if they McDonald 2 received this information it could potentially prevent future attacks and help them find other known terrorists. One of the arguments that has been made by the FBI is that as technology becomes more sophisticated and end-to-end encryption becomes a market demand it will make it more difficult to solve other cases similar to this. Which in return will make it harder to protect the safety of going forward in the future. The main goal is very simple and concise; as you can see by their mission statement. The first line states, mission of the FBI is to protect and defend the United States against terrorist and foreign intelligence So above all else this is what the FBI intends to uphold. After receiving a court order, Tim Chief Executive Officer, ultimately did not comply. Stating in an open letter to the public, was their duty to protect the privacy rights of the consumer both now and in the future, and that creating a backdoor undermines hundreds of security and protocols that have been developed over the Additionally, his letter to the public addresses the long-term effects of such a solution. This could potentially allow the government or other persons to use this backdoor whenever they want, legally or not. While as a whole the majority of the public may never be in as serious legal trouble, many can still empathize with a right to privacy, and have their own personal beliefs about how far the government should be able to go before a violation of privacy rights is determined. Apple also presented the argument that as a company they are a large multi-national brand and that a legal actions of this magnitude may not only jeopardize the relationship that have with american consumers, but also the relationship they have with other countries, their private companies, and constituents. Do to this incident Apple has as entire page on their website dedicated to informing McDonald 3 the costumers of how important it is to them to uphold their privacy. In fact Tim final statement on that pages says, I want to be absolutely clear that we have never worked with any government agency from any country to create a backdoor in any of our products or services. We have also never allowed access to our largest dispute is centered around the legal precedence that would be set as a result of complying court mandate and the lasting affects it will have on future user privacy rights. Apple recognizes this request as the government overreaching, and that if they concede to this mandate; this will set legal precedence for future cases. Which will allow the government to expand its authority for future cases in the decades to come. Tim Cook believes this is serious infringement on user privacy rights and Apples duty to protect those rights. This has been an ongoing topic of discussion for years between Apple and the government, but they do have some synergy on a couple of points. Both Apple and the FBI want to make the best decision in the interest of the people. Neither one of them are doing this to protect them selves but to protect their customers; and as American citizens we are the customers. Additionally, both organizations do not take matters of National Security lightly and understand the effects of national security breach or a terrorist attack. Both parties have a very large, multi national reach that they are trying use to do what they feel best protects everyone involved. You are able to see that the FBI think in the same way based off of their mission statement. perform these responsibilities in a manner that is responsive to the needs of the public and is faithful to the Constitution of the United However, while the collective parties believe in user privacy right, they seem to agree on where privacy line sits or where the responsibility to customers melds with national McDonald 4 security. With this discussion, having been going on for many years now in other cases, I believe that the best solution is one that goes beyond both parties because as mentioned earlier user privacy extends farther than any one nation, company, person, or device. In order to find a viable solution, one must consider the global scale of privacy because when it comes to the internet, it can take your information around the world in seconds. The best solution would be to organize a global summit with world leaders and technology organizations where a rubric is debated, developed, and agreed upon outlining the requirements for such a situation. Something on the same line of what goes on when all of the world leaders get together to have a global warming summit to discuses solutions on combating that. Among the terms would include a rule that, Apple and other technology companies would never be required to write code or create backdoors into the software. Furthermore, they will agree to supply teams that will consult governments in the case of a situation of the utmost importance. In order to maintain user privacy, the government agrees to provide Apple or the technology company with the source code that was utilized to gain access. So that the security flaw can effectively be patched as quickly as possible to prevent any unauthorized uses. If and when a situation arose, a collective of nations, not including the country or parties involved, would be called upon to hear the facts of the case and make final verdict on the matter. Apple in this solution would be compromising by providing consulting services to help government get the information that is needed in order to uphold national security. The FBI would be compromising in this case because of the arduous process that would be required to get approval to get the information and subsequently the technological resources needed then retrieve the data; vs. just being able to use the without any accountability. Additionally, they would also have to do this work knowing that this is a one-time solution because per the agreement Apple would be patching the system following McDonald 5 the authorized breach. In this regard, both parties would be compromising and receiving free services. The government hopefully catches more criminals, and keeps it promise to protect Americans. While Apple discovers new flaws in their system and is also able to do right by their customers and keeping their privacy protected. Unquestionably, the creation of the internet around the globe has generated significant advancements for mankind. However, those life-changing achievements now challenge the world to reevaluate cherished civic rights, such as trust, and privacy against the cost of national security. McDonald 6 1. Berinato, Scott. Apple vs. the FBI Is Really, Really  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://hbr.org/2016/02/apple-vs-the- fbi-is-really-really-complicated>. This source was used a scholarly article that aggregated multiple points of view of the public perspective on the topic. 2. Breaking Down iPhone Fight With the U.S.  The New York Times. N.p., 21 Mar. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/03/03/technology/apple-iphone-fbi-fight- This source was used a comparison after much of the debate was over. 3. Cook, Tim. Customer  Apple. Apple, 16 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.apple.com/customer-letter/>. This source used as a direct source of what response was to the situation. 4. Maisto, Michelle . Apple Vs. FBI: 5 Key Quotes From James  InformationWeek. N.p., 9 Apr. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.informationweek.com/government/mobile-and-wireless/apple-vs-fbi-5-key- quotes-from-james-comeys-speech/a/d-id/1325052>. This source was used to gain a better perspective of the government side of the argument. McDonald 7 5. Selyukh, Alina , and Camila Domonoske. Apple, The FBI And iPhone Encryption: A Look At At  NPR. NPR, 17 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2016/02/17/467096705/apple-the-fbi-and- iphone-encryption-a-look-at-whats-at-stake>. This link was used as an objective to source to understand both perspectives in comparison to another.