Maria Petropoulos 1 Maria Petropoulos ENC 1102 John Williams 14 February 2017 Black Lives Matter Racism is a topic that has been relevant throughout American history. Today, it is still prevalent; though it may not be as violent as it has been in the past it is still a big deal. More recently, the term Lives sprung in 2012 after the alleged murder of Trayvon Martin by George Zimmerman (blacklivesmatter), mostly used on social media sites, such as Twitter, for people to comment on their thoughts and opinions of the recent events. This has a large young adult and, of course, minority support. In response to this, other terms have popped up: #Blue Lives Matter and #All Lives Matter. These terms have come to show that there is no racist actions taking place, but, rather, that the police officers have acted in their own best interest and safety, for the stakeholders on the #Blue Lives Matter side. The #All Lives Matter side believes that no life is more important than and that no other life is more important than These differing sides have caused many riots and outbreaks of racial violence, only causing more danger in neighborhoods. In order for there to be peace in our communities, a compromise must be made to put an end to meaningless violence and racial injustice. #All Lives Matter attempts to compromise by saying we are all equal, but right now it is the Black Lives that are in this most danger and need the support from society. The term Blue Lives Matter has come as a result of the Black Lives Matter movement. The purpose of the Blue Lives Matter movement is to place police officers safety over those they have authority over, whether it be a typical citizen or a violent criminal. This supports the police Maria Petropoulos 2 and their actions, believing that what they are doing is right and for the ultimate safety of their communities, recognize the actions of law enforcement, strengthen public support, and provide much-needed resources to law enforcement and their (bluelivesmatter). What many people that point fingers at the officers realize is that they are also people doing their jobs, and that job is for them to maintain peace in our streets and homes. Police officers have a dangerous job and the safety of the public is their main priority. Within the Blue Lives Matter Mission Statement, it is stated that those who stand with them offer their never-ending support and will keep the safety of law enforcement their priority (bluelivesmatter). It takes a special type of person to be a police officer, and that makes them very valuable to the safety of the communities that they protect. Black Lives Matter is the term used by those who are opposed to the actions they have witnessed the government, government officials, or police officers have taken towards minority groups, especially blacks. Lives Matter is a call to action and a response to the virulent anti-Black racism that permeates our According the black lives matter website, this is a moment, but a This movement is about more than the racism that has stemmed from the events of the senseless killings that have taken place since Trayvon, it sticks up for any person who is black as well as a part of some other minority group, whether it be blacks in the LGTB communities, disabled persons, and those with questionable pasts (blacklivesmatter). They want the white privilege that they have witnessed their counterparts indulging in for long before their time; they are about the ways in which Black lives are deprived of basic human rights and (blacklivesmatter). They blame white supremacy for their discrimination and merely want to be equal, and for the accomplishments and safety of the minorities to be just as important as everyone Maria Petropoulos 3 All Lives Matter is a sort of consensus between these two groups, but not quite the compromise that will be sustainable at this point in time. is out of control, and I agree with the sheriff that It is time to drop any other descriptive lives matter, black lives matter, police lives matter, every single life (policelivesmatter). Though this phrase may seem all encompassing, it is disregarding the brutality that the black population has been victim of. basic premise behind Lives = we should not highlight that black lives matter because all lives (Damiani). Not only are there news coverage of the increasing police brutalities, but there are statistics to prove the disproportionality between the deaths of blacks and other minorities versus whites from the police (Gaines et al.). In order for a compromise to be justifiable, it must acknowledge that black lives are in need of protection and support. The only true compromise for these stakeholders would be the coming together to support black lives. The society we live in today, unfortunately, still holds many racist thoughts and actions towards the African American population. Of course, today is better than how America was back in the 1800s or even fifty years ago, but there is still a sort of white supremacy that is prevalent within our communities and the only way to surpass this would be for the endless support of the blacks in the United States of America. If this compromise could occur, blacks would be given the support they deserve after ages of white privilege as well as the support of law enforcement. This would give them the feeling of safety they ever so lack in society. Maria Petropoulos 4 Works Cited Larson, Eric D. Lives Matter and Bridge Building: Labor Education for a Jim Labor Studies Journal 41.1 (2016): 36-66. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. #Black Lives Matter. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Blue Lives Matter. N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 29. Jan. 2017. Lives CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Damiani, Jesse. Every Time You Say All Lives  You Are Being an Accidental  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 15 July 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Gaines, Larry K., Roger LeRoy. Miller, Don R. Hopkins, Neil Stratton, and Marc Neithercutt. Criminal Justice in Action: The Core. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 2014. Print