Malanga 1 Daniel Malanga Professor Ryan ENC 1102 January 26, 2016 Project 1: Pro-life vs. Pro-choice The debate of whether abortion should be a legal right to women who are pregnant has been a heavily disputed topic for decades. The 1973 roe vs. wade case is a nationally famous legal battle that resulted in the supreme court ruling abortion legal. These two sides are commonly viewed to be extremely fixed on their opinion and little to no compromise has arisen between the two. Organizations such as Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life committee have both made tremendous efforts to educate and fight for their views. With the transition of focus from their own fixed views on abortion to the other aspects within abortion, such as birth control and safe sex essentials, these two conflicting organizations can come together to prevent unplanned pregnancy. Planned parenthood is one of the most well-known and respected pro-choice organizations in the country. They are extreme advocates for rights and provide many health care needs for those who afford it, such as birth control, STD tests and cancer screenings (plannedparenthood.org 1). Their stand on abortion is that women have the right to choose whether they want an abortion, regardless of trimester or period of pregnancy. They strongly believe that the developing fetus is not yet considered human life and that is only the body that should be taken into deliberation. They are constantly fighting government laws that prevent women from having their right to choose. 2011, Texas cut its state family planning budget and changed the way it allocated Title X funds to significantly reduce grants to Malanga 2 Planned Parenthood and other More than 75 clinics, a third operated by Planned Parenthood, closed as a result (New York Times 1). This emphasizes the extreme role that planned parenthood plays in abortion across the nation, as the quote stated that a third of the clinics terminated where planned parenthood clinics. With just one small funding decision from the government, planned parenthood can completely disintegrate as an organization. These are just some of the major views, functions and obstacles that planned parenthood engages with daily. The National Right to Life committee is recognized to be one of the most influential pro- life organizations in the U.S. Their main focus is to end the legalization of abortion throughout the country and to educate people about why they believe abortion is murder and their supporting evidence for it. Their website consists of links and short entries with factual evidence regarding the development of the fetus inside a pregnant body. unborn heart begins to beat 18-21 days after (nrlc.org 1). This quote is from the NRLC website and is just one of the facts that is used to try and bring substantial evidence that proves abortion to be inhumane. The efforts of NRLC are recognized by almost everyone in the pro-life movement and continue to be fighting activists for their beliefs. The common ground between these two opposing stakeholders is the desire to prevent unplanned pregnancies. Without unplanned pregnancies, there would be little to no need for a pregnant woman to decide whether she wants an abortion. The NRLC would be gaining in this compromise in that there would be far less abortions performed and Planned parenthood would be financially relieved by performing less abortions. One-half of the 6.7 million pregnancies in the United States each year are unintended, 43% of which end in (Zuckerman, Nathan, Malanga 3 Mate 1). This statistic proves the amount of abortions that are results of unplanned pregnancies. With less unplanned pregnancies, both parties would be benefitted and relieved. Although these two sides have completely diametric views, coming together to prevent pregnancy would be a key factor to solve both of their problems. With the compromise of combining funds with each other to advertise and support aspects of safe sex such as condoms and birth control, they would both be getting publicity while helping prevent the issue that divides them. The more birth control for women who are not ready for pregnancy, the less unplanned pregnancies there will be. The NRLC will benefit from this from the lowered rate of abortions nationally. Planned Parenthood will advantage through more funds being put towards birth control, which distributes more for the money being spent, as opposed to expensive abortion procedures and clinics. If Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life committee could come together to bring more awareness to the importance of safe sex, they could save countless amounts of women the difficult decision of whether to get an abortion while also aiding themselves. Another compromise these two differing stakeholders could make possible would be to combine funds to bring education and distribution of a new form of pregnancy prevention, called LARC (long-acting reversible contraceptives). The difference between LARC and birth control is that LARC is a one-time contraceptive as opposed to birth control, which needs daily remembrance of consumption (Zuckerman, Nathan, Mate 1). Also, the LARC method has proved to have a higher success rate within the first year of the vaccine and costs less than one year of taking birth control daily. Since this method has not yet been integrated into sexual education in academic facilities, a spike in interest across the nation would most likely arouse which would be good exposure for both organizations. Both organizations would benefit as they both believe in Malanga 4 educating teens and young adults about unplanned pregnancy and how to prevent it. Parenthood works to make health care accessible and affordable. Some health centers are able to charge according to income. Most accept health insurance. If you qualify, Medicaid or other state programs may lower your health care (plannedparenthood.org 1). Since Planned parenthood is such a strong advocate for people having the right to being provided with health care, they will be benefitting from any sort of convenient and affordable contraceptive. If Planned Parenthood also included LARC in their free health care assistance, they could benefit financially as it is cheaper than distributing birth control. Also, the matter of convenience comes into play with less subscriptions being distributed and more direct help for the patient through the vaccination. The NRLC would benefit this in the same way as birth control, but a higher guarantee against unplanned pregnancy which would mean even less abortions than with birth control. There are many benefits to the education and distribution of LARC, and could assist both organizations in doing what they desire, which is helping women in need. For them to accomplish either of these compromises both organizations would have to be willing to combine funds. This would allow much more exposure for both companies which could lead to greater donations. For the birth control compromise, they would likely choose a form of advertisement that would reach to a large audience such as a commercial or billboard. They could have both advertising teams come together to form a slogan emphasizing the importance of birth control. Finding a sponsor with even larger funds to help with the advertisement, such as birth control companies, could expand the benefits to an even greater extent. For the compromise involving LARC, the uniting of funds could also help LARC be perceived as a more realistic option if educational facilities were teaching about it to teens and young adults. The audience also may admire the unity of the opposing sides coming together to Malanga 5 prevent unplanned pregnancy, which could also lead to greater donations. With either negotiation, both organizations can make profit and publicize themselves while reducing the rate of unplanned pregnancies. Shifting these two attention from their opinion of abortion, and choosing to unite to emphasize the importance of birth control and effective contraceptives, these two contrasting sides can find common ground. Without pregnancy, there is no need for the dispute about whether their abortion should be legal. Both these organizations are benefitting from this compromise both financially and emotionally. Malanga 6 Work Cited Board, The Editorial. A Way to Protect Planned Parenthood  The New York Times. The New York Times, 09 Sept. 2016. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Official  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 10 Feb. 2017. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. The Oldest & Largest Pro-life  National Right to Life. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Zuckerman, Barry, Sacheen Nathan, and Kedar Mate. Preventing Unintended Pregnancy: A Pediatric  Preventing Unintended Pregnancy: A Pediatric Opportunity Pediatrics Perspectives Pediatrics. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.