Patel 1 Jay Patel Composition 2 January 26, 2017 Professor Ryan Gun Control Gun control has been an issue for many years now and the signs of its bearing show any signs of stopping anytime soon. The United States has allowed its citizens to acquire guns through the 2 nd Amendment which states well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a Free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be Although this Amendment was meant to protect the citizens it is been altered at times to allow citizens harm other citizens in acts of robbery, murder, homicide, etc. What is needed in the United States is a balance of which the 2 nd Amendment is granted, but to an extent to where unnecessary guns are not given out to anyone for unreasonable reasons. There are a lot of people in the United States who are completely for gun control and they have many viable reasons for why they view the 2 nd Amendment so differently from others. Many of the people who are against gun control are victims or are close to victims who have been harmed by misuse of guns in the United States, therefore they have seen firsthand the damage misuse of guns can do to someone and their loved ones. Although the 2 nd Amendment allows people the right to bear arms, their argument is that the Amendment first says well- regulated which be seen as an unconstitutional reasoning because the first part included in the 2 nd Amendment. Many of the pro-gun control supporters believe that the Amendment was there in case citizens crucially needed guns and not for everyone to simply own Patel 2 guns because they want to or enjoy having them;. the way most crimes begin that are gun related. Not to mention, a study of shooting victims in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania found that if you are carrying a gun you are far likelier to get shot and killed than those who are unarmed (NewScientist.com). On another note, there are people who are against gun control and are for better practices of gun safety such as the National Rifle Association (NRA). The NRA has roots that go back to 1871 where they have always been for better marksmanship. Providing proper gun training to people who own guns and allowing gun possession but with proper training allow this association to be very influential. The NRA also has been putting boundaries on people who can acquire guns such as those who are on the no fly list would not be able to acquire guns. Not to mention, a series of tests that each future gun holder would have to take to make sure they are responsible to acquire a firearm and have any bad intentions or mental illnesses that could put the general population in danger. The NRA does not mind the amount of gun holders and would not mind there being more gun holders because they understand the hobbies of hunting and simply just going to the shooting range. Also, they have shown studies of where if there is a gun in the household the people in that household feel significantly safer and are able to defend themselves when needed to an intruder or any other type of danger that might harm them. A common ground both of these stakeholders share is that they are both trying to protect the general public. While victims of gun violence are saying to take out a majority of guns in the hands, the NRA is saying to allow the guns to be in place the way they are but just improve gun safety techniques and enforce laws. Together both of these could be very helpful to the general public but it just needs to be properly enforced. The NRA can practice whatever they want but if the laws and rules in place are not being enforced then everything goes to waste. Patel 3 Moreover, the pro-gun control followers can have a majority of the guns taken away from the public but if a terrorist wants to arm him/her self with firearms there is not much anyone can do about that unless the laws that are set in place can protect the public from being harmed by such a person. Although there is a variety of different opinions involved in each stakeholder there are a few ways each side can still be happy. There can be a compromise that can be made for both stakeholders and that is to allow the firearms people have but make them take a series of tests that ensures they are using their firearms for the right purpose and not just for an accessory to their household, collections, etc. Not to mention, creating and enforcing new and current laws where the general public is safe from people who have open firearms and are trying to use them to hurt people such as a terrorists, murderer, etc. There is also a well-known proposition that really cuts down on doubts of the government not being strict on who can acquire guns which states, proposal would prohibit the sale of guns to terror suspects whose names appear on either the federal no-fly list or the so-called list, which requires them to undergo additional screening at (TheHill.com). This proposition really was seen as a favorite among the eye because they were relieved that such dangerous people would not be allowed to even have a chance at acquiring a gun. Overall, if people can begin to be more responsible with their firearms and the laws set in place can protect the general public from people who are trying to use their firearms for bad intentions a compromise for gun control can definitely be made and go through successfully. Patel 4 Works Cited Carrying a Gun Increases Risk of Getting Shot and  New Scientist. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. The 2nd Amendment Versus Gun Control Stakeholders  HubPages. HubPages, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.  Gunsafety. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Associates, Inc. MultiState. Gun Rights: Stakeholders From All Sides Stuck in the Crosshairs of Rapid-Fire  State & Local Government Relations & Advocacy. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Anti-Gun Control Groups: 8 Organizations Fighting for 2nd  Newsmax. N.p., 12 Nov. 2014. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Gun Control -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Ferris, Alexander Bolton and Sarah. Moderate Republican Offers Compromise on Gun  TheHill. N.p., 17 June 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.