Williamson 1 Camila Williamson Robert Ryan ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Rogerian Argument: Euthanasia Many of us often wonder what life after death is like, and discus in fear different theories as to what happens after ones heart stops beating. For many people this is not the case. Some ill and elderly are waiting for the day where all their pain and suffering will finally end, and they can be relieved by a new and full life. This is one of the reasons why people see euthanasia as the only escape from torture and pain, because the idea of a perfect life after death is embedded in their head. The reality is that euthanasia is not a relief from life, but a termination of it. Death is final and absolute, and the legalization of euthanasia can consequently bring many problems to the medical field and to the society in general. The legalization of assisted suicide is something to take into consideration with the appropriate precautions and strict regulations that make euthanasia accessible to those who qualify for it, but prohibits it for the public. Compassion and Choices is a nonprofit organization that works towards educating and informing people about end of life procedures, and works towards the legalization of euthanasia. advocate for policies that empower people to control their own healthcare decisions. At the state level, we work to pass and then implement aid-in-dying laws so that mentally capable, Williamson 2 terminally ill adults have access to all end-of-life options, no matter where they This is a fragment of their description as found online, amongst with many other sections talking about palliative care in the Medicare and Medicaid systems. This pro-assisted suicide organization talks about the broadness of euthanasia and the extent of their organizational values. They believe that euthanasia should be available to every elderly conscious person that voluntarily decides to terminate their life with medical help. This not only brings problems to society because it creates no boundaries whatsoever to who can access the proposed assisted suicide system, but also because it creates an entire new definition of doctors and their training. People who enter the medical field are taught to respect, value and care for lives, and once they are handed with the power to destroy the own meaning of their career with helping anyone that desires it with assisted suicide, the purpose of their career is vanished, and so are their moral values. Assisted suicide education and information are very important to people seeking end of life procedures whether it is for themselves or for a loved one. There are many people that do not understand the meaning of assisted suicide and how it works to ease the suffering from people that have lived through unbearable pain. This includes people that are battling a terminate illness or incapacity that affects the quality of their life. An article from the US National Library of Medicine states that philosophers believe that making euthanasia acceptable can bring tow long term repercussions. first interpretation postulates that acceptance of one sort of euthanasia will lead to other, even less acceptable, forms of euthanasia. The second contends that euthanasia and pas, which originally would be regulated as a last-resort option in only very select situations, could, over time, become less of a last Williamson 3 resort and be sought more quickly, even becoming a first choice in some This shows that regardless of the regulation, as time passes the standards are eventually going to become lower and lower, and the amount of assisted suicides are going to be come more and less heavily regulated. In the other hand, the organization Care not Killing is an alliance of individuals and organizations that brings attention to disability and human rights on the aspects of palliative care and assisted suicide. This organization works towards preventing the legalization of euthanasia, and education of the community in the aspects of end of life comfort and palliative care. This is so that people are socially conscious that the legalization of euthanasia can bring negative actions from doctors and the public. Of course, there are cases where the patient is dealing with insufferable pain and it becomes impossible to live the daily life. These are the sensitive cases that make the opposition against euthanasia so hard to enforce. this literature overview, we have noted that despite the fact that nurses often felt they could not put into words their ethical thinking, implicitly they were engaging in a complex reflective process with many principles, and factors Medicine is, and has always been all about the patients. Doctors, nurses and other medial staff work had everyday for one single purpose, to improve and save peoples lives. Some doctors may see euthanasia as a form of punishment or violation to their mission, but other see it was part of their job. This happens because euthanasia can be seen as a merciful way of ending suffering. Elderly care is fundamental in the prevention and opposition against assisted suicide, and so it becomes essential that these organizations work with those that cannot live alone anymore, but make them feel like they are still able to live their life to the fullest with some help. Care not Killing expresses the services they bring to the elderly such as better palliative care, increased hospice funding and better residential care for those who are dying. Amongst these things, this Williamson 4 organization is not only supported by numerous groups of individuals, but is also supported by most religions. Assisted suicide in the eyes of those who have a religion, is often seen as another way of killing. They perceive life as precious, and they consider whoever or whatever intervenes in it an act of evil that not only messes with spirituality of those who are seeking the end of life treatment, but also messes with the morals and values of those doctors that would be helping with the euthanasia. These two groups, as opposing as they may seen, share a common ground that is often ignored. This common ground is the fact that both organizations are working to better the life situations of individuals, especially the ill and the older. In this case, an agreement can be done if both ideas agree to be lenient on their rules and ideals. One proposed idea is to make assisted suicide legal, but have it so secure and restricted from the public, that only those in real need can actually access it. This could work by implementing a system of psychological and physical examination, performed by several doctors in each section to prevent any wrongful execution of the treatment. The patient would have t be fully concious to make the formal request, and this would have to be approved by the court before any examination begins. Once the examination is over with, the case will re-open in court, and the judge will be the one to grant the person permission to utilize the assisted suicide system. Although these two organizations are constantly opposing each other, an agreement that satisfies most of their values can be achieved with a little cooperation from both sides. With the help of the medical and judicial system, this process can be clean and safe for those who are Williamson 5 seeking it, and it will help prevent any mistakes. Compassion and choice, and Care not Killing are only some of the examples of the many organization that work towards and against euthanasia, and if there is a way to make two of them agree on one single solution, there is a way to convince the rest to do the same. Citations Berghs, M. The Complexity of Attitudes toward Euthanasia: A Review of the  Journal of Medical Ethics 31.8 (2005): 441-46. Web. Financial  About Compassion & Choices Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pereira, J. Euthanasia or Assisted Suicide: The Illusion of Safeguards and Current Oncology 18.2 (2011): Print Promoting Care, Opposing  What We Do - Care NOT Killing - Promoting Care, Opposing Euthanasia - Care Not Killing. CNK ALliance Limited, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.