Peterson 1 Rebecca Peterson Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 Section 713 February 19, 2017 Healthcare Law and Reform Annotated Bibliography With the political climate becoming more turbulent, the top priority of lawmakers as of late is centered around universal healthcare, specifically The Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA, or more commonly called Obamacare, has extended healthcare coverage to millions of Americans, allowing some to be insured for the first time. The extensive coverage gap between the different levels of incomes used to qualify for different programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, and the Marketplaces disqualified millions. With the argument that universal healthcare coverage is too expensive for the public and with no incentives of better healthcare to accommodate the higher premiums, the lawmakers opposed to the Affordable Care Act are looking to completely repeal the ACA to bring those costs down. This places the economic standpoint of healthcare over the social concern that healthcare is a universal right to the people. Viewing the changes that have happened in healthcare reform before the ACA, during the implementation of the ACA, and even in other countries that have universal healthcare, but use an entirely different system, could provide an answer. How to offer healthcare to those in the coverage gap without draining all the resources of those who must pay for the gap coverage is the primary focus. What policies are in place or should be added to make healthcare universal without hurting the economy? Peterson 2 Bessard, Pierre. of Mixed-Economy Solutions in Healthcare: The Examples of Switzerland and University of South Florida Online Database, Economic Affairs, volume 28, issue 4, 2008, pp. 16-21. Bessard compares socialized healthcare system to that of Singapore. Switzerland has most of the cost put onto third-party payers with no expense being placed on the individual. This has led to rampant overuse of medical treatments and unnecessarily long hospital stays. Singapore instead requires 20% of all copays to be paid by the patient, part of their monthly salary or income is placed in a medical expense savings account, and transparency with the insurance plan and what it covers. Singapore has kept its healthcare costs to half of while still maintaining a high life expectancy of 80 years compared to 82 without the extensive waste of resources. Pierre Bessard writes academic articles and is a journalist that focuses on Switzerland and the economy of Switzerland and of other countries. By understanding how economics function and by being familiar with Switzerland gives journal more credibility because they are two subjects that he is very familiar with and has written several reports and articles about. This article relates to the research question because it shows two different examples from other countries that have universal healthcare. The article shows different options that could be borrowed, or even avoided, and implemented into a model for the United States. Lyons, Barbara, and Rowland, Diane. Role in Health Reform and Closing the Coverage University of South Florida Online Database, Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 580-584. Peterson 3 Role in Health Reform and Closing the Coverage details the many millions of Americans who were ineligible for Medicaid for a variety of reasons. This includes households of two adults with no dependent child, falling within the annual gap of Medicaid and the Marketplaces, states not allowing the ACA to be implemented, and being an undocumented immigrant. All of these in combination are what led to the 41.1 million uninsured dropping to 28.5 million within just two years when the ACA Medicaid expansion was put into place to close the gap. There are states within the United States that have opted out of the implementation of the Medicaid expansion. This left millions uninsured as they do not qualify for publicly-financed coverage in their state, do not have employer-based insurance through a job, and do not have enough income to purchase own health insurance privately. By eliminating the difficult and strict tiers of eligibility for Medicaid, the ACA was meant to bring insurance to those who make too much for Medicaid but not enough for the Marketplace. The ACA even offers federal dollars that will match what the states contribute, which will drop to 90% matching by 2020. Diane Rowland received her Doctor of Science from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at John Hopkins University, is the Executive Vice President of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and Executive Director of the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, and also served as the inaugural chair of the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission. Barbara Lyons received a Ph.D. in health policy from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at John Hopkins, is a Senior Vice President at the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, and was a member of the policy staff for The Commonwealth Fund Commission on Elderly People Living Alone. Both women have doctorates and are currently involved, including in the past by being members of boards or committees, with programs and foundations directly involving Medicaid and uninsured people. This article relates to the research question because it Peterson 4 shows how the social aspect of giving mass amounts of people health insurance is a good thing and how the ACA has just bridged the gap between those covered by Medicaid and those able to be a part of the Marketplace. Rosenbaum, Sara and Thorpe, Jane Hyatt. Affordable Care at Six: Reaching for a New University of South Florida Online Database, The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 533-537. Rosenbaum and Thorpe talk about what the ACA is and the ways in which its implication has been a success and where it has fallen short. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was made into law in March of 2010. It made access to decent and affordable health insurance possible regardless of economic standing or the existence of pre-existing conditions, both of which would have previously been a disqualification. It was to assist with the employer coverage, coverage purchased in the Marketplace, and closed the gap between Medicaid, which serviced the poorest, and Medicare which covers the elderly and those with severe disabilities. The purpose of the ACA was to lower the overall cost of healthcare by lower insurance premiums and to keep rates from increasing unnecessarily by increased competition. Sara Rosenbaum has written or been a part of dozens of healthcare articles over the last 6 years, specifically focusing on the affordability and economic standpoint of healthcare and those that it insures. Jane Hyatt Thorpe has also written several academic articles and been a part of several periodicals where she takes about healthcare. She also written several papers about medicine, hospitals, health insurance, and the ethical dilemmas and questions that float around within those spheres. Both of these authors add credibility to the article because they have both been involved in the field of healthcare and medicine for several years with a significant amount of research going into each of their articles or periodicals. This article relates to the research Peterson 5 question because it shows the exact mechanisms the Affordable Care Act used to allow for health insurance coverage to expand. It also shows what groups of people rely on federally run programs, like Medicaid and Medicare, and how having more people covered with the expansion through the implementation of the ACA. Sherman, Peter J. the Whole University of South Florida Online Database, Quality Progress, vol. 43, issue 9, 2010, pp. 32-36, 38. Within the Whole Sherman gives his experience of being the primary caregiver to his father and the experiences he had at a hospital. The issue with expensive healthcare is the individual pieces that have failed but rather the flaws of the overall system. With an example of over $1500 dollars was essentially wasted due to miscommunication between departments and more expensive tests given when a cheaper alternative had already been done. That money was being drained in ways that could be avoided if the entire system was given a complete overhaul. Sherman also gave numbers to the amount of money spend on average for health insurance, the surgical deaths related to incorrect surgeries, anesthesia, and infections resulting from poor or incorrect surgical techniques, and the amount of deaths from incorrectly filled prescriptions. made the patient the customer and by better organizing a hospital, it reduced procedure time which wasted less of the time because of more efficient interdepartmental communication. This led to thousands of dollars being saved in medical bills that would no longer need to be covered by the health insurance, the hospital, or the patient. the Whole relates to the research question because it shows the economic toll inefficiency has on an individual hospital which is then amplified to the patient and the health insurance they are covered with. This inefficient model assumed every hospital is similar Peterson 6 and the worst-case scenario of millions, if not billions, of dollars that are being wasted when all the hospitals and their annual loses were combined. Sherman is a civil engineer and the lead instructor at Emory Six Sigma certificate program. He also witnessed first-hand how the system was ineffective with his time, making Sherman qualified to show his idea of a solution to the rising healthcare costs by changing the entire system and not just one component. Sinclair, James A. C. Healthcare University of South Florida Online Database, China Business Review, 2009, pp. 32-36, 52. This article depicts the issues that China has been facing with large differences in urban and rural hospital settings, particularly those surrounding the waiting time that patients endured to see overworked doctors. new healthcare reform would have two steps, one taking setting up the framework by 2020, the other added more details and over 3 years would have add 5 new programs. These programs were universal coverage of basic medical insurance, establishment of an essential drug system, improved primary care infrastructure, reform public hospitals, and equitable access to public health services. All of these programs together would make healthcare more equal, affordable, and less painful due to extensive wait times or the inability to access a specific type of medication. Sinclair is based in Shanghai and is a strategy practice director at InterChina Consulting. Because he is part of a consulting company and lives in the country where this new healthcare reform is taking places gives the article credibility. The article relates to the research question because it shows the social need for healthcare reform but illustrates the need to reduce costs and keep the new healthcare affordable, especially when the country is as populous as China. Peterson 7 Stoltzfus Jost, Timothy and Pollack, Harold A. Health Care Truly Affordable after Health Care University of South Florida Online Database, The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 546-554. The article describes the ACA, the healthcare issue of affordability by all parties involved, how the ACA is an imperfect beginning that requires future refinement, and how ACA opponents want to repeal the health insurance regulatory requirements of Obamacare. The article goes into depth about how the fundamental policies of the ACA, the inability to deny someone with a pre-existing condition, and expansion of Medicaid have become embedded in the American healthcare system, but describes how incorporating some of the proposals like fixed dollar tax credits and repealing the employer mandate. However, these proposals would cost billions to implement and to further lower costs of affordability, more than the ACA would have to address the root issues of why healthcare costs are rising. This article relates to the research question because it shows all the different issues and all the different fundamental problems that surrounds healthcare and the Affordable Care Act that has made it such a controversial topic. The article both praises but constructively criticizes Obamacare and is able to offer an unbiased opinion on the flaws and benefits the ACA has. Timothy Stoltzfus Jost, J.D., is a member of the National Academy of Medicine and an Emeritus Professor at the Washington and Lee University School of Law. Harold A. Pollack, Ph.D., works at the University of Chicago as a professor at the School of Social Service Administration and is an Affiliate Professor in the Biological Sciences Collegiate Division and the Department of Public Health Sciences. Both of the authors have advances degrees and are associated or work at accredited Universities which gives them the research skills and resources to write a credible paper.