Claudia Vizcarra ENC 1102 Project 1 Sexual Education in Schools The idea of educating youth on sex, sexuality, and sexual health, more often than not, leaves parents and teachers feeling uneasy. This leads educators to leave out details pertinent to the topics of sexual education. Public schools and organizations such as Planned Parenthood that cover sexual and reproductive health topics both have an agenda to educate young people on the topics of sex and related issues but the two have conflicting opinions surrounding the sexual education curriculum. The constant debate of whether or not the schoolboard should be the ones teaching children about the essentials of sexual education brings about another debate of what exactly should be taught and who exactly it should be taught to, which often creates controversy between Planned Parenthood and public schools about what the non-profit organization intends to advise the youths. Parents are often quick to refer to sexual education as crude and obscene which influences public schools to enforce a much more implicit and innocent sex-ed curriculum while Planned Parenthood makes it a priority to teach every aspect involving sexuality, no matter how uncomfortable the task may seem. people mistakenly believe that refers only to sexual behavior (e.g., sexual intercourse) and not the full array of topics that comprise (plannedparenthood.org) Public schools tend to be a main source of information and for most public schools, their focus is more so on only teaching the aspects of abstinence and sexual behavior. US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced that in most U.S. states, fewer than half of high schools and just one in five middle schools teach all the essential sex education topics recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and (plannedparenthood.org) Sexual education curriculums are heavily influenced by the parents of the students that believe that the topic being taught encourages youths to begin being sexually active or become increasingly more sexually active. of comprehensive sex education and HIV/ STI prevention programs show that they do not increase rates of sexual initiation, do not lower the age at which youth initiate sex, and do not increase the frequency of sex or the number of sex partners among sexually active youth. (advocatesforyouth.org) In the 1960s, right-wing groups such as John Birch Society and other ultraconservative organizations charged that programs geared towards more comprehensive sex education were   and a filthy communist (guttmacher.org) Recently, all teenagers now receive some sexuality education while they are in high school: In a 1995 national survey, more than nine in 10 women aged 18-19 said they received instruction, as did about seven in 10 women aged 18-44. Most students, however, do not receive any instruction until ninth or 10th grade, by which time many have already become sexually (guttmacher.org) The stance on what type of sexual education should be taught in the majority of public schools more so a focus on abstinence-only material. Organizations such as Planned Parenthood encourage broader, more comprehensive aspects of sex education. include information and concerns about abstinence, body image, contraception, gender, human growth and development, human reproduction, pregnancy, relationships, safer sex (prevention of sexually transmitted infections), sexual attitudes and values, sexual anatomy and physiology, sexual behavior, sexual health, sexual orientation, and sexual (plannedparenthood.org) Planned Parenthood also pushes for an increase in medically accurate curriculums and programs in schools and even more emphasis from parents and guardians at the homes. goals of comprehensive sex education are to help young people gain a positive view of sexuality and to provide them with developmentally appropriate knowledge and skills so that they can make healthy decisions about their sex lives now and in the future. Medically accurate sex education is an investment in our future their (plannedparenthood.org) In order to come to an agreement, public schools and Planned Parenthood must reach a compromise that benefits both parties while being the best option for youths at which the information is being targeted. sex education would be taught each year in our schools from kindergarten through 12th grade. Like all school subjects, the information and skills that are taught are age-appropriate, reflect best-practice, and build on the previous (plannedparenthood.org) To suit both stakeholders, Planned Parenthood will collaborate with the schoolboard for public schools and devise a curriculum for sex education in every grade from kindergarten through the twelfth grade that includes key points such as: behavioral goals, teaching methods, and resources that are age-appropriate, developmentally appropriate, and culturally competent; is based on theoretical approaches that have been proven to be a variety of teaching methodologies that present the content in ways that make it relevant to the student; provides basic, accurate information about the risks of unprotected sexual intercourse and how to avoid unprotected sexual intercourse; includes activities that address peer pressure and cultural pressure practices decision making, communication, negotiation, and refusal skills; utilizes teachers who are well-trained, comfortable, and believe in the (plannedparenthood.org) Agreeing on a carefully constructed curriculum ensures that both stakeholders are satisfied and that their real common students should be taught in public schools regarding sexual taken care of. References School-Based Sexuality Education: The Issues and  Guttmacher Institute. N.p., 06 Dec. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Lack of Sex Education in US Schools Leaves Youth at Risk: CDC Releases New  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 10 Dec. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Implementing Sex  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 10 May 2014. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.