Melanie Zapata ENC 1101 1/27/17 FACTORY FARMERS VS ANIMAL RIGHTS ACTIVITS Meat production drastically increases every year and is one of the highest demanding industries in the world. Almost everyone in the world consumes meat in their diet. Some, such as animal rights activists, however, oppose the use of animals on farms entirely and the ways that these animals are handled. On the other hand, farmers must meet these demands and have their own ideologies of the necessity of meat production in agriculture. This results in what seems to be an infinite cycle of disagreement between those that do not believe in the need to use farm animals and the farmers themselves. However, if these two opposing sides were to somehow see eye to eye, the controversy could be considerably minimized. There are millions of people that do not support the use of animals on factory farms. According to PETA.com, The food industry is one of the largest areas where suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of This organization is completely against the use of any kind of animal product in any industry. They strongly believe in the importance in preserving an right to live a humane life and will go to the extreme to let their message be known to the public. PETA has been known to have many tactics to protest against companies that may exploit animals. Because of the use of animals in meat production, PETA stands completely against factory farming and constantly criticize and protest the methods used in when raising animals for consumption. They are the largest animal rights organization in the world, with more than 5 million members and supporters. Many try to belittle factory farms and call out their abusive handling methods. This may be one of the causes that have led to the slight decrease in meat production over the past few years. Examples of the inhumane treatment that PETA stands against can be found in J. Lassen, P. and B. academic article in which they briefly discuss the treatment of pigs in factory farms. Docking, a mutilating technique in which the tails are cut off, is practiced and deprived the pigs of their ability to follow natural instincts and thus their (6 Lassen et al). In perspective, this should be enough to recognize factory farming as immoral and unjust to well deserved rights. Factory farms consider the production of meat on farms utterly necessary for several reasons. The demand for meat is virtually never-ending and farmers must meet those demands. Farmers insist that the methods used in farming in relation to the treatment of animals is a part of the production process. Although others may point fingers at these techniques and call them unsafe, many farmers reassure consumers that their food is completely safe. Americasfarmers.com tells site that Farmers are producing the safest and most affordable Also, many farmers argue that factory farming is necessary for the economy worldwide. In his online article, Mateus J.R. Paranhos da Costa states comprises a significant proportion of the Latin American economy, with strong performance from the poultry, beef and pork production (2 Paranhos da Costa). Farmers and factory farm employees will also argue that this is their only means of living and rely on farming for the sustainment of their families economically. There is an endless list of reasons why factory farmers consider meat production and methods used when raising or slaughtering animals nevertheless necessary. When brought up in a general conversation, animals rights activist and factory farmers seem like fire and ice. However, much to the disbelief of some, both do share a common interest: animals. Animal rights activists are concerned with the wellbeing of animals and hope for their use in agriculture to be completely diminished or taken with more precaution for the wellbeing of the animals. Farmers are mostly focused on providing consumers with safe, edible meat and producing a large quantity while saving as much money and produce as possible. Animal rights activists believe that animals deserve a healthy life just as much as humans. Farmers believe that healthy animals would result in a better economic sector. Although both reasoning lies in different aspects, their ultimate interest is within the animals themselves. Despite these two stakeholders seeming at odds with one another, there is an action step that can be taken to settle these conflicting views. Attempting to satisfy the interests of both animal rights activists and factory farmers when looking at the overall wellbeing of the animals is possible. Factory farmers must recognize the existence of alternative methods when handling farm animals. In Temple Effect of Economics on the Welfare of Cattle, Pigs, Sheep, and he discusses how updated machinery can lead to less labor costs which can also help meat industries thrive economically. cost savings of reducing labor requirements, improving meat quality, reducing accidents, and reducing bruises were all put on the proposal to emphasize how much money they could (Temple Grandin). Not only would meat industries thrive economically from improved treatment, but consumers will also profit in the long run, as meat prices will potentially go down. If factory farms could practice more techniques when handling farm animals, perhaps PETA could begin to notice the attempts to provide animals with more humane lives and reduce their tactics of protesting. By doing so, it would be ideal for PETA to stop encouraging boycotting factory farms since treatments would now be ethical. The demand for meat is virtually inevitable, something that must be considered by PETA. The discontinuation of their such as protesting against certain factory farms would end the constant judgement and at times boycott by former consumers who may question the ethical values of those farms. PETA could advertise animal-friendly farms instead, which will ultimately result in a rise in sales for such factory farms, that consumers may now view as humane. Two seemingly incompatible stakeholders with completely different perspectives of animals on farms share a common interest. The health of animals plays in both of their interests and can result in a better animal community in the eyes of animal rights activists as well as an increase in production for farmers. Improving the way that animals are handled and switching to a more humane way to treat them satisfies the goal of PETA to promote the wellbeing of animals. Also, factory farmers updating their methods could result in an increase of produce and boost the economy. WORKS CITED PETA.com Americasfarmers.com Lassen, J. P. Forkman, B. Happy Pigs Are Dirty! Conflicting Perspectives On Animal Welfare, vol 103, 2006, p 221-230, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1871141306001879 Paranhos da Costa, Mateus J.R. Huertas, M. Gallo, Carmen. Dalla Costa, Osmar A. Meat Science to promote farm animal welfare in Latin America and their effects on carcass and meat quality vol:92,2012, p221 -226, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0309174012000861 Temple Grandin, The Effect of Economics on the Welfare of Cattle, Pigs, Sheep, and Poultry, April 2013, http://www.grandin.com/welfare/economic.effects.welfare.html H hh h h hh h h h h h h h hh h hh h h h hh