Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography Solar energy is a well-known alternative energy source. As the world burns through its supply of oil and coal, the question is raised of where the energy-hungry modern world will gather the power it needs to continue its lifestyle. Researchers and innovators have been considering, and are continuing to consider, the advantages and disadvantages of solar energy collecting. There are several unusual uses for solar energy that the average consumer is not aware of beyond generating electricity. These include heating water, powering the AC unit and the central heating. Homes outfitted for solar often have the option to sell unused power to the grid, making money for the owner. Solar can be more cost effective in some locations, since it does not need to be transported like petroleum or coal. For years, startup costs have been prohibitive in the implementation of solar energy use. Overall, research and government subsidies are making this energy source cheaper and cheaper. Decreasing costs are minimalizing the number of serious disadvantages of solar energy, giving it an edge on traditional forms of energy. For solar energy to be taken seriously by the individual American, there are some considerations to be addressed. For example, what are the advantages and disadvantages of investing in a solar energy system for the American consumer? Student 2 Borenstein, Severin. The Private and Public Economics of Renewable Electricity  Journal of Economic Perspectives 1 (2012): 67. Academic OneFile. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. The author of this article makes a comparison between the financial price of solar panels and the ecological price of pollution. The author notes that this comparison is not straightforward and that the issue is made even more complex by the many technologies available for renewable energy and the government subsidies that complicate analysis of the financial aspect. There are many different sources of renewable energy, but they would not work for every location or are too expensive. The author notes that solar is a scalable and cost competitive renewable energy source. Large scale solar has to transfer energy for distribution to the individual home. While solar can be used by a single individual, the cost for the individual is higher than a large-scale system would be. The author notes that electricity is expensive to store, but necessary in systems where demand or supply fluctuate. Solar is an example of this, since it is dependent on weather conditions and time of day. The article addresses the amount of pollution produced by traditional sources, and restrictions placed on its production. Reducing dependence on traditional sources would also decrease American dependence on sources of energy located outside our borders. This article addresses solar energy less from the perspective, and more from perspective. The author discloses that portions of this work was done as part of a research contract form the California Energy Commission. The article was written in 2012 and is peer reviewed. It gives an overview of what cost society is paying to maintain its current lifestyle, and what cost it would have to pay to make the switch to a renewable source. Student 3 Delmas, Magali A., Matthew E. Kahn, and Stephen L. Locke. The Private and Social Consequences of Purchasing an Electric Vehicle and Solar Panels: Evidence from  Research in Economics (2016). Science Direct, doi: 10.1016/j.rie.2016.12.002. Accessed: 5 Feb. 2017. This article covers the social and ecological attitudes of those who are implementing solar energy versus those who continue to use traditional sources. It notes that social attitudes such as personal cost or preference frequently trump social conscious for example, picking a safe vehicle over an ecologically friendly one. Solar energy faces another concern: a family that is not presented with financial options may be unable to afford solar energy because of the initial cost versus the cost of maintaining a traditional system. The article notes the cost of solar panels and electric vehicles is decreasing, while their effectiveness is increasing. The article also presents the advantages to the environment of switching from traditional methods to solar energy and electronic vehicles. The article discusses the emergence of financing options for solar energy systems. Current trends and potential future developments are discussed briefly. This a scholarly article, and the authors are affiliated with several Californian universities and the Western Kentucky University. One of the authors works with National Bureau of Economic Research. This article helps address the question of not what a consumer should consider, but what they do consider when looking at the possibility of purchasing solar panels. Student 4 Faiers, Adam, and Charles Neame. Consumer Attitudes Towards Domestic Solar Power  Energy Policy 34.(2006): 1797-1806. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.enpol.2005.01.001. Accessed: 19 Feb. 2017. This text examines why solar panels are not in wider use in the United Kingdom despite policies to encourage implementation of solar energy. It studies the reasons why people who were expected to adapt solar energy did not do so. While solar energy enjoys a reputation for being a clean source of energy, financial, economic and aesthetic concerns are slowing implementation. The article notes that the policies designed to improve rates of solar energy adoption used research that showed that solar energy is affordable, can be used in conjunction with existing systems, and helps reduce pollution. The issues facing solar power implementation, however, were concerns on the part of consumers about the long-term performance of solar energy systems and dislike for the large initial cost. The authors discuss research about the attitudes of versus the and the results of this research. The tended to respond more positively on questionnaires. The were more likely to respond negatively. For example, they were more likely to mark solar panels as being unattractive and unaffordable, and that grants to switch to solar were not high enough. The authors noted that marketers could use this information to dispel these beliefs. This article provides a very good look at a situation where solar was not adopted despite there being policies in place to encourage implementation of solar. This article is more than a decade old, as it was published in 2006 and was peer reviewed. Student 5 Foster, Robert, Majid Ghassemi, and Alma Cota. Solar Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton: CRC Press, 2010. E-text. This text provides a detailed look into the science behind solar energy. It explains fundamental principles, such as heat transfer and the laws of thermodynamics, and complicated topics specific to solar energy, such as the costs of certain systems given detailed parameters. The authors consider the costs of solar energy, both for the individual and for a society. They also note the costs of continuing to rely heavily on traditional energy sources such as global warming, air pollution, deforestation and so forth. They examine the damage traditional sources of energy have caused, as well as the reliance of current systems on those sources and how to break free of that reliance. The text shows some bias towards the benefits of solar energy and some against traditional sources of energy. The authors seem to have aimed this text at researchers and students at universities, though developers would also benefit from this text. This text is a collaboration between several researchers and developers who work in the field of nontraditional sources of energy at various universities. The article helps address the costs of implementing solar versus relying on traditional sources of energy, for the individual and society. Ogihara, Akira, et al. Policies to Ease the Transition to a Post-Fossil Fuel  International Review for Environmental Strategies 7.1 (2007): 63-79. Academic Search Premier. Accessed: 19 Feb. 2017. Student 6 This text from 2007 discusses the prohibitively high cost of renewable energy sources. It calls for policy changes to help alleviate these difficulties. The authors note how business models, policy frameworks, and laws that have been established over the last century were created with fossil fuels in mind, and that the renewable sources are faced with a system slow to adapt to new technologies. Depending on location, renewable energy sources will have to either be adapted to assist an old system, or a completely new system will have to be built. The authors performed research by collecting data on countries that had generated policies to aid in the utilization of renewable sources. Some of these countries were experimenting with establishing renewable power sources in off-grid rural areas, such as rural China and India. These projects successfully used a combination of financial sources for funding, drawing from the private and public sectors. The authors note that generally the private sector leads the way in development and early execution for renewable energy sources, but a partnership between the private and public sectors leads to wider scale implementation. The authors are researchers for the Institute for Global Environmental Strategies in Hayama, Japan. This article from 2007 shows the historical focus on policy change to help alleviate the cost of renewable sources. Walker, Andy. Solar Energy: Technologies and the Project Delivery Process for Buildings. Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley, 2013. E-text. The author wrote this text with engineers in mind. It covers, in depth, all possible technical aspects of planning and building a solar energy system, but it also covers many other Student 7 related considerations, such as social implications of current energy policies. Some of the material is well out of the depth of the average reader, but large portions of it provide a deeper understanding of many aspects of solar energy. The text discusses benefits of solar energy and the disadvantages. It explains how to calculate the most advantageous angle to align a solar panel based on location and even includes a description of how the sun works. This text provides both an insightful overview of the current conversation related to solar energy in the context of the current ecological systems and an in depth, detailed explanation of the smallest factors to consider when designing a system. The author, Andy Walker, is a professor of engineering at the University of Colorado. This book can prove useful both to experts looking for solutions to specific problems and to students with no experience in engineering doing research projects on solar energy.