Wijaya, 1 Jescelyn Wijaya Robert Ryan ENC 1102.057S17 January 24, 2017 Gun Control in America The debate on gun control in America has been going for many years. Even though many laws have passed and changed however, death rate due to gun violence still remains high which is one of the biggest problems that America faces. Beginning with the Brady Act in 1993, the first gun control law that America made which is to conduct a general background check of individuals for gun purchase (Price, 2010). Even though there are many people who agree with a stricter gun control law, there are still some people who are against it, as they believe that firearms should be allowed to keep in households for self-defense (Bogus, 2008). The National Association for Gun Rights represents these people who are against of the banning of firearms as well as stricter background checks. Due to this disagreement, the topic of gun control has remained unsolved to this day. Despite both of these stakeholders seem to be completely at odds with one another, however they both have a common ground or shared interest, which is safety of civilians. Therefore, even though both the Brady Campaign as well as the National Association for Gun Rights may seem very different as they both have their respective goal, they can work to establish a lasting compromise. The Brady Campaign was implemented which aims to make a safer America for both the citizens as well as immigrants that will lead to a reduction in gun deaths and injuries. Brady has a mission which is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (Brady) by creating a policy which focuses on background checks to all gun sales, to stop the gun dealers that supply all crime guns, as well to change social norms of guns at homes, to prevent homicides and Wijaya, 2 suicides that happen in daily life (bradycampaign). Brady stated that more than 90 percent of Americans support the expansion of background checks to gun sales however; only 60 percent of background checks are being carried out for all gun sales. Therefore, America needs to have better background checks law, as Brady believes that stronger gun laws on average will lead to less gun deaths. On the other hand, the National Association for Gun Rights, has the mission to allow people the right to bear arms and to exercise their right to self-defense (NAGR). The National Association for Gun Rights represents a large amount of people who are against or disagree with a stricter background check policy and gun control laws, as they believe that they are preventing them from their rights to own firearms. The National Association for Gun Rights is fighting to defend against attacks on the Second Amendment Freedoms, and to gain true firearms freedom. According to Kocsis, many Americans appreciate and view gun ownership as their most cherished right of citizenship as America is one of the countries that are legalized to own firearms (Kocsis, 2015). Therefore, the National Association for Gun Rights, representing large amount of Americans, demands the total freedom to own firearms. Even though both stakeholders are seem to be in disagreement, they have the same common ground which is the safety of the Americans. The Brady Campaign believes that in order for America to reduce death rate due to gun violence, firearms need to be eliminated especially in households where homicides and suicides occur most while, the National Association for Gun Rights believes that civilians should be given the right to own guns for self-defense following the Second Amendments, which is to let Americans own guns. A research stated that 63% of adults believe that having a gun in the house will make them feel safer (The truth about guns and self defense, 2015) therefore, many Americans agree that carrying around a loaded weapon allows them to be prepared at any crime situations that might take place and it gives them a little bit of peace of mind. However, the American Journal of Epidemiology found that the people who keep Wijaya, 3 guns in the home are 90% more likely to die by homicides as well as commit crimes than the people who do not own guns. But as different as these two stakeholders can be in the debate of gun control, there is hope for compromise. The compromise would still allows Americans to have the right to keep and bear arms however, in a much safer way which would decrease crime rates in the long run especially mass shootings. Firstly, if both stakeholders agree that firearms are the cause of high suicide rate in the country, they can compromise and request the Department of Education to create a new education program of gun safety to be implemented in middle schools and high schools. Along with the First Amendment, which discusses how dangerous and impact of firearms are, America can conduct a gun safety education which explains the danger, impact of guns as well as what to do when in the environment where guns are presence. If the dangers of guns are taught since young, there will be decrease in suicide rate, which will also lead to a decrease in death rate in the long run. Secondly, America should develop smart gun technology so that only the licensed gun owners who are eligible of purchasing firearms can use their gun. In the article that Alison Maney posted in 2015, like a smartphone, the would require the owners to do a fingerprint scan before using the gun, which would be a good way of keeping guns from falling into the wrong hands and other criminals to prevent more gun violence in the country. According to a research done by Mother Jones, from 1982 to 2012, US had roughly 62 mass shootings. Of those 62 mass shootings, 49 were using legal weapons, which suggests that even to this day, many people are still able to access firearms illegally from gun dealers despite the background checks law that the country has implied. To conclude, both stakeholders: the Brady Campaign and the National Association of Gun Rights, have different views on the debate gun control. However, due to the common grounds that they both carry, there is hope for a compromise if both are willing to. Due to this shared interest Wijaya, 4 and their compromise, new policies can be implied such as to develop a new smart gun technology that are only for eligible gun owners as well as introducing a new education program of gun safety in middle schools and high schools. This would definitely reduce the homicide rates, suicide rates as well as mass shootings, which would also decrease death rate due to gun violence in the long run. Wijaya, 5 References: 1. Kocsis, M. (2015). Gun Ownership and Gun Culture in the United States of America. Essays In Philosophy, 16(2), 154. Doi:10.7710/1526-0569.1530 2. Bogus, C. T. (2008). Gun Control and Cities: Public Policy and Politics. Albany Government Law Review, 1(2), 463-465. 3. Price, M., & Norris, D. M. (2010). Firearm Laws: A Primer for Psychiatrists. Harvard Review Of Psychiatry (Taylor & Francis Ltd), 18(6), 326. doi:10.3109/10673229.2010.52750 4. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun About Gun Violence Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. 5. The truth about guns and The Week - All you need to know about everything that matters. N.p., 01 Nov. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. 6. Are 7 Ways America Could Increase Gun Control After Kicker. N.p., 09 Dec. 2015. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.