Erin Belmore Kirstin Gocinski ENC 1102 15 February 2017 One Trash is another Treasure One trash is another treasure, a weird concept to consider when the is referring to something as valuable as a humans embryo. Embryonic stem cells are cells taken from a human embryo, that have the ability to grow into any of the some 200 different types of cells. Two different organizations that have a input on the use of Embryonic cells for stem cell, are the National Institute of Health (NIH) and The Antiochian Orthodox Christian Archdiocese of North America (the Antiochian Archdiocese). However these two organizations have different stances on embryonic stem cells; the NIH supports embryonic stem to all extents, where as the Antiochian Archdioceses deems it murder and immoral. With their very different approaches they still have a single underlying common interest where their values are fueled from; they cherish human life. The two could come together to accept a modified way to use the embryonic stem cells in order to better the life all those around. The two could accept each others values and take a form of compromise. When discussing embryonic stem cells the NIH, National Institute of Health, realizes the opportunity that these cells bring to the science world. They offer access to tissues from the human body that will help support basic research as well as providing a safe-free material that will allow the scientists to test in efforts to improve the safety and efficiency in human drugs and treatments. This will allow them to improve the life of all humans. Medial discoveries and improving healthcare is a goal of the National Institute of Health. The NIH wants to empower the medical world with knowledge in order to keep everyone as healthy as possible. The NIH is a government funded organization that aims to understand how diseases are spread, grow, and ways to avoid them all together. Knowing the fundamental knowledge, they can better understand how they affect humans leading to a treatment that will ensure the safety and health of the patient. One thing that the NIH uses for treatments, developmental studies, or experiments, are embryonic stem cells. Stem cells that are derived from a human embryo created through the process of In Vitro Fertilization. These stem cells are valuable as they can be manipulated into any type of cell from the human body. This manipulation allows the researchers to have all the resources at hand when testing medical treatments. Not only can the embryonic stem cells be used for treatments and experiments, they have been looked at to be designed to help with organ procurement. Organ procurement is when stem cells are used to create parts or whole new organs. This is helpful in that many people waiting for organ transplants end up on a long list with little hope of receiving the transplant in time. In addition to the timeline, many organ transplants do not work or are so strict because they have to be accepted from the host receptor, if the stem cells come from the host or are designed perfectly for that host then there will be no problems with it fitting in the the hosts body. The Antiochian Orthodox Christian Archdiocese of North America is known as the first Christian church and was by the Lord Jesus Christ as described in the pages of the New Orthodox Christian Archdioceses). The church, and the Antiochian Archdiocese in particular, do not promote the use of embryonic stem cells. They do not like it for four main moral include: (1) the moral status of the human embryo; (2) the question of complicity when research relies on the destruction of a developing human life; (3) the moral significance of medically promising alternatives; and (4) the role of law in a pluralistic (Doerflinger 137). The Antiochian Archdiocese sees embryonic stem cell research differently than just scientific research, they view it as killing one human in attempt to save another. One view that the organization has is that, every person should be able to give consent before potentially harmful experiments are done on them. With their view of an embryo, as alive, it should have to give consent to the experiments and testing, however, since it is only and embryo it can not give consent. The church is not saying that stem cells should be eliminated from being used in research or health settings. They would just prefer that they came form some different form and not that of human embryos. Embryonic stem cells are viewed as a form of abortion, which as shown in all the pro-life vs pro-choice debates and arguments, the Catholic Church is in favor of pro-life. They view that all life is precious and taking stem cells from human embryos before the child is born, is killing the child, and with that in mind, the Antiochian Archdioceses says cells kills human embryos. Though the hope is to help people someday, if we harm others in the process, we have done (Hodges 3). One concern that the Antiochian Archdioceses brings up is that there are complications, with embryonic stem cells being hard to manage, and not fully accurate. By this, the Antiochian Archdiocese brings up that sometimes the cells would not develop into the form they are supposed to take allowing science to use them for their tests, resulting in the waste of cells. Not only have they been know to occasionally not develop into the form they are needed but they can sometimes cause tumors or be rejected by the patients bodies resulting in further harm to the patient(Hodges 6). Without full expectation of results and helpfulness for other humans there should be no reason to kill the unborn human embryo to just waste it. Trying to see eye to eye may be difficult for two different organizations that firmly believe that their way is the best way to ensure the health of all humans. Coming from completely different sides of embryonic stem cells and whether or not it is an ethical way to research and innovate the medical world. One may believe that there is no way for the two to ever come to any sort of agreement or compromise. However lying at the root of both sides is a common interest they share. Both the National Institute of Health and the Antiochian Orthodox Christian Archdiocese of North America, are focused on preserving the life of an individual. The NIH is focused on the patient, present and future. They not only want to help anyone with an illness at the current time get better and healthy, they also want to decrease the likely hood of those illnesses returning. Embryonic stem cells are being used for organ procurement, research, and many other things that better the lives of everyone living today and in the future. The Antiochian Archdioceses, is more focused on preserving the life of those not yet born to this world rather than those that are already here and are sick. They view the embryo as a living human from the time of conception and want no harm to come to it. Any harm that is done to the embryo is viewed just as harshly as if it were done to a baby or child. Ultimately the church is just looking out for the life of one whom can not do so for them self at the moment. Both want nothing more than everyone to live a happy healthy life. In order to accomplish the happy, healthy life, both organizations, The NIH and The Antiochian Archdioceses, will have to give up something. This should not be viewed as giving up on what they believe, as much as allowing some change to come in play in order to maintain or strengthen their overall goal. To compromise, the NIH would have to resort to finding a different way to receive stem cells, resulting in less use of embryonic cells. This would make the Antiochian Archdioceses happier as the NIH would not being using human embryos that are living beings with no say in the matter. The Antiochian Archdioceses would still however have to allow a certain amount of Embryonic stem cells to be used. The primary use of the stem cells would now be coming from a different source, however, some types of research and treatments have to use the cells from embryos, therefor those could be the exception and the only time the stem cells could come from an embryo. There would be a greatly decreased number of them however they would still be used. In order to use embryonic stem cells, the process of in vitro fertilization could be more prominent. This way, the cells are still at the embryonic stage giving the full benefits, however they were artificially created there fore never planning on resulting in a child that would have a say and a life. When asking the church whether or not they allow in vitro fertilization or if they feel it to be acceptable, their response is Church also rejects surrogate mothering (women who agree to bear a child for another couple). The reason for this is because of the sexual act that leads to (Shadid 8) This their only thing against in vitro fertilization, has no correlation to stem cells. The cells would never be placed back into a women body and therefore never on their way to being a human life. This could be a possible compromise between the Antiochian Archdioceses and the NIH. The issue of the use of embryonic stem cells has different views and different benefits. The two stake holders that were portrayed to have input on this discussion were the National Institute of Health and the Antiochian Orthodox Christian Archdiocese of North America. The main problem between these two was that they viewed the topic to be morally wrong. The NIH views embryonic stem cells as a group of cells that are able to help further the academic process and research treatment in the medical world. Where as on the other side the Antiochian Archdiocese views the embryo as a human life that should not be harmed. In different ways both organizations are similar, they are both looking out for their fellow man. They want to save lives and promote the well-being of others. This can be accomplished with restrictions as to when and where the stem cells are to come from or used for. NIH may view the embryonic cells before used as stem cells to be nothing more than that, a bunch of cells, or This can then be transformed into some so beautiful that can save the life of ill patient. Where the Antiochian Archdioceses never wanted to throw away the Word Count: 1808 Work Cited: Doerflinger, Richard M. Project MUSE - The Ethics of Funding Embryonic Stem Cell Research: A Catholic  Project MUSE - The Ethics of Funding Embryonic Stem Cell Research: A Catholic Viewpoint. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Feature  Antiochian Orthodox Christian Archdiocese of North America. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Okka, Berrin. Ethical Conflicts in Stem Cell Research and  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 176 (2015): 1071-077. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Rao, Mahendra. National Institutes of Health Center for Regenerative Medicine: Putting Science into  Stem Cells and Development 22.S1 (2013): 4-7. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.