Gregorie 1 Rachel Gregorie Nancy Carr Composition I January 29, 2017 of the LGBT Community My whole life I grew up with two, gay aunts in my family so nothing ever felt out of the ordinary. As I continued to get older I started to notice more people staring at my family when we would walk down the streets and one of my aunts would be holding her girlfriends hand. It make sense to me why people looked so disgusted and confused that they were just holding hands. Around the age of eleven my parents sat me down at told me that it an accepted thing for two women to be together. As an eleven year old I was so confused on why people would be so affected by something that involve them. Over the years started to see more and more acceptance of the LGBT community and the growth and support that they are starting to get, but people always as accepting. name calling and yelling in my face, those the ones that hurt they are obviously born of bigoted hatred but it is the slights that you get from straight friends and family even doctors when your relationships are discounted as not real or as important as said Diane Melesio. I have noticed through my life that vocally more and more people are accepting to the LGBT community and same-sex marriage but actions matching up with words. There is still a ton of hate crimes and pure hatred towards the community. Tauber, M., Westfall, S. S., McNeil, L., & Green, M. (2016). Terror in Orlando: unspeakable horror, unending heartbreak. People, (27). 40. 19 Feb 2017 June 12, 2016 is the night that shocked the world. In Downtown Orlando at a very popular gay nightclub 50+ people lost their lives. The shooter Omar Mateen walked into the club with machine guns and decided to kill a lot of innocent people. After looking into Mateen investigators realized that he was a very troubled man who had been on the radar before for possibly being in connection with ISIS. Gregorie 2 This article has a lot of relevance to this topic because even though marriage equality was legalized, there are still extreme amounts of hate towards the LGBT community and it shows that there is still hostility to the community. It also shows that after the tragic event more and more people have put aside their dislike or disgust towards the LGBT community and came together to realize that they are no different then any straight person and they did not deserve to lose their lives just for expressing who they are and trying to just have a good night out on the town. Young, K. K., & Nathanson, P. (2007). Redefining marriage or deconstructing society: A Canadian case study. Journal Of Family Studies, 13(2), 133-178. 17 Feb 2017 is an institution designed to foster the love between two people; gay people can love each other just as straight people can; ergo, marriage should include gay This journal was a study done in Canada discussing the refinement of marriage and the legalization of same-sex marriage in the country. 2004, the justices ruled that the federal government alone may define marriage but also that it may not compel any religious official to perform same-sex weddings. In 2005, the House of Commons passed Bill C-38, which redefined marriage and thus legalized same-sex This journal is relevant to my paper because it is discussing the legal issues and adjustments made. Also, the effects that legalization of same-sex marriages has had on the United States and many other countries. This journal is a good document to discuss the legal issues but does not fully justify the point of the actual treatment of the LGBT community. Liebelson, Dana. Supreme Court Legalizes Gay Marriage  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 26 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Supreme Court nationally legalized gay marriage on June 26, 2015. The vote on equal marriage rights was voted 5-4 by the Supreme Court. President Obama was the first president to public support marriage equality and when the law got passed to Obama said it was victory for Gregorie 3 Massachusetts was the first state to pass the law for marriage equality, after that the country started to look more into the 996 Defense of Marriage Act, that prohibited same sex marriage. The Huffington post is a very well respected online and paper newspaper that millions of people read daily. It is very creditable newspaper that only post the top, accurate news stories that are affecting our nation. This article is very relevant to this topic because it is showing the legal rights on marriage equality and the LGBT big win on getting this law passed. Tesch, B., Bekerian, D., English, P., & Harrington, E. (2010). Same-sex domestic violence: why victims are more at risk. International Journal Of Police Science & Management, 12(4), 526. doi:10.1350/ijps.2010.12.4.204 16 Feb 2017 As a police officer when they come across a domestic abuse case they can most of the time point out the abuser and the abused. In most scenarios it is the women getting abused by the male in the relationship but with the legalization of same-sex marriage a lot more people have felt like they can come out and date the same sex. Officers are coming across more and more domestic abuse calls from relationships of the same sex couples and they are not sure how to handle the situation. A study was preformed and 91 police officers were interviewed and asked questions about same-sex domestic violence. 26 officers (29.5 per cent) reported that they received training specific to same-sex domestic violence. The majority of the officers (61 or 70.5 per cent) reported that no classes or lectures were The lack of knowledge of how to transact with the LGBT community is an issue, which can lead to more and more misconduct from people who really understand that same-sex marriage and the freedom to love anyone you want. This journal is relevant to my paper because it shows that even police officers might not know the proper way to deal with issues in the LGBT community. Williams, J. R. (2015). I LIKE GAYS,  USE OF THE GAY  MURDER DEFENSE IN MODERN AMERICAN COURTROOMS: THE ULTIMATE MISCARRIAGE OF JUSTICE. Albany Law Review, 78(3), 1129-1169. Gregorie 4 to data collected under the Hate Crime Statistics Act of 1990, gay people report the greatest number of hate crimes, per capita, as compared with all other groups This article talks about the amount of hate crimes that are occurring and the defenses people are using to justify their actions. This note turns a critical eye on the availability of the defense in modern American courtrooms defense used to mitigate or excuse the killing of another person based on that actual or perceived sexual orientation or sexual identity. This article is important to my paper because it shows a prime example of the hate crimes that are occurring and the pain that they are going through everyday. Also gives an example of a hate crime that occurred giving it the ability for people to connect on a deeper level. This article is reliable because it is backed up with sources that are from Albany law school. Bartle, E. e. (2000). Lesbians and Hate Crimes. Journal Of Poverty, 4(4), 23. of the ten hate crimes discussed in the personal stories occurred in private living spaces. Two of the personal stories described hate crimes that were committed by family members and occurred in the This article talks about the violence victims go through and that violent acts can occur even from people that are close to you. According to this paper more violence occurs towards males because of how uncommon it was in the past. This is relevant because it shows that no matter how many people can say they support the LGBT community it is still not accepted by all and people are becoming victims everyday because of the previous notions that same-sex marriage allowed and against religions. Lesbians and Hate Crimes is from a well-known article that is widely recognized for the position taken on the LGBT community.