1 Ryan Denis Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 1/29/17 Taxed Marijuana Over the years marijuana has been criminalized and been looked down upon. Within last few decades the marijuana laws have been regressing on terms of not be so aggressive towards users. With the recent legalizations in some States studies have shown some improvements in the local economies. There are some people who will say that the legalizations in the states have not had improvements but then it will lead to the question should the United States allow for the legalization of recreational marijuana in all States to help accumulate greater tax revenue? Sullum, Jacob. Americans Love Pot  Reason Foundation, vol. 47, no. 9, 2016, pp. 42+. The information found in this article informed the reader about the economic growth in the marijuana business for the states that have legalized. It talked about the way that marijuana has had an effect in Colorado, California, and Seattle. The article informs that even with higher number of revenue than what the States had projected there is still a very small increase to the state spending. if we throw in revenue from the 2.9 percent standard state sales tax and the fees the marijuana related businesses pay to regulators at the Colorado Department of Revenue, we are still talking about substantially less than 1 percent of state 2 Sullum is a graduate from Cornell University, is a senior editor at Reason magazine and is the author of two critically acclaimed books. He was at the International Conference on Drug Policy Reform and the Conference on Computers, Freedom, and Privacy where he was a guest speaker. His books have to do with the use of drugs and the awards they won were praised by many. Vaida, Jeremy M. The altered state of American drug  American Bar Association, vol. 68, no. 4, 2015, pp. 761+. This article breaks down the very specifics of the legal marijuana business in many different States. It goes in depth about how the money is accumulated and where it gets spent. It also compares the different economical stand points of each state to each other. The article also points out that even with legal marijuana business there is still a black market for the drug to be illegally sold. The illegal black market trade that goes on in the States hurts the economy for the taxing of marijuana. By showing the break downs of the different economies, it helps to track the legal marijuana business in that state. Jeremy Vaida a lawyer who knows his way in tax and business law and how it relates to the comings of medical marijuana. Vaida was a Deputy Attorney General for the State of New Tax, Bankruptcy and Debt Recovery Section. Jeremy has had to go to court many times in all manners of state taxes. He enjoys taking complex tax matters and managing them into more relatable ideas for all his clients to understand. Mossman, Matt. Legal marijuana taxation could lead to state revenue  Institutional Investor, vol. 48, no. 2, Feb. 2014, pp. 178+. 3 This article talks about the early years of when Colorado and Washington were just starting out with legal marijuana. It mentions on how difficult it was for each state to find its margins to allow for taxing on the products. They had to find the perfect balance so that people were not turned off and drawn back to the black market and that the government was still able to collect the state revenue. There was a very high demand that these States could not keep up with at the time. But after the first few months with the legalization the suppliers were able to balance how much they supplied for the needed demand. This then allowed for Colorado and Washington to set their taxes accordingly and it started to expand their tax revenue. Matt Mossman is an investigative reporter who resides in Washington D.C. He has developed many contacts in government, international origination, commerce and civil society to report important stories. Matt has many published works with The New Yorker, Foreign Affairs and Businessweek. Duncan, Cynthia S. the need for change: an economic analysis of marijuana  Connecticut law review, vol. 41, 7 Jan. 2009, pp. 1701+ This article informs the reader about the early problems that marijuana faced. It talks about the benefits that legalizing marijuana would have on the environment. It would help cut back on the black market trade. Also of all sanctions represents an immediate savings of the billions of budgetary dollars and millions of man-hours expended every year enforcing If the government approved the removal of its prohibition of marijuana then it could allow for greater tax revenue. If the government changed the laws it would then remove the criminal sanctions on the industry and allow for legal taxation, marijuana would generate billions of dollars in tax 4 Cynthia Duncan is a graduate of The University of Connecticut School of Law. She was a research assistant and a certified legal intern. As a freelance editor she does editing and researching for the information in her work so she must make sure it is all actuate.