Liliana Alvarez Black Nancy Carr ENC 1101 02/19/2017 Promotion of Positive Body Image People who own the means of communication are often unaware of the power they have on society, usually making negative influences rather than positive ones. Over the last few years, media has influenced concept of beauty standards. Body image perceptions are complex, and media tends to influence on body dissatisfactions which can lead to eating disorders, depression, low self-esteem and many other complications. The internalization of ideals and body size stereotypes begin when people are young, and media has become a source of influence in these perceptions for many years. In the the ideal body image promoted by media was unrealistic for average women, emphasizing on thin bodies with large breasts. It has been assumed that it is the responsibility of every individual to learn how to resist unhealthy images. Instead, the media, fashion and advertising industries should have the responsibility to promote positive body images through magazines, newspapers, advertisements and social media. Some investigations have proven that the exposure to average-size female models was associated with lower levels of body-focused anxiety among women compared to exposure to advertisements with thin models. Researchers have shown that advertisings appeal equally with thin and average-size models. I argue that it is important for media to promote positive body images by including diverse shapes and sizes of women. Research Question: Why should media promote positive body images? Anschutz, D. J., Engels, R. C., & Van Strien, T. (2012). Increased body satisfaction after exposure to thin ideal television in young girls showing thin ideal internalisation. Psychology & Health, 27(5), 603-617. doi:10.1080/08870446.2011.613470 Lately, the use of media has increased to more than 7 hours a day, with television being the most predominant of all. The content on television programs and advertisements may influence young behavior and thoughts, especially on girls. Body dissatisfaction can happen at a very young age, for instance, cartoons provide children the association of goodness with beauty and evil with ugliness. Therefore, the authors assume that TV series can influence on beauty standards at a very young age. Anschutz et. Al, aimed to investigate the effects on young girls of exposure to media containing thin characters compared to a television show with average-size actors. The sample consisted of 51 girls from 6 to 8 years old, where most of them had a normal weight. The girls observed three different clips, one cartoon for the thin ideal condition, the second one was a neutral cartoon and the last one a neutral television show with actors. The results showed that there was no significant difference between the effect that these different clips had on the girls. The girls who internalized thin ideas felt better about their bodies after the exposure to a thin ideal cartoon characters than after exposure to other characters with no thin ideal features. The results as expected and implied that not all girls respond the same way to thin ideal images. Girls inspired by thin characters may end up with body dissatisfaction and eating disorders. This article was published in a peer reviewed journal called Psychology and Health, in which Taylor and Francis make the effort of ensuring the credibility of each article published. Diedrichs, P. C., & Lee, C. (2011). Waif goodbye! Average-size female models promote positive body image and appeal to consumers. Psychology & Health, 26(10), 1273-1291. doi:10.1080/08870446.2010.515308 Media images of thin fashion models are often associated with poor body images and eating disorders. Many researchers have stated that increasing the body diversity on the media is a way to change that; however, few have done it. Diedrichs and Lee tried something different by exploring the advertising effectiveness of average-size female fashion models compared to regular models, and its impact on the body image of men and women. The research suggests that using average-size models may present an effective way to promote positive body image. As well as, when determining a consumer appeal and the effectiveness of the advertisement, the model size may not be important. The primary objective of Diedrichs and research was to compare the use of thin and average-size professional fashion models, or no models, in advertisements for clothing and beauty products and research its advertising appeal and their effect on body image. The authors used 291 women and 120 men with ages between 17-25 years old for their study. Finally, it was concluded that the sample reacted positively to advertisements featuring average-size models as well as thin models and no models. Moreover, average-size models were associated with a more positive body image, suggesting that it can provide a positive relief for some. This article was published in a peer reviewed journal called Psychology and Health, in which Taylor and Francis make the effort of ensuring the credibility of each article published. Frederick, D. A., Sandhu, G., Scott, T., & Akbari, Y. (2016). Reducing the negative effects of media exposure on body image: Testing the effectiveness of subvertising and disclaimer labels. Body Image, 17171-174. doi:10.1016/j.bodyim.2016.03.009 Exposure to thin models can cause increases in body dissatisfaction. For that reason, many body image activists have suggested adding disclaimers to digitally altered media in order to promote positive body image, using for instance image has been As well as, to alter advertisements through subvertising, which means to add a commentary to the advertising to undermine the message of the it. However, these disclaimers might bring more attention to the appearances, which could lead to comparisons. Frederick et. Al aimed to examine whether adding disclaimer labels or subvertising messages to thin-ideal media improves body images and discourages women from comparing themselves to these media images. For the study, 2088 women met the criteria for the survey, their ages ranged from 18 to 65 years old. The women had to assess how often they had certain thoughts about thinness, how they currently felt about their bodies and how often they compared their bodies to others. The study concluded that the disclaimers and subvertising have a significant effectiveness in the women who were studied. This was the first study that measured how disclaimers and subvertising affected women, but it is extremely important to find approaches to decrease the negative effects of media on body image. An international, peer reviewed journal titled Body Image published this scientific article. Harrison, K. (2009). The Multidimensional Media Influence Scale: Confirmatory factor structure and relationship with body dissatisfaction among African American and Anglo American children. Body Image, 6207-215. doi:10.1016/j.bodyim.2009.04.001 Harrison proposes that people believe media influences their lives. However, most of the time it does have an impact in society, for example, people have increased body dissatisfaction because of it. The purpose for writing the article was to test the Multidimensional Media Influence Scale (MMIS) which is a tool that measures the media-specific sociocultural influence and its relationship with body dissatisfaction in children. It measures the impact with the following terms: internalization, awareness, pressures, comparison and importance; using questions like look better on people who are movies makes me want to or try to look like the actors or actresses in On the other hand, it evaluates body dissatisfaction asking the children to circle the picture shows how YOU shows how you WANT to or shows how you hope to look when you GROW In 2001, Cusumano and Thompson developed and validated the MMIS. Harrison utilized the MMIS in 2008 in order to measure the influence of media on children from 7 to 12-year-olds. It was applied in eight elementary schools using a sample of 685 children, doing one testing and then doing one after another within one year, to determine if there was any difference. The results change significantly over a year and it was concluded that 512 participants of the survey satisfied with their bodies due to impact. This is a topic to worry about because influence on body dissatisfaction may turn into unhealthful weight control behaviors among children, and even among adults as well. Lynch, M. (2011). Blogging for beauty? A critical analysis of Operation Beautiful. Studies International Forum, (6), 582. Lynch summarizes that media messages can have a negative impact on body images, creating most of the times body dissatisfaction. Some start eating healthier and exercising, but others develop eating disorders, depression and other mental health issues. Taking this into consideration, many researchers are promoting positive media messages that popularize the acceptance of a variety of feminine physical beauty possibilities. The study analyzed a beauty counter-discourse movement called the Operation Beautiful (OB), its primary objective is to improve self-esteem and body images. This blog differs from any other beauty counter- discourses because the author, Caitlin Boyle, updates it daily with stories and photos on how it changes lives. Lynch analyzed the post related to body image, gender and self-esteem for an entire month of 2010. solution for boosting up confidence is by repeating positive body thoughts to themselves and in this way, they will be able to ignore socio-cultural causes for their problem, the Fat Talk and the Guilt. The good thing about OP is that it is a blog not attached to any corporation and its able to reach a wide audience. The author concluded that Operation Beautiful is well intentioned, providing women how they could act, think and eat so that they feel better. This article was published in a bimonthly journal titled Studies International Forum, in which feminist research is published. Perloff, R. r. (2014). Social Media Effects on Young Body Image Concerns: Theoretical Perspectives and an Agenda for Research. Sex Roles, 71 (11-12), 363-377 The media plays a significant role in imparting unrealistic images of female beauty, which can lead to body dissatisfaction, disordered eating, low self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of thinness ideal, and centrality of appearance to self-worth. These are all complex social, emotional and personality processes. The purpose of paper was to present media influences on body image perceptions, especially on adolescent girls and young adult women. Perloff emphasizes that social media, different from regular media, has a bigger impact on body image concerns because of social availability for viewing from any place at any time on cell phones. As well as many websites that incite women into anorexia, bulimia or any other eating disorder related to image concern. In these websites, people promote identification and perceive eating disorder as realistic. Susceptible women commonly turn to social media for reassurance and validation in order to feel good again, however they end up making comparisons and feeling unhappy all over again with pro-eating disorder websites easily accessible. On the other hand, many people have worried to make social media helpful to young people to adopt healthier images but without having body dissatisfactions by doing online interventions and social media campaigns through Twitter, Facebook and other websites, these campaigns may be more helpful if done by someone who has suffered from eating disorders before. Young people spend most of their time using social media, where they can reach images of a creating body image concerns so people have to be conscious about it. This article was published by a peer reviewed scientific journal called Sex Roles published by Springer.