Emma German Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 30 January 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide in America: Death By Choice Certain forms of cancer, along with a whole list of other painful terminal illnesses and diseases, makes living a harder task each day. Many patients with these terminal illnesses suffer by undergoing harsh and expensive treatments as an attempt to buy more time to live. However, some may ask, is the point of living if not really In the United States, with the exception of a few states, physician-assisted suicide is illegal, and as some may argue that it should be because it is unethical, others argue that it because it is important to consider the feelings of the suffering patients. One organization that takes this into account is Death with Dignity. This organization believes that qualified terminally ill people should be allowed to have the choice to end their suffering. On the contrary, True Dignity, a disability rights activist group, believes that euthanasia be legal. As different as the views of these two organizations are, Death with Dignity and True Dignity are both rooted from good intentions; both parties want what is best for suffering patients. This common ground is what will allow these two organizations to come together and come up with a compromise that not only satisfies both sides, but will also work towards a goal that will benefit those suffering from terminal illnesses. One of the organizations that have widespread influence over the debate of physician-assisted suicide is Death With Dignity. They are an organization established in 1993, that actively fights for the legalization of physician-assisted death for qualified terminally ill adults, and emphasizes the importance of having the freedom to make end- of-life decisions for oneself. In fact, their mission statement is to information, education, research and support for the preservation, implementation and promotion of the Oregon Death with Dignity law as a stimulus to nationwide improvements in end-of- life care and as a final option for dying (Death With Dignity). One supporter of the ideas of legalizing physician-assisted death is Dr. Cohen-Almagor, a PhD who received his degree from Oxford University and is the author of many books mainly focused on physician-assisted death and euthanasia. stated that suicide can be the solution especially for suffering cancer patients, at the last stage of their lives. It is humane to cater to these people, enabling them to die in their own bed, in the company of their loved He also believes that certain guidelines should be set (Cohen-Almagor 431-441). In fact, as of now, Death With Dignity only supports physician-assisted death if one meets the qualifications, so it is important to keep in mind that they have boundaries, and support any psychiatric illnesses. In theory, to be qualified for physician-assisted death, one must be at least 18 years of age, mentally competent, and one must be diagnosed with a terminal illness that is believed to end life within six months (Death With Dignity). Even with the qualifications that Death With Dignity is implementing, there are other organizations who feel that physician-assisted death should be illegal all around. One of these organizations is True Dignity, an independent grassroots organization that believes that is never death with dignity, and assisted suicide legislation threatens true patient choices at the end of This organization was established in 2010 in Vermont, but has since then been sharing and fighting for their ideas and values across the United States and other nations. It is important to understand that as much as they are against physician-assisted death, they do believe in patients having freedom over their treatments. In other words, they understand that not everyone will want to undergo expensive and painful treatments, therefore supporting the choice to not undergo treatment. They simply believe that death should not be encouraged and aided by a physician (True Dignity). In a journal article written by two well-accomplished authors, they stated something similar, saying that suicide contradicts the professional role and undermines the distinctive solidarity with those whose health is diminished that makes the practice of medicine (Yang and Farr 248). It is beyond a reasonable doubt that these two organizations, Death With Dignity and True Dignity, have opposing views on physician-assisted death. However, one thing that these two parties have in common is their desire to provide peaceful options for those suffering from terminal illnesses. The fact that Death With Dignity has boundaries as to who can and cannot follow through with a physician-assisted death, allows for a closer tie to the ideas of True Dignity. In addition, the fact that True Dignity believes that patients should have the choice not to go through with treatments puts them a step closer to a compromise with Death With Dignity. Either way, it is easy to see that both parties want what is morally in a best interests. With this common ground of respecting patients and wanting what is best for them, it allows the ability to reach a compromise between their two ideas. Even when two stakeholders, such as Death With Dignity and True Dignity have as opposing views as they do, there is still a possibility to reach a compromise, whether it satisfies both parties, or neither. In fact, it has been done before. On February 12, 2016, the French parliament adopted a legislation that provided a new peaceful decision for terminally ill patients, without killing them. Depending on the illness and the seriousness of the illness, people in France now have the choice to be put in a sedate state before their closely timed death. This bill allows physicians to not only sedate them, but to almost fully take them off of life-sustaining treatments, such as artificial hydration and nutrition (Aubry 719-724). Death With Dignity and True Dignity should evaluate the situation in France, and use their idea to create a similar one. True Dignity believes that the shortening of life by a physician is unethical, so while using the sedation method by putting patients in a deep conscious-altering state, they should still be fully supported by life-support until it stops working. It is a reasonable compromise that allows people suffering from terminal illnesses to end their life peacefully, without using methods that speed up the process of dying. Although Death With Dignity would prefer a bigger change, this would put them one-step forward towards their ultimate goal, while satisfying the values of True Dignity. The funding for these methods would come from patients and supporters of the patient wanting to go through the sedation process. Instead of using their money to provide hospice care and expensive treatments that are often painful, just for a few more weeks to years of life, the money would go towards the sedation process, and could quite possibly be a cheaper option regardless. Even through many years of discussion, physician-assisted suicide and the ethics behind it have been a constant back-and-forth between sides. Organizations such as Death With Dignity believes that a suffering patient should be allowed to have a say over their life (or in this case, death), while organizations such as True Dignity believe that a physician should never obtain the right to assist a patient to end their life because it goes against their entire purpose as physicians. Even with differing views such as these two organizations, they both share one main goal, and that is to actively fight for what they believe is the best option for terminally ill suffering patients. With a compromise of using sedation as a method while still being aided by life-support, both sides would be satisfied, which can only mean that it allows them to take a big leap toward their main goal to help those suffering from terminal illnesses, which benefits the medical community as well as the lives of many sufferers. Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, 2002. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Aubry, R. General Review: End-Of-Life, Euthanasia, And Assisted Suicide: An Update On The Situation In  Revue Neurologique 172.(2016): 719-724. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Citizens Against Assisted  True Dignity. True Dignity, Jan. 2011. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cohen-Almagor, R. Dossier To Live And An Argument For Physician- Assisted Suicide And Against  Ethics, Medicine And Public Health 1.(2015): 431-441. ScienceDirect. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Yang, Y. Tony, and Farr A. Curlin. Why Physicians Should Oppose Assisted  JAMA: Journal Of The American Medical Association 315.3 (2016): 247-248. PsycINFO. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.