Fernandez 1 Nicolo Fernandez Professor Uddin English Comp 1101 13 February 2017 Intermediate Draft The legalization of medical marijuana has been a very hot topic of discussion for the last several years. The United States as a whole as come very far in legalizing it. In 1996, California passed the first law to legalize it medically. In 2012, Colorado and Washington legalized marijuana as a recreational drug. As of January of 2017, there are 28 states that have legalized medical marijuana. Marijuana is the preparation of a cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug or medicine. It is not unknown that there are many people in this world who smoke marijuana recreationally rather than for medical reasons. This leads to the argument between two definitive sides. There is one side, where people believe that legalizing medical marijuana would hurt our country rather than help it. They believe that marijuana use causes people to be lazy. They also believe that it is a gateway drug to more hard/synthetic drugs. While the other side sees and argues for the benefits from it, both medically and economically. This introduces the question: Should medical marijuana be legalized in the United States? Fernandez 2 Cited Sources 1. Wang, Julie B., et al. Full Length Article: Medical Marijuana Legalization And Cigarette And Marijuana Co-Use In Adolescents And  And Alcohol Dependence 166.(2016): 32-38. . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. In this article, Data were analyzed from the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. They compared cigarette and marijuana co-use over a 30 day period from people of age of twelve to sixty four by a statewide medical marijuana legalization. Logistic regression models were used to estimate the odds of having nicotine dependence among current cigarette smokers who also reported past 30-day marijuana use and but not marijuana use (vs. use) adjusting for covariates including statewide legalization of medical marijuana. They found that when medical marijuana is legal, the co-use of cigarettes is higher as opposed to a state where medical marijuana is not. This is a good article because it is peer-reviewed so it is reliable. It also is good because it shows the negative effects of the legalization of medical marijuana. Fernandez 3 2. Jonathan M., et al. Research Article: Public Health Effects Of Medical Marijuana Legalization In  Journal Of Preventive Medicine 50.(2016): 373-379. . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. In this article, it talks about a study that was conducted in hopes of finding the Public Health Effects of Medical marijuana Legalization in Colorado. observational, ecologic study used an interrupted time-series analysis to identify changes in public health indicators potentially related to broad policy changes that occurred in 2009. This was records-based research from the state of Colorado and Denver metropolitan area. Data were collected to examine frequency and trends of marijuana-related outcomes in hospital discharges and poison center calls between time periods before and after 2009 and adjusted for population. Analysis were conducted in 2014. The results they found were that hospital discharges decreased by one percent. However poison center calls increased as well as poison center calls regarding marijuana. This article is a credible because it was a government conducted study. It is a good article because it not only shows the benefits of the legalization of medical marijuana but also the cons of it. It shows both sides of the argument. Fernandez 4 3. Seamon, Matthew J., et al. Medical Marijuana And The Developing Role Of The  Journal Of Health-System Pharmacy 64.10 (2007): 1037-1044. Search Premier . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article explains what medical marijuana is used for. In 2007, 11 states and several municipalities have legalized medical marijuana. Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance and its use is illegal under federal law. Marijuana has a number of purported therapeutic uses with a broad range of supporting evidence. There are five general indications for medical marijuana: (1) severe nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy or other causes, (2) weight loss associated with debilitating illnesses, including HIV infection and cancer, (3) spasticity secondary to neurologic diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, (4) pain syndromes, and (5) other uses, such as for glaucoma. They found that several states have legalized the use of marijuana for chronic and debilitating medication conditions. This is a good article because it discusses the different treatments Marijuana is used for. It comes from the American Journal of Health and System Pharmacy so it is reliable. It is also a good article because it talks about the benefits of marijuana and how it can be used to treat people. Fernandez 5 4. Medical Marijuana: Good  37.4 (2007): 28-29. Search Premier . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The article discusses the study on reduction of pain from peripheral neuropathy related to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through marijuana-smoking. The study involved 25 patients who were made to smoke marijuana and another 25 smoked placebo cigarettes without cannabis. It was found that those who smoked marijuana have pain reduction of about 34%, while only about 17% in the placebo group. This is a good article because it explains how medical marijuana benefited those who have HIV. This is a good example of how the legalization of medical marijuana can be good for the United States. 5. Ashfield, Tracey. Cannabis Use In Multiple  Health Care 15.6 (2005): 25-29. Search Premier . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the ethical and legal considerations for nurses caring for patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who use cannabis for symptom relief in Great Britain. Skepticism among health professionals regarding the efficacy of cannabis despite its medicinal use for centuries; Indications showing some MS patients who use cannabis experiencing relief from their pain and spasticity; Contentions among health professionals regarding the use cannabis due to its classification as an illegal drug in the country. Fernandez 6 This is a good article because it shows medical marijuana can also be used for patients who suffer from multiple sclerosis. It helped them with relief from pain and spasticity. This article shows the benefits of legalizing medical marijuana. 6. Li, Mu-Chen, et al. Marijuana Use And Motor Vehicle  Reviews 34.1 (2012): 65. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article was published in 2012. 16 states at that time and the District of Columbia in the United States enacted the legislation to decriminalize marijuana for medical use. It talks about how marijuana is nonalcoholic but it does play a factor is higher risk of car accidents. To assess the association between marijuana use and crash risk, the authors performed a meta-analysis of 9 epidemiologic studies published in English in the past 2 decades of 2012. The results of this meta-analysis suggest that marijuana use by drivers is associated with a significantly increased risk of being involved in motor vehicle crashes. This is a good article because it discusses how marijuana usage can increase the risk of car accidents. Which leads to questioning whether the legalization of medical marijuana is a good thing. It is known that in states with the legalization of medical marijuana, there is a higher usage recreationally. This is also good a good article because it shows the cons of legalizing the drug. It is also a peer reviewed article.