Smith 1 Taylor Smith Ms. Gocinski ENC 1102 30 January, 2017 A Barbie Girl In Walt Disney World Did you know 90 percent of girls- ages 15 to 17 want to change one aspect of their self appearance, with body weight being the number one factor? (Statistics on Body Image). In society, it is nearly impossible to find a show that does not have majority of the characters exceedingly thin or one obese character to act as the jokester. This aspect of media has been under recent criticism and Barbie and Disney are two of the main contenders. As princess movies and dolls are exceptionally popular amongst young girls, it is indirectly harming their self esteem; therefore an action needs to be taken. Disney and Barbie should partner up because both companies attract children; Disney and Barbie should produce a more attainable body sized princess and then manufacture a barbie doll that replicates the new princess for youth to take home. Walt Disney Company is known for its development of tv shows, amusement parks, and merchandise that has received global attention. Disney has recently been under fire for encouraging eating disorders and exceedingly skinny princesses. Majority of girls have a favorite princess they admire and aspire to be someday, but the distortions between the bust, wasit, and hip ratio is unachievable. mission statement claims to have the most products in the (About the Walt Disney Company) but with the unrelatable Smith 2 princesses and hired actresses, the company is falsifying the statement at hand. They claim their media and products are relatable to the typical consumer, but the average consumer is not relatable to the princesses or actresses hired by Disney. A study conducted by Margaret McGladrey, noticed that girls between the ages of nine to eleven who watched Disney shows and movies recognized as being defined as, would wear lots of makeup and buy really pretty and popular (McGladrey 8). Walt strong presence in global media impacts millions of people on a daily basis, so when the It episode that jokes at eating disorders was released, many people were taken back. The episode has since been removed from the air but can be found online. A moderately thin actress says, could eat you guys up. That is, if I and then begins to laugh. The episode was under fire for quite sometime, but Disney has since released an apology. Disney has a past of partnering up with other brands and companies to help increase profit and consumer demand (Cloe & Kite). Barbie, one of the most known dolls worldwide, has been testing out new style of dolls for decades. Majority of young girls own at least one Barbie by the age of four and fall in love with them. inventor, Ruth Handler, aspires to allow little girl needed a doll through which to project herself into her dream of her  (Handler, Ruth). Through the ever-changing style of the doll, Barbie has been able to accompany the dreams of many young girls- including becoming a president and recently becoming available in a variety of sizes. In the past Barbie has been ridiculed for having an unattainable body shape, implementing body standards on young girls through the shape they presented the Barbie doll. A study was performed by multiple departments- including Department of Psychology, Department of Smith 3 Nutritional Sciences, and Department of Food Science, that studies girls between the ages of six and eight. The researchers were watching the girls self esteem levels after playing with an original Barbie doll and playing with a Tracy doll (Tracy dolls were manufactured to look more realistic and are larger in size). The study found that girls who play with thin dolls experience a desire for thinner body shapes while girls who played with full-figured dolls selected ideal body shapes more closely aligned with their actual (Jellinek, Myers, Keller 8). There have been other studies that provide nearly the same results, which encouraged Barbie to come out with more attainable body standards on their dolls. Time released information stating, care about body image regardless of geographic location, age, race or socio-economic once more, emphasizes Barbies need to release dolls that encourage all sorts of body images (Dockerman). Moms and young girls, alike, are both focused solely on the same issue, something must be wrong and be corrected. After releasing the new style of dolls, including the curvy, tall, and petite, young girls are expected to treat these Barbies as they did the Tracy dolls- encouraging all body sizes and being able to relate to the new toy. Barbie and Disney both are noted for directly targeting a younger audience, and while their practices of doing so are utterly different, both brands are successful in different aspects of economics nationally and globally. Both companies have branded children in a drastic way, as when referring to any plastic doll, most children when just call it instead of saying plastic and Disney has done the same as when children think of princesses, they are more likely to envision Ariel or Cinderella, opposed to Kate Middleton. Disney uses mission of The Walt Disney Company is to be one of the leading producers and Smith 4 providers of entertainment and information. Using our portfolio of brands to differentiate our content, services and consumer products, we seek to develop the most creative, innovative and profitable entertainment experiences and related products in the as their mission, allowing for their profits to be attained through a variety of ways- including the Walt Disney World theme parks, televised shows and movies, and an endless supply of highly demanded products (About) . Barbie also produces shows, movies, and products; which allows for the two brands to easily come together, as they have common experiences with encouraging consumers to fall in love with their brand. When Ruth Handler developed the Barbie brand she made her goal to allow little girl needed a doll to through projet and when envisioning the first Barbie, she was originally just to present that young girls had choices when they grew up (Handler, Ruth). Barbie and Disney have both been a brand many children admire, although for different reasons, both are kings in an economic standpoint. Disney and Barbie, both with common consumer platforms, have worked together in the past to brand new and old consumers. Both companies should partner up once more to create a more body positive princess, and Barbie could replicate the princess so girls could bring home their new favorite princess with them. Barbie sparked their own princess line a decade ago, which boosted sales two percent, so by incorporating a Disney style princess, it could be expected that sales would increase even further. Both brands would advertise the movie and products together to ensure all consumers were aware of both the new princess movie and the doll. Disney would need to begin putting an end to unrealistically thin princesses to encourage this new campaign; while Barbie would need to put a holt to other dolls in the works, to begin sketchy ideas for the new doll and the multiple clothing options that would be sold Smith 5 separately. has always promoted Barbie as new, young, and up-to just as Barbie is always altering her look, Walt Disney has done the same with their princesses and brand (Orr 4). As both brands adjust to keep themselves up-to- date, they would be able to easily come together and agree on how the princess should look. Disney and Barbie both have the budget to create a new princess and replica doll, therefore; both brands would finance their own project. However three percent of all movie tickets and merchandise purchases would be donated to Girls on the Run, to help educate young girls on body positivity and a healthy lifestyle. Disney has donate movie ticket funds to the rainforest and animal campaigns in the past and Mattel has donated dolls and other toys to hospitals, children in poverty, and homeless children; therefore donating movie tickets and doll sales to an organization would not be anything new for the two companies, as they both care for the community and environment. This process should be just short of three years in order to develop a story line, design the princess, and mass produce the new Barbie. Disney princess and Pixar movies are, on average, released within two years, but considering the need for the doll and specific amount of donation funds to be donated, a little more than two years might be crucial to ensure Barbie and Disney are able to successful in their new endeavor. Disney and Barbie are exponentially growing and adjusting to stay fresh in society. If both companies were to partner up to create a more relatable princess movie, a new style Barbie doll would come about in- order to express love and body positivity. A percentage from both, the doll and the movie, would be donated in order to promote and educate young girls on correct and affirmative body standards. This movement would benefit young girls and society Smith 6 as a whole as it is breaking down misconceptions and allowing girls to finally feel at ease with their own appearance. Smith 7 Works Cited - Leadership, Management Team, Global, History, Awards, Corporate Walt Disney Company. <thewaltdisneycompany.com/about/>.27 Jan. 2017 Cloe, Adam. Average American Weight and  LIVESTRONG.COM. Leaf Group, 27 Oct. 2015. 27 Jan. 2017. Dockterman, Elinana. What I Learned Watching Moms and Kids Meet Curvy  Time. Time, 28 Jan. 25 Jan. 2017.  of World . Encyclopedia. handler> 28 Jan. 2017. Smith 8 Kite, Lindsey. Weight, Size and Media Lies: The Numbers Add  BEAUTY REDEFINED. 02 July 2013.<http://www.beautyredefined.net/weight-size-media-lies/>. 29 Jan. 2017. McGladrey, Maragret L. Journal of Children and  Becoming Tween Bodies: What Preadolescent Girls in the US Say About Beauty, The Just-Right  and the Disney : Journal of Children and Media: Vol 8, No 4. Journal of Children and Media, 12 June 2013. 25 Jan. 2017. Jellinek, Rebecca D., Taryn A. Myers, and Kathleen L. Keller. The Impact of Doll Style of Dress and Familiarity on Body Dissatisfaction in 6- to 8-year-old  Body Image Vol. 18. Science Direct, Sept. 2016. 24 Jan. 2017. Orr, Lisa. Difference That Is Actually Sameness : Barbie Joins the Princess  Project Muse. Young People in Texts and Cultures, July 2009. 25 Jan. 2017. Statistics on Body Image, Self Esteem & Parental Influence Heart of  Heart of Leadership. 28 Jan. 2017.