Jacqueline Langley Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition I February 1, 2017 With almost 100,000 public schooling systems across the United States, it is hard to know whether or not each school follows each and every law under education that the government has written. One particular important law in decade is Title IX. This states that there is to be equal funding for male and female for all sports, extracurricular activities, and programs in publically funded schools. Whether it is the football team or the tennis team it should all be treated as one. Along with that, it helps prevent sexual violence. If there is a boy or girl who feels scared or harassed by someone else in the school, the government must provide ways to help make the victim feel safe. The school itself cannot try to mediate the issue. They must provide a new living arrangement and do whatever it takes for everyone to feel safe. In 1972, Richard Nixon signed this under the Education Amendments. Universities, high schools, middle schools, elementary schools, and any other programs governmentally funded fall under this act. In this decade this law is still widely profound. This main purpose is to help all people feel equal and not discriminated. With such a vast amount of schools today, we ponder if each one follows the laws of Title IX. Source 1: Ware, Susan. Title IX: A Brief History with Documents. Boston: Bedford/St. Martins, 2007. Print. This article talks about the very early years and the basic written parts of the law of Title IX. Its starts before the law were even created and discuss why and how it was made. It discusses how sports are still not far for women in the year this was written which was 1977. Football is a huge topic in this article. Football is supposed to have the same treatment along with all the other sports male or female. Yet football programs in high school and college is the sport that pays the bills and makes the most money for all. The main purpose of this article is the topic of discrimination. Male or female is says how under the laws created there is to be no discrimination under any circumstances when it comes to the governments funds. Departments of health, education, and welfare all met to discuss this topic. This book called Title IX was written by Susan Ware. It gives a brief history of the law. She is a woman who lived in the times when Title IX was not a law and she is still living now that it is a law. Her object was to reach and get out the works behind Title IX to all people who are unaware. Source 2: of the Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C.A 1681 Et. Seq. of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C.A 1681 Et. Seq. Department of Justice. Civil Rights Division, 7 Aug. 2015. Web 24 Jan. 2017. In this article, it discusses the meaning and definition behind the Title IX. It tells you that this amendment was passed by President Richard Nixon in 1972. This law stated that under any circumstances you could not discriminate the schools finical funding because of race, sex, or type of discrimination. It states that everyone should be treated equally whether male or female. This was passed on June 23 of the year 1972. This law applies to any school whether it is college, high school, middle school, or elementary school as long as it is federally funded by the government. Even government funded programs are required to follow these laws. Many of the regulations are written about in this article. The writer of this article intended for people to read this article so they understand that it is a law to discriminate against gender when it comes to government funds. He probably hoped administrators and students all around would see this. This source is a government website so it must be valid and correct. Source 3: Stader, David L., and Jeanne L. Surface. Second-Class: Title IX, Equity, and Girlsa High School The Clearing House: A Journal of Educational Strategies, Issues and Ideas 87.3 (2014): 119-123. Web. This article shows the day by day life of one high school named Sweetwater. It talks about how like at most high schools, all the different types of sports such as basketball, football, tennis, swim, and so on all use the same practice and playing fields. A researcher noticed that all the teams were getting the first and best options and priorty over the teams. Even the girls softball coach was not paid he was a volunteer dad. They put in a plan to even this out within 45 days at Sweetwater high school. Coaches and administrators need to take all of these laws more seriously. Judge Lorenz was on this case immediately and helped mediate for girls. This article is very helpful because it is filled with information. The author does a good job at being descriptive. This is also very helpful because it is based on information all from Sweetwater High School so it is multiple issues all in one area and town. Source 4: Thro, William E. IX and Sexual Encyclopedia of Education Law (2015): n. pag. Web This letter is about another part of Title IX and still discusses my question as to whether. Title IX is being carried out or not. Another part of the law talks about sexual harassment and sexual misconduct. University of Montana has strict rules against this and it has become a big deal becuase students feel their freedoms are being taken away from them. They demanded that they redefine the definition of Title IX at that school which currently states unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature can include unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature, such as sexual assault or acts of sexual  -- eliminates the critical standard of reasonable speech. They say that everyone falls under these words making the whole school sexual harassers. Many lawyers and the OCR and DOJ were brought into this fight. It also talks about cases where females and males are uncomfterable and have been is wrong situations such as sexual harassment. This article may not have to do with sports but it still has in depth stories about whether Title IX is being carried out. This is helpful to add because it shows that male and female are affected in this law. In this part they feel like they are all being put down. It is a different perspective to look at. The author did a good job researching thoughts which will help me with my paper because we are similar in age and understanding. He put this paper out so people are aware of this situation. Source 5: Steveson, Betsey. THE CLASSROOM: USING TITLE IX TO MEASURE THE RETURN TO HIGHSCHOOL The MIT Press. 2010. Web This article discusses statistics of title IX. For instance, before the law was passed one in every twenty seven girls who attended public high school played a sport. Once the law was passed, the number changed to 1 in every four girls who participated. The boys remained at one for every two. Also in this article, they talk about the effects and benefits of Title IX for a body. By playing a sport it helps you get rid of certain aggressions and it also helps the body be healthy and fit. Therefore, high schools should do whatever they can in their power to increase participation. A chart is provided in this article that contrasts male and female are participation number before and after Title IX in sports, clubs, and others. This author is a reliable source because she has tested and proven facts. This is also a fairly recent article that has been peer reviewed. The intent of the author was for people to gain knowledge about the effects of playing sports on the mind and body. Also how post Title IX numbers are continuing to change. Source 6: Barr, Kerensa E. THE OF ARE FAILING TITLE UMKC Law Review, 2013/10/01, Vol: 82, p181. Web. This article talks about the boys of fall which is another name for the football team. It is known the football teams are the most popular. This article talks about how the boys football team is what is making title IX fail. Most of the scholarships and supplies needed go straight to the football team. It gives the example of Auburn and how they made of the athletic programs earnings. This article also gives examples of how women are beating males in some ways. The Team USA in 2012 summer Olympics out medaled the boys. Also, the Team USA soccer team for women had more players than the team. It gives examples of accommodations that have been made by schools to reach the guidelines of Title IX. It also has a whole section on places where there is equal treatment. This writer is very informational and gives his readers much valuable information to use. His intent was for people to know facts that have been made post Title IX. This is new and relevant information to society. He makes good points that are helpful to my paper and other people who just want to know more information on the topic of Title IX.