Ravindra Kapila Carr ENC1101 Composition 1 27 January 2017 College Worth College worth, a topic that has been discussed since the first institution of higher education was founded in 1636, Harvard University, considers whether college is worth the time, effort, stress, and usually ludicrous amount of money required depending on the profession being pursued. Today college is seen as a major requirement to be successful in the future, due to the fact that 9/10 higher paying jobs require some level of higher education above a high-school diploma. More often than not, the required qualifications for high paying jobs is usually a degree in that pertinent field. But, per many successful entrepreneurs such as Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg, and Bill Gates, three of the biggest names in the market, higher education was not needed. They all dropped out of college and have risen to be the most successful entrepreneurs in the world. Gates, Zuckerberg, and Jobs have the views on college as the only surefire way to be financially stable and successful in the future. Therefore, incorporating them in my overall topic on whether college is worth it because it seems common between highly ranked and financial overachievers such as these men that higher education seems to be disregarded when it comes to having successful careers. 2 Buenstorf, G., Nielsen, K. & Timmermans, B. Small Bus Econ (2017) 48: 179. D oi:10.1007/s11187-016-9774-1 activity and performance among Danish college dropouts and the article on the relationship behind college and formal education and prominent and successful entrepreneurs today as well as its relationship between college dropouts and the startups of new businesses speaks volumes on college dropouts that transformed their innovative ideas into startups of billion dollar companies. Guido Buenstorf, Kristian Nielsen, and Bram Timmermans start an article with tons of information on whether dropouts and entrepreneurial success are directly related. Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, just a few examples of these types of companies started by college dropouts, all starting a new era of technology year by year. So, this argument on whether college is worth is also stems to the types of people that attend it, some people relate strongly to structural formal education and some that have different types of learning strengths and weaknesses, some of which learn from the usual standard education provided by colleges. So, Buenstorf et.al goes on about the pros and cons toward dropping out of college and its effect on the entrepreneurial lifestyle but it does conclude with data showing a slight increase in dropout proficiency in successful entrepreneurs but in turn it shows that there is no evidence supporting dropouts are more relevant or outperform graduates in terms of success as entrepreneurs. As of the research behind it, Buenstorf et.al writes multiple sections on just the raw statistics of dropouts versus graduates and their proficiency in successful entrepreneurship. Their third section labeled data gives all the data required to create a conclusion on whether or not a relationship between college dropouts and 3 entrepreneurs, if there is a connection, that would give the side saying college is not worth it a leg up in the overall argument on whether or not college is worth it because if may students can drop out and pursue business interests it shows that college required to be successful and it may even be detrimental to students that society forces to enroll and perform in it. But it seems that in the research it seems to show that on average there is no relation between entrepreneurship and graduating college dropouts relative to graduates, where dropouts are found to earn 17 % less than graduates. The coefficient obtained for dropout entrepreneurs (the interaction effect) is negative but not significant. This suggests that the for dropping out does not differ systematically between entrepreneurs and paid workers. showing that although little to no difference between dropouts and graduates, apart from the pay received by graduates being higher than the pay received by dropouts. Dietz, J. (2010). The myth that college and major choice decides future. College Student Journal, 44(2), 234-249. Diaz states in this article on the myth that college determines a future the importance of college and other major life decisions. It shows that there is importance in college but chooses to research its effect on a future success. Diaz considers the monetary worth of college and its rising costs compared to the average income of a family and their efforts to find affordable college education that will in fact be worth their hard-earned money. Differing from the previous article I stated, this is more related to the college choices and college overall on real paying jobs and high paying positions in already made companies rather than entrepreneurship and the starting of their own 4 companies. Per a research on Fortune 100 top corporate executives as of Hoovers, 2007, there were more than double CEOs from public colleges rather than ivy leagues showing that in this way, it is preferable to save money and go to a public college rather than spending a lot of money on top rated ivy league schools. As you can see, more than double the top corporate executives have gone to public schools rather than ivy leagues. It also talks about the choice of major and its effect on a future. Diaz states that overall if in a similar major to the job you aspire its largely irrelevant on your major. Although, studies find links between the type of CEO needed and the point in history for that company. For instance, successful prospector firms tend to be headed by CEOs from research/engineering and general management  (Wheelen & Hunger, 2008). This means that companies looking for opportunities to expand (prospect) do well to choose CEOs with those Adam, M. (2012). College Worth Education Digest, (6), 58. Is college worth it? An article directly related to the topic trying to discuss, Adam provides direct insight and statistical proof into the controversial topic that is college worth. The Pew Research Center decided to consider whether college is not worth the money or whether the higher education was worth the time and money noticed a number of trends in higher education in recent years. seen a record number of young adults enrolled in college. seen the cost of education at a record level [the cost of tuition and fees has more than tripled -- far outpacing inflation since the And, related to this, seen a rising student loan debt  said Adam starts out the article with an immediate stance on the topic with statistics 5 showing it has become highly detrimental towards its students. It has costed students over triple the amount since the inflation in 1980, even though its seen a record number of students enroll. Although Adams starts out with a point like this, he seems to veer into a contradiction of himself by explaining how students with a degree seem to make an average of 20,000 dollars more every year just due to the type of jobs they can get with a college degree. Their research was sound because multiple sources including the 2010 Census Bureau relaying the info that the difference in pay between a high school and college graduate was approximately a points tie into my topic essay because it directly argues my topic, whether college is worth it. Previously I tried to compare Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, and other entrepreneurs that have dropped out and continued to found billion dollar companies to no prevail other than seeing that there are divergent thinkers out there that college just match with. This essay on the other hand seems to only talk about the average student and not students only on the path of entrepreneurship. Adam states that study reported that a majority of Americans (57%) say that the higher education system in the United States fails to provide students with good value for the money. In addition, only 19% of 1,055 college presidents surveyed said they believe that the U.S. system is the best in the world. Four in 10 believe the higher education system is going in the wrong This says that more than half the people believe that college is no longer worth the money. They feel as though the average 20,000 dollars per year enough to justify the amount of money averagely spent on 4 years of college. This study include the time, effort, and stress required to get through 4 years or more depending on the profession. As of that reason, I need more to justify using this article as my main 6 source of info as it fully use all the aspects I would like to incorporate. Webber, D. A. (2016). Are college costs worth it? How ability, major, and debt affect the returns to schooling. Economics Of Education Review, 53296-310. doi: 10.1016/j.econedurev.2016.04.007 $85,000 to $300,000, the average cost of college depending on which major you choose, is this worth the average 20,000 per year extra? one thing Webber explains throughout this article, he also talks about the choice of major, student loan debt, and an ability and its effect on the college experience, this means it has more information than the previous article which primarily focuses on the cost of college, its fully monetary impact on a student and whether that makes it worth it, this article on the other hand speaks volumes on that but it also incorporates other topics into that assessment. He uses examples of modern day literature and peoples effect on students situation, it shows how people explain that ethos surrounding postsecondary education has increasingly become akin to college degree is the best outcome for everyone regardless of It shows that college is starting to seem as though it is required if you want to be successful. Webber continues to support my viewpoint that college is in fact worth the time, effort, money, and stress it causes but in certain situations, such as if you are passionate about your decision in what you want to be but if you know what you want to be it could be a waste of time. Especially if you graduate causing all your resources to get flushed down the drain and make you feel as though you wasted your time and money 7 just for the I believe this is the article I will be basing my essay on because it seems to support many of my points. It also has many contradictions to some key points I have which may allow me to write my views on. Webber says that as long as the risks of not graduating are minimal, it believes college is in fact worth it. Bollig, C. (2015). Is College Worth  Arguing for Value with the Citizen- Worker. College Composition & Communication, 67(2), 150. Bollig writes about the citizen workers view on whether or not college is worth it. All the previous viewpoints were distinguished writers or outside views so I thought it would be a good idea to include some of the other side of the argument. We see the perspective of the working man which been shown first hand in previous articles and discussions. Bollig goes in depth on how the citizen worker is needed to create a functioning society. He speaks of a world without citizen workers and what would happen if people do the low paying labor intensive jobs that most higher education recipients usually do. As Bollig speaks from the views of the common worker, he explains how compartmentalization of economic and cultural functions of college effect the student pursuing a higher education and whether it has a positive or negative effect. He combats views on the influence of higher education and its effect on the publics conceptions of its usefulness in society and socioeconomic decisions. points in this article can directly correlate to my essay in a few different ways, although it strongly speaks of college as not worth it ultimately contradicting my view on college as worth it, I will be able to use it as a source to cause a bit of back and 8 forth arguing in my argumentative portion of the essay as well as its writing stance of the hard labor worker rather than a higher educated person. The different view gives more content to my original argument as it offers another point of interest as the common opinion rather than just outside observations and distinguished writers. Even though it is a common writing, it is still credible as it is already published in a book based around composition and communication. London, H. I. (2013). Is College Worth It? A Former United States Secretary of Education and a Liberal Arts Graduate Expose the Broken Promise of Higher Education. Academic Questions, (3), 360. doi:10.1007/s12129-013-9366-3 London states that college is not for everyone and that the federal government is partly to blame due to the gap that exists between students and parental investments. There are a vast number of people attending college and because the system works for them with the end result being a decent job. However, tuition costs are rising and financial aid may only make things worse. Faculty salaries have also increased while their teaching loads have decreased and the escalation of questionable academic programs have drained the budget system. There are many purposes to pursue a higher education but the present college system is dying and we can only hope it gets better with future technology. Tying this article into my essay should be a piece of cake considering it shows a view of the college education from the inside, its directly from the US secretary of education, the person in charge of all education in the United States of America. They 9 speak on behalf of the US education system as she has done it first hand in the past, the person in charge of what debating is worth the time, money, stress, and effort. Also from the view of a liberal arts graduate, meaning they graduated from college with a liberal arts degree and seeing as how they approve of college and agree with my point that it is in fact worth it, I feel as though this article relates well with my topic and viewpoint. College is worth it.