Shahir Kamil Nancy Carr English Composition I January 29th, 2017 Steroids in Professional Sports The topic of whether to legalize the use of steroids in professional sports is an important and controversial issue which brings up many questions. Are the use of steroids good for the competition in professional sports or not? Is there a widespread performance enhancing drugs or PED use across major sports leagues across the globe? Could it be possible that the use of steroids could be systemically ingrained, forcing athletes to utilize them to maintain competition? When researching into this topic, I found many opinions supporting both sides of the argument. Many people who say that steroids should stay illegal, reason that it leads to unfair play and is harmful to the body. While other people reason that if steroids were legalized for all athletes, it would increase competition creating more exciting play by everyone. Many successful athletes such as, Diego Maradona, Lance Armstrong, Alex Rodriguez, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, have used steroids or performance enhancing drugs in their respected sports dating back from the 1960s. However, Lance Armstrong, who was caught for utilizing these was penalized with a lifetime ban in cycling and was stripped of all his seven Tour de France titles, which is one of the biggest race a professional cycler can win. This brings us back to the main research question, should the use of steroids or PEDs be legalized for all athletes in professional sports? Engelberg, T., Moston, S., & Skinner, J. (2015). The final frontier of anti-doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping violations. Management Review , 18268-279. In this article composed by Engelberg, Moston, and Skinner, 18 players who were involved in using performance enhancing drugs were interviewed from the sports of bodybuilding, powerlifting, cricket, kayaking, rugby, and swimming. These athletes were asked why they started and kept taking these performance enhancing drugs and what their beliefs are on the present day anti-doping policies. Doping, the use of performance enhancing drugs, had become in those various sports, especially bodybuilding. Athletes justified their use of steroids by stating that it was to increase their level of play in comparison to others, that there are minimum consequences for the action, and by downplaying the side effects. In reference to the research question, this Engelberg et. al provide the perspective and point of view of these doping athletes which gives insight to a new angle to this topic. Engelberg et. al illustrate why players use these drugs and how they justify using them. As more and more players normalize the use of steroids, it gets harder to regulate the number of athletes on these performance enhancing drugs. These authors attended the Griffith Business School, University of Canberra, and Loughborough University respectively which adds to the credibility of their work. Gayles, J. (2009). Steroids and standardised tests: meritocracy and the myth of fair play in the United Educational Studies (03055698) , 1. In this academic journal written by Jonathan Gayles, it is reiterated that this issue remains a hot topic discussed by the media in the United States. He mentions that the use of steroids by athletes in professional sports is generally negative and that there are more people opposed to it rather than supportive about it. Gayles explains how steroids provide some athletes with an unfair physical advantage over the others, which disrupts the fair play of the sport. This leads to the credibility of many of the athletes and their present day success. Gayles provides the position or standpoint of Senator Jim Bunning, who addresses this growing issue and believes that doping the integrity of the game and distort statistics and demean In relation to the research question, this Gayles makes a great case that the use of steroids or PEDs should not be legalized for all athletes in professional sports. The author makes a great case that fair play is important when it comes to sports and the use of steroids undermines this idea of fair play. As athletes, you drive for excellence, success, and fame. However, fans start to doubt the integrity of the players and often take credit away from their accomplishments if they are caught using these PEDs. Jonathan Gayles works at the department of African American studies at Georgia State University, which adds to the credibility of the journal. Heisler, S. R. (2009). Steroid Regulation in Professional Sports: SARBANES-OXLEY AS A GUIDE. Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, 27(1) , 199-241. In this academic journal written by Sarah R. Heisler, she starts out by giving the audience an idea about what PEDs are and how they increase the physical capabilities of athletes. Then she gives a little background of how the use of steroids and PEDs were introduced and came to play in the sports/athletics world. She brings up the fact that, athletes dating back to the ancient Greek times used any means to increase performance and psychological support. By the steroid use by athletes came to America and was prevalent by NFL and MLB players. As more and more athletes started to use steroids, PED regulations were in place by leagues and the International Committee even banned steroids. However, this is still an arising issue as young athletes look to get better and aware of how this stuff really as mentioned by Joe Biden. In relation to the research question, this Heisler also makes a strong case for why the use of steroids or PEDs should not be legalized for all athletes in professional sports. Unlike the last article, Heisler gives a historical context to this issue and adds that youngsters today should be aware of the harmful effects of these drugs. By spreading awareness and educating people about the effects of steroids and PEDs, possible to really regulate the use of these drugs by athletes. This article was a part of the Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, which is found to be a credible source, also copyrighted by Yeshiva University. McGrew, R. J. (2015). Raising the Bar: Why The Anabolics Steroid Control Acts Should Be Repealed and Replaced.. Journal Of Health Law & Policy , 15233. In this academic journal written by Ryan J. McGrew, the act of taking anabolic-androgenic steroids and performance enhancing drugs is portrayed as an act of cheating. In 1990, Congress passed the Anabolic Steroid Control Act or ASCA in attempt to control and regulate the amount of cheating in terms of steroids and PEDs even though the American Medical Association, Food and Drug Association, Drug Enforcement Administration, and National Institute on Drug Abuse advised against it. Ironically, the use of these drugs increased after the ASCA had been passed. The athletes now had to go through the black market to obtain these drugs rather than through medical professionals. In reference to the research question, trying to illegalize the use of steroids, proliferated the number of people using these drugs. In attempt of banning or convincing players not to use PEDs, they encouraged them to go out of their way and attain these drugs through a new medium. Although McGrew shows the use of PEDs as it shows that hard to regulate steroid use by athletes and the numbers are only increasing. This article was found in the 2015 Houston Journal of Health Law & Policy, a credible source of information. Millman, R. B., & Ross, E. J. (2003). Steroid and Nutritional Supplement Use in Professional American Journal On Addictions , 12S48. Like the previous article, in this academic journal written by Robert B. Millman, he makes the case that performance enhancing drugs and steroids date back to the time that sports were introduced to the world. Robert introduces the reader to two categories of these drugs: anabolic androgenic steroids and nutritional supplements. Both types of drugs enhance the physical capabilities and increase muscle mass by increasing the amount of testosterone in the body. The author introduces the different varieties of side effects that come with the use of substances and nutritional supplements. These side effects or changes can be seen by the players physically, psychologically, and even mortally. Although the side effects shown are dangerous, the benefits of taking these drugs exceed the risks. In relation to the research question, Millman starts out by stating the negative or cons of these anabolic androgenic steroids and nutritional supplements including the different side effects. However, Robert B. Millman makes the case that these athletes are playing at a high level which requires them to perform at a higher level as well. With the help of steroids and performance enhancing drugs, players can meet their expectations and improve the level of their game. Dr. Robert B. Millman is the former Saul Steinberg Professor of Psychiatry and Public Health at Weill Cornell Medical College, which makes him a credible author to talk about such a topic. Piacentino, D., Kotzalidis, G. D., del Casale, A., Aromatario, M. R., Pomara, C., Girardi, P., & Sani, G. (2015). Anabolic-androgenic steroid use and psychopathology in athletes. A systematic review. Current Neuropharmacology, 13(1), 101-121. In this academic journal written by Piacentino et al, the authors start off by saying that the use of anabolic-androgenic steroids is an increasing problem worldwide by athletes at all different levels. The authors of this article introduce and list the various symptoms that these athletes suffer such as eating, mood, and even schizophrenic disorders. Some of the psychiatric disorders believed to be caused by these steroids are apparent in athletes who take these drugs. This begs the question, do the abuse of anabolic-androgenic steroids even cause these side effects. In reference to the question, the authors raise the issue whether the use of steroids are even the cause for some of the symptoms listed. It shows that there are many unclear studies that provide a strong and sturdy background to prove that steroids are responsible for certain symptoms. This article was found in the Current Neuropharmacology science journal, which is a credible and reviewed source for information related to scientific studies.