Early Draft DJ Roberts Early Draft 1/23/17 Comp 1101 In society athletes are always looked at as role models and everyone looks up to them. But once an athlete commits a crime people think it will be okay to commit the same type of crime thinking they would get away with it or get the same amount of punishment the athlete gets. After an athlete commits a serious crime and gets arrested for it, a criminal record shows up on their profile. Should sports organizations look more into an athletes profile? to where later down the road if a team releases a player, another sports team make the mistake to sign a player with a criminal record. Should sports organizations create stricter punishments for athletes committing a crime? WHY SO MANY ATHLETES AND ENTERTAINERS ARE OUT OF  Ebony 2000: Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Crime rates committed by collegiate and professional athletes have either been accused of drug possession, murder and domestic violence. The questions that has been reportedly asked is Why are athletes out of control in the  What this article says is a Chicago Psychiatrist Dr. Carl bell believes athletes have the Contrary to poplar  meaning athletes have the thought to be able to do whatever they want than the rest of us, to where whatever they do wrong they believe they get in trouble with the law because they think better than everyone else. Money can play a big role in athletes committing crime. They sign big contracts still being at a young age not knowing what to do with the money, and trouble ends up following athletes due to the people they bring in. Another thing is athletes still being in there teens making millions with not a strong family support can also result in them committing crimes. This source relates to my topic is it explains the crimes athletes have the potential to commit and the purpose of why they commit these crimes. This article is a credible source because from the USF library website as well as peer reviewed and a magazine article that has opinions and research studies of licensed professors and psychiatrists explaining there studies and opinions on athletes committing crimes and why they believe they commit them. Kim, Janine Young, and Matthew J. Parlow. Off-Court Misbehavior: Sports Leagues And Private Punishment  Journal Of Criminal Law And Criminology 3 (2008): 573. HeinOnline. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The article Off-court  explains off the field/court crimes committed by athletes. These athletes are looked at as role  in the society making it seem like committing a crime is okay for a regular citizen to commit. As well as still getting a multimillion dollar check after committing a crime. This article also explains public law, which means it is a more standardized punishment to where if an athlete commits a crime they get the same type of punishment a regular citizen would get. An example the article explains is the case of Michael Vick and dog fighting and this example shows that sports organizations handle the situation appropriately yet he was still signed to other teams and continued to play football down the road. This source relates to my topic because it explains how athletes are looked as after committing a crime, also it gives an example of what my research question applies to. This article is also a credible source to use because a USF library source as well as peer reviewed. The authors who wrote this article, both went to Yale law school and both were the editors of a newspaper while studying at Yale law school. Starr, Mark, and Allison Samuels. A Season Of  Newsweek 135.22 (2000): 56- 60. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 9 Feb. 2017. What this article talks about is a question being asked about star athletes and how fans and everybody else in the community are tired, alarmed, angry with how the organization pays them millions, there children look up to them and yet the question being asked is Are these expectations  Meaning athletes such as the Baltimore Ravens star Ray Lewis who was convicted of murder who played with a $26 million dollar contract as well as being an inductee in the Hall of Fame ended up pleading not guilty. This article mainly explains how people who support these role models are fed up of star athletes still being paid millions, accepting awards and yet the organization do anything to punish them. This source also relates to my topic because it explains the frustrations with the athletes. The opinion of fans and of the community are also shared in this article. This perspective will better my paper because if many people believe in a stricter punishment towards the athletes committing a crime it could influence an organizations rules regarding crime to change. If an organization listen to there fan base for there rules to change a potential loss of profits and supporters of the team and players. This article is also a credible source to use because a USF library based article plus it shares other opinions that also support my topic. Regenstein, Elliot. These Are The People In Your  Michigan Law Review 97.6 (1999): 1956-1970. Business Source Premier. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. What this article discusses is how all types of athletes from any sport can commit a crime. It also discusses how race can play a big role as well as where an athlete comes from. This article provides examples of big media cases and really discusses how a society perceives them. The main example in this article is about high school  who committed a sexual assault against a mentally disabled girl and compares this case to many other cases in the athletic world. This source relates to my topic because it discusses examples of all types of athletes committing crimes even at a young age. It also explains how being at a young age, high school for example and being a high profile athlete in the community can cause these kids to do whatever they feel like doing. This also relates to my topic because allowing athletes to recognize that not on top of the world because organizations could make there rules stricter. This article is a credible source to use for my topic because a USF library based article as well as the author being from University of California Berkley which is a big research institution in the country.