Zeinelabdin 1 Suha Zeinelabdin Adam Carter ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Physical Discipline in America Many people can relate to being spanked or physically punished in some way, however for the past several decades its effectiveness as a method of discipline has been questioned. Some people believe it is necessary to spank their child to correct their misbehavior and teach them respect and obedience. Nonetheless, others think that spanking mentally and physically injures children, creating more negative effects in the long run than what was originally intended. Organizations, such as the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) view corporal punishment as a harmful way to discipline children. They believe that corporal punishment increases a risk of being abused and therefore, should not be used as a behavior correction technique. On the other hand, organizations that are pro-physical discipline like Focus on the Family, believe that spanking is an effective way to deter misbehavior. They apply the teachings of the Bible into disciplining their children and provide parents with the steps they need to take before spanking their child. Focus on the Family does not endorse child abuse, but they do see spanking as a practical approach towards modifying a behavior. Therefore, instead of trying to stop parents from spanking their children, the AACAP and Focus on the Family should concentrate on teaching parents positive parent administration strategies, which will help promote ideal child advancement (Benjet and Kazdin 221). Despite the hardships parents face with controlling their children, organizations like the AACAP do not advocate spanking as an option for disciplining children. Research has shown Zeinelabdin 2 corporal punishment to be counterproductive. This means that corporal punishment increases aggressive behavior and decreases social competence. According to the AACAP, punishment may have a high rate of immediate behavior however overtime the negative effects will outweigh the immediate positive outcomes (Child Maltreatment and Violence Committee). Some people think spanking is a contradictory form of discipline in cases where the child was caught hitting someone else. They believe that physical punishment can be a confusing form of love that does not explain what the child did wrong. The AACAP notes, children that aggression is an acceptable method of problem (Child Maltreatment and Violence Committee). In the article, Corporal Punishment by American Parents: National Data on Prevalence, Chronicity, Severity, and Duration, in Relation to Child and Family Characteristics researchers have found that although corporal punishment does not cause aggressive behavior among children, it does increase the likelihood of aggression and anti- social behavior (Straus and Stewart 68). This study takes into account the different factors that are involved with spanking, such as the severity and chronicity. Their research also shows corporal punishment to be harmful for children, however it does not specify the negative effects of physical punishment. Another study called Parental Spanking and Subsequent Risk for Child Aggression in father-involved families of Young Children has shown that children that are more than twice in the prior month at age 3, by either mother or father, was associated with increased child aggression at 5 (Lee et al. 1476). This shows that spanking children at a young age can make them violent in the long run. These research studies provide compelling evidence towards corporal punishment increasing the probability of child aggression, but they do not show a causal relationship between corporal punishment and aggressive behavior. Thus, Zeinelabdin 3 spanking should not be used as a form of discipline due to the potential negative outcomes on children. Although some Americans think spanking is form of maltreatment, there are still many Americans who look to spanking as one of the best ways to correct misbehavior. Some even use spanking because it is a part of their cultural or religious beliefs. Focus on the Family is a Christian organization that provides parents with a Approach to They believe that spanking a painful deterrent to but it should never be violent or cause injury to a child (Ingram). Also, they think it is important for parents to show their children affection after a well-deserved spanking, and make sure they explain to the child what they did wrong. In the article, Corporal Punishment: A Scientific Review of its Use in Discipline researchers believe that disciplinary spanking can be an efficient enforcer of time-out. It is administered to make sure the child follows the rules. Furthermore, they argue that experts often lump spanking with physical abuse, when instead the intent is to correct a behavior. Disciplinary spanking is done out of love and concern for the child, not out of anger. disciplinary spanking, a parent can quickly exhaust the limited punishment repertoire and is left with feelings and expressions of exasperation (yelling) in a coercive cycle to convince an unreasoning toddler to (Trumbull, 12). Non-physical discipline is not always effective with defiant, hard-to-handle children. This is one of the reasons why some parents use physical punishment. Since physical punishment can also be a part of cultural beliefs, it is difficult for them to see its negative effects. Parents often find other methods of discipline ineffective and often look to spanking to control their children. Even though there are disagreements on physical punishment, there are a few ideas they agree on. Most researchers agree that should not be severity, frequency, and Zeinelabdin 4 emotional contexts and spanking is not more effective than non-physical punishments that include (Dewar). There are disagreements on how physical punishment is conducted and whether spanking is more harmful than helpful. Focus on the Family, for example, believes that using a wooden spoon to spank a child is acceptable and even necessary in some cases. On the other hand, the AACAP wants to encourage healthy childhood development without the use of physical punishment. Since every child is different, it is difficult to provide all children the same method of discipline. Therefore, trying to stop parents from spanking their children will be ineffective. Rather, people should focus on teaching non-physical ways to discipline children. For example, the Play Nicely program offers parents efficient strategies for parenting (PlayNicely). They recommend other disciplinary strategies to use instead of spanking. Some of them include using time-out, rewarding good behavior, or taking away privileges. Moreover, organizations that are anti-corporal punishment can provide parents with alternative methods for disciplining their children (i.e. positive reinforcement) and provide ways for parents to manage their anger. Parents should be given the choice to spank their children under certain conditions. The proposition is as follows. Spanking should only be performed on the buttocks. Objects, such as wooden spoons, belts, paddles, etc. should not be used when spanking a child. Therefore, a parent or guardian should only use their hand when spanking and avoid doing so in public. Furthermore, schools should not be allowed to physically punish a child. This right should be left to the parent or guardian. It should be utilized to get their attention and when all other options have been exhausted. To reiterate, physical punishment is still a controversial issue in America due to inconclusive evidence and a strong hold on beliefs. One side views spanking as harmful to Zeinelabdin 5 children, counterproductive, and contradictory. On the other hand, there are people who feel that spanking is necessary and an effective way to discipline children. There is a great amount of evidence that supports both claims, which makes it all the more difficult to change mind about spanking. Nonetheless, both sides can agree that efficient, non-physical discipline should be used before physical punishment. The best way to compensate is by providing optimal non- physical forms of discipline. Educating parents about non-physical alternatives of discipline and teaching them how to control their anger will go farther in promoting healthy childhood development. Zeinelabdin 6 Works Cited Benjet, Corina, and Alan E. Kazdin. Spanking Children: The Controversies, Findings, and New  Clinical Psychology Review 23.2 (2003): 197-224. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Child Maltreatment and Violence Committee. Corporal  Corporal Punishment. N.p., 30 July 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dewar, Gwen. Spanking Children: A Guide for the  Parenting Science The Science of Child-rearing and Child Development. Solo Build It, 2006. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ingram, Chip. The Biblical Approach to  Focus on the Family. Tyndale House Publishers, Inc., 07 May 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lee, Shawna J., Catherine A. Taylor, Inna Altschul, and Janet C. Rice. Parental Spanking and Subsequent Risk for Child Aggression in Father-involved Families of Young  Children and Youth Services Review 35.9 (2013): 1476-485. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Play  The Play Program Play Nicely. Vanderbilt University, 2010. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Ruth, Christopher, and Desarae Dittmar. Spanking - Controversy About the Use of Physical  Family, Development, Punishment, and Children - JRank Articles. Net Industries, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Straus, Murray A., and Julie H. Stewart. Corporal Punishment by American Parents: National Data on Prevalence, Chronicity, Severity, and Duration, in Relation to Child and Family  Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review 2.1 (1999): 55-69. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zeinelabdin 7 Trumbull, Den A. Corporal Punishment: A Scientific Review of Its Use in  Discipline of the Child (2007): 1-18. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.