Yasreeb 1 Ahmed Sadat Yasreeb Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 26 January 2017 5 Star Care of Yourself Being healthy, wealthy and fit is what people care about nowadays but most importantly people need to take care of their health to stay happy and peaceful, thus healthcare is an important issue. It is a huge topic and there are a lot of stakeholders related to it. Health care consists of the ways in which a person can maintain their health and stay away from illness, injuries, diseases and other mental and physical impairments. Thus, a lot of people are responsible for a healthy life because the quality of food they eat and how people maintain their body all are responsibility for Cleveland Clinic and McDonalds. Among Cleveland Clinic and there are conflicts such as uses cheap materials for profit and Cleveland Clinic wants people to eat healthy and stay healthy but they commonly are both profitable organizations, in the end there still are some ways in which their goals can be worked out together to compromise regarding this issue. My first stakeholder is Cleveland Clinic and it is a very highly ranked hospital located in Ohio. Its service is excellent because it has a bunch of good doctors brought together under one roof. The objectives of Cleveland Clinics are very customer oriented and they really do care about customers. There objectives are as follows: develop and share new technology, attract the best qualified medical and support staff which gives them the competitive advantage from other Hospitals, excel in service and provide efficient access to affordable medical care which also makes them cost effective. The mission statement of Cleveland Clinic is care of the sick, Yasreeb 2 investigation into their problems and further education of those who (Cleveland Clinic Paragraph 2). Thus, these objectives and mission statement shows that Cleveland Clinic is focused on providing the best service to the people and they care about their healthcare. The clinic has also earned a lot of fame recently proving better services day by day and it is widely discussed by scholars. In an article written on the Harvard Business Review by Raman Ananth and Merlino James, there it was mentioned about how the Cleveland Clinic leaped to the top of patient-satisfaction surveys. The article is very interesting and it contains some statistics as well were it shows the patient-satisfaction among 4800 Hospitals from 2008 till 2012. In that survey in 2008 Cleveland patient satisfaction level was just 55% but surprisingly in 2012 the satisfaction level boosted to 92% (Ananth 4). They are really doing a good job in being the patients favorite hospital. They also maintain a very clean patient rooms and they get 71% good rating at that too (Ananth 5). Ananth and James also mentioned that Cleveland is being very cost efficient and improve the quality of their service (4). They also have other facilities which they are also doing well such as things like having greeters at the door, redesigning its gowns, and improving food services (Ananth 6). Ananth also says that in the customer reviews of Cleveland Clinic there was another attribute that was discussed by customers which is the communication of nurse and doctor. They said the communication was fantastic and they felt more cared about (8). So, this article shows that Cleveland Clinic is a hospital that really cares about customer needs and their healthcare. Meanwhile my second stakeholder is McDonalds, which is very well known fast food chain store. It is very popular for its cost-effective burgers and very good offers of burgers. People are craving for having most times and it has made such a reputation from Yasreeb 3 ages. Their main objective is making profit and keep the customers and staff members happy. mission statement is be our favorite place and way to eat & drink. dedicated to being a great place for our people to work; to being a strong, positive presence in your community; and to delivering the quality, service, cleanliness and value our customers have come to expect from the Golden Arches a symbol trusted around the world (Panmore Institute, McDonalds Mission Statement Analysis This long Mission statement of also entails that they believe in providing the best service to customers and keep their workers happy. In an article written by Michael Pare, it says are improving more on technologies and this fast improvement in technology has led to produce products more fast and make it available to the customers at a very less (PBN 2 nd paragraph). So, if this happens McDonalds can make its product healthier by using technology with best appropriate way. As a result, the food quality will also increase due to better technology and more sales revenue will increase. Thus, McDonalds do care about healthcare of people and their technological improvement has made it healthier for people to consume McDonalds product. is a fast food chain store and Cleveland Clinic is a hospital, these stakeholders are completely different from each other and they have conflicts in some objectives. wants to maximize profit by keeping costs of production low, to keep costs of production low sometimes use inferior quality ingredients to produce their products. Thus, such products can cause hazard to health but Cleveland Clinics objective is to keep people healthy so their objectives come in conflict. To bring their interest together some methods can be used. Producing food with bad quality materials for profit is not a good way practiced by McDonalds because the result will give McDonalds profit for short term, in F. Yasreeb 4 Phillips article he says that good quality food will make customers happy and give them a happy life, thus if McDonalds uses good quality materials then its cost of production might be high but its overall sales turnover will increase due to increase in customer and goodwill for good quality production. On the other hand, there is a source from ECHO news Matalan was a retailer supports a children hospital Alder Hey Children by helping them to gather funds through charity to treat children more better and help children to lead a happy life like this Cleveland Clinic can also help McDonalds to create new healthy entrees which will help McDonalds to gain more revenue due to the goodwill of Cleveland Clinic and at the same time for their loyal customers. So, this will help McDonalds to slowly get the reputation of a healthy fast food retailer. So, Cleveland Clinic and McDonalds will be both happy at the same time as both will make profit in their own way being honest. Thus, both and Cleveland Clinic will be happy. In the end, healthcare is a very important topic as mortality rate are increasing worldwide, so people should be considering what they are consuming and what lifestyle they are living. So, food choice is very important to keep us fit and healthy and hospitals are also very important to keep us away from worse possible outcomes. Thus, as is popular and Cleveland Clinic is a highly-ranked hospital so they both come in action and if they can work together with the compromise of mentioning the effects of food calories then they both will have a positive effect in the world of keeping the mortality rate low, keeping people healthy and make them enjoy their life. Yasreeb 5 Work Cites 1.Merlino, James I., and Ananth, Raman. service fanatics: how the Cleveland Clinic leaped to the top of patient-satisfaction Harvard Business Review 5 (2013): 108. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://myhbp.org/leadingedge/d/cla?&c=25931&i=25933&cs=73d8fb9a10c18f812eceaf3628cd 1b24 2. Vision, Cleveland Clinic, http://my.clevelandclinic.org/about/overview/who-we-are/mission-vision-values 3. Pare, Michael. Technology fuels  Providence Business News 1999: Academic OneFile. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. http://pbn.com/Technology-fuels-McDonalds- success,2693 4. Vision Statement & Mission Statement 4 October, 2015. Date of Access 13 Feb 2017. 5. Phillips, F. Evidence And Daily Food For A Better Life: Milan, 19 June Public Health (2016): 73. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb News Matalan shows its stripes to help Alder Hey; Retailer supports hospital for third year Liverpool Echo (Liverpool, England) 2016: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Word Limit: 1375 words