1 Daniel Dean Enc1102 Bob Botkins 2/13/2017 Hydraulic fracturing: beneficial or harmful In a world increasingly concerned about available sources of energy, scientific innovations have opened the door to new methods of obtaining natural gas and oil. Such a method is commonly referred to as hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing functions as a double-edge sword because it gives energy companies the ability to obtain previously unreachable sources of natural energy, but poses significant environmental risk (Weinstein). Hydraulic fracturing is a process by which oil-searching and gas - searching companies try to inject fluid (primarily water with salt and other solutions) at a high pressure into the crust, to open veins within the crust to bring oil and natural gases to the surface to be extracted. When the veins are open, the veins are kept open by the solutions in the fracking fluid. Once the fracking fluid is removed a decent flow of natural gases and crude oil rises to the surface of crust to be extracted by these government funded oil searching companies; such as: Chevron Corp, ExxonMobil Corp. The public hydraulic fracturing experiment was first attempted in the 1940s, in a small town of Oklahoma. The hydraulic fracking experiment publicly proven successful until the early 1950s. Recent reports state that there have been over 2.5 million attempts of hydraulic fracking in the U.S. alone. Because of the nature, the hydraulic fracturing can only be safely performed in rural areas of the U.S. helping North Dakota to become the second most oil producing state in the U.S. Due to the rise in the demand of energy sources, the hydraulic fracturing sites are opened closer to human civilizations, which have proved very hazardous to the occupants of the nearby towns. Energy experts have been led to 2 believe that in the United States alone there is enough natural resources in the crust for humans to be energy sufficient for the next 110 years (Weinstein). Despite the many benefits that are brought to the surface due to hydraulic fracturing, there are still many concerns (usually revolving around the greenhouse gases and the freshwater contamination). Hydraulic fracturing has caused many environmental problems over the last forty to fifty years; due to the rise in awareness of global warming and climate changes in the ozone layers. As previously mentioned due to the recent surge in the demand of finding sustainable energy sources the fracturing companies are forced to try and find more sites to fracture on (Pritchard), resulting in sites closer to civilization. When the fracking solutions over spill, permanently contaminates the groundwater for the surrounding civilizations. In a recent documentary, a story surfaced about the dangers of fracturing to close to civilizations and a man in North Dakota reported that he could light the tap water coming out of his water faucet on fire and it stayed on fire. (Smith). When the fracturing occurs, not only does it bring up renewable energy, it also brings up a gas called methane which is: highly flammable and highly fatal to a human being upon ingestion in to the important body systems. Investigators have found over 1,000 other fatal chemicals in the fracturing fluid; many being classified as toxic, and they have also suspected that there are many carcinogens and that the fracturing fluid is mutagenic. Fracturing fluid includes the following: arsenic mercury and other fatal chemicals. Another problem with fracturing is the amount of water that it takes to produce a decent flow of natural resources. It takes about 6 million gallons of water for a single fracturing site. The biggest concern about the process of hydraulic fracturing is the contamination of the ground and freshwater on the earth. Due to the amount of pressure used to penetrate the shale plates, the fracturing fluid sometimes ruptures a freshwater vein, making it unsuitable for human life instantly. 3 As with any government agency funded program, there is a level of risk and a level of benefit. From one point of view the benefits proceed to deterrents, but some researchers beg to differ. One of the most currently known benefits is that the hydraulic fracturing process is the recovery of natural resources that could not have been recovered had it not been for the fracturing process. Reports indicate that hydraulic fracturing may account for 70 percent of natural gas development in the foreseeable future. Another benefit of hydraulic fracturing is the economic spike in production. Because of the nature of fracturing most of the fracturing sites are in rural areas, but with the production of the natural resources added to the economy, studies have shown a greater spike in the economy of certain states or cities. Because of the monetary value of the oil and natural gases rise so does the monetary value in the cities or towns that have a nearby fracturing sites bringing in revenue. Another benefit is the fact of bringing jobs to the citizens of the rural area of the U.S., giving them the means for these citizens to be able to provide for themselves as well as their families. The potential to provide tremendous economic benefits, with the energy companies estimating that by the year of 2025 the companies will be able to provide jobs to over 1 million people. In 2010 alone, the energy resource companies provided about 600,000 jobs to citizens(Weinstein). Any time there is a process by which a natural energy source is to be extracted from the crust, there is a benefit. Because of these reasons and because of the benefits, hydraulic fracturing is always going to be a very vital component in the search for a sustainable natural energy source. After researching both sides of the hydraulic fracturing debate, it appears that a solution to this problem is hopefully through compromise, and everyone involved in the dispute in the end will be content with the outcome. The public petition their lawmakers to pass a bill that the government licensed hydraulic fracturing companies, will only be able to preform the application of the fracturing fluid into the crust a certain mileage or distance from any populated civilization. Also, portion of the bill will regulate how much of the natural resources (the water in the solution, the natural gases and oils brought to the surface because of fracturing) used in the fracturing process have a limit put on it. Because though the 4 process of hydraulic fracturing brings in a natural energy resource into the circulation in the hunt for energy sources there still should be a restraint put on how much of the resources already available is sacrificed in the hydraulic fracturing process. Works Cited Pritchard, Joshua,. fracking debate. salem press encyclopedia, january 2016. document. smith, michael. hydraulic fracturing. boca raton,florida: CRC press, 2015. electronic documents. weinstein, mark. Wisconsin International Law Journal (2013): 881. document.