Rosa 1 Sydney Rosa Enc 1102 Final Draft 11 February 2017 How Victims of Human Trafficking Are Treated After Pulled Off Street Human trafficking itself may not be a controversial topic, however, once either police or other rescue groups pull the women off the street, the way they are treated can be controversial. Organizations, such as The L.O.V.E Ministry and The Global Business Coalition Against Human Trafficking, or the gBCAT, differ when it comes to how to handle the problem of human trafficking. The L.O.V.E Ministry and organizations like it get these victims off the street and bring them to a secure and safe location. These organizations have one main goal to get these girls back up on their feet and to give them a better chance to survive once they are back on their own. The gBCAT gets the job done in a different way. The gBCAT strives to get the word out about human trafficking through the business community. By getting well-known companies on their side, the gBCAT can reach a larger audience to inform about human trafficking. In order to get more girls off the street, it would be more effective if the gBCAT worked with The L.OV.E. Ministry, or even organizations like it. With more advertising and resources to rescue the victims, human trafficking could definitely be put to an end. By working together, more girls can get back up onto their feet and once they are free have to go back to their traffickers to work the streets. The L.O.V.E. Ministry was founded by a woman who felt human trafficking victims should have a better chance at the way life should be lived. According to the L.OV.E. Ministry Rosa 2 website, the mission of this organization is to women rescued from the bondage of human trafficking to reclaim their lives by learning to re-enter society as strong, capable, whole women in a safe, Christ-centered Stacey Rosa, the woman who is founder and CEO of this non-profit organization, defines the word survivor as a person who endures adversity, moves through it, and perseveres; a person with resiliency who remains undefeated. Rosa has gotten in contact with many survivors over the past 3 years. Rosa claims police put the women in jail hoping for safety, however, the jail completely safe for Rosa has a close friend that was placed in jail for a long period of time. While there, she was recruited by a trafficker, another woman, who was in the same facility as her. Once released from jail, her trafficker took her in and began to traffic her. Overall, in that lifestyle, the woman was arrested for prostitution over 20 times. Rosa and other organizations like hers would like to find a better solution for the victims. Their view is that traffickers should do more time than the victims. However, reality is that victims end up staying in jail much longer. However, they understand that the police are just trying to keep the victims off the streets and away from their traffickerss. Ultimately, trying to ensure their safety. organization strives to not only provide safety to the victims but to also give them the opportunity to grow and learn how to be self-sufficient by replacing the power over them by giving them a substantial amount of counseling. This rehabilitation process helps the victims gain the confidence to live independently and not feel tempted to go back to their traffickers (S. Rosa, personal communication, January 26, 2017). Compared to The L.O.V.E. Ministry, the gBCAT focuses on training and educating businesses about sex trafficking in order to come up with solutions on how to address human trafficking. This mission statement claims that they strive to the power, resources and thought leadership of the business community to end human trafficking, including Rosa 3 all forms of forced labor and sex The gBCAT supports companies who want to understand the necessity for partnerships between companies so that they can work together to better the community. GBCAT wrote case studies for each of their focus areas, which are training and education, sex trafficking, supply chain, as well as communication and outreach. The case study for sex trafficking was focused on the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. The case study stated, has set the standard with its efforts to raise awareness of child sex trafficking and child sex This is a great example of what the gBCAT is aiming to do through companies just like Carlson. Human trafficking is not just a problem in the United States, but all over the globe. Which is why Carlson is spreading awareness of sex trafficking among a worldwide network in over 160 countries. Large companies, such as Carlson, are exactly who gBCAT is aiming to inform about the problem of human trafficking. Jonathan Ewing asked former Chairman and CEO of Carlson why the hotel is interesting in international human trafficking. Marilyn Carlson, the former CEO, claimed that since the company is spread out into about 160 countries, have the of to make a significant  Another reason the hotel is a good resource for getting the word out on human trafficking is because traffickers use airlines to transport the women and the hotels can unknowingly be used as the setting for this illicit  The L.O.V.E. Ministry and gBCAT both agree on the fact that human trafficking needs to be put to a stop. However, their strategies on how to reach that goal are quite different. The L.O.V.E. Ministry aims to rescue the victims and place them in safe houses with trained counselors to rehabilitate the victims. Instead of locking the victims away in jail or prison and treating them like they are the criminals, the girls should be delivered safely to the safe house. This would give the victims of human trafficking a real fighting chance at having a Rosa 4 normal life outside the prison walls and outside the control of their traffickers. The safe house these girls would be kept in would be far enough away from society that no one would just upon The victims would be taught simple life rules that they either never learned or forget due to being on the streets for too long. L.O.V.E. Ministry allows for the women to have something to focus on and strive for, which will help them to not feel the need to run back to their traffickers. A lot of the time, after these victims are released from jail or prison, they feel the need to go back to their traffickers because that is the only life they know how to live. But being in the safe house with trained counselors will allow them to learn how to be on their own and to grow as the person they were always meant to be. Police departments and corrections facilities should definitely work with organizations such as L.O.V.E. Ministry, not only for the sake but also for theirs. Sending the girls to safe houses run by these type of organizations would ultimately free up room at the jails and prisons in order to lock away more threatening criminals that should not be on the streets. Therefore, gBCAT and L.O.V.E. Ministry should work together to better the community because it gets the victims off the streets and gets the word about human trafficking farther out into the world. The more people that are aware of human trafficking the more brains will be working to find more solutions to stop it. The victims in the houses will be counseled and taught how to be independent. Once finished with the rehabilitation programs at the safe houses, these women will be back in society living on their own. The women should feel safe once they are back in society because of the gBCAT. According to Oliver Balch, needs support from more big brands to make a truly global impact. Having huge corporations, such as Ford and Microsoft, raising awareness and working to stop human trafficking, the rehabilitated women should feel more confident and safe due to these organizations having their backs. Rosa 5 Works Cited About  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://gbcat.org/>. Balch, Oliver. Corporate Initiative Can Play a Major Role in Anti-trafficking  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 03 Apr. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://www.theguardian.com/global-development-professionals network/2013/apr/03/human-trafficking-global-business-coalition>. Ewing, Jonathan. This Hotel Is Fighting Human Trafficking Like Lives Are Depending On  U.S. Global Leadership Coalition. N.p., 8 Mar. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.usglc.org/2014/03/08/this-hotel-is-fighting-human-trafficking-like-peoples lives-are-depending-on-it/>. Rosa, Stacey. Ladies of Victory & Encouragement L.O.V.E.  L.O.V.E. Ministry Helping Victims of Human Trafficking. Issac Rosa, 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://love-ministry.org/>. Rosa, Stacey. Personal communication. January 28, 2017.