Kyle McGorty ENC 1101 Professor Carr 02/19/2017 ADHD drugs- Problem or Solution? ADHD drugs, or prescription stimulants, are some of the most widely abused drugs on college campuses. Whether it be in the form of Adderall, Vyvanse, Ritalin, Focalin, or Concerta, students will take them to help last that finals week These drugs are commonly prescribed for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, but can also be used to treat narcolepsy or weight loss. The basis of these drugs are stimulant based amphetamines and they are classified by the DEA as a Schedule II drug, meaning it has a high potential for abuse. Chemically, the make-up of Adderall is very similar to Meth, and the effects of it are similar to cocaine. Despite this, many users feel they are doing something quite as bad as that because it is widely prescribed to many people. This, as previously mentioned, is not the case. As a schedule II drug, abuse of Ritalin, for example, is just as illegal as narcotics such a Percocet and OxyContin. Prison sentences for selling these drugs can go up to 5 years, and that is just the legal consequence. The health effects of prescription stimulants can be increased heart rate, blood pressure, loss of appetite, and loss of sleep. In some serious cases, these drugs can cause cardiac arrest in people with heart problems. However, at the end of the day, these drugs are legally prescribed to many people who help them deal with their ADHD. Do the pros outweigh the cons, and are ADHD drugs a problem or solution? Day, M. Misuse of ADHD drugs by young people is rising, US poisons data  Bmj 339.Aug25 3 (2009): n. pag. Web. In this article, Day addresses the problem of drug abuse by young people focusing specifically on amphetamine and methylphenidate, also known as Ritalin and Adderall. He opens the article by immediately throwing out the statistic that the misuse of these drugs has risen 75% in 8 years. This statistic was based on research done by Cincinnati Hospital Medical Center. They looked at poison data from the American Association of Poison Control Center from 1998 to 2005. Cases of intentional misuse or abuse of prescription amphetamines in people 13-19 years old were used. Phone calls to the poison control center went up 76% throughout the course of the study. It was also estimated by the that prescriptions for these drugs went up 80% over this time period. This data was very interesting to me because it brought up a new point to me, the ADHD drugs issue is fairly recent. The misuse of these drugs always been going on at such a widespread level that it currently is. Another interesting point made by Day is that the drugs are commonly misused by young people. This makes sense because young people are the ones in school, but it would also seem logical for adults to abuse these drugs to become more effective in the workplace. This data highlight the cons of these drugs, and the problems that come with them. The data is provided by reputable sources and backed up with hard numbers which makes it credible. Study: Peak age for initiating prescription stimulant abuse is  Alcoholism & Drug Abuse Weekly 28.9 (2016): n. pag. In this article, the author who is not named delves more into the age at which ADHD drugs are turned to help a student with his or her exams. The claim of the article is that this age is actually between 16 and 19 while a student is in high school, rather than starting to abuse these drugs for college exams. To fight this, the author introduces the idea of having students undergo classes in high school to warn them the dangers of abusing these drugs. People at the ages 13 and 14 had just the same likelihood of starting stimulant drug abuse as a 20 or 21-year-old. Also, 18- year-old girl is twice as likely to start these drugs as her male counterpart. The research that was done to provide the data of this article was done by the National Institute of Drug Abuse. This article also again outlines the bad things associated with amphetamines and methylphenidate, leaning to the stance that ADHD drugs are more of a problem than a solution. Not only is this a problem but it is also one affecting youth as many abusers start in high school. This article was based on research done by the National Institute on Drug Abuse which leads me to believe that the data is in fact credible. Kmietowicz, Z. (2012). Children say ADHD drugs turn them into robots. BMJ: British Medical Journal, 345(7879), 2-2. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/41723998 Kmietowicz combats the beliefs of others about ADHD drugs in this article. People claim that ADHD drugs change the brains of children, robbing them of their individuality and making them robots. However, the article references a study that a research was done with 151 students who were on the drug. The results showed that the children actually felt benefitted from the drugs and kept them from lashing out as much. This study focused on the drug methylphenidate, and the research was done on children between the ages of 9 and 14 years old. The study interviewed these children who were either controls, on stimulants as ADHD treatment, or children with ADHD diagnosed but not on medicine. Ilina Singh, who carried out the study concluded that presumptions based on the ethics of these drugs were not in line with the results of the study and that these drugs do not turn children into robots. Kmietowicz brings to light some of the positive things about these drugs in this article. She brings up a negative claim about the drugs, and uses results from clinical study to disprove the negative notion that ADHD drugs turn children into robots. This article differs from many other articles because it is more based on qualitative observations than quantitative numbers, but it does go with the argument that ADHD drugs are a solution. Munro, B. A., Weyandt, L. L., Marraccini, M. E., & Oster, D. R. (2017). The relationship between nonmedical use of prescription stimulants, executive functioning and academic outcomes. Addictive Behaviors, 65250-257. doi:10.1016/j.addbeh.2016.08.023 Munro writes about the effectiveness of prescription stimulant use. The reason why most students take prescription stimulants is to do well in school and perform well academically. Munro writes that this is closely related to executive function (EF). The claim is that students deficient in EF take these stimulants to get better grades. The study was done to see if there was a relationship between executive function and prescription stimulants. 308 students at 6 different US colleges were the sample of this study. The results were that 18.8% of the sampled students admitted to taking these stimulants. There was also a trend that those with lower executive function are more likely to abuse prescription stimulants. Munro delves into the underlying cause of many prescription stimulant abuse. Many people use these drugs to help them study, but also many people do not. The results of this perhaps show the reason why some people do these drugs. A deficiency other than ADD/ADHD might not be the only thing helped by these drugs. I would deem this study to be credible based on the fact it was done at different schools with a large sample size, this helps to reduce sample error and leads to more accurate results. Mills, L. S. (2006). Prescription Stimulants Are Big on Campus. Science News, 169(21), 334-334. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/4019161 Mills writes an interesting article on the abuse of these stimulant drugs on the campuses of US universities. The opening statistic of the article is that 1 in 10 students at a college in New England admitted to using prescription stimulants without medical authorization. Questionnaires were distributed to students at this college and 347 of these were completed. 50% of these people admitted to knowing people who sold these drugs. Mills makes the observation that this drug problem differs from the usual abuse of recreational drugs. Diane R. Blake, a pediatrician at UMass Medical School believed that even these results were underreported because people like admitting to illegal activities. Mills bring up the point that the high rate of abuse may be due to high amounts of people with undiagnosed ADHD. This article again shows statistical numbers for the abuse of ADHD drugs. With only 1 out of 10 abusing but half knowing dealers, I infer that many people truthfully admit to their own drug abuse. There would not be so many dealers if so many people use the drugs. This article itself is credible as it is published in a peer reviewed science journal but the results of the data may not be 100% accurate because people always tell the truth. Arria, A. M., Caldeira, K. M., Vincent, K. B., K. E., Cimini, M. D., Geisner, I. M., & ... Larimer, M. E. (2017). Do college students improve their grades by using prescription stimulants nonmedically?. Addictive Behaviors, 65245-249. doi:10.1016/j.addbeh.2016.07.016 This study is based on the fact that many students take prescription stimulants in an effort to improve their grades. 898 students who were not diagnosed with ADHD were the basis of the study. There were four groups in the study, Abstainers, Initiators, Desisters, and Persistors. Abstainers did not use drugs; Initiators began using in their third year; Desisters used drugs year 2 but not year 3, and Persistors used drugs in both years. The results were raised GPA in abstainers but no effect on any other group. These results concluded that these prescription stimulants did not help abusers achieve higher GPAs. This article was most effective in answering the research question. Other articles answered with the fact that many students do, in fact, abuse these prescription drugs, but did not have data on whether or not it was effective in helping academic performance. With the result of the article being that the drugs did not affect GPA, this would lead me to believe that prescription stimulant abuse is in no way a solution. Although this article is credible, it is weird that abuse rates are as high as they are without being an effective drug in the purpose.