Mary Warwick Carr ENC1101 19 February 2017 Planned Parenthood and Family Planning Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) is a nonprofit organization that provides reproductive health services and sexual education. In 1916 Margaret Sanger opened the first birth control clinic in the U.S. in Brooklyn, New York. In 1921 Sanger founded the American Birth Control League which later on became Planned Parenthood in 1942. Their organization contributes to research in reproductive technology and performs advocacy work aimed at protecting and expanding reproductive rights. While it may seem like Planned Parenthood handles only abortions they actually provide many other helpful services such as other forms of contraception, pregnancy tests, sexual education, cancer screening and prevention, STI/STD testing and treatment, etc. Since the conception their organization has faced support, protests, and attacks due to the fact that abortion is a highly controversial topic. You have people arguing that it should not happen because it is murder and others arguing that it should be up to the individual considering it is their body. For years legislatures have argued to keep or get rid of it. That being said it why do we need to keep Planned Parenthood? It is fundamental that we retain and not lower funding for Planned Parenthood because many people rely on their services for survival. Claeys, V. (2010). Brave and angry The creation and development of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF). European Journal of Contraception & Reproductive Health Care, (Sup2), S67-S76. doi:10.3109/13625187.2010.526726 In this article Claeys talks about the development of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) and the people involved in starting it. She mentions how important it was when it started and how important it is still to this day. She goes into how the organization got involved with many different countries throughout the world and its effect on them. Claeys mention the efforts needed to protect the human rights involved in the organization. It is important that we keep Planned Parenthood because it not only provides services for the U.S. but collaborates with other organizations to provide their services internationally. They supply things such as contraceptives and have gotten other countries to establish Family Planning and population policies in the past. Their work goes beyond abortions, they are providing necessary services for fertility control. So getting rid of or defunding Planned Parenthood would affect more than just the U.S. Claeys tells the story of how Planned Parenthood started to give you some historical context about the subject before going into why we still need it. This, I think, helps give the reader a better understanding of the importance of their organization. Lindberg, L. D., Frost, J. J., Sten, C., & Dailard, C. (2006). Provision of Contraceptive and Related Services By Publicly Funded Family Planning Clinics, 2003. on Sexual and Reproductive Health,38 (3), 139-147. doi:10.1111/j.1931-2393.2006.tb00262.x In this article Dailard et. al, are addressing the data from a 2003 survey about the different services that separate publicly funded family planning clinics provide. They go into the specifics of what percentage of clinics offer certain types of contraceptives, Pap smear tests, or STI tests. They also talk about the percentage that offer non-reproductive health services for men, counseling about abstinence for minors, and have staff available for non-English speakers. The authors are using logos by providing you with these statistics. Dailard et. al, conclude that public funding for these clinics is crucial to keep up with their diverse client base and new technologies. Dailard et. al, are showing the diverse services that Planned Parenthood provides and how many of the clinics provide each service. They mentioned how even if certain clinics did not offer something, they could always refer you to other resources that would. They demonstrate how these clinics services go beyond contraceptives and that a lot of people, specifically low income women, rely heavily on these services to survive. This is why it is imperative that we have clinics like Planned Parenthood. Allen, R. H. (2007). The Role of Family Planning in Poverty Reduction. & Gynecology, 110 (5), 999-1002. doi:10.1097/01.aog.0000287063.32004.23 The focus of this article is on how family planning plays a big part in population growth, Poverty reduction, and human development. Allen says that a failure to maintain family Planning programs, both here and abroad, will lead to increased population growth and Poorer health worldwide, especially among those who are poor. Aside from the fact that these family planning programs like Planned Parenthood provide many other beneficial things towards our health we do really need to make sure we are not taking away too much funding from them. Women need these reproductive rights because they will overall affect everyone, especially with the rapid increase in the human population. Brandhorst, J. K., & Jennings, F. J. (2016). Fighting for funding: Values advocacy and Planned right-to-life. Relations Review, (4), 723-733. doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2016.06.002 Brandhorst et. al, analyzes the rhetoric of Planned Parenthood and more specifically their response to some controversial videos released by The Center for Medical Progress in July of 2015. They also examine how Planned Parenthood uses social media to appeal to Americans and strengthen their image. While Brandhorst et. al, were primarily focused on analyzing rhetorical skills and identifying how they were utilized in that specific situation, through their analysis they point out positive aspects about Planned Parenthood. Sense their main focus is rhetoric it is not as helpful as some of the other sources used but good points about the importance of Planned Parenthood are brought up. They mention how each year Planned Parenthood provides 400,000 Pap tests, 500,000 breast exams, and 4.5 million test & treatments for STDs. They also mention that while most of the controversy about Planned Parenthood almost always regards abortion procedures, it is actually a very small fraction of what they do. Browne, S. P., & Lalumia, S. (2014). The Effects of Contraception on Female Poverty. of Policy Analysis and Management, 33 (3), 602-622. doi:10.1002/pam.21761 In this article Browne et. al, address the relationship between early access to legal birth control pills and poverty rate. They provide you with a background on access to birth control then delve deeper into all the aspects of how they affect each other. They use statistics and provide graphs and tables based on a census with data from 1960 to 1990. They concluded that having legal access to birth control pills by the age of 20 significantly reduced the probability, that a woman was later on in poverty, by 0.5 percent. While that does not sound like much it is quite a lot considering that the poverty rate for households headed by single women were already very high. Seeing as Planned Parenthood is one of the main providers of birth control and other forms of contraceptives it would be very damaging to get rid of them all together or even for them to lose funding. It would almost definitely have a negative effect on the female poverty rate, especially considering the fact that Planned Parenthood does cater so much to low income women. If they already do not have as much money, they most likely will not be able to pay much more for them from other sources. Oglesby, W. H. (2014). Perceptions of and preferences for federally-funded family planning clinics. Health, 11 (1), 1-16. doi:10.1186/1742-4755-11-50 In this article focus is on whether or not we still need Title X family planning while we have the Affordable Care Act. A study was conducted by surveying 696 clients who received services from 1 of 8 Title X-funded family planning clinics in Northeast Ohio. He found that a majority of the clients who participated stated having very positive perceptions of Title X funded clinics. Oglesby provides you with tables detailing the results. While doing this he goes into the importance of having sexual and reproductive health services. Oglesby provides you with statistics like nearly half the percentage of women who became pregnant that year did not intend to. The rates were highest among young women with the fewest attained years of education and poor or low-income women. Women who do not want to have a child, whether they are in that situation or not, need a safe alternative or at least information on how to go about handling this new and very big thing in their life. With planned parenthood you can be provided with options on what to do if you are not ready, whether you would like to terminate the pregnancy or just learn how to prepare.