Langlois 1 Elijah Langlois Nancy Carr ENC 1101 February 12th, 2017 Ideal Age of Marriage Over the past century many things have changed such as technology, education, and social norms have changed so much that they are hardly recognizable. For many The purpose of this writing is to deepen my knowledge about how marriage has been affected by this stretch of time, particularly the age that people are deciding to get married at. This leads me to my research question, are some of the major factors that lead to the increase in the major age? I feel this topic will benefit as a people and help us grow socially and is relevant because it show how the age that people decide to get married at directly affects things such as birth rates and fewer people getting married and those are being affected by factors such a occupation, age, education, gender (roles), and laws that are correlated with the increase of the ideal marriage age. One of the questions that came up in my research was does the ideal marriage age of the United States of America differ in comparison to a foreign ideal marriage age and are the factors the and to answer this side question I gave 2 different articles Nepal to give you a diverse selection of place that the ideal marriage has changed. Annotated Bibliography: Jones, J. M. (2006). Ideal Age for marriage: 25 for women and 27 for men: average ideal age for both genders has increased in last 60 years. Gallup Poll Briefing, 5-8. Langlois 2 Jones gives us multiple graphs on polls the they took asking 500 men and women about their ideal age for marriage, this gives you a good perspective on how the views of marriage have changed over time. Graphs show how a majority of the people in 1960 thought that they had to get married before the age of 25, especially the women. While people in 2006 also had a majority vote for getting married during 21-25, they voted a majority after 21-25. Talks about how education might play a role in why the ideal age increased. article would be a good starting point for the start off my my first body paragraph in my paper, because not only it allow me to easily state what the the ideal marriage is while giving good graphics, but also provide a good transition into the next paragraph, which will be education, talking about our first major factor of the ideal marriage age. Schumm, W. (2010). Alone together: how marriage in america is changing. Of Comparative Family Studies, (5), 872. Schumm states that marriage is less of a privilege and more of a lifechoice, briefly describes the generation gap, but the beginning was cut off, explanations of how education and marriage at a later age can increase the average ideal marriage age but by having an increase in those two things they can lead to both positive and negative things. Gives some ways to increase the longevity of marriage. This is one of the few articles that I looked at that states anything about there being a negative things, such as increase in premarital cohabitation, living together before marriage, and same sex Langlois 3 marriages, but in June 2015 same sex marriage was legalized, also in July 2016 Florida repealed an act that put a ban on cohabitation. Even though the negative effects that Schumm gave were so bad, why were there laws or repeals made in support of gay marriage and cohabitation? Brown, S. L., Van Hook, J., & Glick, J. E. (2008). Generational differences in cohabitation and marriage in the US. Research And Policy Review, 27(5), 531-550. Brown show how cohabitation and nuptiality, proportion of couples who get married in a particular changed from the last generation while going over multiple ethnic groups. Gives more info on nuptiality, about how the percentage of marriages will lower from 2 major factors, immigration and education. Gives different cultures form of marriage. The key points in article that I will implement into my writing will have to be how he talked about how an immigrant coming into the U.S. will get married, because they have do not have enough resources i.e. education, money, and laws for immigrants, but with the 2nd generation will have more access to those resources e.g. education and security since they are born U.S. citizen. Yabiku, S. (2005). The Effect of non-family experiences on age of marriage in a setting of rapid social change. Studies, (3), 339-354. Langlois 4 Yabiku explains how employment, social, and educational status deters the marrying process, and gives us a real life example, people in the Chitwan Valley (located in Nepal). Since the Chitwan marriage remained constant for so long, it shows how marriage was affected by the influence of employment, schooling, and the media. Yabiku made some good points of how people tend to not want to get married until they are completed with their education and how people are usually not treated as adults until they are fully complete with their education. I would like to use it as another good definition as to why education is a major factor in the change of ideal age factor, keeping that in many teens fresh outta high school over the last century did not further pursue further education after graduating high school as opposed to nowadays where the rates of people going to college skyrocketed. Ono, H. (2003). economic standing, marriage timing, and cross-national contexts of gender. of Marriage & Family , 65(2), 275-286. Ono explains about how gender roles affected females in the Japan, The U.S., and Sweden, also clarifies how these gender roles changed over time and how they affected the age that women got married at. States that an increased economic position for women will also increase chances of marrying. I feel that this article would work as good support of the of article, Poll Briefing, because it can explains why the graphs changed more drastically for women but not as much in men while giving a good visual. Not only is a good supporting the first source, but it also goes over one of the main Langlois 5 factors that changed ideal marriage age, Gender Roles (for females). Unfortunately Ono it does not discuss many gender roles for males, so it seemed like werent were getting both sides of the story, but regardless I feel it is a very reliable source for information on gender roles for females and it is that since ideal marriage age were more impacted than marriage age. Sah, N. (2008). How useful are the demographic surveys in explaining the determinants of early marriage of girls in the terai of nepal?. Of Population Research , 25(2), 207. gives a good real world example of a place, Nepal, affected by a law that forced them to raise their legal age of marriage, especially for the women, which was previously at 15.4 years old in 1961, went to around 19.5 y/o in 2001 and abor 21 in males, although talks about factors that could change and that would include: sex/gender, caste/ethnicity, religion, ecological region, education, occupation, economic status and types/forms of marriage. Will play a huge part in my writing since it talks about so many factors that changed the ideal marriage age such as law which practically threw India into a state of confusion by the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act that was put into action in 2006 utterly changing the the legal marriage age or when a female or male reach. In the major factors that have affected the ideal marriage age over the past century would be education, laws, and gender (roles). These factors are interwoven into a much bigger web that affect many other things such as birth rates, cohabitation, occupation, schooling, and even Langlois 6 schooling. Plus these factors are not just limited to the U.S. but also affect places foreign places such as Nepal just as much as it did in the US.