Reynoso 1 Paola Reynoso Prof. H. Lay ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Gun Control or Gun Rights? There is too much violence in our nation, and the primary cause of death is as a result of gun violence. Due to what is happening, the term gun control is used to describe the regulation of the sale and ownership of firearms. Like every other controversial topic, there are people in favor and against gun control. Those in favor are concerned about the great amount of violence due to guns and how it affects the safety of the citizens, and those against gun control are concerned with their rights and being able to defend themselves. Likewise, there are organizations that support or oppose gun control. An organization in favor of gun control is the States United to Prevent Gun Violence (SUPGV), while the National Association for Gun Rights (NAGR) is against it. These two stakeholders have different views; SUPGV wants military arms to be banned from communities and the NAGR wants people to have the right to own any weapon or firearm without the permission of the government to defend themselves. Although they have opposing views, they both still want the safety of the people, but they want to achieve it in different ways. To achieve a common goal, before buying a weapon a background checks most be done to the client. The States United to Prevent Gun Violence has the purpose of making communities safe for people, and they work to reduce deaths and injuries by pushing to make more legislations and by educating the citizens about gun violence. The SUPGV works to Reynoso 2 effective policy local action to highlight gun violence close watch on dangerous gun lobby policies and with leaders, the public and the fact-based input to local elected representatives and members of Congress about stronger gun and our state groups in engaging supporters with a shared online communications system for emails, action alerts, petitions and States The SUPGV website states: have the right to be safe in our homes, schools, and communities and to live in a country free from the fear, loss, and grief caused by gun violence felons, terrorists, domestic abusers and the seriously violent mentally ill continue to have easy access to firearms and ammunition because of our weak gun States They want to keep guns away from criminals, terrorists and those who are violent due to a mental illness through the use of background checks before buying a gun and keep guns away from domestic abusers, whether a male or female. They also want gun owners to keep guns unloaded and stored away from the reach of children, and they want to educate families about guns and gun violence, their risks, dangers and consequences. In addition, they want to ban military arms from communities to prevent massacre. In relation to the mentally ill who own guns, the organization sees it as really dangerous States According to the article, There a Gun in the Assessing the Risks of Gun Ownership in Older Adults, an elderly couple who both had dementia, a mentally ill disease, were taken care of by their nephew and his wife. When doing a safety check, a gun was seen loaded, and the elderly man had two other pistols just in case of an intruder. When the nephew was informed he said he would remove them but he did not, so months later, the elderly man threatened the nephew with one of the guns, and the police intervened. This Reynoso 3 example shows what could happen if someone mentally ill would posses a gun (Pinholt, E. M., et al. 1). By doing these five things, the community can be a safer and fearless place to live. The second stakeholder, National Association for Gun Rights, is a gun right advocacy group that was founded by Dudley Brown in 2000. The NAGR works to uphold the Second Amendment and pass the Constitutional Carry Legislation, which consists of people having the right to buy and bear arms without a government permission slip because people should have the right to self-defend According to the journal, The Harvard Law Review Association, the article Law-Second Amendment-Ninth Circuit Holds that Concealed Carry is not Protected by the Second states that the Carry Legislation is not part of the Second Amendment, yet in California one can have open and concealed carry of firearms in public areas This is what the NAGR is trying to achieve. The NAGR states that: one should be treated like a criminal simply for wishing to carry a firearm in defense of themselves or their By having the Carry Legislation, they would know everyone will have the right to own a gun; some might exercise their right and some might not. The NAGR has already helped Kansas and Maine achieve the passing of the Constitutional Carry Legislation in 2015, and it has also helped propose the Constitutional Carry in many other states. They also achieved the Constitutional Carry in West Virginia, Idaho and Mississippi in March 2016. This was due to the NAGR pushing the bill through legislature and the support of gun owners, which lead the legislators to vote for the bill. Another victory was in July 2016, after the terrorist attack in Orlando; there were 6-separated anti-gun amendments in the Senate, which were defeated by the NAGR by delivering more than 300,000 petitions and many calls and emails so that the anti-gun amendments would not pass. The final victory would be that the House Speaker, Paul Ryan, was planning to achieve the anti-gun H.R. 5611, which would deny Reynoso 4 the rights to bear arms without permission to the citizens. Despite this, the NAGR was able to collect 500,000 petitions and make more than 15,000 calls that made the anti-gun groups retreat It can be seen, the primary goal of the NAGR is to achieve that every state has the Constitutional Carry, meanwhile the States United to Prevent Gun Violence primary goal is the safety of each individual. Both stakeholders contradict, but they have the same goal of safety; they just want to achieve it in different ways. A simple compromise might be making a complete and accurate background check of the client before buying a weapon; this will make it safer to those in the community. This way SUPGV will be more relieved in terms of safety and anyone would be able to buy guns. By making this compromise, the SUPGV will not achieve the ban of military arms in the community, yet they will be achieving the security that they wanted for the communities. With this compromise, the NAGR will not gain the Constitutional Carry Legislation, unless they keep fighting for it like they have done previously. At the same time, anyone has the freedom to buy a gun once they have done a background check. By continuing fighting, the Constitutional Carry Legislation could pass in almost all the states. This way both stakeholders give up something, yet they gain something. For the compromise to be accomplished the NAGR and SUPGV would have to work together, something that they have not done and impedes their resolution. Since they both want safety, the background checks would be a mediator for what they want. Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence states: law has several flaws, however, that allow ineligible individuals to obtain Check Some flaws of the current background checks include private sales, reporting of records, and verifying identification. Unlicensed private sellers do not have the obligation to make background checks, and as a consequence felons and other people can buy guns easily Check Since there is not any knowledge Reynoso 5 of who are the unlicensed private sellers, they cannot be control, yet due to this being illegal the police should pay more attention to it and there should be more security. If they caught an unlicensed private seller, they should go to jail. Background checks are incomplete due to the lack of criminal history records, mental health records, drug abuse records, and domestic violence records Check Finally, verifying that the identification of the individual is valid is something that the process of background check is lacking. The ideal background check will include the report of records, verification of identification and private sails, and it will take a while on finishing to confirm that it is completed. The compromise based on background checks would benefit both stakeholders although other things can be done in the future, like educate and train the public. The compromise of background checks will make a difference and in the long run, both stakeholders will achieve what they want: safe communities and the Constitutional Carry Legislation in every state. Progress is not seen from one day to the next, it takes time, effort and dedication. If both of these stakeholders accept the compromise, in the future there could be less gun violence and freedom to own a gun. In the future, they can also work together to provide education about gun violence and train citizens. They could create awareness and spread knowledge by teaching the dangers and consequences of using a gun because with just one bullet the heart can stop beating and a live can be taken. Also, they could work on training citizens to be safe in situations where guns are used and how to defend themselves. This can also prevent gun violence, making communities safe. Reynoso 6 Works Cited National Association of Gun Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. https://www.nationalgunrights.org/about-nagr States States United to Prevent Gun Violence /A 50 State Solution To End Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://ceasefireusa.org/about Check Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 http://smartgunlaws.org/gun-laws/policy- areas/gun-dealer-sales/background-check-procedures/. The Harvard Law Review Association. Vol. 130:1024 pg. 1024-1031. 2017. Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.dictionary.com/. Association of Gun Omics International. N.p. n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Pickhartz, E. National Association for Gun Rights Work to Protect the Second Amendment Rights of Wideopenspaces. 9 Oct. 2014. N.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.wideopenspaces.com/qa-dudley-brown-president-national-association-gun- rights/ Pinholt, Ellen M., Joshua D. Mitchell, Jane H. Butler, and Harijinder Kumar. There a Gun in the Assessing the Risks of Gun Ownership in Older Journal of the Reynoso 7 American Geriatrics Society 62.6 (2014): 1142-1146. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.