ENC1102 Instructor: Adam Carter Name: Shuoyuan Zhang Will meat fade from the menu The United States is a country of meat consumption. From Ari article, the rate of meat consumption is sustained growing in the past four decades, and he uses a date report from Rabobank (a Dutch bank that focuses on agriculture) to point the specific number that shows the meat consumption in the US. In 2012, the average annual meat consumption is 184 pounds and the number was increased to 193 in 2015. (Phillips). Consider the increasing tendency of meat consumption, and other problems of meat eating such as healthy, environment, many people suggest reducing meat consumption in the future. They think meat eating increased cancer risk and domestic animal farm produces much CO2 and methane which are the greenhouse gas. some people focus attention on the meat industry. For example, like PETA(People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), which is the largest animal rights organization in the world. One of their goals is to reduce the killing of animals in the food industry. What PETA REALLY Stands In another side, many people like to eat meat (chicken, or beef, or pork). They just enjoy their good meal and care other things. Besides, legally no one can stop other people eating meat. Another stakeholder is companies in the meat industry. Such as Tyson Food Inc. They think every child should have a childhood with chicken. And the purpose of this paper is to find a compromise for people of opposite groups. People who want to reduce the killing of animals could give a suggestion to meat companies to develop a new food that tastes like meat to an alternative to real meat. But companies are profit organization, they have to do it. So, the environmental organization needs to provide some support to meat companies, after that, meat companies need to reduce their animal farm size. The first stakeholder about this topic is meat companies. Tyson Foods Inc. is a Is a typical representative. Tyson Foods is one of the biggest meat companies in the USA. Their main products are chicken, beef, and pork. As we all know, these meat are from animal farms. Food companies are profit organization, so their main goal is making money. From article, these animal farms maybe not good for health, Tyson Foods has admitted that injects its chickens with antibiotics before they hatch, and they are not labeled. That means the chicken with antibiotics in plate and people know that(Mercola 2008). The meat company just want to breed animals to sale. They also focus on the cost of production, like the example above mentioned. Tyson Foods in order to reach high survival of chick, they even use antibiotics to the egg. The another stakeholder is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. It is an organization that focuses on animal rights. It pays attention to the four area: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry. works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest Mission ). From PETA website. They are also trying to reduce meat consumption, and suggest a vegetarian diet. Compare the goals of two stakeholders above, they look like contradict with each other, one is selling their meat product to make money, and another one wants to reduce meat product. so the compromise should consider how to let them both get the benefit. Find a meatless food which tastes like meat and alternatives to meat is a feasible compromise for following stakeholders. There are two obvious stakeholders when consider if meat consumption reduced: meat eaters and environmentalists. The goal is simple, eat meat. And the goal of latter is reducing the meat consumption to protect the environment. From Roger Harrabin, meat eating is really involved greenhouse gas level. He mentioned a research from Cambridge and Aberdeen universities, the greenhouse gas from food will raise up to 80%. (Harrabin) as we all know, many countries in the world have the same target that limiting the emission of greenhouse gas. Animal farms release much gasses such as carbon dioxide, methane. In other words, the amount of greenhouse gas emission from livestock animals is higher than the whole transportation system (Phillips). Another paper by Bobby Magill said, beef uses more land and freshwater and generates more greenhouse gas emissions per unit of protein than any other commonly consumed So, environmentalists think reducing meat consumption is a good way to fight global warming. For meat eaters, they eating meat for nutrition and/or good taste. Many people think people cannot get normal nutrition if they get enough meat, a misunderstanding, from Sharon Palmer, Vegetarian Diets could support a person in any period including pregnancy, lactation, infancy, childhood, and adolescence, and for athletes. (Palmer) Mix their goals together, if people could find some meatless food that has similar nutrition and taste as real meat, which could be alternative to real meat. Secondary, when people talk about reducing meat consumption, meat companies must against that idea because of their profit. So, there is another pair of stakeholders, meat companies versus a group of environmentalists who want to reduce meat product. For meat companies, the goal is making more money. To achieve their goal, they have to try everything to increase their quantity of sale. For opposite side of stakeholders, they just want to reduce the amount of meat in the market. As the paper mentions above, they want to get a better world and keep healthy. So, the compromise is a way to get to their both goals to some extent. Increasing the price of meat is a good way to solve this problem. I will explain how it works for both sides of stakeholders. Think a minute, assume meat companies increase the price, then there is some people may reducing the purchase of the meat product, and buy other food. For meat companies, they sold less meat product than before, but they probably just lost a little of profit because the unit price is higher than before. In addition, they could reduce the size of factories, which also reduce the cost to process meat product. Finally, the meat companies lose too much. They might even get more money. And people of another side would also find the amount of meat would be less than before. So, I think this compromise is also a practical way. On conclusion, the meat will not fade from menu in the short term although some articles show consuming a large amount of meat is not a good thing. And there is a practical compromise to solve this contradiction. The first one is finding meatless food alternatives to meat, another one is increasing the price of meat. Meat eater loss nutrition as Palmer said in his article meat, no And meat companies lose their profit and environmentalists could also see the amount of meat in the market will reduce to some extent. habits and customs is very difficult to change, although they may know the dark underside of the meat-packing industry from many investigations and documentaries like and And new theories will encounter resistance in this complex business circumstances. So, we have to find some compromises to solve the problem. Work cited page Ari Phillips, are eating meat like going out of style 2016, Fusion. From: http://fusion.net/story/338095/last-year-americans-ate-meat-like-it-was- going-out-of-style-its-not/ Bobby Magill, Show Link Between Red Meat and Climate 2016, climatecentral. From: http://www.climatecentral.org/news/studies-link-red-meat-and- climate-change-20264 Mercola, Need to Know This If You Eat Tyson 2008, from http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2008/11/29/you-need-to-know-this- if-you-eat-tyson-chicken.aspx Roger Harrabin, gas fear over increased levels of meat 2014, BBC environment analyst. From: http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-29007758 on the carcinogenicity of the consumption of red meat and processed 2015, World Health Organization, From http://www.iarc.fr/en/media- Sharon Palmer, Meat, No Problem Vegetarian Diets Can Support Optimal Health for Infants and 2010, Dietitian, From http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/030810p28.shtml PETA REALLY Stands n.d. PETA web 2017, available from http://www.peta.org/features/what-peta-really-stands-for/