Aloraier 1 Nawaf Fahad T. Aloraier Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 15 Febuary 2017 The Second Amendment and Gun Control Can Co-Exist It has been 226-years and we still follow a framework of laws. A thought that many oppose to, but maybe necessary to consider. Since the U.S. is the highest owning gun population in the entire world, being killed from a terrorist attack is less to happen to being killed by a gun on American soil (CNN.) Every country needs one (a constitution), but the constitution need an upgrade version of itself, or a bit of modification on it considering the events that are happening in this era? Gun issue, a problem that the U.S. still cannot solve without making all parties satisfied. The NRA an organization that is strongly defending the second amendment and with guns in the United States. The Brady Campaign, unlike the NRA, wants to change a little in the selling of guns, by putting rules and laws to buying one. The constitution of the United States grants the right to own a handgun to every civilian but with the conflict of gun control by not registering them from one side or people will not be having the opportunity to benefit from their rights is in the way from the other side it seems that we are going in circles. Regardless of both groups the NRA and the Brady Campaign wanting what is best for the people which is ending violence and less homicides. Not every citizen should be granted a weapon. A weapon should be registered, and only be granted for the right purposes with a full background check on the buyer so they can be controlled. The mission statement is To protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American Aloraier 2 citizen guaranteed by such Constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use (Chilson par. 2) The statement really shows what the group stands on and on what they believe. A supporting article by Marc Cooper tells that since people had the advantage of easily owning a weapon the death rate has fallen by a 4.7% either being from a homicide or a suicide since the according to the study shown (15). From the statement, we acknowledge that the regulations and laws on guns are going to be negative, and will not let the citizen of this country have the chance to explore and gain from what the founding fathers have set for them. We could also understand that an act on the constitution will be considered an act of war since the NRA has stated that they will defend and protect it from whatever comes upon it from such regulations. study shows us that more guns will equal less death by weapons since everyone will have them would have a chance to defend themselves and their loved-ones. The average rate provided from the 4.7% decline in 26 years (1990-2016) is a strong wall that should not be underestimated. Moving on from these two opinions that guns are good and not evil to the other idea of them. The Brady Campaign mission is to create a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by  This campaign hopes to decrease the death caused by guns in any proper way. Kristin Goss writes in her article that United States has far more gun violence, including mass shootings, than do other advanced industrial Australia, Canada, and United responded to mass shootings by dramatically strengthening their already strong gun laws, the United States has moved incrementally, if at From understanding the quote, being safer in the U.S. will mostly happen if guns were to be monitored and registered so that death rates from it could fall from reading the mission statement. Goss mentioned that the laws of the countries comparing the United States with helped from leading people to getting hurt or losing a loved one by guns. The Aloraier 3 comparison also shows that the other countries are advanced and are in the first world as the U.S. is, we can realize that this a fair compression for this country. Both of these statements agree on setting laws that will help to erase the gun assaults. Nonetheless, of both disagreements, there will be common interests. The major interest between the NRA and Campaign is the safety of the people. Both groups would like to end the violence and misuse of guns and to lower the causality rate to the lowest as they can. They all want everyone to live to their possibilities, potentials, and dreams without being taken away from them by their death or the death of a loved one which could affect them. Another thing is that both organizations want the people to enjoy their full rights without being taken away. Finally, guns in the hands of the mentally ill is not alright and it is agreed on by the two parties. As for a compromise for the groups, here are some solutions that could be taken under consideration. Mandatory educational courses are to be held at the expenses of the buyer teaching them the right way of handling the responsibilities of handling the purchased gun. The mentally ill, and criminals are not to be granted a weapon of any sort except if it was under supervision or desperately needed if under a threat. Automatic machine guns are to be under supervision with both parties agreeing on the terms they both set. Weapons need to be registered, and the closest department of police is to be notified when owning or purchasing a weapon from the buyer. A supporting article by Sarah Brady ads that will also help us to be sure that when guns are sold they are resold to responsible people who have undergone a background check and who are (Brady). Negotiations to settle any differences between the NRA and the Brady Campaign will be held under the supervision of a jury expert in guns, two members from both democratic and republican parties will be present, and then each group will be sending two members representing them with their ideas and opinions. The expenses will be taken out of the budgets, the time of meetings Aloraier 4 will be held twice a month, and every time in the head-quarters of each group. From these solutions, both stakeholders will manage to co-exist. In all, since the NRA believes are to let every citizen enjoy what has been set for them by the founding fathers, campaign also believes that but with some restrictions. The second amendment can be side-to-side with the gun control idea without harming the integrity of the constitution. But the issue is the NRA will not let the Brady group change or add laws that prohibit the full usage of the second amendment. Both parties have a common interest which is the safety of the people of this country. Finally, for the compromise, both groups agree upon regestrarting the weapons and to educate people on how to use it in a proper way without losing their temper. Aloraier 5 Work Cited mission statement: Brady Campaign http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady . Accessed 25 January 2017. Brady, Sarah. regulation and Education will help stop the gun Vol.57, 1995, pp. 5. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Accessed 16 February 2017 Chilson, Morgan. Association for Gun Rights vs. NRA: How Do They Newsmax. 12 October 2014, http://www.newsmax.com/FastFeatures/national- association-for-gun-rights-nra-differ/2014/10/12/id/600067/ . Accessed 29 January 2017. Cooper, Marc. control is a misfire: What liberals and the NRA both get The American Conservative LLC, vol.15, 2016, pp. 15. Academic OneFile. Accessed 18 January 2017. Goss, Kristin A. the Odds on Gun Regulation: The Passage of Bipartisan Mental Health Laws Across the American Journal of Orthopsychiatry Inc., vol.85, 2015. pp. 203-210. Academic OneFile. Accessed 26 January 2017.