Cullen James Mitvalsky Professor Carr ENC 101 February 19, 2017 Assisted Suicide: An Annotated Bibliography Assisted suicide is a very controversial and taboo subject that discussed very often. This is one of the main reasons that I chose to research this topic. Many of the issues surrounding assisted suicide is the morality, and ethics involved in the deciding process of whether a person should be allowed to take their own life. Throughout the paper, I will be summarizing and presenting personal accounts and studies of patients struggling with terminal diseases and illnesses that have stripped away any value of life that they once had. One of the first doctors to specialize in assisted euthanasia was a man named Jack Kevorkian. He believed that everyone should have the right to choose when it is their time to go. He dealt with many patients who were in such agony and suffering, that he decided to provide services to these people to make their final moments more peaceful. Since his early beginnings in assisted euthanasia, he has helped over 21 patients ease their pain and comfort many families. As I dig deeper into this matter and read multiple personal accounts, I will be answering the question, is assisted suicide justifiable in the case of someone who is terminally ill and suffering? Annotated Bibliography Chapple, A., Ziebland, S., McPherson, A., & Herxheimer, A. (2006). What People Close to Death Say about Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide: A Qualitative Study. Journal of Medical Ethics, (12). 706. This study by Chapple et. was conducted by interviewing people who were in hospice, as well as people who were not terminally ill, and getting both opinions on assisted suicide. One of the biggest issues with those not ill, was that the idea of assisting someone in death goes against the will of God and their entire religion. Others that were interviewed feared that a change in legislation may cause people to misuse the law. For example, people who are healthy may start asking for assisted euthanasia because of mental illnesses such as depression. We know with time though, that those illnesses can be treated and terminal. On the other hand, the vast-majority of people in hospice would rather have ended their suffering than drag it out any longer. One patient said the hardest part was watching people come into hospice after them, and then see those people pass away before them. You can probably imagine how the patients must feel when they hear healthy people trying to oppose assisted suicide, when they have no idea what patients are going through. Personally, I believe in the separation of church and state and think that the opinions of the most powerful people, who may have a religious bias, determine what someone can do in their time of suffering. People who are healthy, although they can have an opinion, should also not be the voice of thousands who barely have a voice themselves. One patient says, almost a nonsense we decide what to do with our life at the end, it? Why should a judge be able to say, no, I kill myself if I want Chapple et. proves their credibility through personal accounts with patients, and then listing the patients ages, ethnicities, and diseases on tables. Chapple et. claims that this data is important because it samples patients who knew they were dying soon, and allows them to get more accurate opinions on dying patients towards euthanasia. Emanuel, E. J., Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B. D., Urwin, J. W., & Cohen, J. (2016). Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and Europe. JAMA: Journal Of The American Medical Association, 316(1), 79-90. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499 The purpose of the research by Emanuel et., is to compare attitudes and practices of euthanasia and physician assisted suicide (PAS) in the United States, Canada and Europe. In the United States, support for PAS went from 37% in 1947 to 53% in the By 1990, roughly two-thirds of the population were behind PAS. Strangely though, there was a decline in support by 2012. On public support surveys, when the wording of the question for PAS was changed, and the words and were added, support dropped drastically. There tended to be, according to survey data, more support for euthanasia over PAS. It is also noted, young white men with no religious background tend to be more supportive as well. In Europe, most countries have only seen an increase in the support for PAS and euthanasia. Emanuel et. correlates this to a heavy decline in religious practices in Western Europe. PAS and euthanasia in Canada are completely legal now as of 2016, after parliament passed new legislation. Physicians attitudes toward euthanasia and PAS in the US and Europe tend to be lower than the opinions of the public. According to et. research, among 18% of physicians have received requests for PAS, and only 3% have ever complied with these requests. Emanuel et. found that most European countries, along with Canada, are on a much different page than the United States. While support and legalization for euthanasia and PAS go up in Europe and Canada, it has been steadily decreasing in the United States. One of the main factors that Emanuel et. found in their research was the leading cause of opposition to PAS and euthanasia was of religious Contrary to European countries, where the exact opposite is happening as greater amounts of people are straying away from religious practices. Emanuel et. proves the research to be credible through the use of multiple tables, as well as line graphs depicting the change in support for PAS and euthanasia in multiple countries throughout many decades. Lamers, C. T., & Williams, R. R. (2016). Older Discourses About Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide: A Foucauldian Exploration. Gerontologist, 56(6), 1072-1081. Lamers and Williams, with data formed from interviews, have attempted to gain a consensus on how older people feel about assisted suicide through the use of euthanasia. Throughout the study, participants felt and on their feelings towards the idea of being assisted in death. During multiple interviews, many confusion started with not being able to identify the difference between assisted euthanasia and suicide. This made them hesitant towards the idea of assisted euthanasia. When participants were asked to define what it means to be independent, they talked about being able to do things all on their own. Participants dependency on poor in their older years, made some consider euthanasia to avoid their loss of independence and dignity. Among participants, there was an of but being alive and not having control is what causes anxiety. when they considered the idea of assisted euthanasia. Lamers, et. Through interviews proves her credibility through a table showing the demographic of the participants that she interviewed. Since her participants were all older citizens, she makes sure to give a voice to those who feel voiceless. Throughout the interviews, Lamers, et. discovers that the feelings towards Euthanasia are hesitant and anxious. Many participants felt these feelings because of the uncertainty of euthanasia, as well as trying to avoid the stage in their lives that inhibit them from living and being dependent. A patient named Beth says, I get to the stage when I look after myself, cause nobody look after me, have to go straight into (name of nursing home) and I definitely would not want Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B., Rurup, M., Pasman, H., & van der Heide, A. (2010). The last phase of life: who requests and who receives euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide?. Medical Care, 48(7), 596-603. doi:10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181dbea7 Physicians and law makers all over the country, as well as the globe, are in a pinch. There are many pros and cons to legalizing assisted euthanasia. Obviously, it would remove the burden from the family, and take away the suffering of the terminally ill patient. Which they should have the right to do if they choose. It gets tricky though, because then law makers must decide, who should be allowed to choose this method. Should it only be provided for those who are near death and in pain? Or should it also be provided to those who have years before they succumb to their illness? From what research by Onwuteaka- Philipsen et. has shown, physicians have allowed the use of euthanasia in cases where the patient has, no prospect of improvement, autonomy of the patient, symptoms and loss of People who usually have their request for euthanasia met, are patients who died in a nursing home, or died from cancer. On the other hand, you are four times more likely to receive euthanasia if you died from home, had a nervous system disease or were dying in a hospital. From the viewpoint of physicians though, results in euthanasia are not related to sex age or marital status. They concluded that, the location of the death and diagnoses resulted in more fulfilled requests for euthanasia. With these findings, it appears that physicians are picking and choosing who is allowed to have assisted euthanasia before they pass. Everyone who is suffering in pain, no matter how long it takes for the illness to kill them, should be able to choose if their life is worth living. Cancer patients, although may take years for them to succumb to their illness, have to suffer for a longer period of time, just because they might be able to get by for a few more years. If they believe that their value of life is completely diminished, and they no longer have their dignity, why continue to drag on when they could at least have the option to choose what to do with their life. 4 out of 10 times, patients end up dying before their request for assisted suicide are met. From what the research by Onwuteaka-Philipsen et. says, physicians felt that the patients suffering enough to consider them eligible for assisted euthanasia. If the patient is fully and mentally capable of making that decision, they be restricted because someone thinks they in enough pain. Proudfoot, S. (2016). is no way to desperate families are still travelling to Switzerland, even in the wake of new legislation on assisted death yjsy has left some families in a desperate catch-22. (47) The article Is No Way to by Proudfoot, is a story of desperation, frustration and the grueling process of being able to end your own suffering. Ruth Duffin was a woman who enjoyed baking with her daughter, playing with her grandchildren and most importantly, enjoyed being independent. Later, in 2008, after she was diagnosed with disease, she would no longer be able to enjoy these simple pleasures of life. For a short period-of-time, she continued to do the things she loved, but as the tremors worsened she found herself not even able to feed herself on her own, or move very much because of the pain. Ruth was very verbal when it came to the subject of assisted suicide. In Canada, assisted suicide is legal in the case of someone death is foreseeable. But in case Canada grant her that right because her condition would take years to kill her. Because of this, they began the incredible task of having to move Ruth to see doctors in Switzerland that could help her. After many months of waiting, her wish finally came true and she traveled with her family to Switzerland to have the procedure done. After the procedure, daughter Shelly said she, away into the best sleep had in a long Ruth had verbally stated on multiple occasions that she was ready to finally be at peace, but due to Canadian law, they rejected her plea for assistance. Because of this rejection, Ruth thought about taking matters into her own hands at one point, stating she would jump in front of oncoming traffic if she had to. That is a much more violent and painful way for her family to have to see her go. Assisted euthanasia is a peaceful and calm procedure in which the family can be there for Ruth and comfort her in her final moments. As you can tell from the last quote mentioned from daughter Shelly, it finally made the family feel relieved knowing Ruth was no longer suffering. It is our life to live and if we choose to, should be our life to take away. Especially when there is no longer any value to living. Sharma, B. (2003). REVIEW: To legalize physician-assisted suicide or not? a dilemma. Journal Of Clinical Forensic Medicine, 10185-190. doi:10.1016/S1353- 1131(03)00080-4 Recently, there has been more sensitivity amongst physicians to fulfill their desires when requesting euthanasia. With the increased respect for the wishes of dying patients, laws have finally started to reflect that a bit more. Thirty-eight states in the US now support the right to take a patient off life support, in the case that there is a living will or a family member gives approval. The majority of cases that have put this law into action is when a patient is permanently unconscious or in a vegetative state. Physicians feel that by assisting patients, they are creating and promoting trust within the patients during the hardest and most intense part of their lives. Another obvious pro stated in the article is that, they can remove the caused by some of the many treatments used to keep patients alive. The article also argues multiple cons to this approach of treatment. To assist anyone in their own death, diminishes what it means to be a physician. It is also argued that physicians will no longer try to comfort the patient to the best of their ability if they know their patient is going to die anyways, which could also cause mistrust between the patient and physician. The cons listed in enabling physicians to assist patients in death seem situational. If you have a physician who care much to begin with, those cons listed are expected to happen. It is good that physicians and law makers are realizing the many pros of assisted euthanasia, and the relief it is bringing for many suffering patients around the country. Thirty-eight states is a big improvement from when it used to just be Oregon that legalized it. It makes sense that you would allow the euthanasia of patients that are permanently unconscious or in a vegetative state. If they are brain dead, what is the point of spending thousands of dollars on medical expenses to keep them alive. If their living will request that they be put to sleep in that scenario, their final wishes should be honored. Sharma discusses these issues associated with the rights of the dying, and proves the research credible by providing multiple court decisions associated with euthanasia.