Albright 1 Reese Albright Professor Gocinski English Composition 2 02/18/17 Standardized Testing Compromise In recent years, there has been an emphatic debate on whether education systems should use standardized testing as a way of evaluating students. Richard Phelps stated a statistic that, percent of studies on student testing, including the use of large-scale and high- stakes standardized tests, found a on student achievement (Phelps 2011). Contrary to that, other specialists believe that these assessments are not reliable in measuring student performance. Lynn Olson performed a study on this matter, finding that, to Eighty percent of year-over-year tests score improvements were temporary and by fluctuations that had nothing to do with long-term changes in (Olson 2001). The Florida Department of Education believes standardized testing provides insight into a knowledge, while FairTest is against it due to beliefs that it is damaging the education system. These assessments are being questioned on their content and purpose in student evaluation. The Florida Department of Education and FairTest have some common values like the importance of education, giving way for a compromise that either side will be supportive of. The FDE argues that standardized provides a useful guideline to keep schools accountable and provides teach paths. The organization mission statement is as follows, Department of Education is here to increase the proficiency of all students within one seamless, efficient system, by providing them with the opportunity to expand their knowledge and skills Albright 2 through learning opportunities and research valued by students, parents, and communities, and to maintain an accountability system that measures student progress (FairTest 2017). is the key phrase in the mission statement, as it is referring to the standardized testing. The department claims that the tests provide teachers with an outline of what to teach students and ensure a useful structure. For example, the standardized testing makes sure that someone in the seventh grade is not learning the same thing as someone in the fourth grade. This is referenced in the mission statement, as standardized tests provide an efficient system and expand knowledge, the values of the department. Providing a sound education, with an effective way of testing student progress, is the main goal of the department. Michelle Rhee supports the view on standardized testing, tests are inclusive and non-discriminatory because they ensure content is equivalent for all students (Rhee 2011). Other stakeholders disagree with the idea that the department feels this way and offer up alternatives to standardized testing. FairTest believes Standardized testing places unfair labels on students, like or failing, contributing to the unfair destruction of schools. This is emphasized in their mission statement, advances quality education and equal opportunity by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and schools. FairTest also works to end the misuses and flaws of testing practices that impede those goals (FairTest 2017). The organization supports the view that these tests do not evaluate all that is important in students such as creativity, leadership, or empathy. FairTest is especially fighting for the rid of racial, class, gender, and cultural barrier to equal opportunity. These barriers are presented by, standardized tests, and preventing their damage to the quality of education (FairTest 2017). As stated in the mission statement, FairTest works to Albright 3 ensure quality educations by halting the issues in the assessments that block that from happening. Each stakeholder has similar qualities that they can use to compromise on a fair and effective way of tracking student progress through assessments. Both stakeholders appear to supporting their side for the same reason, the well-being and education of American students, however they must meet in the middle to compromise. The only absolute thing both the Florida Department of Education and FairTest can agree on is that the education of the students always comes first. To attest to this fact, the two must meet in the middle somewhere for the better of the students. Compromise will not be too hard to push through, but the changes could appear drastic. Changing the timing of testing, how students are tested, and what the students are tested on are all examples of a possible compromise for the stakeholders. The education system can find a way for students to be fairly whether that be through written exams or evaluations over the course of a school year. An assessment over the year would provide an overall better way to see student progress through GPA, conduct, and extracurricular activities. For example, becoming class president would gain points under a leadership category. Different ways of assessing students could be developed as well, examples include: situational testing, academic competitions, oral quizzes, etc. Simply bubbling in answers in a span on one day of the year does not present a viable testing method. The results of one test could be completely different from one day to the next. The National Education Association provides several alternatives to standardized testing, performance contracts; (2) teacher-student and teacher-parent-student interviews; (3) teacher-developed tests; (4) criterion-referenced tests; and (5) an open admissions policy in higher education (Quinto 1977). Performance contracts are a case that involves students understanding that they are Albright 4 working for themselves and not for the teachers. Just because the tests are changing, it does not mean the Florida Department of Education will not earn money from the tests. The students are still getting taught, maybe in an even better way, so they should be satisfied. The argument of whether standardized testing is a good way to assess the progress of students, will continue to be brought up until the method is abolished or modified to please those in opposition. The Florida Department of Education is the manager of all public education, and focuses on testing students to track their progress. FairTest is an organization that looks to have fair assessments of students, that are non-inclusive and present no barriers to anyone. While the two stakeholders may have the same goal, they differ in the fact that the Florida Department of Education is all for standardized testing, whereas, FairTest is highly against the practice as they believe it is destroying the educational system. The common ground of the two is the value of student education. When all is said, and done, both want what best educates the students and are willing to compromise for that reason. The stakeholders can meet in the middle to accomplish their goals, through year-long evaluations there is a better sense of progression. Through tests of character and non-academic skills, an overall picture can be better developed of a student. Teacher developed tests will allow teachers to make the assessments follow their class learning layout. Standardized testing clearly can be modified to appease both sides, so that students can have fair testing and the Florida Department of Education can keep track of student progress. Albright 5 Works Cited About  About FairTest FairTest. FairTest, Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Lynn Olson, Study Questions Reliability of Single-Year Test-Score Education Week, May 23, 2001 Michelle Rhee, MPP, Accommodate www.huffingtonpost.com, May 24, 2011 Quinto, Frances, and Bernard McKenna. ERIC - Alternatives to Standardized Testing.,  ERIC - Alternatives to Standardized Testing., 1977. ERIC, 1977. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Richard P. Phelps, The Effect of Testing on Achievement: Meta-Analyses and Research Summary, Nonpartisan Education Review, Apr. 2011 Stewart, Pam. About  About Us. Florida Department of Education, Web. 18 Feb. 2017.