Behan 1 Nathan Behan Professor Staiger Composition II 29 January 2017 Electric Versus Internal Combustion Vehicles When the argument between electric and internal combustion vehicles is brought up, a debate about climate change and emissions ensues. Two stakeholders in this argument are the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, as well as big oil companies such as Exxon-Mobil. The EPA is dedicated to protecting the environment as well as monitoring emissions from vehicles all over the world. Exxon-Mobil is a very large oil company that is a large part of entire economies such as Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. Since both the EPA and Exxon-Mobil have stakes in the automotive industry and will be heavily affected by the rise of electric vehicles, their common ground of adapting to the new technology of battery-powered automobiles will lead to new power plants owned by Exxon-Mobil to create electricity for this new technology. The EPA as a stakeholder sees electric cars as necessary and the perfect alternative to traditional internal combustion vehicles. The EPA has long been against oil companies justifying the huge levels of emissions from these vehicles and has long been attempting to at least educate the people about the environmental effects so many cars have. There are approximately 1.2 billion cars on the road in the world today, each giving off large amounts of Carbon Monoxide gas into the atmosphere Kining 62). This is one of the leading factors of climate change due to the greenhouse effect from all the emissions. Eran Sher, author of an engineering Behan 2 journal, states that the United States, cars, trucks, and off-road vehicles are currently estimated to be responsible for about 40 percent to 50 percent of HC, or VOC (Sher 5). Other than environmental effects, the EPA has looked into comparing the reliability of electric cars and how much more efficient they are. On average, new electric vehicles has 20% more range than a traditional internal combustion powered car (Weldon Morrissey 30). Other than the EPA, big oil companies such as Exxon-Mobil have their very livelihood at stake in this argument. defence for protecting the internal combustion engine is for economic reasons. The oil industry creates billions of dollars in revenue and creates 9.8 million jobs, which is 5.6% of the total employment in the United States (Pilita Ward London). The oil industry losing investors and profitability can lead to a massive loss of revenue and employment in the United States as well as other parts of the world. Places like the Middle East as well as parts of South America such as Venezuela will lose their main source of income and employment. This can lead to the countries becoming unstable and ravaged by unemployment and poverty, which is good for no one. Since this industry is such a large economic figure, keeping it alive is a priority. While oil companies like Exxon-Mobil are typically seen as multi-billion dollar corporate juggernauts, they are the source of millions of jobs and influence the economies of entire countries. Since these two stakeholders are at odds with one another, a compromise must be made between the two to ensure both can benefit in ways that keep the oil companies in business as well as keeping the environment in check. One compromise suggested by Clark Pilita is that oil companies should invest and start transitioning into power companies devoted to powering Behan 3 electric vehicles rather than through oil and internal combustion engines. Since the change is and bound to happen, Exxon-Mobil should invest more into their electricity producing capabilities. Even if internal combustion powered vehicles stay in use, the Earth only has so much oil. Eventually, these big companies are going to have to make the switch to electricity rather than wait until it is too late and they go out of business. Even if they continue to use fossil fuels to generate electricity, they can maintain their position of power longer than if they directly sell it to the public. Fossil fuels used in power plants in order to create electricity is much more efficient and better for the environment compared to the emissions from most of the vehicles in the world. Since both the EPA and Exxon-Mobil are strongly connected to the automotive industry, compromise between the two is not only necessary but required. Oil companies like Exxon-Mobil must begin switching to electricity production rather than gasoline for traditional vehicles. This can be done by building more power plants around the country utilizing oil for electricity production at charging stations for electric vehicles of all kinds. Rather than having fuel pumps at their already in use gas stations, they can begin replacing them with superchargers that can fill a battery in minutes. Tesla Motors, an electric car company, has already built supercharging stations all over the country for this same purpose. Showing that the company has a plan for the coming years with the rise of electric vehicles will keep investors loyal and save the future of the company. Rather than producing gasoline for automobiles, the change in use of oil to generate electricity will be better for the environment as well as be a much more efficient fuel. Behan 4 Works Cited Kihm, Alexander, and Stefan Trommer. The New Car Market For Electric Vehicles And The Potential For Fuel  Policy 73.(2014): 147-157. . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Pilita Clark, Andrew Ward and Neil Hume in London. Oil groups by electric Fitch says investors could sell out of energy  Times (London, England) 18 Oct. 2016: . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. and Martin Koning. Electric Vehicles: A Tentative Economic And Environmental  Policy 23.(2012): 60-69. . Web. 7 Sept. 2016. Sher, Eran. of Air Pollution from Internal Combustion Engines: Pollutant Formation and Control . Academic Press, 1998. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Weldon, Peter, Patrick Morrissey, and Margaret Environmental Impacts Of Varying Electric Vehicle User Behaviours And Comparisons To Internal Combustion Engine Vehicle Usage An Irish Case  Of Power Sources 319.(2016): 27-38. ScienceDirect . Web. 24 Jan. 2017.