Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Advocacy and Awareness of Military Related Post Traumatic Stress Disorder There are many issues involving military service that have been addressed by various organizations. One major issue that effects military personnel and veterans is Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). An alarmingly high number of military personnel, as many as 20%, have developed PTSD or depression after deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan (Veterans and PTSD, 1). One stakeholder in particular, Military Connection, is active in the education of combat related PTSD that effects a lot of active service personnel and veterans. Military implied claim is that there needs to be more public awareness of combat- related Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and that veterans and military personnel need better mental health care for their illness (Gregory, 1). This claim can clearly be seen in two images used on the website. These images depict the effects of PTSD on veterans and military personnel and suggests that a normal, happy life is possible. The combined visual rhetoric used in these images (ethos, pathos, logos and kairos) are directly related to the goal because they are used to make the viewer aware of the symptoms and effects of PTSD and show that proper treatment for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can lead to a better future. Figure 1 is a head-shaped word cloud composed of words and medical terms that describe the effects and symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, with PTSD in bold font in the middle of the cloud (Gregory, 1). The shape, words, and medical terms used in the Student 2 word cloud depict Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder as a serious mental illness. This descriptive image of PTSD is directly related to the goal of educating and spreading awareness of this illness and the effect it has on military personnel and veterans. Visual rhetoric is abundant in Figure 1. One of the main rhetorical devices used in the image is logos, or logical appeal (Lane et al., 32). The shape of the word cloud is a human head, which implies the use of logic. The image also appeals to logic because the words used describe the symptoms and effects that PTSD has on military personnel and veterans. An individual who views this image could easily identify those symptoms and side effects in him or herself and come to the logical conclusion that they may suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Another rhetorical device present in Figure 1 is ethos, an ethical appeal or an appeal to credibility (McKee and McIntyre, 27). The most predominate way ethos is used in Figure 1 is by the inclusion of medical terms that describe the effects and symptoms of Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder. Examples of some of the medical terms used include neuroendocrinology, biochemical, cortex, and cognitive (Gregory, 1). The inclusion of these medical terms give the whole word cloud a more professional sound, like it was composed by a psychiatrist or medical professional who is well versed on PTSD. Together, the rhetorical devices used in Figure 1 convey one of the goals, which is to educate people about Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. This is accomplished by showing the viewers the impact of the illness, proving credibility through medical terminology, and appealing to logic by describing the symptoms of PTSD. The Military Connection website uses Figure 2 to support its goal of PTSD education and treatment by advertising the study of a new experimental drug, Stellate Ganglion Block, to treat Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (Gregory, 1). In this image, a man in a military Student 3 uniform is smiling while surrounded by a brightly colored, sunny doorway. The smiling soldier and the bright colors on the doorway imply happiness and recovery. The soldier stepping out from a dark doorway into the sunshine represents moving toward a brighter future for those with PTSD. This message is directly related to the (2016) other implied claim, which is that military personnel and veterans with PTSD need more treatment options and better mental health care. There are at least two important rhetorical devices used in this image to convey Military message. The most obvious rhetorical device in Figure 2 is the use of pathos, or an emotional appeal (Lee et al., 37), to influence the intended audience. Pathos is used by incorporating the image of the smiling solider surrounded by bright colors. Both the smile and yellow and blue doorway suggest happiness. The transition from the dark interior of the building into the bright, sunny day, suggests that a soldier experiencing a dark moment in life can be brought into a lighter state of mind with the use of this medication. This image appeals to the emotions by showing that a bright future is possible, even when suffering from PTSD. The second rhetorical device used is kairos, an appeal to timeliness (Hoffman and Sawchyn, 41). Kairos is evident because the image sends a message to people that a brighter, happier future is possible if they apply to participate in this study. Knowing that medical studies have a timeline creates a sense that one must act quickly in order to be chosen to participate. Also, the more quickly a patient applies to test Stellate Ganglion Block, the faster they may help themselves and others to recover from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Further, the fact that the photograph shows a very young soldier implies that it would be beneficial to act now while still young. There is no need to suffer from PTSD until a more advanced age. The use of this photograph relates back to the (2016) implied claim that there needs to be Student 4 better treatment for PTSD because it advertises the study of a new drug that can provide a better future for sufferers. Both of these images are used by the Military Connection website to support different parts of its implied goals regarding Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. The image with the head- shaped word cloud is used by Gregory (2016) to teach us about the symptoms and effects that PTSD has on military personnel while the Stellate Ganglion Block drug study advertisement is used to show that there is hope for a cure. Together, both images depict the Military entire implied goal regarding PTSD, which includes educating the general public and promoting awareness of the illness and advocating for better treatment and metal health care for military personnel and veterans. (WC: 1053) Student 5 Work Cited Gregory, Debbie. for PTSD Awareness and Treatment: Military Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 20 June 2015, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/6040/resources-for-ptsd-awareness-and-treatment- military-connection/. Accessed 21 January 2017. Gregory, Debbie. Wanted for PTSD Study of Treatment Some Call a Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 24 Nov. 2016, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/8450/volunteers-wanted-ptsd-study-treatment-call- miracle/. Accessed 21 January 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Rhetoric Really Matters Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp. Accessed 12 February 2017 Lane, Emily, et al. Rhetoric Really Matters Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp. Accessed 12 February 2017 Lee, Kendra Gayle, et al. Rhetoric Really Matters Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp. Accessed 12 February 2017 McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Rhetoric Really Matters Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp. Accessed 12 February 2017 Veterans and PTSD. statistics: PTSD, Depression, TBI, Veterans and PTSD, 20 Sept. 2015, www.veteransandptsd.com/PTSD-statistics.html. Accessed 12 February 2017. Student 6 Figures Figure 1 Figure 2