Kolman 1 Elle Kolman Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 30 January 2017 Healthy Living Starts With a Choice The World Health Organization defines health as a state of complete, physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease of  Zones Healthy living is achieved through everyday choices. The struggle to maintain healthy eating, thinking, working and overall living habits is not something that is unknown to humans. In relation to healthy living, Blue Zones Project and Giant Food grocery stores appear to have dissimilar goals. Blue Zones Project seeks to transform the world one city at a time by helping improve where residents live, work, learn, eat, in turn helping people live longer, healthier and happier lives through their surroundings Secrets Living Longer, Better Are All Around Giant hopes to be amongst the top competitors of grocery stores by providing foods of the best quality at the most reasonable prices Food While Blue Zones Project and Giant seem to have incompatible and unrelated goals towards health, as Blue Zones Project hopes to create a healthier environment, prioritizing nutrition and overall health, and Giant hopes to be the best grocery store, prioritizing consumers and reputation, they actually could both greatly benefit from one another if they combined forces and worked together, since they both hope to positively impact the lives of people. Blue Zones Project by Healthways is a strong advocate for healthy active lifestyles. Expert teams at Blue Zones Project work with local businesses, restaurants, grocery stores, schools and many others to help make healthy food and activities affordable and easily Kolman 2 accessible Zones Blue Zones Project main goal is to  transform communities where the healthy choice is easy and people live longer with a higher quality of  Secrets to Live Longer, Better Are All Around The project was originally developed on the evidence based health principles uncovered by Dan Buettner, a National Geographic writer and explorer, who researched the healthiest places across the world or blue zones Zones He discovered that longevity and health depends on multiple factors such as having a mainly paint based diet, naturally active life, social involvement and having a purpose Zones By creating realistic plans for change Blue Zones Project takes a systematic, environmental approach to well-being, which focuses on optimizing policy, building design, social networks and the built  Zones In the past, they have teamed with city officials to construct trails for walking and biking for residents as well as team up with restaurants and grocery stores to offer a healthier variety in Hawaii, Florida, Minnesota, California and more (Healthways). In addition, Blue Zones Project has worked with business owners to improve employee health care (Healthways). Blue Zones Project leaders recognize how influential environment is on health and quality of life and so they attempt to aid humans in naturally living better. Giant Food grocery stores main focus is not on lifestyle, like Blue Zone Project, but to offer the best quality food at the most reasonable prices. Giant started as a little butcher shop and eventually grew into a large business with over 200 stores Food Growth can be attributed to their deep appreciation for quality, always wanting to deliver the finest products, stocking locally when possible (Turscik, Richard 47). They also provide scanners throughout the store that allow customers to scan and keep track of items as well as budget. Giant also displays nutritional tags on shelves within aisles to aid customers in finding specific Kolman 3 food items such as low sodium, low cholesterol etc. (Levy, Alan S, et al 1-13). In addition, Giant prepackages and sells meals for two people that provides the recommended nutritional servings for a meal Food This is optimal for customers who have a lot of time to prepare and make meals. Mr. Lenkevich, the president of Giant says, what sets Giant apart is its connection to the  (Turscik 47). Giant is among the top competitors of grocery stores due to their dedication to products, service and community. Even though Blue Zones Project and Giant appear to be two unaffiliated organizations when it comes to health, they actually have common interests. Both organizations are in the business of providing care and quality for local communities. Blue Zones Project works with cities all over the United States. Through Blue Zones actions and assistance, many cities and residents have experienced life changing differences. They achieve this by seeking out towns where citizens crave a better, healthier life and they team up with local businesses and people in order to change multiple aspects of life such as food options, exercise opportunities, increase in community events etc. Similarly, Giant strives to improve the community by providing it with the best options of foods at the best deals. Giant maintains its reputation as one of the top competitors of grocery stores due to its appreciation for quality products and its effort to always stay current with community demands. Blue Zones Project and Giant would benefit from teaming together because they both have a deep care for the community and making it the best it can be for residents. Despite the fact that Blue Zones Project and Giant initially seem to have unrelated goals they could both significantly benefit from working together. If Blue Zones Project and Giant are both willing to sacrifice time and resources they could have a huge impact on the surrounding community. Since Blue Zones Project goal is to make a healthier life easier they could start by Kolman 4 designing a plan for Giant that would leave customers with more nutritious options at an affordable price. Changing products would initially take money and time from Giant but it would potentially pay off and even profit Giant. Due to the fact that Giant is community oriented, if Blue Zones Project could get a minimum of 50% of residents in the town to sign a pledge to live healthier, Giant in return would alter their product list to be more health conscious. In the past, Blue Zones Project has gotten a total of 165, 028 individual pledges towards a healthier life Zones Not only will Blue Zones Project be required to provide Giant with signatures as proof of local demand but they will also assist in designing and implementing the logistics behind the plan at Giant so that it is successful and does not negatively impact Giant. Since its initial start as an organization, Blue Zones Project has impacted 31 communities, 1,685 organizations, and over two million lives Zones In a similar project conducted by Blue Zones Project in Albert Lea, Minnesota, average life expectancy was increased by 3.1 years with the help and cooperation of residents and local businesses (Brink, Susan). Past experiences have shown that not only does the community embrace the movement with open arms but it generally positively impacts all those who are involved. From businesses to schools, grocery stores and residents, the transition to a healthier life leads to increased profits, health and life satisfaction. Other statistics show that obesity rates decreased, health care costs decreased, as well as daily activity increasing (Brink). Giant would benefit through profits, reputation and through the local health impacts of the Blue Zones Project, while Blue Zones Project would benefit from the cooperation as it would never make any progress if businesses such as Giant make these decisions for the greater good. Overall, if Blue Zones Project and Giant Food grocery store could compromise and assist one another they could leave a lasting positive impression on each other and the community. Kolman 5 Initially it may appear that Blue Zones Project and Giant Food grocery stores interests do not coincide, however they could actually complement each other perfectly. Blue Zones Project has the experience and knowledge to take the necessary precautions and actions in changing towards a healthier menu while Giant Food grocery store has the establishment and local connections. Together, under agreed upon circumstances, these two organizations could start the transformation of a community into a place where a healthy life is so easy practically natural. A healthy life starts with a choice, and with the right choice to work together hundreds and thousands of lives could be on the road to healthier ways and better days. Separately, Blue Zones Project and Giant can only impact so many people but combined they can reach more people than either could have prospected as well as potentially influencing lives today and for the future. The possibilities that could arise from the two working together is reason enough for Blue Zones Project and Giant Food Stores to collaborate and transform their community; when combined with a logical plan of execution and the support of residents it will undoubtedly be successful and lucrative. Kolman 6 Works Cited Zones Healthways, Healthways Inc., www.healthways.com/bluezonesproject. Accessed 30 January 2017. Brink, Susan. A Health  U.S. News and World Report, Vol. 147 No. 7, Academic OneFile, 2010, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=d68d2dab-be3f-4f93-8c3a- fcb6da87ecb5%40sessionmgr102&vid=1&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#AN=edsgcl.236585890&db=edsgao. Accessed 30 January 2017. Food Home - About Us - GIANT Food Stores, Giant Food Store LLC, giantfoodstores.com/about-us/. Accessed 30 January 2017. Healthways. HMSA and Healthways Launch Blue Zones Project to Improve the Well-Being of Hawaii  Business Wire, Regional Business News 2014, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=37637e3d-7d8b-4925- 94c1- 6661e3e54dbd%40sessionmgr103&vid=4&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=bizwire.c57191016&db=bwh. Accessed 30 January 2017. Levy, Alan S, et al. Impact of Nutrition Information Programs on Food Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, Vol. 4, American Marketing Association, 1985, pp. 13. Accessed 30 January 2017. Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Blue Zones Project, Healthways Inc., www.bluezonesproject.com/. Accessed 30 January 2017. Kolman 7 Turcsik, Richard. Giant awakening: sharp pricing, high quality, top-notch stores and dedicated associates enable the GIANT Food Stores division of Ahold USA to be the market leader in its key operating  Grocery Headquarters, General OneFile, 2015, pp. 47. go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=ITOF&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&it =r&id=GALE%7CA417021400&asid=3d2a128f24315a48f5c2f0360587a990. Accessed 30 January 2017.