1 Official Language of America Whether English should be the Official Language of America or Not Nikhita Lal University of South Florida 2 What is the Official Language of America? Abstract The topic of discussion for this argumentative paper is to discuss whether English should be the national language or not. This a pro longing debate that has been occurring for a while now and has significant value to the citizens of the United States of America. There are two stakeholders involved that express their opinions on this current debate. The first stake holder is an organization called It is the name of the group that started promoting and advocacy for English being the national language of America. They believe it should be made official. The second stakeholder is an organization called a non-profit organization that focuses on the importance and promoting of languages that are not as recognized as others. Through research there are possible compromises that can be found and done to solve this national debate. Compromises consist of creating a system where English is the dominant language and used for the sole purpose of unity but other languages are available to be viewed to promote multi-cultural equality. 3 What is the official language of America? Communication is key. This is a statement that is used quite frequently throughout society. no doubt that whether you are talking about businesses, politics, doctors, or even artists, the best ones are the ones that can communicate best. Communication is an outlet for us to express how we truly feel. Fred Rogers explains it like, human is mentionable, and anything that is mentionable can be more manageable. When we can talk about our feelings, they become less overwhelming, less upsetting, and less scary. The people we trust with that important talk can help us know that we are not Well what about the United States of America? In a country filled with a diverse population, communication is essential to peace and success. A main component of communication is language. The United States of America till this day does not have an official language. This is a common debate across the country and its citizens because it effects many people and factors. Two groups that it effects are the organizations called and These stakeholders have the point of contention with whether America should make the official language English or not, however, the best proposed compromise for this situation is having English as a dominant language with other languages always as an option. U.S. English is an organization that is work with two American political advocacy groups founded in 1983 by former ophthalmologist John Tanton. The purpose of them are to defend the United States having English as the official language of the United States. The organization has intentions to make English the official language of the United States meaning that all government business or documents must be conducted in English unless in a specific situation where that is not applicable. group operates two separate nonprofit entities out of its headquarters in Washington, English, Inc. and the U.S. English Foundation or 4 native English speakers. Both would want to change the official language to English because it would bring unity across the country and to reduce federal Jan 24, 2017) The United States is a country made up of many immigrants till this day there are many citizens that cannon speak English. This is simply not practical because it impairs communication among citizens. Through making all the documents to be in the English language it will then encourage and make people put in more effort to learn English to promote a common culture. They believe that every citizen should be able to speak English because it provides a sense of unity and similarity between all citizens and will allow communication to go more smoothly. There would be a significant number of savings involved with government spending with English being the official language. According, to the Washington Post, Brandon Brice said as the official language would save billions in federal spending. The direct cost of translators and bilingual education alone are billions, and many of these costs are born by local Los Angeles in 2002, $15 million, or 15 percent of the election budget, was devoted to printing ballots in seven languages and hiring bilingual poll workers. Los Angeles county hires over 400 full-time court interpreters at a cost of $265 per day. In 2000, President Bill Clinton signed into law Executive Order 13166, which forces health care providers who accept Medicare and Medicaid payments to hire interpreters for any patient who requires one, at the own There are billions of dollars spent each year that America can save just by changing the official language. The non-profit organization of tends to have the opposite view. 7000 Languages is a nonprofit organization that makes world-class technology, donated by Transparent Language, available to language teams working with languages that are recognized as much as others or may seem to be dying out. The organization started project in 2009 and 5 it has famous quote of We live in an age of global interaction. No language is so small that no one needs to learn it. If we could, we would provide learning material for all 7,000 languages in the  (Michael Quinlan). By making the English language official America would have to deal with language barriers and assimilation of immigrants that would endure difficulty. Making English the official language would send an unequivocal message of unwelcome to the non-English parts of the world, completely counter to the melting pot ideal which makes the U.S. so great. Immigrants cannot learn to read and write in English in one day. It takes a lot of time and practice for people who have no learned English as their first language to suddenly become fluent in it. This may require classes and that is an extra expense for non-English Speakers. However, more than just learning the actual language, also about feeling comfortable with how they communicate. America is its unique country due to a high diverse population filled with immigrants, so this would be a decent amount of the population that would have to go through this. The movement does have the effect of making people look down on people who speak languages other than English. James Crawford talks about English practice. He says is no accident that attempts to restrict languages other than English occur at a time of rising immigration and empowerment by racial minorities. While explicit racial politics are no longer acceptable in American life, language politics remain This elaborate yet powerful quote describes how making English the official language would be ripping the culture out of the non-native English speakers. The two stake holders introduced have been arguing on this debate for a while since the constitution was written. This debate back tracks to President Theodore Roosevelt advocating for English legislation. The issues that these two stakeholders oppose each other on are the good and future of the citizens of America. Both want the good for the people and equality for all citizens 6 whether English was the citizens first language or not. However, how that justice and equality is expressed through law is where the conflict presents itself between the stakeholders. There is a true debate with this topic within the United States. However, a compromise can be given. Instead of making English the official language in writing of all legal documents, the United States can make English as a dominant language where most documents and everything will be stated in English and read in English but there will be other options for any other languages that would want to be available. Translators and translated documents would be a compromised solution to this debate. The debate between the two stake holders of whether language should be the official language or not has been an ongoing one. The organization is for promoting English as the national language. The non-profit organization called promotes the opposite with English not being the national language. A compromise between this current issue would be to have English as a dominant language for the country but having translators and translated documents available. This will promote the equality and overall happiness of the citizens of the United States of America. 7 References 08/10/10, M. S. (n.d.). English: a solution in search of a problem. Retrieved February 9, 2017, from https://www.minnpost.com/community-voices/2010/08/official-english- solution-search-problem 08/10/10, M. S. (n.d.). English: a solution in search of a problem. Retrieved February 9, 2017, from https://www.minnpost.com/community-voices/2010/08/official-english- solution-search-problem Why English should be the official language of the United States. (n.d.). Retrieved February 9, 2017, from http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/dec/31/why-english-should-be- official-language-united-sta/ 08/10/10, M. S. (n.d.). English: a solution in search of a problem. Retrieved February 8, 2017, from https://www.minnpost.com/community-voices/2010/08/official-english- solution-search-problem 7000 Languages. (n.d.). Retrieved February 10, 2017, from http://www.transparent.com/about/7000-languages.html 8