Vargas 1 Karina Vargas Ms. Kristin Goninski ENC 1102-909S17 English Composition II 30 January 2017 Happy, Healthy, and Hydrated In the past two years of festival events there have been more and more of the event goers having to go to the hospital or passing out during the music events. Finding a way to reduce the number may not be so difficult. Last year the Sunset Music Festival was nearly band from making a comeback this year, 2017, due to the amount of people being rushed to the hospital for dehydration and due to the two deaths that occurred. If Aquafina and Sunset Music Festival can compromise on the way they are currently going about the water issue the festival will regain the safe party going atmosphere they once acquired. Music festivals can be a lot of fun. In Tampa, Florida there is a music festival that showcases popular Electric Dance Music (EDM) artists, to be enjoy by many others. This music festival is a place where people are allowed to be themselves and dance their hearts out. It goes by the name of Sunset Music Festival (SMF). Last year, 2016, SMF lasted two days, which is the amount of time or days that a music festival normally is. They even added extra security just incase any issues needed to be solved because people thought the security the best in 2015 and on top of that the Florida is becoming a little more dangers; especially at big events. On official website they state that enjoyment of Sunset Music Festival is our first priority, and the times of your life are straight (Safety). They also stated: Vargas 2 that non-stop dancing and vigorous physical activity can lead to dehydration and overheating. By all means have the time of your life, but remember to stay hydrated and drink plenty of water. We have made free water available, so you can refill empty containers and keep up the (Safety). SMF is really trying their best to keep everyone hydrated and safe while they are having a good time. I personally have been attending this festival for the last three years and know that they are doing their best and it contiguously raises their effort each year. A lot of people always agree with EDM music because they think its just noise and there much that can be learned from it, but they would be wrong. main genre of music that is played by and other artists at this massive concert is EDM. According to What Can You Teach With Electronic Dance Music? A Music Guide to EDM by Mary E. Halick, EDM could even be useful to teach in schools a movement-based genre, EDM can (and should) be used for as students internalize the beat, listen and respond to music transitions, explore creative movement, exercise, and have just as the adults do now at these music festivals. Obviously EDM be anything without the element and to make sure people are all safely busting a move, they need to be hydrated by fruits or water, maybe Aquafina. Water is extremely important no matter the circumstance. Aquafina is a brand owned by PepsiCo, which sell their products at SMF. clear that they know how to branch out because one of their slogans on their website says they want it to be known that they care about the well being of there consumers. They support a happy life as well as a happy planet. Without a good amount of water being consumed people will get dehydrated and not be able to function properly. In Dehydration by Daniel G. Graetzer, it states that our bodies are mostly made up of water, about 55 to 60 percent (Graetzer). So, clear that the human body Vargas 3 needs water to survive. And that they are one of the many companies that are helping to keep everyone hydrated. SMF and Aquafina both share similar values. On Official page it even says, up and do your happy body (For Happy Bodies). They want people to know that they support a happy, active lifestyle, just like SMF. SMF is just like one big party that wants everyone to have a good time while at the same time keeping everyone safe and hydrated. With a little more help from Aquafina I think SMF will be able to regain their reputation of making sure that everyone is okay. Last year in 2016 SMF able to take care of all of its participants and two people died while around 53 were hospitalized due to dehydration of over half the participants and the amount of walking and heat that they had to endure with not many places to sit or many water stations, they were almost shut down. SMF has two stands that are free water station like it states on their site, but over the past two years the amount of people coming in to these festivals have increased, and it gets harder for everyone to get water especially if they have enough money to buy a bottle of water. These lines are almost always crowded, under any kind of shade, and are serving warm water (not that cold water is necessarily better). Since Aquafina is the water brand they sell at the venue. Instead of wasting money on ambulances to take people to the hospital due to dehydration they should be able to rule out that possibility all together by making another water station but this time sponsored by Aquafina. They know that challenges to the body, including almost always coordinate with some change in water handling reflecting the changing needs of the (Pruett, Clemmer, and Hester 1-20). I get that that might loss some money but instead of charging around three dollars for a water bottle charge a dollar to use their refill station. This way it cause the festival to, in a Vargas 4 way, be in debt. They would be able to continue their festivals in peace and Aquafina will be looked at as a brand that was willing to help out the participants by making it easier to access water when the other lines are full as well as keep they happy, healthy, and hydrated lifestyle. In conclusion, keeping music festivalgoers hydrated is a main priority. SMF and Aquafina should work together to keep the safety and hydrated atmosphere for all participants by adding a third water station to the venue. I understand if either party want to participate due to bad publicity, but in reality they would both be helping each other out by keeping people happy, healthy, and hydrated. It would make them look good because they are working together to make sure that people taken to the hospital in the coming years of the festival. They both are about staying hydrated and being safe while in the heat or exercise weather that be due to jumping around, running, or walking. They both want to better their consumers by making sure hydrated and not dehydrated. Vargas 5 Work Cited For Happy  Aquafina. http://www.aquafina.com/en-US/happy-habits.html Accessed 30 Jan. 2017 Graetzer, Daniel G., PhD, and Amy Webb, DSN, APN Bull.  Medical Guide (Online Edition) (2017): Research Starters. http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login .aspx?direct=true&db=ers&AN=89093382&site=eds-live Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Halick, Mary E. What Can You Teach With Electronic Dance Music? A Music Guide To  General Music Today 30.1 (2016): 4-10. Academic Search Alumni Edition.http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.e du/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a2h&AN=117638085&site=eds-live Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Pruett, W. Andrew, John S. Clemmer, and Robert L. Hester. Validation Of An Integrative Mathematical Model Of Dehydration And Rehydration In Virtual  Physiological Reports 4.22 (2016): 1-20. Academic Search Premier. http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login .aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=120269774&site=eds-live Accessed 30 Jan. 2017.  Sunset Music Festival 2017. https://smftampa.com/info/safety Accessed 30 Jan. 2017.