Barnhill 1 Renee Barnhill Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102.005 14 February 2017 Breed-Specific Legislation Over the years there have been many dog attack cases reported through news and seen through social media. These attacks include provoked dogs, guard dogs and even dogs attacking other dogs. This created a need for legislation to act to decrease these numbers of attacks, leash laws and other regulations were put in place to better protect the public but in most cases the state and city officials turned to Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL) to regulate these attacks. Breed-Specific Legislation are regulations that are directed towards breeds that are commonly labeled as or These breeds include the American Staffordshire bull terrier widely known as the this label is used to describe many of the breed such as the American Staffordshire Bull terrier and the Bull Massive (Weiss). This list varies by state. Though some states no longer have BSL enforcement, majority of the United States still enforce these discriminatory legislations and many others contain grandfather clauses and self- government exemptions that allow city officials to use these regulations in many cases (Greenwood). One of the many stakeholders that argue for BSL is the Citizens for Canine Attack Prevention (CCAP). There are also many organizations that are anti-BSL stakeholders like the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA). Though these stakeholders are on opposing sides of this topic both the CCAP and the AVMA are both concerned with educating the public with this commonality in mind these stakeholder organizations could come together to revoke the BSL laws to create more officiant dangerous dog laws that require all dogs to have proper Barnhill 2 safety documentation. This would ensure the safety of the public and require behavioral reasons for classifying a canine as dangerous or harmful to the people. The American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) is a stakeholder organization that is against having breed-specific legislation as a way to determine whether a dog is dangerous. The AMVA believes that BSL on dogs with a certain appearance or physical characteristics instead of an actual (AVMA). A common victim of appearance discrimination is the Pitbull. This is not an actual breed but more of a term to describe a dog with a certain look. In many cases, even with someone who is experienced in identifying dog breeds cannot always efficiently determine the dominant breed in a mutt (dogs made up of more than one breed) solely on looks. This makes enforcing breed-specific legislation difficult and often leads to innocent dogs being euthanized based on appearance instead of behavior. Though the AVMA are concerned about preventing dogs from being unjustly euthanized, another concern that they have is educating the public on dog bite prevention. They believe that any dog can be considered dangerous regardless of breed and relationship between the victim and the dog. AVMA argues that bite cases also depend on the popularity of that breed in the area the person was attacked. A study in Canada showed that many of the dog attacks in certain regions were caused by sled dogs and Siberian huskies, this was caused by an increase population in these breeds in those areas (Raghavan). Another study also showed that aggression towards people was found more common in small to medium size breeds of dogs but many bite cases of these breeds go unrecorded due to their size and bite force (Pratt 858). The main point made by these studies is that the breed-specific legislations may be allowing people to feel more secure but they are not the best solution to prevent dog bites and attacks. Barnhill 3 The Citizens for Canine Attack Prevention (CCAP) is an organization that is for breed- specific legislation which mainly targets the breeds. This organization was founded by an attack victim and is concerned with educating the public about dangerous breeds and how to protect others from these vicious attacks. The CCAP believe that breeds are is just a myth and the public needs to understand that not all breeds are the same (CCAP). They believe that genetics play a role in determining whether a canine is dangerous to the public. In 2014 they received a study stating that there were reported to be 28 dog bite related fatalities and out of those 28, 20 were have claimed to been by Pitbulls or Pitbull mixes (CCAP). In Mehrkam and article, Behavioral Differences Among Breeds of Domestic Dogs: Current Status of the Science, it is said that aggression is one of the more difficult behaviors to study by breed because of the under or over representation of breeds in this study. This is due to the fact that many small breed bite cases go un reported because of the size and bite force while larger dogs like the American Staffordshire bull terrier is an over represented breed in many areas where they are found in high population (Mehrkam, Wynne). With this information, it is no wonder why so many people think that this breed is more dangerous than many others. The goal is to educate the public on this matter and to protect children from dog attacks and they believe the best way to do this is through having these breed-specific legislations that ban breeds. Though these stakeholder organizations have different views regarding breed-specific legislation there is one commonality between these organizations and that is they both have a similar goal to educate the public about canine bite and attack prevention. With this commonality, these organizations can come together to petition for states to get rid of their BSL and replace them with behavioral related regulations. Since behavioral related studies vary for Barnhill 4 each dog and does not necessarily have any correlation with the breed dog owners would be allowed to have the canine of their choice but would need behavioral-based documentation that states their dog is labeled as safe for the public. Canines would need this documentation if they are residing in urban areas or near school zones. The specifics of this training would also require a leash law that will enforce the use of a leash at all times. This new laws and training would be required for all canines no matter the breed. Along with this, children living in apartment building and urban areas with high dog populations should be required to go through a class that teaches them dog bite prevention. This class will go over why it is safe to never approach a dog unless the owner of said dog is present and gives the okay to do so. If a child is bitten both the owner and the parent(s)/guardian(s) of the child will be held responsible and the consequences will be determined based on the circumstances given. For this compromise to be accomplished the state and city legislation would need to be involved which can be done through petitions and city meetings. Funding and other resources would need to present themselves to create this special training and local government would have to determine which areas would it be required for a dog to have to go through this precautionary training to reside there. In this compromise, each stakeholder is sacrificing one goal while achieving another. The CCAP is giving up their belief that the breed-specific legislation is beneficial but still educating the public on dangerous dogs just without the discrimination of breeds. While the AVMA is having to put all their canines through training and needed proper documentation to have that dog stay in a particular area but the dog owners will be able to have a breed of their choice without worrying about breed discrimination. The behavioral-based legislation would ensure the safety of the public which was a goal that both stakeholders were trying to accomplish. This would prove to be a much more efficient way to ensure that safety. In Linda article, Barnhill 5 Breed-Specific Legislation in the United States, she conveys a similar idea to replace BSL in the US. Weiss argues that BSL in not an effective way to handle dangerous dogs. She states that, bans carry with them too much potential for arbitrary or improper this is true given the number of mix breeds many people own and the term being a category to place certain dogs with similar features but not necessarily the same breed. Dangerous dog legislation is a more effective route to the United States dog attack crisis. Barnhill 6 Work Cited Citizens for Canine Attack  Citizens for Canine Attack Prevention. N.p., 2014. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Greenwood, Arin. A Map of Where Your Pit Bull  Huffington Post, May 2015. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Mehrkam, Lindsay R., and Clive D. Wynne. Behavioral differences among breeds of domestic dogs: Status of the  Applied Animal Behaviour Sciences, vol. 155, June 2014, pp. 12-27. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Pratt, Heather K. Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take a Bite out of Canine Penn State Law Review 108. (2004): 855. LexisNexis Academic Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Raghavan M. dog attacks in Can Vet J. 2008; Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Weiss, Linda S. Breed-Specific Legislation in the United  Breed-Specific Legislation in the United States. Animal Legal & Historical Center. Michigan State University College of Law, 2001. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Why Breed-specific Legislation Is not the  Why Breed-specific Legislation Is not the Answer. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.