Salas 1 Jessica Salas Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 SEC 078 15 February 2017 Take a Shot: Should the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Be Lowered? Underage drinking has been a problem that has been prominent throughout the years and only shows signs of progressing like how 1.3 million people between the ages of twelve to twenty have admitted to having five or more drinks on one occasion. Teenagers seem to be aware of the law of having to be 21 years old in order to legally consume alcohol but continue to do so anyways. With this comes the complications of illegally obtaining alcohol and then proceeding to abuse it since it is rarely available to them. When mentioning the lowering of the legal drinking age, Drug Abuse Resistance Education and Amethyst Initiative have contrasting perspectives. Drug Abuse Resistance Education is against the idea of 18 year olds having alcohol within reach while Amethyst Initiative advocates for modifying the law to 18 year olds surprisingly still allows the possibility of reaching a common ground and finding a compromise. The Drug Abuse Resistance Education, or D.A.R.E. for short, serves as a stakeholder and is an organization has been visiting numerous schools and homes since 1983 in attempts to spread their message to the best of their ability. Their main vision is to see children and teenagers making responsible decisions by steering clear from any alcohol or drug use thus preventing any violent behavior. actual motto is vital to fulfill a as stated on their website. In order to achieve this goal, they present to young children an array of data and stories involving alcohol related problems which will stop the child from participating in these actions in the future. There are many journals trying to determine whether this methodology is Salas 2 effective or not. As Ismail Sahin and Ersin Karapazarlioglu, the authors of effectiveness of school-based drug resistance education program in the United mentioned, to the result of the study, the program has more beneficial effects on the students of the schools with relatively high academic success than those of the schools with lower academic (Ismail and Karapazarlioglu par. 29). This quote goes to show that many environmental factors go into consideration when trying to determine if the program works or not. If everything that is said about alcohol are negative comments, it would make teenagers never want to come in contact with alcohol even if it is a safe amount. Therefore, evidently not being in favor for changing the legal drinking age to any age lower. The main tactic D.A.R.E. uses is telling children to never even try it. Even Sahin and Karapazarlioglu mentioned it in their article, they explained is very important due to the fact that young people who begin to use drugs at early age are more likely to use more dangerous drugs and become persistent (Sahin and Karapazarlioglu par. 10). At this rate, no one will want to lower the drinking age although it could have certain benefits. The Amethyst Initiative is another organization that serves as a stakeholder that started out with several university and college presidents (or chancellors) but eventually worked its way up to 134 members and counting. These members all agree with one thing and this one thing is that the minimum legal drinking age of 21 is not working anymore. Their main mission statement is that it is time to rethink the minimum drinking age and move towards teaching young adults about how to drink responsibly where binge drinking becomes a distant memory. The main way to fulfill their intended purpose would be to bring this statement up to your president or chancellor, have them read it and then decide from that point on if they want to join the cause, along with over 50 other schools. Amethyst main concern are Salas 3 the high levels of underage binge drinkers found on college campuses nationwide. In Drew article Drinking on College Campuses: No Reason to Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age of he provides a definition for binge drinking where he mentions, drinking is commonly defined as 5 or more consecutive standard drinks in a row for men and 4 or more consecutive standard drinks for (Saylor 330). This is the type of behavior that is classified as binge drinking and is raising concerns amongst these universities and colleges because of the possible consequences. According to article, is not only associated with death and injury (particularly from motor vehicle accidents) but also risky sexual behavior, increased risk of physical or sexual assault, and (Saylor 331). These factors are what Amethyst Initiative believes could be easily avoided with lowering the age to 18 and is what they are striving for, which may or may not leave room for compromise. Drug Abuse Resistance Education and Amethyst Initiative are both recognized for their ideals and show no signs of abandoning their positions yet they still show possibility of a compromise. They both share certain interests and the major one being that their main concern lies within the safety of young adults. whole stance is preventing young adults from making bad decisions and becoming involved with drugs or alcohol at an early age. These young adults are eventually going to make it to college or university where hopefully they retain this information and continue to practice making responsible choices. This is where Amethyst Initiative comes in because they also believe in informing young adults about ways to consume alcohol safely. The only difference between the two is that D.A.R.E. would not trust an 18-year old enough to be allowed to purchase any alcoholic substance as opposed to Amethyst beliefs. Salas 4 Fortunately, there are signs of a happy medium for the both D.A.R.E. and Amethyst Initiative. A compromise that would be suitable for both parties involved would be to lower the drinking age to 18 but make it mandatory to take and pass a course in order to obtain a license that would make you eligible to buy it. The course would be revolved around alcohol safety where you learn how to consume it properly and see what would happen if you were to abuse it. It would also be like any other course where you would hear a lecture and be tested on the information to make sure you retained the information presented. According to Ralph Hingson, author of the article and prevention of college drinking and related he stated how alcohol screening and brief intervention as a routine part of student health service encounters and use of the Internet screening and advice might help remedy this (Hingson par. 46). Alcohol screening meaning to test a general population on alcohol which is a similar approach as the compromise. This would benefit D.A.R.E. because they already practice this by visiting schools and providing lectures, the only difference would be that this is mandatory and the student would also get tested on it. This would benefit Amethyst Initiative because it could stray these young adults away from binge drinking since alcohol will not appear to them as a anymore and they will drink it in moderation (as they would learn about in the course provided). This course needs to have sufficient funding in order to pay for the materials needed and to pay the teachers who will be instructing it which could come from making the 18 year olds, who wish to purchase alcohol, pay a fee that will go towards the class and the materials needed to make the actual license. Alcohol companies could also be asked to sponsor the program because they will have an entire new set of people who will be able to purchase their product thus resulting in much more profit. For the people who do not have the Salas 5 desire to purchase or consume alcohol will not need to spend the money nor take the course since the license would be of no use to them. All in all, there is much controversy when debating whether to keep the minimum legal drinking age at 21 or lower it to 18. Two organizations who inevitably have a say on the matter and count as stakeholders are Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) and Amethyst Initiative, though they express opposing views. D.A.R.E. tries to instill the idea of avoiding drugs and alcohol entirely in children and young adults while Amethyst Initiative believes that one could prepare them by teaching them responsibility at an early age and possibly allow them to purchase it once they turn 18. Though seemingly different, they both share the concern of young safety which leaves room for a possible compromise being a mandated course about alcohol for 18 year olds who wish to be eligible to purchase alcohol. Salas 6 Works Cited Hingson, Ralph W. Magnitude and Prevention of College Drinking and Related  U.S. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 2010, pp. 45-54. Web. Accessed 27 January 2017 D.A.R.E., www.dare.org/mission-vision/. Web. Accessed 29 January 2017. Sahin, Ismail, Karapazarlioglu, Ersin. effectiveness of school-based drug resistance education program in the United European Scientific Institute, vol 10, issue 5, 2014, pp. 67. Web. Accessed 27 January 2017 Saylor, Drew. Heavy Drinking on College Campuses: No Reason to Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age of  Journal of American College Health, vol 59, no 4, 2011, pp. 330- 33. Web. Accessed 27 January 2017 Amethyst Initiative, www.theamethystinitiative.org/statement/. Web. Accessed 29 January 2017.