Chapin 1 Michael H. Chapin II Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC1102 14 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric: A Powerful Tool by Which to Promote Solar Energy If one were to turn on the television, open up a newspaper, magazine, or periodical then one would almost assuredly hear or read about something with relation to the current state of the environment on planet Earth. Global climate change is a hot topic in America, and not one that can be ignored or one that is simply just going to disappear. Americans (and citizens around the world) need to not only be informed about the matter, but they must also be willing to take physical action in order to help improve the environment. There are many ways in which Americans can do this, but many may not be aware that by taking certain, specific steps to improve the environment that they can as well help themselves. One way to do this is through the use of solar energy. Solar City is a solar panel installation company which utilizes visual rhetoric in order to convey the fact that they offer affordable solar panel pricing for household rooftop installment. They promise cheap and predictable pricing (as compared to that of utility companies) that helps the environment and saves the consumer money. Another of Solar biggest selling points is that solar panels use energy from the sun to provide electricity to your home instead of environmentally harmful non-renewable energy sources like that of the utilities. In order to convey these selling points to the website viewer, Solar City makes use of visual rhetorical appeals so as to peak their interest and convince them to invest within solar energy. Within two particular photos on the website, the use of rhetorical devices such as pathos, ethos, and logos can be seen and interpreted. The rhetorical devices that can be seen Chapin 2 through the use of these photos sends a clear message to the viewer that they should actively be considering utilizing their services. Standing front and center within an image of an entire neighborhood whose rooftops have solar panels installed upon them is the use of the rhetorical appeal logos, which is the appeal to logic (Hoffman et al. 32). Nearly everything contained within the website appeals to this rhetorical device by continually telling and showing the viewer that solar energy is a logical and sensible solution to energy shortages and fossil fuel damaging effects. The way in which the utility grid creates energy is harmful to the environment, and the user is also subject to the fluctuating energy costs that are stipulated by their energy provider. Solar City informs the user of their PV+ Storage system which allows the user to store and discharge energy whenever it is that the user needs it (Solar City). In addition, the PV+ system has no fuel cost, as compared to the utility companies whom use fuels which are also expected to rise in pricing (Solar City). Even those viewers who particularly environmentally conscious or concerned can certainly begin to understand that it if a resource is non-renewable and subject to fluctuations in market pricing that it then certainly make much sense to continue to use it. The image that Solar City uses of an entire neighborhood covered in solar panels can now evoke a range of emotions from the viewer. This appeal to the emotions is known as pathos (Hoffman et al. 37). The viewer may now feel happy that they have an alternative to the utility companies, and that they are no longer subject to varying degrees of pricing; or just as well, they may now feel angered that they have been taken advantage of all this time. The image is serene and quant. It leaves the website viewer feeling that solar panels are the right option, and that they would be a better person for installing them on their house. Chapin 3 The next big use of a rhetorical device is that of ethos, which is the attempt to demonstrate authority or credibility (Hoffman et al. 27). Most viewers or consumers are concerned and/or curious as to how reliable a product is. An image on the website displays a group of employees standing together. This image can easily be seen as a visual use of the rhetorical device ethos. The image is of several employees walking together through a neighborhood. The image is authoritative, powerful, and strong. Employees from all different sectors of the company are walking together. This displays unity and a sense of cohesion not only through the employees themselves, but also through the entire company as well. Solar City assures the consumer/viewer that they can trust them because already powered over 300,000 homes (Solar City). The homepage also states that, GOT YOUR (Solar City). Used in conjunction with the above described image, the viewer can rest easy knowing that the company can be trusted. This trust is instilled because they outright state it with such a slogan. When slogan and image are tied together it lets the viewer know that the company is one cohesive unit. This cohesive unit is dedicated to providing the best services with respect to solar energy. Solar City is telling the viewer through visual rhetorical appeals that solar energy stands united and that it is good for the environment. Overall, the images use an appeal to rhetoric that quite be summed up or pointed out by plain text. fairly obvious that they are a tech company concerned with the environment. It is also fairly as obvious that they would like to sell you their product. Solar City then pitches their sale by appealing to the sense of pathos, logos, and ethos. When both images that are discussed previously in this paper are considered together, nearly every rhetorical device is evoked through just these two images. This goes to show how powerful visual rhetoric can be. The former image focuses more on logos and pathos by informing the user that solar Chapin 4 energy is logical because it is cheaper and better for the environment than the already existing utility grid which utilizes fossil fuels. The latter image focuses largely on ethos, and the fact that Solar City can be trusted when compared to standard utility companies. Clearly, anyone who happens to visit Solar website is aware of solar energy, but by using visual rhetorical devices Solar City is then able to send this message even further home. (WC:1113) Chapin 5 Works Cited Solar City. Solar City, 2016, http://www.solarcity.com/residential. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 Hoffman, Downey, and Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. University of South Florida, 2016. Chapin 6 Figure 1. http://www.solarcity.com/sites/default/files/grid-suburb.png Figure 2. http://www.solarcity.com/sites/default/files/company-careers-team.png Chapin 7