Student 1 Student Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Homelessness in Tampa Every morning while some people wake up to the warmth of their beds, the sounds of their alarms and their voices, there are others who wake up to the sound of fast walking humans, degrading names, cold floors, and the realization that today is another day that they must spend on the streets. Research shows that individuals to be homeless on a single (National Homeless Coalition) and within those people least 1,817 homeless men, women, and children in Tampa-Hillsborough it is easy to see why homelessness is an issue (THHI). Even with this many of the United States population homeless, homelessness is not a topic that is discussed very often today. Most people assume that those who are homeless are in the situation simply because they are lazy but homelessness can be caused by of affordable housing, domestic violence, poverty, lack of affordable health care, and much (National Homeless Coalition). Fortunately, there are organizations that are fighting for homeless people and trying to get them back on their feet. The Tampa-Hillsborough Homeless Initiative, an organization established in 1986 by Florida Governor Bob Graham, is a nonprofit organization whose purpose is, LEAD the Continuum of Care in COLLABORATION with agencies to develop and provide INNOVATIVE solutions to reduce and end homelessness in Tampa-Hillsborough (THHI). Throughout the rest of this paper logos, pathos, kairos and ethos will be used to analyze how use of images on their website has not only strengthen their goal but also influenced the audience to aid in achieving this goal. Student 2 To begin with, images are powerful tools of persuasion. Although words have strong meaning and strong influences on the reader, images have even stronger connotation; like written or spoken communication, images are coded and laden with (Gerdes et. al 331). Tampa-Hillsborough Homeless (THHI) use of the first image is laden with subtle meanings that shows their readers how they are achieving their goal (Figure 1). When looking at figure one, readers can see many visual cues that are used to convey message. For example, in this image goal is written in bolded white words and the words are placed in the center of the image. Although placement of text may seem minor, it is extremely important, Pack states that our eyes scan an image, text, and/ or webpage from left to right and from top to (Pack 345). The placement used in figure one shows that THHI wants the reader to see the image first but ultimately, the last thing that the readers should keep in mind is the written goal. In doing this, THHI is uses the rhetorical device ethos. THHI is trying to show their credibility by using bolded and capitalized words such as and (Figure 1). Using bolded and capitalized wording is an effective way of capturing attention because when looking at the picture, it is easy to see that they are collaborating with each other and even trying to come up with ideas to change homelessness. This action can be seen when looking at the person writing on the big notepad in the back of the room. The actions of the people located in figure one also shows the use of a rhetorical device, logos (Figure 1). Logos is an appeal to logic (Lane et al 32). Unlike other rhetorical devices, logos is not the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane et. al 32). When looking at the people in figure one, readers can easily take notice of these body language. The people sitting down are facing forward, looking at the Student 3 instructor in the front, and they are poised to take notes. Their eyes are alert and they look as if they are taking in the information they have been given. Not only that but the way that they are dressed shows that they are serious and that they are ready to make a change with this organization. Although these devices seem to have a strong effect when used individually, once put together they create a convincing method that shows how THHI achieves their goal using this image. Continuing with the second image found on page, readers can see that the method used to represent the goal of ending homelessness is vastly different from the first image used. The primary message of figure two seems to be that helping others find a home can bring joy to a family. When looking at the figure, the workers in the background are smiling and happy. They seem to be excited to work with people and help others. When looking at the design and composition, the family is placed in the center and they are zoomed in quite a bit. This is a great example of Kairos; or recognizing the opportune or ethical moment for (Hoffman 41). It is subtly calling for action using this picture. This calls to action because although the picture is zoomed in and the family is meant to be the focus, the workers in the background are still shown. The organization is telling its readers and audience that being part of this organization or even being a volunteer in their cause will not only bring happiness to the family that is being helped but it will also bring great happiness to themselves and those that they work with. Another element that portrays message in figure two is the use of color; have different meanings or connotations that implicitly portray a and the use of color in this image gives the viewer a sense of important (Pack 345). It also gives a tone to the image to help guide the emotions. This guide to the emotions is the rhetorical device called pathos. Pathos is used in this image when looking at the smiling faces of Student 4 both the family and the workers. Those faces tell the readers that this is how the organization touches the lives of the people that they work with. The use of the Kairos and pathos in the second image shows the audience how THHI is achieving their goal and convinces the audience they can take a part in this achievement. Overall, visual rhetoric exists in all aspects of our lives. Images portray certain messages using rhetorical devices and they do so in a subtle and modest way. The Tampa-Hillsborough Homeless Initiative uses images to portray a goal of wanting to end homelessness in a collaborative way and using innovative methods and ideas. Their images use many rhetorical devices such as logos, pathos, Kairos, and ethos to show their audience that they working hard to achieve this goal. These images also work to convince the audience to join their cause of ending homelessness and the benefits of that. When combined with imagery, words have a certain power over an audience. It is the combination of those two, along with many rhetorical devices, that renders messages and goals so effective towards their chosen audience. (Word Count: 1,199) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. Gerdes, Julie and Hopton B. Sarah and Rea M. Joshua. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-337. E-text. Lane, Emily and Mckee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. National Homeless Coalition. In National Homeless Coalition, 2017, http://nationalhomeless.org/about-homelessness/. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative, 2017, http://thhi.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative, 2017, http://thhi.org/about-homelessness/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figures Figure 1: http://thhi.org/about-thhi/ Figure 2: http://thhi.org/about-homelessness/