Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 1 Annotated Bibliography Juveniles in Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles University Of South Florida Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 2 The act of being alone away from other people is sometimes what a person needs. To get away, think clearly, and just being able to de-stress. On the other hand being placed in isolation for long periods of time with no sense of time and no way of connecting with others seen as something as pleasant as having alone time. To be placed in solitary confinement is a punishment in the United Stated prison system, though said to be used to control the inmates from harming him or herself and others. When it comes to children in juvenile centers, being placed in solitary confinement it becomes more than just a punishment or a form of protection. The effects forced solitude has on a developing child thought of when placing them in these boxes barely big enough to be called rooms. Though the practice of solitary confinement new to the world one that is now being debated on whether it should still be being used or if come to a point that just a form of cruel and unusual punishment that should be banned from our prison system. In the early 1970s solitary confinement was used to have control over men, women, and children. With the increasing amount of inmates who have been put into solitary confinement, whether it had been for a minimum of 22 hours or till they died, a growing concern has risen about how affecting the not only the adults but the youth. The effect of solitary confinement on the mind, body, and emotions has led to the question; how has solitary confinement in juvenile detention centers affected the growth of the youth? Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 3 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY Castillo, L. C. (2015). No Child Left Alone: Why Iowa Should Ban Juvenile Solitary Confinement. Iowa Law Review, 1001259. Castillo starts the article by giving a background on juveniles and why they are separated from adult criminals. The historical meaning of court cases like Roper v. Simmons and Graham v. Florida and Miller v. Alabama created the precedent for sentencing juveniles. Castillo then defined solitary confinement and then when on to describe four different types of solitary confinement. One being punitive, the second being protective, the third administrative and the fourth being medical. Most of the youth were placed in solitary confinement for protective reasons, one being if being charged as an adult. Or more likely then not the youth are placed in solitary confinement for punitive reasons though what children need is rehabilitation and not punishment. The article goes on to point out why solitary confinement violates the Eight Amendment under the terms of cruel and unusual punishment. Juvenile solitary confinement meant this because their brains are not fully developed and being put in a room with nothing for them to do and nothing for them to be able to simulate their brains. Castillo goes on in the article to mention states that have already taken action on banning solitary confinement. All this to build a case on why the case on why Iowa should adopt viewpoint on solitary confinement. Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 4 Castillo draws credibility from the research that was made in the states that have already taken action on juvenile solitary confinement. By using the proven actions of other states the proposal that Castillo is giving to Iowa is not one that can be seen misguided. This article connects to my research questions because it speaks to the lack of rehabilitation the youth in juvenile centers are revising leading to their mental and physical health diminishing. The article goes beyond my question by giving the outline on when and how solitary confinement in juvenile centers should be used. Like as a last resort and making sure that if a child is up in solitary confinement that they speak to a mental health clinician within an hour of being confined and every four hours from then on. Drinan, C. H. (2016). The Miller Revolution. Iowa Law Review, 101(5), 1787-1832. The main topic of article was to give the readers the facts about juvenile justice. Drinan tells us that the main focus of most courts is the sentencing of the youth and not the rehabilitation that they need. The youth are either placed in adult jails or in juvenile centers that us solitary confinement as a punishment when what they need are attention and care. Drinan tells us that the youth suffer more counts of sexual assaults and because of they are so young physically and emotionally they are subject to more physical assaults. Drinan gives us a first-hand recount of this from T.J. Parsell who was placed in an adult jail as a youth. Because of accounts like these children who are placed in adult Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 5 facilities are placed in solitary confinement to them. Drinan tells use because of this the youth in critical development points become depressed, have anxiety. Drinan explains why juveniles are in more danger in adult jails than they are in juvenile centers. Drinan gains credibility by giving the first-hand account of someone who had been placed in an adult jail as a juvenile. By mentioning passed decisions of the United Nations, The American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, and the actions on the topic by President Obama shows that she did research the topic and adds this her credibility. The article connects to my research question because it shows that solitary confinement always used to punish the youth and intentionally scare them as growing. It does show that the practice of juveniles in adult facilities is one that should be stopped because it leads to the use of solitary confinement when that what the children need. Franklin, V. P. (2013). Commentary- Solitary Confinement: I Feel Like... No One Cares About . Journal Of African American History, 98(2), 197-199 In the academic journal, Franklin gives us real accounts from those who have gone throw solitary confinement and those who have gone investigating the matter for themselves. He tells of how prisons went from public institutions to being privately owned. Because of this change, there began to be a need for these Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 6 private owners to have more people in their jails and prisons to have the work. It can to the point that children were being sent to juvenile centers to mean this quota of bodies. When the children resisted be sent to solitary confinement for hours at a time. The long periods of loneliness would lead to psychological a physical harm to the children. account on the United States prison system and its use of solitary confinement show that beings of how an institution meant to keep the public safe became something now slow psychological and physical maiming the youth. The historical value of this article stems from the fact that it speaks on how African Americans went from being somewhat free back to being enslaved and working for nothing do to private facilities wanting their jails and prisons filled with free workers. The use of testimonials and other articles in his journal play to his credibility on the topic of the youth in solitary confinement. His article connects to my research question of the effects of solitary confinement of the youth because it touched on the mental, physically and emotionally affects on the loneliness the children went through. It goes beyond my question because it brings up the issues that not only children but also African American children had to go through. The bad behavior of an African American child would lead them to be felt all alone in a room with no simulation, depriving them of what any child would need to grow up healthy. Owen, M., & Goldhagen, J. (2016). Children and Solitary Confinement: A Call to Action. Pediatrics, 137(5), 1-3. doi:10.1542/peds.2015-4180 Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 7 Owen and Goldhagen tell us of the lack of knowledge that we have on the use of solitary confinements in adult and juvenile institutions. They give us the small facts that could be gotten about the way that solitary confinement is operated in the detention centers. The facilities do not have to report any of the information to the public. They also do not have to report why or for how long the juvenile are placed under isolation. Owen and Goldhagen tell of how solitary confinement may affect the growth of the youth through the knowledge that most people already have about the growth of children and what they need to grow up healthy. The historical point made by this article is that here we learn that reports of the length and reasoning be kept if not enforced by the law. The credibility of Owen and Goldhagen come from some of the other articles that they use as references like that percentage of youth in custody who reported to the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of when they were held in solitary confinement and for how long. This article connects to my research questions because it shows just how little we know about solitary confinement, its use in juvenile detention centers, and the lack of knowledge we still have on how it may affect the growing minds of the youth. Though the article does reiterate the same points as Confinement: I No One Cares About when it states that the long periods of isolation may lead the youth to destructive mental, physical, and emotional defects and also be a cause of the suicides. Being that these are children it is a point that should be Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 8 made clear because children in juvenile centers are there for rehabilitation not to be placed in rooms where not able to get the help that they need. Rademacher, E. M. (2016). The beginning of the end: using plan to eliminate juvenile solitary confinement as a model for statutory elimination of juvenile solitary confinement. William And Mary Law Review, (3), 1019. Rademacher begins the article by telling us of the steps that the Department of Justice and the State of Ohio had to take to reach common ground on solitary confinement in juvenile facilities. The historical act that Ohio juvenile centers made from overusing solitary confinement to focusing on the rehabilitation of the youth. Rademacher tells us that throughout the years there been any supreme court decision made about solitary confinement in juvenile centers, but some local state laws have made some decisions about it that have been vague which allows the continued use of the practice. The Rademacher goes on to speak on the effects of solitary confinement on the youth such as the mental and physical tolls. Rademacher then goes through the policies at state federal and nation levels about solitary confinement. The article end with a proposal on how to reform the juvenile centers to bring them away from using solitary confinement as a punishment for everything to rehabilitating the youth like the center is meant to do. This article draws its credibility from the facts of what happened between the Department of Justice and Ohio. It connected with my research question from Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 9 the beginning when it started with the life of William and what being in solitary confinement for 178 days out of his 225 did to his mental and physical health. The article went beyond my research questions by not only speaking to the effect that solitary confinement had on the youth but also providing alternatives. By providing the alternatives it shows that there be a focus on just what the problem is but also how to fix or at least modified the what that children are handled in these centers Teigen, A., & Brown, S. (2016). Closing the door on solitary confinement. Legislatures, (4), 6. Teigen and Brown begin the article but telling us what solitary confinement is. They tell us what solitary confinement can lead to but then quickly move on. They give a list of states that have passed laws and introduced new measures on the subject of the youth and their time spent in confinement. Teigen and Brown use New Jersey as an example of letting us know that their law prohibits confinement for more than two days at the age of 15, for more than 3 days at the age of 17 and for more than 5 days at the age of 18 and above. They go on to specify that solitary confinement in any cause in these current states is only to be used if the youth is harming themselves or others. Teigen and Brown also tell us what the federal government has added on to the matter by letting us know that Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act if passed, could change solitary confinement for both federal criminal and juvenile law. Annotated Bibliography Juveniles In Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles 10 Teigen and Brown give a brief history of solitary confinement in the beginning by telling us the duration of time inmates typically are felt alone for. They gain credibility on the topic by giving credit to the research of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry when it came to the state of health the children faced because of the confinement. This article connects to my research question because showing that states realize the major mental, physical and emotional effects that solitary confinement has on the youth. The states are realizing that correction is what the force of juvenile centers should be and not be used as a place to psychologically damage the youth.