Robertson 1 Erik Robertson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 29 January 2017 Magical Medicinal Marijuana: A Compromise The first recorded usage of marijuana dates all the way back to 10,000-Year World History of Hemp and 1) and continues to this very day. In recent history, the United States has had several states legalize the plant on different levels (recreational use, medicinal use, etc.). To understand why exactly this tall, leafy plant has been such a delicacy for this long period, you must consider the potential it offers and what it can do. The list of beneficial uses that the plant offers along with the fact that it is indeed a renewable resource makes this plant something that we should all consider. It does come with some negatives, though. The United States decided to ban the drug in 1937 with the Tax This act successfully banned all commercial usage and sales of the plant within the country and is still illegal to this day. That being said, there are groups actively trying to regain the legalization of marijuana in all practical uses, while some, on the other hand, are looking to stop and prevent the forest fire of legalization that is hitting the United States today. SAM (Smart Approaches to Marijuana), an organization that fights for the banning of marijuana, both medically and recreationally, opposes the views of NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws), a party that envisions the usage of marijuana both medically and recreationally. However, as much as these two organizations differ in views, they both envision a country with lesser rates of criminalization for marijuana, which allows the opportunity for these Robertson 2 organizations to come together to agree on a compromise to permit the usage of marijuana in a way that can benefit the country as a whole. SAM, or the organization against marijuana, has a very conservative view on the usage and consumption of marijuana. While their mission is to marijuana and its (SAM 1), they are looking to a society where marijuana policies are aligned with the scientific understanding of (1). The organization was by professionals working in mental health and public (1) and their reasoning behind this view comes from scientific studies done on how marijuana can negatively impact the user when consumed. For example, marijuana can anxiety, fear, distrust, or (Lachenmeier and Rehm 8). This is a big deal to some as anxiety and panic do not mix well, and can lead to panic attacks. In addition to this, marijuana can potentially produce side effects like coughing or a burning throat following the ingestion of marijuana (8) and that avid marijuana smokers more days of work than (9). Side effects such as these are reasons why SAM exists today, and why they look to push their view on marijuana usage and consumption. NORML, or the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, hopes to see a nation that views marijuana in a way that we view alcohol today. In a recreational sense. The problem is, that alcohol is one hundred and forty times more deadly than (Lachenmeier 8). NORML proposes a mission move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by (NORML 1) and to ensure that those who consume the marijuana will be guaranteed to access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (1). The point being made here is that NORML would like to see the United States legalize recreational marijuana as a safer alternative to alcohol. The view that Robertson 3 NORML states is backed by not only scientific evidence tens of thousands of years of ancient practice and usage of the plant. Like alcohol, one will feel when consuming the active chemical or tetrahydrocannabinol found in marijuana, but the side effects come at a much lesser price than drinking. Consuming alcohol the risk of injury, adverse physical and mental health outcomes, and loss of (Richer et al. 1). This evidence shows that something like alcohol can potentially result in worse side effects than marijuana. Studies and affirmation such as this are why NORML looks to widen their support in their search for marijuana legalization. With both sides in mind, these organizations propose valid views on the plant, and both want what is best for the public, but they should not stop at the yes or no answer. They should come together to propose a valid compromise that can be met in the middle. A fair compromise between SAM and NORML would be as follows: To decriminalize marijuana under the usage of medicinal purposes on the federal level. Marijuana, when used in a medicinal aspect be used for pain relief, reductions of muscle spasms, schizophrenia, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, epilepsy, disease, HIV patients, and (Dharshini 1). While this list is not complete, it still covers a very broad spectrum of serious diseases and disorders that marijuana can treat. In addition, when marijuana is compared to other prescription drugs such as opioids, the potential side effects produced by these pills is far worse than marijuana. For example, opioid side effects sedation, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, constipation, physical dependence, tolerance, respiratory depression, and (Benyamin 1). Why prescribe a nine-year-old child a bottle of opiates which can result in several of these side effects and give them the potential to overdose when a much safer alternative is widely available? An active ingredient found in methamphetamine and cocaine be Robertson 4 offered in large numbers to the population, let alone children. With marijuana, cannabinoid receptors, unlike opioid receptors, are not located in the brainstem areas controlling respiration, lethal overdoses from cannabis and cannabinoids do not and 1) making the plant overall much safer to prescribe and avoid long term side-effects. As proven to be a much safer alternative to current prescription drugs, marijuana has the potential to replace these harmful pills to treat a wide variety of health issues, thus showing why these two stakeholders should come together and help to push this compromise to a reality. Taking everything into account, SAM and NORML do have very conflicting views. SAM wants to ban the usage of marijuana in all aspects, while NORML wants to legalize the usage of marijuana in all aspects. With this, though, they both look to reduce criminalization levels that results from the plant. These two agreeing on a standpoint of cannabis would not be an easy task, but a compromise could potentially crack the barrier between the two. The compromise of legalizing marijuana nationwide for medicinal purposes is a good median between the two as most evidence points towards the positive outcome that would result from medicinal marijuana. If these two organizations came together, a lot of lives would be changed and saved. Costs of medicine would go down, the number of wars would decrease, and a new vision of an ancient historical plant would take place to revolutionize the medicinal field once again. Robertson 5 Works Cited Dharshini, Mary Pascaline. Benefits of Medicinal Medical Daily, 26 Sept. 2016, www.medicaldaily.com/medical-cannabis-2016-new-benefits-medicinal-marijuana- 398935. Accessed 15 February 2017. Smart Approaches to  SAM. 30 Jan. 2017. https://learnaboutsam.org/. Accessed 15 February 2017. Lachenmeier, Dirk W., and Rehm. Risk Assessment of Alcohol, Tobacco, Cannabis and Other Illicit Drugs Using the Margin of Exposure Scientific Reports, Nature Publishing Group, Mar. 2015, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4311234/. Accessed 15 February 2017. to Reform Marijuana NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws, norml.org. Accessed 15 February 2017. Nelson, Elizabeth Marie McGhee, PhD. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health, 2016. Accessed 15 February 2017. TWB. Ways You Can Use Marijuana and The Weed Blog, The Weed Blog Https://Www.theweedblog.com, 22 Nov. 2014, www.theweedblog.com/ten-ways-you- can-use-marijuana-and-hemp/. Accessed 15 February 2017. 10,000-Year World History of Hemp and The 10,000-Year World History of Hemp and Cannabis, www.advancedholistichealth.org/history.html. Accessed 15 February 2017. Robertson 6 R, Benyamin. Complications and Side Pain Physician., U.S. National Library of Medicine, 11 Mar. 2011, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18443635. Accessed 15 February 2017. Richer, Isabelle, Jennifer E. C. Lee, and Jennifer Born. Patterns of Alcohol Use Among Canadian Military Personnel and Their Associations With Health and Well-  Health Psychology 35.7, 2016 15 Feb. 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=003af7bb-d734-449b-a07f- fd0b990d6143%40sessionmgr4007&vid=12&hid=4213&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxp dmU%3d#AN=2016-17148-001&db=pdh. Accessed 15 February 2017. and National Cancer Institute, www.cancer.gov/about- cancer/treatment/cam/hp/cannabis-pdq#section/all. Accessed 15 February 2017.