Student 1 Student Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Americans for the Arts Demand Action In recent years the role of art and art education in schools has been highly debated. There countless benefits to allowing students time to experiment with different mediums to create a piece of art from scratch. However, in modern day American society, this is very controversial since art is seen as time taken away from STEM courses that are judged to be more important. However, there is research that shows that keeping the arts in schools is extremely beneficial to overall student wellbeing and performance during adolescence, as well as being necessary in early childhood to help develop fine motor skills and enhance cognitive thinking (Kindekens et al. 1983). Americans for the Arts Action fund is an organization that fights for every child to have the option to have a quality arts education while also raising money to fund various legislators that also support keeping the arts in schools for the Arts Action One of the ways that this organization gathers support is through the images that are present on their website. The two figures that stand out the most are the logo and another figure that had the logo and pictures of children in the background along with a hashtag that supporters can use to communicate with other advocates. Both of these figures use ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos as well as the strategic placement of the different parts of the figure to evoke feelings of nostalgia and anger in the viewer to push them to help and donate to their cause. The first figure contains the logo as well as the name of the company and a small slogan (Figure 1). This figure uses a variety of rhetorical appeals to draw the audience into Student 2 their cause and support the organization in keeping art education in schools. Figure 1 uses ethos by attempting to communicate with the viewer that there is a team of advocates that is continuously growing and working to keep the arts in schools. This appeal to credibility (McKee and McIntyre 27) is used by insinuating that there are million arts For the Arts Action and that the viewer should support the obviously credible cause that one million people support as well. This figure uses pathos through the colors of the logo. The logo is made up of red, green, and blue lines in the shape of a star. The red and the blue in the logo of the organization are both primary colors and, green, while not a primary color, is a secondary color that was possibly used in the place of yellow since yellow is difficult to see on a white background. These three colors are used as an emotional appeal (Lee et. al 37) to remind the viewer of their own arts education when they were younger and invoke a sense of nostalgia to motivate the viewer to donate to their cause and become an arts advocate. The colors are arranged in the shape of a star to bring back the feelings of earning a star in schools and the feeling of accomplishment that comes along with that to, again, remind the viewer of what it feels like to be a young child again. The Lastly, Figure use of kairos is extremely effective in pushing the audience into action. The name of the organization is for the Arts Action In the figure the word is written in all capital letters, which when seen by the audience will very quickly draw their attention to the rest of the image. This word is also written slightly off center but still in the center nonetheless. Having this trigger word in the center draws the audience in, and the typography of the word further emphasizes the importance of the viewer to act as soon as possible (Pack 348). These three appeals, when used in conjunction, are extremely effective in drawing the viewer in and inciting action and support to this cause. Student 3 Figure 2 also contains the logo against a background with dozens of photos of children and a hashtag saying #BeTheARTbeat (Figure 2). This figure also uses a variety of ethical appeals to draw the audience into the cause and motivate them to donate. Kairos is used in this figure in the form of the hashtag. Hashtags are commonly used to draw the audience in and to connect them to other supporters of the same cause (Hoffman and Sawchyn 43-44). The hashtag is also a pun; it alludes to word by saying #BetheARTbeat. This is an appeal to logos in that this organization and the cause that it stands for, like a heartbeat is extremely important to life; that living without this cause would be deadly and supporting this is supporting another life. The text in this figure is also extremely large and it is the only text present. This draws the attention of the viewer in and the hashtag will pique the interest and allow them to connect with other advocates for the cause (Pack 349-50) The last rhetorical appeal that is used in Figure 2 is pathos in the form of all the smaller images that make up the background (Lee et al. 37). The smaller images are colored to form the logo of the organization and they show children that are happy and working creatively in their art classes. These images invoke a sense of nostalgia in the viewer so that they will feel compelled to donate to the cause and to raise awareness to the importance of art in schools. These two figures were used on this organizations website and they were extremely effective in showing the viewer what this organization stands for and for inciting the viewer to support the cause. These images subtly showed how important the arts are in young lives by leading the audience to look inward at their own childhood and at their own memories while they were learning about the arts and given the freedom to experiment with different colors and mediums. There is research that proves how vital art education is to developing fine motor skills as well as fostering positive attitudes and cooperation amongst peers as well as being Student 4 healthier and having better overall wellbeing than their peers who do not participate in art (Kindekens 2). The Americans for the Arts Action Fund is extremely supportive of this cause and recognizes its importance to childhood cognitive and social development. The figures that this organization chose to use were selected specifically to gain support from other future advocates and each visual aspect was designed to appeal to the childhood in a different way. Each of these images were successful in drawing the audience in and bringing them together for a common goal: advocating for the arts in schools and educating others in its importance in a mental and emotional development and overall wellbeing. (Word Count: 1157) Student 5 Works Cited Americans for the Arts Action  Americans for the Arts Action Fund. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Sawchyn, Alysia. 1.5 Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. Print. Kindekens, Ankelien, et al. Enhancing Student Wellbeing In Secondary Education By Combining Self-Regulated Learning And Arts  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 116.5th World Conference on Educational Sciences (2014): 1982- 1987. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lee, Kendra Gayle et al. 1.4 Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37- 40. Print. McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. 1.2 Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. Print. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. Print Student 6 Figure 1 Student 7 Figure 2 http://artsactionfund.org/page/-/afta/img/BeTheARTBeat.jpg