Edward Rivera Carr ENC 1101 Sec 005 2/19/17 What are some of the Beneficial Sociological Impacts of Quantum Computing? Quantum Computing seems to be a term thrown around more often in our rapidly technologically-advancing, world. To some it may even be a phrase that is being heard of for the first time. Just what in the world is a quantum computer, and how is it different from your average consumer grade computer? The answer to that is much more subtle than a different name. Quantum computing, as an idea, has existed since the late 20th century when computing was still in infancy. Most people are familiar with the term or the use of and (bits) to create lines of data known as (or 8 bits of data). Quantum computing differentiates itself by creating data in the form of quantum bits, or Any one qubit could be a 1, 0, or even both at the same exact time. This extra slot of data allows for quantum computer to perform on levels that are infinitesimal leagues above even the fastest supercomputers. Now, this begs the question, what are the practical purposes of quantum computing? At current state, there are more theoretical uses than tangible. On a smaller scale, D-Wave (quantum computer) systems can simulate the physical aspects of rushing and pressurized water through pipelines, allowing for the regulation of water for, say, a small town. What would happen if we applied the same systems to larger, more complex networks? Like traffic light control throughout a country, or even the trade networks throughout the world? This writing will act more as a window into the theoretical benefits of quantum computing, and why we as a society of technologically dependent people should get excited about this technology. SOURCES: Fowler, A. G., Thompson, W. F., & Yan, Z. (2008). Long-range Coupling and Scalable Architecture for Superconducting Flux Qubits. Canadian Journal Of Physics, 86(4), 533- 540. Fowler, thomson, and Yan spend a couple pages discussing what, on a fundamental level, a qubit is and multiple uses. Unlike normal data, a qubit takes up a measurable amount of space, albeit on a molecular level. This allows for a qubit to become ionically charged (negatively and positively) and be used for different applications, such as forming complex systems in a digital space. This article will help me form my argument of how this very complex bit of data will affect our society as a whole. The normal bit is nothing but that, empty data that just exists in a digital plane. Qubits, being a physical form of data, allow for more malleable software able to imitate life itself. This use of physical data would make simulations of actual physical systems not only easier, but more accurate. Being able to present data as a physical object would make things easier to understand from an average point of view Fisher, A. J. (2003). Quantum Computing in the Solid State: The Challenge Decoherence. Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, (1808). 1441. . Fisher more focuses on the actual applications of quantum computing and qubits. This article notes that qubits have been manipulated with microwaves in a laboratory setting, allowing the qubits to be drawn together and separated in a tangible manner. They then applied these manipulated qubits to handle basic computing in just seconds, such as coding millions of lines of data to create a brand new program, like an operating system. If reading these systems could do a worth of work in a literal fraction of the time, would that interest you? Would knowing that these machines that already make our lives easier also have the potential to increase both our efficiency and accuracy in tasks we take for granted everyday? I want to use the concepts in this article to show multiple examples of just how quantum computing could make the amss systems much more streamlined, or even the school life of the average college student easier. Bajcsy, R. b., & Reynolds, C. c. (2002). Computer Science: The Science of and about Information and Computation. Communications Of The ACM, 45(3), 94-98. The article is just a basic overview of what Computer Science is as pertaining to 2002. Obviously over the years this particular work has become obsolete, but that does not mean necessarily useless. Bajcsy helps in discussing the difference between analog and digital computation (for those who are interested). Analog systems are a bit faster since they process all of a given set of data at once, while digital splits it into parts and processes each individually, but this allows the digital system to be more flexible with how it can process data. While this type of information have a giant impact on my work, it will help explain the foundations of computing. Most people could not answer WHEN exactly computing became a publically know/used concept. This is information provided by Bajcsy, allowing for the audience to obtain this knowledge. In all honesty, why should someone not have basic knowledge about a technology that pervades every aspect of your life, from home, to school, to even your job? VALIRON, B., ROSS, N. J., SELINGER, P., ALEXANDER, D. S., & SMITH, J. M. (2015). Programming the Quantum Future. (cover story). Communications Of The ACM, 58(8), 52-61. doi:10.1145/2699415 While the word is the initial word titling this article, it goes well beyond that. It describes quantum computing (QC) in the simplest way possible. For instance, Valiron mentions that the earliest of computers, such as the ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer), used a vocabulary based programming language, which was difficult to code for. Quantum computers instead rely on quantum physics (see where the name comes from?) to dictate the programming language used. That in itself is dependent on what the QC system is being used for, like searching the universe for other Earth-like planets based on our currently known data. the Quantum is most likely my most useful article. Not for the sake of my argument, but more for explaining what quantum computing is to the average person. a very untouched topic, but according to current estimates, it will play a part in the day-to-day lives of everyone within the next ten years. Technology is already increasing at a ridiculous rate (at least compared to one hundred years ago), but quantum computing would accelerate that increase to unimaginable heights. Those theoretical applications I mentioned before? Instantly practical in the right context. Lee, Y. H., Khalil-Hani, M., & Marsono, M. N. (2016). An FPGA-Based Quantum Computing Emulation Framework Based on Serial-Parallel Architecture. International Journal Of Reconfigurable Computing, 1-18. Do you know what superposition is? Or how about entanglement? Superposition, in either a physical or digital space, is the ability for a quantum state (such as a qubit, or quantum bit) to exist in multiple dimensions simultaneously. For example, we can observe a qubit being manipulated in both the second and third dimensions at the same time, but that is just a simplified way of describing it. Entanglement is how we connect multiple qubits together to form a multidimensional plane. Like most computing, these terms and algorithms existed decades before viable quantum computing was available, but a basis is required in order to make it a reality. This article may serve the second most useful to my overall work. How could anything be able to come to an infinite amount of outcomes for a given problem? Simply put, we as humans are unable to think, or even imagine, beyond the third dimension. not our fault, but more due to design. Designing and coding a program to go beyond our flawed way of thinking allows for more solutions to be presented to us. In total, there are about 10 planes, or dimensions, to our known existence, but what those are exactly are what we are not going to focus on. Instead, look at how the realm of possibility increases with each new dimension due to each dimension encompassing all the previous dimensions before it, meaning all of the previous solutions plus all the possible solutions in that new dimension. Is this confusing yet? A. a. (2015). Quantum Computing - A New Implementation of Simon Algorithm for 3-Dimensional Registers. Journal Of Applied Computer Science & Mathematics, (19), 23-30. If you happen to have a passion for math or physics, this article might interest you. Barila divulges into the actual math and algorithms behind quantum computing,. As mentioned in a previous article, qubits can exist in multiple quantum states or even both). This can be calculated in the following formula: = + The zero (0) and one (1) are representative of traditional binary, and the way in which a qubit can exist in multiple states at once. A qubit is represented as the variable (psi) in the formula. ACTUAL, USEFUL MATH. Yes, there is a way of quantifying (see what I did there?) quantum computing in a more sense. The article dabbles a bit in the origins of quantum computing near the beginning. The term and idea was coined in the by famed physicist Richard Feynman. He theorization of how quantum computing could make normal computing more efficient will allow me to start off slow in my work by introducing the life and work of Dr, Feynman, the birth of QC, and its possible uses.