Kevin Morrissey Intermediate Draft ENC 1101 2/13/17 Mental Illnesses and Gun Related Violence Tragic shootings take place a lot every year in America and every time it happens, the outrage is always the same: When will America pass new laws on guns? And while it is a very valid point, not the full story. Mental Illnesses can play a huge role in gun related violence. The columbine shooters were psychopaths who struggled with depression, and it got to a point where they needed an outlet on the people that they feel deserved it. They had access to guns and ammunition and with the struggles that were going on inside each of their minds, it led to one of the worst massacres in U.S history. Warning signs are not going to be obvious but it helps to be wary of the situation. And not just violence on others, its violence on themselves. With suicide being the second leading cause of death between ages 15 and 34, the rates at which a successful suicide occur are drastically raised when using a firearm. In fact, 60% of deaths by guns are suicides. So why are these people who are struggling with inner demons able to possess fire arms that could potentially end lives in a matter of seconds, whether be suicide or homicide. Appelbaum, Paul. Does the Second Amendment Protect the Gun Rights of Persons With Mental  Psychiatric Services 68.1 (2017):3-5. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 This article focuses on a certain individual In 1968, the Gun Control Act was passed which prohibited sales of firearms to people who had been hospitalized for psychiatric reasons. Fast forward to 2012, and a case has challenged this law. Clifford Tyler, a 74-year-old man who lives in Michigan, was denied the opportunity to purchase a gun because he was committed involuntary to a psychiatric hospital 25 years earlier. Despite the facts that this man has had no criminal record, had never dealt with any substance abuse, and has been holding a steady job for many years. So in 2012, Tyler brought suit in federal court system saying this violated the Second Amendment but was not able to win. However, the majority of the sixth court held that failure to provide Tyler without a gun did indeed violate the second amendment and they ruled it to be sent back to a district court. In the closing section, Dr. Appelbaum goes on to mention that mental health organizations are in favor of this ruling as they like having more restrictions on gun possessions with people who have had mental illness in the past. He also predicts that psychiatrists and psychologists will become more involved in more cases like Tyler in the future on whether people with past mental illness problems should be able to own a gun. Dr. Paul Appelbaum is the author of this article and is the Elizabeth K. Dollard Professor of Psychiatry, Medicine, and Law at Columbia University in New York. He was the former President of the American Psychiatric Association in 2002-2003 and President of the American Academy of Psychiatry and the law in 1995-1996. This relates to my topic in that it discusses certain cases, like Tyler for example, that could be looked at to possibly change an incredibly good and safe law that could have potentially saved thousands of lives over the course of its inception. The Gun Control Act of 1968 is one that needs to stay in place but could be opened to revisions. One revision could be something like analysis from multiple psychiatrists to see if the mental state is good enough to purchase a firearm. Miller, Matthew. Hemenway, David and Suicide in the United New England Journal of Medicine, 359, September 4th 2008, pp. 989-991. http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp0805923 Web. 13 Feb. 2017. In suicides, guns are one of the most lethal ways of doing it and this article expresses ways that can cause it, one of which being guns in the household. When guns are present in a home, the rates at which a suicide occurs are typically increased 2 to 10 times. At such an alarming rate, a wonder on what can cause this. One of the ways is impulses. 24% of people who survived a near lethal suicide made the decision in less than 5 minutes and 70% of people made the decision in less than an hour. Another way is along the lines of an immediate stressor such as a bad break up or loss of a job. This can cause the urge to rise as time passes and could lead to an attempt in the future. The authors close the article by conducting a study on the relationship between gun ownership in the household and suicides and offers their input on ways to counter guns in the home. Dr. David Hemenway is the director of the Harvard Injury Control Research Center at the Harvard School of Public Health and Dr. Matthew Miller is the Associate Director. This article works well with my research topic as it shows a relationship between gun ownership and suicide. With 60% gun deaths being suicides, it makes sense to try and rid the house of guns with mentally ill people living in them to potentially save a life. The decision can become a lot more difficult without a quick, painless option that a gun can offer. It could also offer the individual more time to think over what they are about to do and stop an impulse suicide. Knopf, Alison. Untreated mental disorders, unchecked guns: the combination poses a clear threat to our children, but not the one we  Behavioral Healthcare 34.2 (2014):32-35. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 This article highlights 3 individuals: Adam Lanza, Jared Loughner, and James Holmes. It discusses their involvement in the mass shootings that they participated in. While cases like these 3 are rare, not hard to find similar people to these 3 individuals. Jeffery Swanson, who has Ph.D. at Duke University said this, average 17-year-old has a good chance of living in a home with multiple firearms. Add to that the characteristics of young men who have had some psychopathology, are isolated, probably angry, and perhaps delusional, perhaps something else-- not a very small  This article also addresses suicide and the fact that 100,000 lives in the past decade could have been saved without access to a firearm, 90% being suicide, and the other 10% being homicides by people with mental disorders. Allison Knopf is an editor of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Weekly and won the Michael Q Ford Journalism Award given by the National Association of Addiction Treatment Providers in 2016. This article relates to my topic in that it highlights how mass shootings can involve some sort of mental illness. In fact, most mass shootings occur by someone who has been mentally ill. It also addresses yet again how important suicide is to gun related violence. America alone could have eliminated 100,000 deaths in the past decade just by putting an emphasis on mental health and trying to help those individuals that needed it. Arboleda Julio. Mental illness and  Current opinion in psychiatry 22.5 (2009):475-476. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 This article addresses a numerous amount of mass shootings that involved the killer having some sort of mental illness. It goes from Charles Whitman and the infamous shooting at the University of Texas in Austin all the way to Seung Hui-Cho and the Virginia Tech Massacre and many more in-between. Arboleda describes the shooter typically as a loner, depressed, a mad man, and so on that he has been affected one way or another in his mental He also goes on to conclude in the final paragraph that a poorly treated mental illness was present in most of these cases. He suggests that people would have to rethink and study more the association between mental illness and violence. Dr. Julio E. Arboleda- is an international speaker, researcher on mental health services, psychiatric ethics and psychiatric epidemiology, author of books, multiple chapters and over 250 scientific papers and technical reports on mental health services, public mental health, mental health ethics, forensic psychiatry and psychiatric epidemiology. This article relates to my topic with the association that most mass shooters have had some history with mental illness. All of these cases showed very similar traits in the mental state. It also shows how dangerous one can be with a lethal weapon and an unstable mind with little to no remorse for their actions. This is part of the reason why the Gun Control Act of 1968 was put in place, even if these tragic shootings did occur, there could be double the number of massacres that could have potentially happened without that act.