Patihk 1 Daniel Patihk Ms. Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102. Section 078 30 January 2017 Gun Control Compromise, Shoot the Messenger According to the BBC Gun Violence Archive, 13,286 people were killed in the US by firearms in 2015 (www.bbc.com/news). The number of murders by guns per capita in the US is thirty times that of the United Kingdom, a country similar in development to America, yet laws and gun rights are more liberal in the US than the UK (www.bbc.com/news). However, according to the US Constitution, American citizens still reserve the right to bear arms, and rights need to be lawfully defended. Therefore, on the topic of gun control, the two main organizations that have developed to fuel this argument from either end are the States United to Prevent Gun Violence (SUPGV), who are keen on preventing gun violence via increased gun laws, and the National Rifle Association (NRA), who mainly exist to protect the Second Amendment. Although their opposite opinions cause obvious conflict, they are interestingly also both strong advocates for the idea of increased gun safety in America, hence creating a sight of common ground between the two and a hope that they may be able to work together, perhaps through the introduction of a gun safety curriculum in schools. States United to Prevent Gun Violence is one of the stakeholders for this project, and is also one of the main contributors to the debate on gun control in America. According to their website, their mission is to prevent gun violence by having increased gun laws which entails keeping guns out of the hands of felons and domestic abusers specifically (www.ceasefireusa.org/about). This introduces an article by Adam Soloperto, published by Patihk 2 the Seton Hall University School of Law, the supports and validates the position. According to the article, are an estimated eighty-eight guns per one hundred people in the United (Soloperto 228) and people are killed each year with (Soloperto 228), which demonstrates the tragedy inflicted by weapons. Even more interesting is the statistic firearm homicide rate in the United States is only slightly lower than that of the Democratic Republic of Congo and (Soloperto 228). This parallel to two countries known globally for their ridiculously high numbers of killings yearly shows that the gun situation is out of control in the United States, according to the article. This completely legitimizes the efforts to have increased gun laws to keep guns out of felon hands. The SUPGV also believes in the banning of all military style weapons to non-military people, and to increase education about gun safety. Once again, according to Soloperto, there have been many historical events of mass shootings in the United States, such as the shooting of a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, or the shooting of a party held by the San Bernadino County Department of Health, or even the Sandy Hook Elementary School tragedy. The factor that links all of these shootings and many more examples provided in the article is that the weapons were all assault rifles purchased legally by the shooters. This directly supports the mission to ban military style weapons to non-military citizens, as well as the previous part of the mission to increase gun laws. Finally, the organization works hard at developing policy initiatives and best practices for gun (www.ceasefireusa.org/about) as well as many other efforts that they listed on their website. However, many people still disagree with these efforts and advocate for the defence of the Second Amendment right to bear arms. This introduces the National Rifle Association, which is arguably the most influential and largest organization involved in this argument over gun control. Their mission is to protect the United States Constitution with a focus on the Second Amendment American Patihk 3 right to own and use arms. An article by Grant Arnold, published by the Brigham Young University Education and Law Journal supports this by elaborating on District of Columbia v. Heller and McDonald v. City of Chicago, which are two important historical turning points for gun rights because for the first time, new flood of second amendment litigation entered (Arnold 482). This simply means that the courts now recognized that the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution protected an right to use arms in the immediate self-defence in home. This shows that it is lawful under these conditions to own guns and therefore validates the mission to protect the American right to bear arms. Information found on pages 485 and 486 of the article breaks down the Second Amendment and rightfully shows how it grants the right for Americans to carry guns, contradicting other different interpretations of the Second Amendment, which becomes a focal point of many arguments on opposite sides to the NRA. This one again legitimizes the position on defending the right to bear arms. Finally, Arnold describes gun free school policies and compare them to the state of Utah, where student and staff of state colleges are allowed guns on campus with a concealed carry permit. The comparison shows that unlike all other states with gun free schools, have been no instances of attempted mass murders at any school in (Arnold 504). This can be extrapolated to the general population to show that if more of the population was armed then there will actually be less gun violence, which supports the mission to protect the American right to bear arms. The NRA is also keen on the promotion of proper and complete training of gun owners, ranging from small arms owners and hunters, to individuals involved in shooting for sport and boasting of having one of the most developed and complete training courses for gun safety in America. Although the information presented thus far indicate that the SUPGV and NRA are at opposite ends of the gun control debate, they actually both have a very common interest in Patihk 4 gun safety and education. A brief analysis of their mission statements and information obtained from their websites revealed this. SUPGV acknowledges its importance in its mission, saying that they are that gun-owners take responsibility and keep guns in the home locked, unloaded and safely and also by developing policy initiatives and best practices for gun (www.ceasefireusa.org/about). Similarly, the NRA claims to be the leading provider of gun safety training courses in America, stating that 125,000 certified instructors now train about 1,000,000 gun owners a (www.nra.org/home). This clearly shows that there is a common interest between these two organizations currently at opposite ends, and is the beginning of finding a compromise that can work well for both the NRA and SUPGV to exist in harmony. This leads to the idea of introducing a weapons safety training program integrated into the school curriculum, ideally from elementary to high school. The current situation on the topic of gun control is that American citizens have the right to purchase guns and are protected by the Second Amendment of the Constitution, and at the current rate of gun purchase, America is projected to be in a future state where by the large majority of the citizens owns a gun. Therefore, by teaching gun safety in schools, this will eventually create a population that is competent with handling a gun in the safest way possible. It will also reduce the frequency of children suicides and accidental youth killings caused by guns, usually belonging to their parents. This is also of value since statistics show that of US homes with children have (Obeng). A study done by Cecilia Obeng, published in an article by the Journal of School Health, which is a monthly peer-reviewed academic publication, legitimizes the information on teaching gun safety to students. research revealed that of US homes with children have firearms and that in 32% to 43% of such homes the guns are (Obeng 395) and also that in 2005, were 3006 firearms-related deaths among the US (Obeng 395). These statistics show the Patihk 5 urgent need for a gun safety curriculum to be issued to students and supports the claim that it will reduce the number of accidental child deaths caused by guns. In accordance with research, the curriculum should ideally be issued to children over the K-6 grade and should be multidisciplinary, involving teachers, police, trained officials and parents. The curriculum should be first introduced in gun liberal states, such as Texas, and progressively become nationwide. Furthermore, appeals can be made to the state for funding, but if denied, the average cost of a personal gun safety course is $80, but this price will most likely drop if an organization is given the job of educating an entire school, or furthermore, a state. The school will be left with two options, either to have fund raisers to subside the cost, or to charge parents for the course. Either way, this is the choice. Calculations from information obtained on the website also shows that a half an hour long session, once a week for a two year program is definitely enough to equip students with the knowledge they need to treat guns with the utmost safety. Finally, the NRA should have the job of organizing and conducting these classes because they are perhaps currently the largest provider of weapons training classes in America, but must still work with the SUPGV in creating a proper curriculum. The SUPGV can also be very influential in getting these curriculums approved in states and also in getting funding for these programs, since they are already an organization heavily reliant on donations, proving their capability of raising a large amount of funds via donation for a particular cause. Therefore, both organizations will be dependent on each other for the greater good of achieving gun safety. This compromise of introducing gun safety classes to high school students will eventually achieve a population that is fully competent to handle a gun, perhaps in a time that the majority of Americans own guns. It will also largely and immediately reduce the number of accidental child killings caused by guns. For this compromise to work however, the NRA will have to allow States United to Prevent Gun Violence to make modifications to their Patihk 6 already established training program, such as making it more child friendly and more inclined toward not handling weapons until adulthood and licensed. The course will also have to be less specific to certain weapons and conditions than the ones offered by the NRA. On the contrary, the SUPGV will have to give up part of their mission, which is to have access to military style weapons denied. These are clearly minor things that each organization will have to sacrifice for the end result of future gun safety. In summation, both the National Rifle Association and the States United to Prevent Gun Violence are presently on opposite ends of the spectrum in terms of the debate on gun control. The NRA aims to defend the American right to own a gun, while the SUPGV attempts to have gun laws increased. However, their similar deep interest in gun safety has led to a compromise being suggested, which is to work together on introducing a gun safety curriculum to high school students. This will bring forward many previously discussed benefits for both the present and future, making it sustainable. Most importantly, it does not require much sacrifice by each organization to occur successfully. Patihk 7 Works Cited Soloperto, Adam P. standard of review for gun rights: the second amendment question hot as a two-dollar Seton Hall Law Review; 2016. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=9f705ffc-7cf3-4814- b1ed-cc8d6e3bdf6c%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4108. Acceseed 29 January 2017. Arnold, Grant. the good guys: school zones and the second Brigham Young University Education & Law Journal; 2015. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=512815f4-625c-4d37- 98ba-094f6b9810f4%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4108. Accessed 29 January 2017. Obeng, Cecilia. gun safety be taught in schools? Perspectives of Journal of School Health. August 2010. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=73da7e49-7f30-4a5e-be53- 780ab3e1ca09%40sessionmgr4007&vid=19&hid=4108. Accessed 30 January 2017. Breif History about the National Rifle Association. www.home.nra.org/home. Accessed 30 January 2017. States United to Prevent Gun States United to Prevent Gun Violence. www.ceasefireusa.org/about. Accessed 30 January 2017.