Herman 1 Madison Herman Erika Staiger Composition II 1102 5 February 2017 Marijuana and Natural Bodybuilding According to the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), cannabis and marijuana is on the banned-substances list for bodybuilders. The banned-substances list is a list compiled of steroids and other drugs that competitive bodybuilders are tested for when they compete in natural bodybuilding competitions. If any substance abuse is detected the competitor is disqualified from competition. The WADA wants cannabis to be kept on the list because although it is becoming legal in some states around the country, it is still a product that alters the state of mind and body when being used. The Marijuana Industry Group (MIG) on the other hand argues cannabis should be taken off the WADA list. Cannabis is quickly becoming a legal drug, and most importantly, marijuana is in no way, shape, or form, a steroid. Marijuana does not have any performance-enhancing capabilities; therefore, it should be removed from the list. A solid compromise to satisfy both parties of the argument would be to treat the issue according to a state-by-state basis. Marijuana could be removed from the list in states that have legalized marijuana for either medical or recreational use, and remain present where it is still illegal. The drug could then be removed as states legalize marijuana. Allowing this compromise would in turn satisfy both the WADA as well as MIG. The WADA claims they aim to provide world where athletes can compete in a doping- free sporting (WADA). They do not believe in any substance that can be considered a performance-enhancing drug or steroid, or alter the mind and body in any way. Herman 2 Griffiths and other authors explain in Stigma of Anabolic Steroid that a steroid is an drug used to enhance muscle development and exercise Not all bodybuilding federations test; Some federations are considered natural, such as the American National Bodybuilding Federation (ANBF) and so they use the WADA banned-substances list on their competing athletes to check for any steroid abuse. Because marijuana is a drug that has chemical effects on the body, the WADA believes it should remain on the list and be illegal to natural bodybuilders. Marijuana use can have several serious side effects according to studies done by Steven Wright in his article Cannabinoid Use: Hazards Behind the He says marijuana use can lead to higher heart attack rates, limb arteritis, and stroke (Wright). It also can cause airway inflammation when smoked, and bronchodilation. Evidence of lung cancer is mixed but it may serious changes to the brain at a young age and irreversible damage on the developing (Wright). On the less severe note, marijuana is known to cause problems with memory and learning ability. It is also related to signs of neuronal damage in the brain of children if used consistently at a young age (Wright). Steroids can have significant effects on the human body. Steroid use cause lead to heart attack, stroke, and organ failure over time (Griffiths, et al). The similarity in supposed side effects of both drugs leads to why the WADA wants to keep cannabis on the banned-substances for bodybuilders and continue to test athletes for use. Medical marijuana is currently legal in twenty-five of the fifty states nationwide and is legal for recreational use in four (Griffiths, et al). Colorado is one of few states to legalize recreational use of marijuana. The Marijuana Industry Group, or MIG, says their is to advance appropriate legislation, regulation, and (Marijuana Industry Group). They believe in safe, clean access to product for their residents and visitors alike and wants to Herman 3 become an example for other cannabis (Marijuana Industry Group). Because of this, MIG believes marijuana should be removed from the WADA banned-substances list. Marijuana is not a performance enhancing drug in any way. According to Write, is no evidence of physical or psychological effects from the use of marijuana (Wright). Steroids, however, are with numerous adverse physical and psychological which includes organ system damage to the neuroendocrine and cardiovascular systems (Griffiths, et al). Such may be expected from anabolic steroids because bodybuilders have to inject these performance enhancers into their bodies. The constant use of unnatural fillers and toxic chemicals begins to cause damage over time. Marijuana, however, does not have these effects. Smoking the drug may be hazardous, but mainly if used by a wrap, not the weed itself. Marijuana has no performance-enhancing capabilities and the Marijuana Industry Group are some to argue it should be removed from the WADA banned-substances list. Regulation of marijuana can keep the drug very safe and removal from the list should occur in a timely fashion. There is a reasonable compromise to provide both the WADA and MIG with a satisfaction over the banned-substances list. Marijuana should be removed from the list on a state-by-state basis. In states where Marijuana is legal for either medical or recreational use, the drug should be taken off the banned-substances list. Where marijuana is not yet legal, it should remain on the list and not be removed until legal action takes place. In this instance, the WADA list can follow state laws and guidance in accordance to their policies and provide athletes with a fair compromise. In of Long Term Supplementation of Anabolic Androgen Steroids on Human Skeletal Yu and colleagues define a steroid as to muscle size and improve muscle and that is what absolutely shown to do. Marijuana does not have this Herman 4 ability. Agabio and other authors write in their article Differences in Substance Use Disorders: Focus on Side that who use steroids as compared to those who do not, are proven to have increased muscle mass, and higher athletic On the other hand, bodybuilders who use cannabis whether it be medically or recreationally but do not use steroids, there is no proven ability for marijuana to enhance growth or cell fiber size (Agabio, et al. Steroids and marijuana are nowhere near equivalent, as even the side effects of steroids compare far worse than to marijuana. Bodybuilders may need cannabis for medical purposes and if this is the case, the athlete would not be able to compete in natural bodybuilding competitions where marijuana is on the WADA list. Because of these reasons, it is practical to say the WADA banned-substances list should go along with state laws in deciding which lists will ban cannabis and which will not. The World Anti-Doping Agency or WADA is an agency that aims to prevent steroid use among athletes, and ensure a clean competition environment for all bodybuilders when competing. Marijuana is legal for medical use in twenty-five states and recreationally for use in four states, however the WADA believes marijuana should be kept on the WADA banned- substances list. Due to the multiple side effects such as impaired memory, speech, critical thinking, and breathing problems, the agency sees the drug as harmful and mind altering (Agabio, et al). Although physical change among athletes does not occur, the harmful side effects and chemical products within the drug make it difficult for all-natural federations to see cannabis use as safe and okay for bodybuilders to be using in competition. The Marijuana Industry Group, based out of Colorado, does not agree. Because marijuana is quickly being legalized across the US and well-regulated with specific guidelines, they feel it should be removed from the banned-substances list. The drug is not a performance enhancer and does not Herman 5 cause muscular change, therefore it cannot be considered a steroid and should not be on the list. To give each side a sense of satisfaction, a fair compromise could be to remove marijuana from the list in states where it is legal for either medical or recreational use, be removed and not considered a banned substance. This compromise gives both sides a chance to know their opinions were taken into consideration and can have the satisfaction in an equal, fair regulation to the banned-substances list. Herman 6 Works Cited Agabio, Roberta, Maria Campisi, Claudia Pisanu, Gian Gessa, and Flavia Franconi. Sex Differences in Substance Use Disorders: Focus on Side  Read by QxMD. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https://www.readbyqxmd.com/read/27001402/sex-differences- in-substance-use-disorders-focus-on-side-effects>. Griffiths, S., S. B. Murray, and J. M. Mond. The Stigma of Anabolic Steroid  Journal of Drug Issues 46.4 (2016): 446-56. Web. Marijuana Industry  Marijuana Industry Group. Marijuana Industry Group, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://marijuanaindustrygroup.org/about/>.  World Anti-Doping Agency. N.p., 28 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https://www.wada-ama.org/en/who-we-are>. Wright, Steven. Recreational Cannabinoid Use: The Hazards behind the  Jfponline.com. The Journal of Family Practice, n.d. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. <http://www.bing.com/cr?IG=E0FEA9AAEAA54C179F255F9DF74E91F4&CID=227D EC9EE71A61403935E6BFE62B60CC&rd=1&h=E5N4KI4aL9JcW43y4X9Up3uCaoKd Flr5dZN9ijvtEGc&v=1&r=http%3a%2f%2fwww.mdedge.com%2fjfponline%2farticle% 2f116578%2faddiction-medicine%2frecreational-cannabinoid-use-hazards-behind- high%2fpage%2f0%2f6&p=DevEx,5079.1>. Yu, Ji-Guo, Patrik Bonnerud, Anders Eriksson, Per S. Yelverton Tegner, and Christer Malm. Effects of Long Term Supplementation of Anabolic Androgen Steroids on Human Skeletal  PLoS ONE 9.9 (2014): n. pag. Web.