Student 1 Student Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102.703 14 February , 2017 How The Wounded Warrior Project Effects PTSD Victims In order to obtain any type of support for a business, foundation, organization or anything of that nature, one must do so through the use of the rhetorical appeals. The rhetorical appeals consists of ethos, logos, kairos, and pathos. Ethos refers to the credibility of the author, or in other words how the author makes the audience believe that they can relate to similar experiences. Logos is the use of logic, or any form of evidence, for example statistics. Kairos is the use of timeliness, which is essentially focused on when the most opportune moment would be to use the designated work. Lastly, pathos is the use of emotion (Hoffman 20-46). The stakeholder that uses these rhetorical appeals and is so greatly involved with combating the mental illness of PTSD is that of the Wounded Warriors Project. This association is involved in and has created a variety of programs focused on the recuperation of veterans upon their return home. This work with veterans branches from physical injuries to mental ones, such as post traumatic stress disorder. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a severe mental illness that has been diagnosed in as many as 540,000 veterans, yet only half seek out and receive treatment (Dockens). A few of the many services that the project offers to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder victims includes the Combat Stress Recovery Program and the Warrior Care Network. The Combat Stress Recovery Program engages veterans in outdoor experiences that will push Student 2 them physically while connecting with fellow veterans who are in a similar mental state (Combat Stress Recovery Program) . The Warrior Care Network is the first of its kind that is partnered with several hospitals and medical centers to, not only connect patients, but also to provide exceptional care to those who may not have gotten the best treatment, or any at all. While conducting research on the organization, several photos came up that thoroughly enlist the rhetorical appeals to convince anyone to donate in support of the project, however two captured a significant amount of attention. Figure 1 is the main logo for the project and depicts a soldier carrying another on his back. This image uses the rhetorical appeal pathos is several ways. The primary message within the image is that these soldiers support each other in defending this country despite the situation or the consequences, so at the very least we can support these brave soldiers upon their return home. The way that one soldier is physically supporting the other is symbolic of how hard they work to defend and protect the country so it be our responsibility, as citizens, to at least make sure ok when they return home? One of the things that stands out the most is how the main concern is helping his fellow soldier as opposed to his own well being. Pathos is also used in the way the soldier is carrying the other because it makes the audience consider the countless young men and women that may have been in a similar life threatening situation and may not have been so fortunate in the end result. In addition, the use of strictly black and white is essential and in a way used as logos because it makes it seem as though helping these veterans is a very simple decision and there is no gray area.This text may be limited, but the fact that the name of the organization is the only thing present is essentially stating how this is a priority that needs a significant amount of attention. In terms of the rhetorical appeals, the image Student 3 uses ethos by giving the impression that the organization is supported by and employs several soldiers. Finally, Kairos is also used in this image because this country still has several soldiers overseas and will continue to for some time to come. Essentially the image is successful in encouraging the audience to stand behind the goals of the Wounded Warrior Project. Figure 2 depicts a soldier embracing his daughter upon his arrival home. The concept that the stakeholder is trying to convey with the use of pathos is probably the most important, which is the concept that these soldiers have family and friends that rely on them, love them, and need them to return home safely. Furthermore, pathos is used within this add because it shows a child that desperately misses and needs her father, which is a feeling most can relate to.The daughter grasping onto both her father and the flag so tight as if to say that despite her age she understands how important his job is and she supports him, which is what the Wounded Warriors Project strives to achieve. The use of simple colors within the image somewhat symbolizes how this little girl is so happy to see her dad and treasures the little time she gets with him, which is something that so many people take for granted each day. This image also enlists the use of other rhetorical appeals such as ethos, which is evident through the little girl clutching onto the American flag, representing thousands of families that support this organization and what it stands for. Kairos is also used within this image because each day this country is training and sending countless more soldiers overseas only to return needing the help of the wounded warriors project, if they return at all. Therefore, this advertisement will be timely as long as this country continues to send young men and women to war. In essence, the goal of the Wounded Warrior Project is to help veterans when they return home, regardless of whether their injuries are physical, mental, or emotional, the project is Student 4 designed to provide any type of help or support needed by these brave men and women . In order to do so, the project needs funding from any one who can offer their help. By using images such as the ones discussed above and enlisting the use of the rhetorical appeals they are able to raise the proper funding in order to help so many veterans. Student 5 Works Cited Combat Stress Recovery  Warrior Project . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dockens, Christopher. Wounded Warrior Homes -  Transitional Housing . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton,MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Figure 1 Figure 2