Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102.712S17 14 February 2017 Garments overwhelming on a landfills It is commonly known that the overall world population currently constitutes more than 7 billion people. Add to this the fact that everyone has to wear certain items of clothing: at least a pair of pants, a shirt, a jacket, and some footwear. In such a case, the figures are likely to be even more impressive, not to mention the fact that most people tend to own more than three garments. Furthermore, it is worth considering that the global volume budget of production in the area of the fashion industry including apparels, textiles, footwear, and luxury goods reached up to 2,560 trillion US dollars in 2010. In total, there are over 80 billion pieces of clothing and footwear produced annually worldwide. Such a large volume of the clothing production turnover can be explained by the necessity to update the canons of fashion that require regular alterations in the current outfit. Consequently, old and worn-out items become non-demanded; even so, they keep taking up space and need to be disposed of. According to the SMART organization, 85 percent of all clothing ends up in the dumpsites, thus bringing no benefit at all even though applying particular simple recycling technologies would help to make the most out of used clothes. It is absolutely relevant to estimate SMART official website in order to receive the proper impression. SMART, which stands for materials and recycled positions itself as an international trade association and promotes worldwide the opportunities of innovative methods in recycling textiles. Participation in recycling is considered to be a social responsibility, and SMART presents it as a way of making money as well. In fact, they have been successfully coping with these goals throughout Student 2 decades, since 1932. Thus, as a thesis, it can be confidently stated that the organization is taking up the challenge of making average consumers more environmentally aware by encouraging everyone to prevent the overall clustering caused by the growing volume of refuse and waste. The organization official website front page appears to meet all the criteria of a green organization. First of all, the design is performed in moderate natural colors with pastel green dominating and most scripts performed in white. The upper central part contains a banner which is meant to attract the most attention and which presents sheer statistical figures combined with images of collectors available for using. Therefore, the company specialization is unambiguous in this respect. Not only this but also the fact that side menus look well-designed and hold no needless information. Finally, the site offers hyperlinks to related organizations and offers an option of signing in and thus gaining a permanent participant membership. One more aspect must not be neglected, concerning the intended target audience which might be involved; namely, any of those who have ever taken out waste are likely to find themselves motivated and make a contribution. Practically it may concern conscious householders of all ages. Despite ecology being a complicated science, the overall message is delivered in a popular way, which increases the number of potential participants. As for the scrollable news line provided below, it enables anyone entering the site to become updated as for the events coordinated with a calendar. ! Fig. 1. Raw materials sorting. Photograph by n.a., from SECONDARY MATERIALS AND RECYCLED  Web; 11 Feb. 2017). Student 3 The first photo gets across the message linked to the routine procedure performed at a SMART factory. Indeed, reflecting a work process if far more effective than simply showing happy people in the clean world, due to the fact that showing the means is better than referring to end results. This way, the spectators are shown a typical where the collected waste is sorted out and processed. The fact that there are some digital monitors in the workshop proves that SMART factories use the cutting-edge equipment. What catches the eye is the fact that though the area is quite spacious, there are only two operators. Thus, one may conclude about the technology being automated to a maximum extent. It is also worth mentioning that the interior is all in natural green color, which matches the website basic color range. The embedded text includes the detailed comment to the photo content. Namely, what exactly occurs to the textile waste submitted for recycling as well as offers a clickable link for anyone wishing to learn more on the subject. All in all, the site covers the information on the technological details in a comprehensive way. Analyzing the first illustration in terms of logos, it is logical to conclude that this color photo is remarkable for its composition as well as the range of colors. The girl is wearing casual clothes, which signifies the occupation is not smelly or dirty in any way. Additionally, the clothes are purposefully selected to be dark, whereas the pile of waste clothing in the left part of the picture looks motley and multicolored therefore, any spectator instinctively pays attention to the central object of the process. Concerning the ethos aspect, the foreground reveals an operating processor, who is a young lady this is intended to highlight that such a job is not only a valuable contribution to the prevention of overall but also can be popular with younger generation and well performed even by young representatives of Yet again it needs to be pointed out that the central focus of attention is huge piles of waste clothing. When it comes to pathos, the volume of used clothes in the background implies the large-scale involvement in the process of collecting the substance as well as the importance of recycling this waste. Moreover, any average spectator is likely to feel like a potential contributor as practically everyone has certain Student 4 worn-out items to dispose of in brief, this message in to urge one to go and review the wardrobe contents. Finally, the kairos aspects take forward the clear association with the photo being timely, due to the fact that comparatively short time ago trivial dumpsites could hardly be seen as a matter of public concern. Yet, SMART forcing more and more people to review their attitude toward recycling used textiles. ! ! ! ! Fig. 2. Implementation of recycled materials. Photograph by n.a., from SECONDARY MATERIALS AND RECYCLED  Web; 11 Feb. 2017).! Another image selected for analyzing contains attempt to demonstrate the end use of recyclable textiles. Unlike the first illustration reflecting only one angle (inside the workshop), this one combines three separate shots. In particular, it includes both newly-produced material and wiping products which are so much demanded in various industrial areas (piles of rolled fabric in a warehouse on the left, a cloth for wiping drills in the middle, brightly-colored rugs on the right). What stands out here is the color range. The end products are all bright and noticeable (shades of red, yellow, blue and white), which contrasts with the main website theme below (is it natural green). The embedded text sheds the light on the purpose of those shots placed in one image, referring to the and network. A clickable link for those wishing to find out more is provided, all the scripts being performed in white, which indicates that the organization is loyal to its basic colors. Student 5 Concerning logos, the logical appeal in this picture is delivered by means of showing the range of applications for textiles at the domestic and professional level, which makes one reflect upon the overall volumes of fabric that consumer society tends to use on a monthly or yearly basis. Analyzing ethos, the image brings about credibility by showing huge amounts of new fabric stock on the left and variety of small types of cloth so much necessary for daily needs. This way one should not experience any doubts as to whether it is sensible to collect used textiles for recycling. In terms of pathos, the experience is most clearly shown in the central photo, where a drill is wiped. Everyone who has had to perform any sort of household redecoration or repairs is bound to be familiar with how much wiping material is required. Referring to kairos, it would be relevant to admit that now the world community is becoming more aware of the need to recycling used materials as much as possible, and such an illustration proves that recycling textiles instead of producing new fabric and consume natural resources where it could be avoided is no less significant than recycling paper, plastic or glass. In order to draw the conclusion for the analyses submitted above, it would be relevant to state that SMART company is involved into ultimately beneficial activities. Not only does it apply cutting-edge technologies to give a second life to used textiles but also it promotes the active participation of average consumers by getting across the message like not pretend it does not concern you: we are all in the same Supposedly that in the world where there are fewer and fewer biodegradable substances around people, attempts to promote recycling and prevent the issues of over-cluttering the inevitable process that goes side-by-side with urban sprawl are supposed to pay off. (WC: 1500) Student 6 Work cited Green organization. SECONDARY MATERIALS AND RECYCLED  Web; 11 Feb. 2017). <http://www.smartasn.org/index.cfm/> Hoffman A., Wiggs K. Rhetoric Matters Understanding p. 371, 22 Jan. 2017.