Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Down with Depression? Depression is a serious mental disorder that affects millions of people worldwide regardless of race, sex, or age (Pietrangelo). However, due to the stigma that surrounds this illness many people do not seek out treatment even though there are now quite a few treatment options that have been proven to Even with symptoms that affect emotional and physical well being, such as anxiety and insomnia, people are still frightened to ask for help in fear of being labeled by others as having an disease (Pietrangelo). Beyondblue is an Australian-based company formed in 2000 that works to fight the stigma associated with mental disorders, and offers various treatment options for the countless people that are forced to struggle with depression in their everyday lives. By implementing numerous visual cues throughout their website and using a variety of rhetorical strategies, Beyondblue is able to successfully present their treatment options for depression in order to alleviate its symptoms and help people live a normal, healthy life. One of the first course of actions that Beyondblue suggests victims of depression should take is psychological treatment, such as speaking to a therapist and getting professional help (Beyondblue). Beyondblue formats the psychological treatment plan by placing a picture, Figure 1, of a patient and his therapist at the top, and list its many forms of psychological treatment right below it (Beyondblue). The picture positioned at the top of the webpage helps to illustrate the Student 2 benefits of talking with a therapist. Figure 1 includes a man, presumably the patient, and a woman, the doctor, both seated in an office-like setting in professional attire. Their choice of clothing and the background setting assist in establishing credentials and making Beyondblue appear as a legitimate company that is confident in what they are proposing. This gives the intended audience, Australians with depression, a certain amount of trust in the stakeholder. The visual cue also presents a look of engagement upon the primary face in order to demonstrate that doctors involved in psychological treatment of mental disorders genuinely care about their patients and what they have to say. Talking to a therapist that actively engages in these sessions can help change and improve so that patients are better equipped to deal with the copious amounts of stress they feel in their daily lives (Beyondblue). Figure 1 also takes into consideration composition and color to convey its intended message. The visual is arranged in a manner that makes the patient the primary focus and subtly blurs out the rest (Beyondblue). This style of composition effectively communicates and emphasizes to the audience that the patient is the top priority. The aforementioned arrangement helps the audience feel a sense of importance and urges them to take the steps to talk to a therapist. In the photo the main colors are black and purple. While the black is there to merely serve as a neutral color, the purple helps the viewers feel peaceful, at ease, and allows them to on the present just like how one would feel at an actual therapeutic session (Beyondblue). By creating a peaceful atmosphere within the image the intended audience is going to feel more encouraged to seek out psychological treatment. The image is also helpful in letting the audience know that psychological treatment is now readily available for depression and other serious mental conditions. All of the elements incorporated in the image are beneficial Student 3 in helping Beyondblue their (Hoffman et al. 17). The visual successfully encourages those struggling with depression to seek assistance and psychological treatment to cope with their illness. Another option for treating depression that can be used as an alternative to psychological treatment is medical treatment. Medical treatment, in terms of taking antidepressants, is an effective way for those living with depression to alleviate more severe symptoms they may be experiencing. Beyondblue presents the medical treatment option by adding an image, Figure 2, of a patient and a medical doctor in an office surrounded by medical equipment onto their website (Beyondblue). The setting aids in conveying the message that medical treatment is a reasonable route to take and that there is no shame in taking medicine to deal with depression. Beyondblue creates a dependable foundation to assist those with depression, especially those with to severe that have not found success with psychological forms of treatment (Beyondblue). These credentials are yet again established in the picture by placing a clearly identifiable doctor in a room filled with medical equipment. This ensures the audience that doctors and Beyondblue are both trustworthy sources in regard to depression treatment plans. The composition of the photo and the strong use of the color blue are both important factors that Beyondblue has applied in the image. The picture is arranged so that the audience is able to easily notice the smiling patient, doctor, and the friendly environment the photo is set in. The welcoming atmosphere plays at the emotions and allows them to feel safe about consulting a doctor regarding medical treatment. At the same time, the arrangement also invalidates any about that people typically associate with the medication (Beyondblue). The image also implements extensive amounts of the color blue. The Student 4 use of the color blue is done purposefully as blue is a color that is commonly associated with depression, making the picture more relatable to its intended audience. There is also a subtle urgency presented in the image of the patient and doctor. By choosing a office as the background for the photo, Beyondblue is attempting to communicate to the audience that there are currently medical options available for treating depression. It is important to act fast when seeking out medical assistance, particularly those experiencing more extreme forms of depression because medicine such as and even may be needed for these severe cases (Beyondblue). Figure 2 effectively conveys the pros of consulting a doctor about receiving medical help for depression and erasing the stigma associated with it. Beyondblue is an Australian based company that has successfully grown to be the national leader on mental health in Australia by doing extensive research to further their knowledge on the subject of depression and anxiety. The success Beyondblue has achieved allows the company to provide the people of Australia with innumerable treatments for depression that can be easily accessed. Their website wisely uses various strategies, such as effective visual cues and rhetorical strategies to present treatment plans for depression that have been proven to work. These options primarily focus on different forms of psychological and medical treatment to aid in diminishing the symptoms of depression. WC: 1128 Student 5 Works cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds.Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu,2016. E-text. Types of treatment available for depression. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. and Mental Health by the Numbers: Facts, Statistics, and . N.p., N.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.