Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 14 February 2017 The Benefits of GMOs seen by the Benefactor Genetically modified organisms, also known as GMOs are viewed in many ways to many different people. For some, it is a way of surviving because of the way GMOs affect their food source and for others, they see GMOs as unbeneficial and a disease. This argument can go back and forth on the pros and cons of the use of GMOs, whether it is beneficial or a disaster waiting to happen to society. There are many players in this debate, and the major ones that are for the use of GMOs are the companies that manufacture and produce them, such as Baden Aniline and Soda Factory. Baden Aniline and Soda Factory, commonly known as BASF, is a German chemical company and producer of many things, such as dyes, plastics, as well in many industries like performance products, oil and gas, biotechnology, and agriculture. As stated before, they are one of the major companies involved with GMOs. Seen on their website, they go over the reasons for using technology in agriculture and how many people, even the environment benefit from the use of genetically modified organisms. Their purpose or goal can be seen from this quote on their website, today is more complex than ever before. The unpredictability of the weather, control of pest and weeds, market price development, scarcity of natural resources, all this in a world heading toward 9 billion people. These challenges demand BASF to continue its commitment to creating innovative solutions for growers, supporting them with the task of nurturing a hungry planet Also, they have information and images to explain and persuade their mission, as well their side of the argument of GMOs. One image is about a crowded crosswalk in the city, inferring population growth. Another image is about Student 2 Public Health business, explaining the outcomes of using GMOs and what they prevent from happening, and in the image is what appears to be African children holding a product by BASF. There are messages being implied just from the pictures but with text, it is more defined and adds more context. The first image is about pest control and the ways it can benefit society. In the image, it is a busy crosswalk in what appears to be inner city, with large buildings, possibly skyscrapers, surrounding the area. The main point of the image is showing the growth of human population and what challenges can arise that would affect society. From the caption/text that is with the image, increasing world population, growing urbanization, higher household incomes and intensified food production these global challenges create attractive environments for pests worldwide, leading to increasing hygiene problems, pre- and post-harvest losses, damage to buildings and the transmission of disease. BASF is saying with the use of their products, problems like pests, which can lead to harvest issues, hygiene complications, etc., can be solved with their products. It is saying with growth comes issues and BASF is giving solutions to these problems, appealing to logos, which is the appeal to logic, is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, and Pantellides 23). The image has a blur effect to make it seem like things are going by fast and give a sense of rush. This can signify business of the city and flourishment. The blur effect gives also a sense of urgency and movement, appealing to kairos, which is timeliness, type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, and Pantellides 25). The second image from the BASF website shows a group of African, assuming, children holding a product made by BASF. The purpose of the image is to show a group of people that Student 3 innovations and products by BASF can benefit from and impact their lives for the better. A quote from the text that came from the image, work with local and global partners to help mitigate these devastating illnesses and ensure communities are not alone in their efforts to improve their quality of life. The picture shows the children happy holding the BASF product, so the rhetorical appeal being used here is pathos, which is empathy or pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, and Pantellides 22). The happiness is a way of getting an emotional response from the audience and connect better with BASF. The clothing on the children is very minimal, it can be seen that one of the little children does not have a pair of pants on, only a long shirt, so this shows how whatever help they get goes a long a way. BASF is showing that they are willing to help the less fortunate. Even though both images from the BASF website are different, they have a similar message. They are showing that GMOs have a beneficial impact on people, whether they are in busy city or a small African village. The pictures use several visual and rhetorical strategies to get their point across. In the first image, it is about a busy, vibrant crosswalk in a city, signifying the growth of a population and the issues that could arise. The text adds information to make the message more clear, appealing logos and kairos to the audience. As for the second image, it shows a group of African children happily showing a product by BASF. This gives off a pathos appeal, making better connection between the audience and BASF, playing the emotions of the audience, showing that people can be happy with BASF. BASF gives a message of what their mission as seen from their website, products to protect buildings from termites to mosquito nets which effectively combat the spread of vector-borne diseases, we help our customers to keep their homes, food establishments, and businesses clean and pest-free Student 4 The pictures accomplish their goal of showing what ways GMOs can affect people and society for the better. Word Count: 1004 Student 5 Works Cited Agriculture. BASF. N.p., n.d. Web. 2017 Emily Lane, Kendra Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantellides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. Print Student 6 Image 1: https://www.basf.com/us/en/products-and-industries/agriculture.html Image 2: https://www.basf.com/us/en/products-and-industries/agriculture.html