Cardoso 1 Andressa Cardoso Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Genetically modified organisms are a risk to the well being The Institute for Responsible Technology is a stakeholder that has the purpose of educating the population on genetically modified foods and the harms that it could have on the health, environment, and agriculture. The GMO expert Jeffrey Smith who has worked hard to achieve such accomplishments is the founder of the IRT. The main purpose of the organization is to bring awareness to the consequences of using such kinds of genetically modified harvest. This has a huge impact on many lives as it has an influence on their views on diet and lifestyle. On the website responsibletechnology.org there are many details on how affects health, agriculture, environment and economy. (Institute for Responsible Technology) The main page contains tabs such as, health risks for adults and children, animals, autism, and gluten disorders. Once the tab is chosen, the website is directed to a different page containing an article that goes in depth on the chosen subject. It also provides many studies and articles on GMO cover-ups and FDA scientists, therefore it is an informative and educational website that can be trusted with its credibility. One of the most useful tools on the website is the tab, which provides people with different solution for school, healthcare and even your own home. There are many events related to this issue in order to reach out to all sorts of people and collect donations. All this information is listed on the main page and it is very easily accessible. The IRT also has its own Twitter, Facebook and YouTube page, Cardoso 2 which make it easier for people to become aware and connected. Because of the wide variety of connections the audience for this stakeholder can vary and it can reach out to teenagers, adults and elderly. On the main page of the website there are a couple images that are able to grab the attention of the reader. Mr. Smith uses his portrait and the picture of a puppy to connect with the audience on a more personal level. IRT is using strategies such as rhetorical appeals with the purpose of conveying the message that GMO is an issue that should be resolved with urgency. In addition to that, the main purpose for the use of such images and strategies is to bring discussion on the cause. For instance, the color of the logo and the choice of a plain background on the website were intended so that everything would appear to be clearly legible and creative. The logo is a sketch of the sunrise in the color orange, representing the relevance and greatness of the sun, and therefore comparing it to the organization itself, in other words, the IRT is of great relevance. There are many images included in the website pages and they have the ability to communicate a message. As an example, the picture below taken from the and section of the website being used to grab the attention. Fig. I. Story by Sara  Pets and GMOS. Jan 22 Cardoso 3 The puppy seen above had a lethal disease because of its diet, after the owner switched his diet to GMO free; the puppy had positive results and became healthy again. (Jennings)The image serves the purpose of grabbing the attention of all animal lovers going through the website. This strategy is known as the rhetorical appeal pathos, where the author attempts to use the emotions to connect deeply with the subject or simply gain the attention. According to the book Rhetoric Really Matters it is stated that most of the time an image is being used the main rhetoric appeal is pathos. (Hoffman et al) As a matter of fact it really connects the audience with the subject on a personal level since most of people have owned a pet and/or have had some sort of experience with one. In fact pathos is not the only rhetorical appeal being used here, if analyzed closely, the image also contains a sort of deductive reasoning that utilizes the puppy as a sort of generalization of pets, stating that this a risk all pets on a GMO fed diet are taking. According to Kochhar, there are still many regulatory and safety issues regarding feeds containing genetically modified organisms. (Kochhar) Moreover, below is a portrait of Jeffrey Smith retrieved from the tab of the website. Fig. II. Jeffrey M. Smith  IRT. 22 Jan. http://responsibletechnology.org/about/ Cardoso 4 The image above is presented followed by story and background information, which shows that logos is being used as it shows his credibility as the founder of the organization. This same strategy is applied towards the name of the famous photographer Mark Seliger, which appears on the side of the portrait. Seliger also happens to have a great credibility and is very famous for his portraits and his work with Rolling Stones. (Artsy) This shows the importance and credibility that Mr. Smith has within the IRT. Another aspect to be noted is the choice of a portrait on a plain background to show that the main focus of the picture is in fact Mr. Smith. His facial expression conveys confidence and trust as he smiles directly to the camera. Such choice of expressions has the purpose to show that behind this huge organization he is also a human being with emotions and concerns towards the population. This strategy is known as pathos as it connects with the audience in the personal and emotional level. Consequently the organization Institute for Responsible Technology does a great job at educating the population on genetically modified crops and it gives great examples on how it affects the health, agriculture, environment and economy as well. They are very focused on making changes and always developing new forms of bringing attention to the subject. Overall there is a lot of hard work put into the projects and events done by the company. As stated earlier the author and contributors of the websites utilize many rhetorical appeals strategies in order to grab the attention of the readers and succeeds in establishing a personal connection towards them. Cardoso 5 Works Cited ABOUT  Institute for Responsible Technology. Jeffree Smith, 2003. http://responsibletechnology.org/about/ Web. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Artsy. Mark Seliger for Rolling Stone Available for Sale  Artsy - Discover, Research, and Collect the Best Art Online. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Fig. I. Story by Sara  Pets and GMOS. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Fig. II. Jeffrey M. Smith  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan.2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matter: Explanations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. H.P.S. Kochhar (2), G.A. Gifford (2), and S. Kahn (2). Regulatory and Biosafety Issues in Relation to Transgenic Animals in  Springer. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.