Ciancimino 1 Ayrton Ciancimino Theodosiou Section 075 15 February 2017 The Fight for the Improved Sustainability of Seafood and its Industry The commercial fishing industry is a multimillion-dollar company that provides seafood to many households, restaurants and companies. In recent years, a sort of blue revolution has been rising, pushing for the conservation of both the oceans and the marine life that make their homes in them. Many people have urged the fishing industry and its numerous companies to improve their practices to avoid harmful methods injure marine life. Practices such as overfishing, bottom trawling, bycatching and the sourcing of watch list species. Two groups at opposite ends of the spectrum are Greenpeace, an organization that seeks reform for the environment, and Reinhart Food Services, a company that provides products to a number of restaurants and businesses, including seafood products. The fishing industry continues to have many controversies over the state of its practices with the industry on one side fighting to secure their profit while environmental and wildlife groups seek change in these practices, but through the cooperation of both sides, funds can be raised to promote improved conservation efforts and research in the preservation. Many groups and individuals alike have spoken out against the dangers to the planets oceans posed by neglectful fishing practices. Practices such as overfishing which involves the continued catching of species resulting the rapid depletion of said species greatly damages marine ecosystems. The Food and Agriculture Organization found that of the fish stocks Ciancimino 2 surveyed in the South China Sea the majority were or fully (Teh 64). This statistic can be seen not only there, but worldwide. Another practice, bottom trawling, involves the dragging of nets across sea bottoms causes great damage to sea floor life. (Greenpeace). Aside from the effect on marine life, many fishing industries are also teaming with terrible work conditions and abuse of workers, especially in foreign industries. Reinhart Food Services is a national company committed to providing restaurants, delis, sports venues, and other groups a variety of food and utensil products (Reinhart). They also lend to their customers other services, including menu planning and nutrition advising. They were founded in 1972 in La Crosse, Wisconsin, and from there have grown to be a nation-wide organization with twenty-nine distribution centers and one meat product center (Reinhart). The company boasts many high-profile customers including Burger King and Subway. Reinhart also produces its own food centric magazine distributed to all of the companies suppliers, and employees Greenpeace is an organization that has been fighting for environmental change and a greener future since 1971. It is the independent campaigning urging against environmental degradation, utilizing protesting and creative to put an end to injustices against the planet (Greenpeace). They fight several campaigns against many threats including global warming, the destruction of rainforests, and ocean devastation. The organization combats these threats in a number of different ways, often with volunteers at the forefront of their protests and actions. Those wishing not to get directly involved may choose to donate to the cause. Greenpeace also performs much research, writing a variety of articles in advocation of environmental protection and about planetary destruction. Ciancimino 3 The two organizations have come at odds as of recently, with Greenpeace protesting against practices in obtaining fish and the lack of sustainability in them. Greenpeace, in one of its research articles, rated twelve major food service industries in order of fishing practice sustainability. Only three companies passed, and the worst scored company of the bunch was Reinhart Food Services. Greenpeace found that the company was guilty of sourcing fish stocks that are depleted, such as Bigeye and Yellowfin Tuna. The company was also found to source Bluefin Tuna, a heavily depleted species on watch (Fortino). Greenpeace urges the company to change its sourcing and seafood obtainment habits to better conserve the ocean and protect against overfishing. The issue of bad fishing practices in the fishing industry continues to be a combatted issue, but many groups and companies are looking to improve themselves for the improvement of the health. Reinhart can be one such company to follow suit and improve its practices. A reduction in their overfishing would not only benefit marine life, but their own profit and revenue. With higher sustainability in their practices, the continued longevity of the schools they fish will mean higher yields in future years. If their yields are overfished now and depleted, their main resources will be gone and their revenue will crash. This means that both Greenpeace and Reinhart do have a common goal to maintain, the preservation of ocean life. Greenpeace seeks it for the sake of the environment, while Reinhart seeks it to secure its profit. While different, both essentially seek the same thing. Reinhart itself in response to company ratings has stated that they are actively seeking to improve themselves by closely with its partners including the National Fisheries actively of the issues at hand to seafood suppliers (Fortino). The problem can be addressed with a solution involving the cooperation of both groups, both Reinhart and Greenpeace for Ciancimino 4 heighted action in renovating fishing practices. A fundraiser can be instituted in place to help raise funds to allow for better research in better fishery science as well as better equipment and incentives for fishing employees to practice safe and sustainable practices. A fundraiser on both sides to raise money for improved equipment and research funds to utilize sustainable practices is worthwhile compromise to achieve the goal of a greener planet for Greenpeace and an improved reputation for Reinhart. Many groups have used fundraising in the past as a successful method of gathering funds for a notable cause. Research suggests that one fundraising method that provides a higher yield of funds comparable to other fundraising methods is the use of by organizations (Dragojivolic 1866) This method involves the price matching of organizations the amount donated by the people. People feel more obliged to donate knowing that other groups will also contribute to the fund. In the case of the Greenpeace- Reinhart compromise, any funds raised by the people can then be matched by Greenpeace and Reinhart Food Services to create a higher yielding fund. Greenpeace will also use its influence and advertise for Reinhart, promoting for its change and improvement. Both groups can also better their reputations, with Reinhart being able to gain a reputation for high sustainability in their food products and being able to get off bad practice watch list, and Greenpeace can add another company to their list of improvements. If the people generate $1000 worth of donations, if both organizations match half of that value and contribute $500, the fund will total $2000 to be put for the improvement of practices and research. This money can easily be put to good use by Reinhart Food Services to improve the sustainability of their seafood sect of their industry. But further than that, the money raised can extend past just the fishing practices of one company. The money raised by Greenpeace can be put towards ocean conservation efforts and the clean-up of the damages caused by other industries malpractices. Ciancimino 5 Many companies who have caused damages to the Earth, such as BP, who in the aftermath of the destruction caused by their oil spills, has sought not only to fix their own practices, but to research and improve the Earth and environment as a whole. Reinhart can follow similarly and put funding into conserving the marine wildlife that they utilize. Bad fishing practices has been a raging controversy in recent times, with environmental and wildlife groups advocating for better practices to be used by the fishing industry. Two contenders in this this issue is the food distributer Reinhart Food Services who is committed to providing quality food, though possibly not always environmentally consciously obtained, and Greenpeace the peaceful protesting environmental group seeking to push others to more ecosystem friendly practices. These groups can ultimately, despite their differences, come to term to achieve their goals through compromise. Reinhart can continue to procure funds through the distribution of seafood products, and Greenpeace can continue its mission for a greener future and planet. The compromise of fundraising and the matching of funds can greatly benefit to the cause and will lead to the beneficial success of both sides. The thriving of both these companies will not only further their own success, but the can be one more stone in the improvement of the fishing industry. Ciancimino 6 Works Cited: Dragojivolic, Nick and Larry D. Lynd. What will the crowd fund? Preferences of prospective donors for drug development fundraiser  Drug Discovery Today (2016): 1863-1868. Electronic. Nick Dragojivolic is an applied social scientist whose research focuses on health economics and policy. He received his B.A from Yale University and his M.B.A and P.H.D from the University of British Columbia. He conducts his research out of UBC. Larry D. Lynd works along side Dragojivolic at UBC. He has received a number of awards such as the Centennial Alumni of Influence Award and the PharmD Teaching Award. The journal, Drug Discovery Today, contains a number of updates in the fields of health science, pharmaceutical research, and epidemiology. The information taken from the journal comes from an article published on the topic of fundraising in the field of medicine and the collection of funds to be used towards disease research and finding cures. This information was used to back the compromise of a fundraiser, which though not within the field of health science, still holds the same essential concept. Fortino, Ellyn. Progress Illinois. 25 August 2016. Web Page. 27 January 2017. Ellyn Fortino is a notable journalist who writes for Progress Illinois. She has distinguished herself with a number of awards in the field such as the Forlett Graduate Merit Award and the Mark of Excellence award, given to her by the Society of Professional Journalists. She has covered national, state, and public affairs. The Webpage is utilized in order to obtain a third party analysis of the Greenpeace company reviews. The author restates the Greenpeace evaluations of food distributors fishing practices, then authors their own analysis. The page also offers a statement by Reinhart in regards to the evaluations and their statements against them. Greenpeace. n.d. Web Page. 28 January 2017. The website for the Greenpeace organization. The organization is an international group seeking greater environmental change, with the ultimate goal of a better and more peaceful Earth. They achieve their goals through peaceful protest, active efforts and research. The site contains their goals, missions, research and a myriad of other information. Their goals and research were the primary information being used. Ciancimino 7 Reinhart Food Service LLC. Reinhart Food Service. 2016. Web Page. 28 January 2017. Reinhart Food Services is a food distribution company that works nationally throughout the United States. They provide services to schools, sports venues, restaurants, and a number of other recipients. They provide food distribution, menu recommendations, and other services. Their website provides information on their mission statement, the products and services they provide, and more. The mission statement was utilized in the paper. Teh, Louise L.S. and Allison LWitter, William A., Cheung,. et al. Ambio (2017) 46: 57.doi:10.1007/s13280016-0189-0 Dr. Louise Teh received her P.H.D at in resource management and environmental studies at the University of British Columbia. Her research focuses on marine ecosystems and their impact on fisheries. Much of her research and interests also focus on small fisheries in developing countries. The journal used, Ambio, contains much research on environmental studies and research. The section that this paper utilizes focuses on the research of the Yellow Sea and the impacts that marine ecosystems and fishing have on the region. These impacts vary from environmental to economic. The information used pertains to the overfishing rates of these regions.