Nguyen 1 Cindy Nguyen R. Gaspar ENC 1102 14 January 2017 Sleep, and why you should get more of it. In the recent generations of college students it has been observed that they are more sleep deprived than ever, on an average college students get about six hours of sleep (Kamenetz, How college students are not), compared to the average of seven to eight hours suggested to maintain longevity in your life, long term (Cappuccio 586). With increasing high standards in college, comes with more time needed for studying and or extra-curricular activities which may include Greek life, or clubs, this means there will be less time and opportunity to sleep, with that lies negative effects for long run, not only your physical stability, but as well as your emotional and mental stability (UGA, The two images that I have chosen target the audience of college students. The stakeholder that I have chosen is the University of Georgia, University Health center which was founded in 1785 being the oldest state-charted university in the United States, currently with approximate of 36,000 students, the University of Georgia maintains credibility because it is a place of education for college students (History of UGA) which is the intended audience. The goal of the University of Georgia Health Center is to inform as well as persuade college students that sleep is an important factor in college life as well as their long term health, this can be seen in the figures that the stakeholder provides, in which invokes pathos, logos, and kairos. Nguyen 2 Time is a constant reminder of something we always use but we can never get it back because once time has passed there is no going back into the future to change things wishing that something could be changed. The first figure from the stakeholder shows their mascot wearing a sleeping mask; to the right of it the caption is titled, for a least 8! Students who get 6 or fewer hours of sleep per night feel more tired, sad, and Health Center, This figure takes into consideration of kairos, because it emphasizes the timeliness in which you should get more sleep or you will be negatively effected. With the use of kairos it provokes the audience to get more than their usual hours of sleep if they are not striving for eight hours sleep, the stakeholder attempts to persuade the audience that if they sleep more it will benefit them by not being tired, sad and stressed. With kairos being represented, pathos is also shown because although the caption only states three negative effects there are many other effects of sleep deprivation in college students, such as depression, or depressive symptoms, physical illness, or even weight gain (Peltz & Ronald, indirect effects of sleep In a mind being able to avoid these effects may seem like a place of stability to them, which may be a goal of the stakeholder. While timeliness, and emotions can play a role in order to inform and persuade, statistics and facts may have more impact to an individual because it provides a reliable source that someone can read about and follow whether it be research or and observational study. The second figure shown also displays the mascot of The University of Georgia, this time the mascot is laying down with notes and a textbook, the caption next to states more more students who sleep at least 7-8 hours have a higher GPA than those who get 6 or (University Health Center, Nguyen 3 This figure plays into the logistics of things because it includes a statistic that may motivate the audience to sleep more in order to achieve a higher GPA. This use of logos can help the goal of persuading the audience to sleep more because in most cases, a college student would want to attain the highest possible GPA that they are able to get because, in the long run it could be better for applying into Graduate college, or applying for a job. Although sometimes you may not see the bigger picture of things, these figures when tied together show a strong relationship. Though the figures may have different stances on why you should sleep more the main goal of the stakeholder was to emphasize that the importance of sleep may be detrimental to your physical and emotional well being. The first figure takes a stance on emotional and physical health, while the second figure has more logistics to it, and when you are seeing these figures together you can notice that they are complements of each other. The stakeholder wants the audience to be physically and emotionally stable, as well as being able to maintain grades that may affect their GPA. The two figures together may not provide a permanent solution to getting enough sleep there is always an opportunity when you take short-term steps that will eventually turn into long terms benefits. Providing a solution may be difficult but if the students, as well as professors and schools come together to maintain a happy medium where both sides are benefitting whether it be less work, more class, or going out less students will soon be able to achieve enough sleep. With college students being the intended audience their goal was to inform and persuade. The stakeholder was able to inform the audience about the causes and effects of sleep deprivation by using the rhetorical appeals of kairos, Nguyen 4 pathos and logos. The other goal was to be able to persuade the audience that in the long run if they were to get more sleep they could be more likely to get better grades, and not be as tired or stressed. Sleep may be a priority for some, more than others, but the ultimate goal is to make sleep one of the top priorities, although people may not believe that sleep has that much impact on their life, people may not realize the long term effects that it may have on their mental and physical health. (WC: 1,002) Nguyen 5 Works Cited Cappuccio, Francesco P. et al. Duration and All-Cause Mortality: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Prospective Sleep 33.5 (2010): Print. Kamenetz, Anya. How College Students Are Sleeping ... Or  NPR. NPR, 2 May 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Sleep Rocks! ...get More of  University Health Center. UGA Student Affairs, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 History of  University Of Georgia. N.p., 11 July 2011. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Peltz, Jack S., and Ronald D. Rogge. The Indirect Effects Of Sleep Hygiene And Environmental Factors On Depressive Symptoms In College  Sleep Health 2.(2016): 159-166. ScienceDirect. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Nguyen 6 Figure 1 Figure 2