Student 1 Student Instructor Gaspar ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Tackle these Tactics for Recycling on College Campuses When college students are awake through most nights trying to cram and submit all their assignments in on time, recycling is the last thing on their mind. According to Boston College, the EPA estimates that 75% of the American waste stream is recyclable, but we only recycle about 30% of it Your Most campuses do not have the funds or time to invest in these kinds of programs, but what they know is the possible savings that could pile up as years continue. On average, it costs $30 per ton to recycle trash, $50 to send it to the landfill, and $65 to $75 to incinerate it. Recycling on college campuses should not be a chore that is dying to be taken out but instead be treated as a good habit. Clean River: Inventive Recycling Products have been investing their time in educating and assisting organizations in designing sustainability programs that suit their specific needs and inventing new technologies for over 25 years. With their usage of compelling rhetorical strategies, Clean River focuses on designing products with persuasive visuals to convince the readers the importance of improving the recycling programs on college campuses. To improve the efficiency of this process, Clean River advises that campus recycling programs should be more categorized for easier recognition and inform the students about the progress developing as recycling goes on through marketing sources. Firstly, one image shows Clean designs of trash cans that prove to be more efficient because of proper, consistent labeling. Figure 1 relies on logos to show the Student 2 effectiveness of proper categorization with the purpose of simplifying recycling and minimizing confusion. The recycling bins have different colors for each category: blue is for recycling and black is for trash; this makes it easier for people to pass by and quickly toss whatever is needing to be thrown away due to color coding. For color coding to be effective, it also needs to be kept consistent throughout campus. All bins should stick to the color coding throughout the campus so mistakes be made and confuse students. Another clever aspect that is involved is the labeling, there are images for the materials that belong within the bin near the top of the bin. Commonly, people who see simply the labels can make the recycling process confusing and a fuss to comply to. Often, the bewilderment as to what exactly is expected to belong in that bin makes a bad recycling experience. Instead, Clean River advocates the usage of graphics and visual aids to assist students. It is a clever, yet effective method is proven to simplify the once before complicating process by drawing on the natural sense of logos when it comes to consistent color and labeling. In addition, Figure 1 also advertises Clean recycling bin well because students can clearly see that Clean River is willing to print the school or company logo on the product while using the spirit colors. By doing this, Clean River cleverly invokes a sense of pathos which pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward emotion (Lane 22). This partnership between the recycling program and their organization invokes positive aspects and a sense of partnership. It also appeals to logic by the blatant graphics that are meant to reduce exposure to the wrong type of trash. Logically, the type of trash that belong in the section of the bin is the ones shown in the pictures which leaves the students little to question. This draws on their intuition and logic which is a part of logos. Student 3 Another rhetorical tactic that Clean River uses to promote their stake on recycling programs on campuses improves morale and keeps the students up-to-date in the progress is advertising the accomplishments made. In Figure 2, the data is straight forward and beckons to students who are passing by to read about the accomplishments because of their contribution. Since everybody disposes trash at some point, it makes the effort feel like a group effort. The purpose is to make the students feel connected towards one goal and know that their effort is making a difference. By appealing to their emotions, Clean strategy of appealing to pathos is a sure way to make students feel connected. From the Facebook page to plastering it all over campus to printing it on the campus newspaper, this plan to target pathos can be used for all kinds of social media. Likewise, these posters include sustainability aspects such as trees saved or number of cans recycles along with percentages which appeals to logos because it is common sense to be sustainable. The possibilities of what to market are endless. The figure also draws from greener more natural colors to further emphasize the sustainability results. The colors seen in the figure are shades of green while the graphics are colored different to pop out more. Furthermore, not only are to the graphics are kept minimalistic and simple, but so are the words. The purpose of this is for as many students as possible can understand it after reading it for all different majors. Lastly, Clean River advises these marketing products should also be strategically placed such as near a recycling bin or in an area that will have a lot of people around. An excellent place could be the main quad, sport arenas, dining halls, etc. which is always full of students passing by rushing to class. Also, by identifying the volume and type of waste that is being generated as it helps you select containers with the correct capacity that can be placed beneficial places Tips for Campus Student 4 Moreover, Figure 2 is a great way to pull people together and create a sense of unity. Even for those who do not recycle, they feel a sense of motivation after seeing the group effort seen on the published results of achievements. Clean strategy is a great way to appeal to pathos, logos, and ethos at the same time. Students can witness the statistics of campus recycling which appeals to their sense that they should continue down that path of recycling. Logically, recycling is good so continually seeing the accomplishments calls to the students to continue the process. In addition, a sense of accomplishment creates a sense of pathos because students are proud of what they have done and want to continue it. Because the data is coming from Clean River, it is using ethos because of the demonstration of their credibility or authority as a sustainable company with good standing (Lane 27). This makes the data more convincing and emphasized providing ethos in the image. With more productive recycling programs on campus, the students witness a partnership between recycling and the school they are attending, as well as a sense of unity between the students to further develop their efforts in recycling. To emphasize views on recycling, Clean River uses rhetorical strategies to provide a compelling visual that appeals to their stance on making recycling on college campuses simpler. Clean strategies of proper communication, categorizing, and marketing can make the agonizingly confusing process into a simplistic benefiting activity that saves the environment. (Word Count: 1200) Student 5 Works Cited Tips for Campus Clean River: Inventive Recycling Products, https://cleanriver.com/10-tips-for-campus-recycling/ Your Boston College: Sustainability Home, 26 July. 2016, https://www.bc.edu/offices/sustainability/what-you-can-do/know-facts.html Lane, Emily, et al. 01 Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 22, 27. E-text. BYU Idaho, https://www.byui.edu/university-operations/facilities- management/recycling-and-sustainability/recycling-statistics Student 6 Figure 1. https://cleanriver.com/10-tips-for-campus-recycling/ Student 7 Figure 2. https://cleanriver.com/10-tips-for-campus-recycling/