Tanzila Tasnim English Composition Professor Sabah Uddin 5th February 2017 Annotated Bibliography As the times progress, it brings with it new technologies to make life easier than ever before. Technologies have led to innovations that used to seem unrealistic even just a few years ago, one such technology being smartphones. When the first form of telecommunication was invented in 1876, telephone was a big, bulky, wired machine that could not be carried anywhere. Throughout the years, the method as well as the devices used for telecommunication have changed drastically. In the recent years there is a smartphone in hands, whether it is a college student, fifth grader, or a five year old. Not only can people carry their smartphones everywhere, it also minimizes the amount of things a person has to carry. Almost every smartphone is equipped with numerous apps that allow them to also function as a camera, phone book, calculator, clock, music player, gaming device and various other devices. However, with all the new functions that can be performed with a smartphone, it also leads to new worries amongst the parents. Is the smart phone with various applications a good option to introduce to the children at an early age of four or five? Source 1 Barnes, Brooks. to Introduce New Apps Focused on The New York Times, The New York Times Company, 2014, United States. This article talks about Disney Publishing newest project, Disney Imagicademy which is made for children aging three to eight. Imagicademy has been developed with the help of experts in various departments with subjects like math, science, language arts, emotional and social skills which are designed to make children better prepared and confident. Although this is not one of the most detailed article that can be found on the topic, it is significant to one of the arguments of the paper, which is that introducing smartphones to children is a good idea, as it has its benefits . Since numerous children are exposed to the Disney brand, whether it be through its movies, tv channel, parks or merchandise, and therefore, forms a part of their childhood experience and memories, when Disney introduces apps for kids to learn from, it is very likely to spark a attention and interest towards learning. These apps have the potential for children to learn things at home before they start schooling. This article can be used to prove that introducing smart phones to children at an early age can help them become technologically savvy and also make learning fun with resources and apps like Imagicademy. The writer of the article, Brooks Barnes, is currently a reporter for the New York Times and has served as a media and entertainment reporter in Hollywood for the past fifteen years. When he joined his work at Times, his primary focus was on the Walt Disney Company for many years. Source 2 Patchan, Melissa M. Puranik, Cynthia S. tablet computers to teach preschool children to write letters: Exploring the Impact of Extrinsic and Intrinsic Computers & Education, ScienceDirect, 2016, United States. This is a study performed during 2015 to 2016 regarding the availability and frequent usage of tablet computers among the preschoolers to write letters. In the study, it has been claimed that the computer tablets helped students improve their reading, writing and math skills. The study compares two situations to determine whether the usage of the tablets makes a difference in the rate of improvement shown by students. This study makes a strong point in favor the usage of handheld technology for learning improvement and is supported by a research study done by Melissa M. Patchan and Cynthia S. Puranik. Melissa M. Patchan has a Ph.D. in cognitive psychology and is an assistant professor in the department of Learning Sciences and Human Development in the West Virginia University. Cynthia S. Puranik is an assistant professor of Communication Sciences and Disorders in the college of Education and Human Development at Georgia State University. Source 3 Radesky, Jenny S. Schumacher, Jayna. Zuckerman, Barry. and Interactive Media Use by Young Children: The Good, the Bad, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, 2017, United States. This article goes through different aspects of children using interactive media such as, the educational value, displacement of activities, context and parent engagement, The article also provides some of the questions that still need to be answered and provides guidelines for parents to follow. The article provides me with some of both the pros and the cons of children using smartphones at an early age which will help make an argument in both side of the paper. One of the Jenny S. Radesky, is a pediatrician specializing in child development. Jenny Schumacher is a faculty member in the Division of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics at Cincinnati Hospital Medical Center. Barry Zuckerman is a professor at the Boston University school of Medicine in the Pediatrics department. Source 4 Schmidt, Marie Evans. Rich, Michael. Media and Child American Academy of Pediatrics, 2006, United States. This article talks about the national initiative that American Association of Pediatrics has sponsored called which addresses the issue of building awareness on how much effect media has on children. Marie Evans Schmidt is a staff scientist at the Center of Media and Child Health, Hospital Boston. Michael Rich is an Associate Professor of Pediatrics at Harvard Medical School. jnn