Rolon 1 Brianna Rolon Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 14 February 2017 The Light at the End of the Tunnel Uncommon Knowledge is an organization that deals specifically with depression and the treatment. The organization aims to help those who are suffering from depression or those who have been associated with those who are suffering. The motto is it, treat it, and where is depression The motto means to simply understand depression completely, in order to treat it appropriately, which will lead to one being healthier and depression free. The organization aims to get people to understand that they are not alone. The message they are trying to spread is depression is something common. It has many treatments, based on a lot of educated research and reliable information, which are offered and shown on the website The website that is associated with this organization displays very genuine and positive feelings as well images to really get the motto and purpose across. Two images really catch the eyes of the audience on this website. The two images included are an image of a road that is going through the air and ending at a floating island with a large tree on it and image of a calm scenario of sunflowers Overall, these photos bring positivity, good vibes, hope, love, and many characteristics that are necessary when not only having a disease, but undergoing treatment as well. Those battling depression can look at this and will be able to feel comfortable knowing there is positivity somewhere in this disease. Rolon 2 Positivity is what keeps people going (Hernandez). Uncommon Knowledge understands this, so they display that idea all over their website Photos like these come together on one website to prove a point and help those in need. Maybe if depression is a dark thing to be associated with, Uncommon website helps those with this and those going through treatment to realize that there is beauty in everything, even when they feel alone, lost, and dark. These images convey a message that is much deeper than anyone, but those suffering can understand. Both of these images create a calming scenario that emphasizes positivity throughout the journey of depression Both images help those suffering see a light at the end of this journey as well as gain a sense of hope. The first image (Figure 1) is of a road that is going through the air and ending at a floating island with a large tree on it The background features a very picturesque sky with a couple clouds behind the island. The message that the picture is attempting to send is that at the end of the road, there will be a beautiful outcome awaiting you. The road curves back and forth multiple times before reaching the island. This represents that the road to a depression free life is not going to be perfect and one may come across bumps in the road. The tree is nature, which symbolizes cleanliness and pureness. Those who have depression tend to have negative thoughts about themselves and others (Hernandez). This image shows beauty within the pureness of nature, which can positively influence people. The visual cues in this image that help convey the intended message include the road itself, the directions that the road is swerving in, the sky, and the nature involved These visual cues help create emphasis and bring together the main message by setting a positive and bright setting for those who are struggling. The way this photo is designed is very interesting and different. It does Rolon 3 not include just a simple road, but a narrow, swerving, and difficult to follow road. Behind the road is a beautiful sky and at the end, there is a beautiful tree. Also, this whole scene is not just grass and nature normally seen coming from the ground, but it is floating in the air This shows that something may be different or seem odd, but that does not mean there is negativity attached to it. Depression is viewed as something very different, but it is something very unique and special (Plato). The scene displayed is very different but special in its own way, which can be compared to depression. The color is very bright, which brings positivity and happiness to the photo. Depression is linked to darkness and deep tones, but this photo includes just the opposite of that. This helps those suffering because instead of going along with the usual stereotypes, there is brightness, light, and happy colors that change the tone positively. An example of logos is giving the reader proof, which allows he/she to believe in what the organization is saying (Gerdes). The road ensures a good ending and shows consistency/stability, which allows the reader to trust the organization and the process that is ahead. Ethos is seen in the nature, which represents pureness, and cleanliness. Those three characteristics tend to persuade the audience because the nature looks and seems factual. The pathos of this image is instilled through a sense of adventure and hope. This sense is created to appeal to the feelings, and make them feel a part of something bigger. Those suffering from depression may feel alone, but by including them in something bigger, they are drawn to this image. The people who normally feel alone can now know they have someone else there. Kairos is present because symmetry and balance is shown on this road, despite the swerving lane. This image is very appropriate for this audience because it shows positivity, which is something those with depression need to see and be aware of. The message embedded Rolon 4 would be something along the lines of is light at the end of every There truly is a light at the end of every road, but more importantly, this specific road of recovery. This message, along with the photo, can really change dark thoughts and negative mentality into something much more optimistic. The second image (Figure 2) is a calm scenario of sunflowers This primary message is that one can find beauty in anything. The sunflowers are in great condition, displaying good health and beauty. This idea of being healthy and beautiful can relate to those suffering in several ways. They may not feel as if they are making improvements, but seeing something like this could be a friendly reminder that they are changing for the better. Another special element of this photo are the edited features. The edges are blurred, takes away from the second sunflower that is slightly behind This is done to put emphasis on the right flower. This stands out to the audience because the photo is no longer about all sunflowers, but about one, main, beautiful. This shows that even with other things going on around one person, this one person may be the focus. Like the sunflower, each individual person suffering from depression is focused on individually when dealing with treatment. Another visual element is the colors and what they represent. The colors are very bright, which emphasize joy, happiness, and positivity. Depression is normally categorized as a deep and dark topic The colors shown bring a light to a dark path, which is exactly what those dealing with depression need. The message embedded would be along the lines of like a sunflower that stands tall on dark days and will always find the One may feel like the life they once had a grasp of, is crashing down uncontrollably. A major key in the treatment of depression is to realize that when feeling like that, one must be strong and positive to achieve Rolon 5 ultimate happiness, or the light in the embedded message. This image presents its logos through the sunflower itself. By using a well-known flower, such as a sunflower, the audience will respect, understand, and trust the concept behind this photo. If a random, unknown flower was used, some would not understand the idea or connection being made. Because sunflowers are used especially when discussing happiness or positive topics, the audience will have a better understanding as to why this is being used when discussing depression. Using a widely known image builds trust with the audience and shows credibility (Gerdes). Along with the first image, this one includes nature as well. Nature is again viewed as pure and clean. This idea of pureness and cleanliness allows the image to be viewed as factual. This image represents happiness because a sunflower is so bright and normally associated with positivity. Bright colors bring a sense of happiness to a topic that is normally associated with darkness. Those dealing with depression are searching for that light of happiness. A sunflower is appropriate for this topic because it is bringing a positive connotation to an idea that is usually seen as a deep and dark issue. Positivity is necessary when undergoing treatments because it instills hope. Hope is something that people battling depression are constantly searching for, therefore displaying a photo with that idea is greatly appreciated. The image of the bumpy road with a tree at the end and the image of sunflowers both shine a bright light of positivity, hope, and love on a very lonely, dark disease. Those battling depression will be able to turn to Uncommon Knowledge to feel comfortable. The audience will also be to understand that there is positivity thought out the entire journey, even when they feel down. Positivity is what keeps people going, especially during tough times like these. Uncommon Knowledge does a great job of displaying positivity all over their website to ensure Rolon 6 those suffering experience positive change Photos like the ones discussed come together as one, to convey a message that is directed towards those battling depression. Both photos work to instill positive vibes on those going through a bump in the road, and ultimately help them get to that light at the end of the road to experience good health and true happiness. (WC: 1,355) Rolon 7 Works Cited Depression - Understand it, Treat it, Beat  Clinical Depression.co.uk. Uncommon Knowledge Ltd, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gerdes, Julie, Hopton, Sara Beth, and Rea, M. Joshua. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-337. E-text. Gerdes, Julie. Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 338-344. E-text. Hernandez, Sandy M. of the Pink Think Before You Pink. Breast Cancer Action, Web. 10 June 2013. Rpt. of in MAMM June/July 1998. Hocks, Mary E. visual rhetoric in digital writing College composition and communication (2003): 629-656. Plato. 360 BC. Trans. Benjamin Jowett. The Internet Classics Archive. MIT, 2009. Web. 30 May 2006. Der Feb. 1930. Web. 29 June 2016.