Thomas Yi Intermediate Draft United States of America. The country that allows students or any citizen to speak freely without consequences so long as the speech is reasonable. The country that is proud for its military achievements throughout a short amount of time in history. The country that allows its college students to take on a loan for thousands of dollars. What government of a country in its right mind would allow students that just graduated from High School, which by the way were students that had no freedom to even use the restroom at their will a couple months ago, to take out a loan for thousands of dollars? You guessed it, the United States of America. Needless to say, just because the U.S. allows its college students to take out a loan mean that the U.S. is on the top of the list for education. Globally speaking, the U.S. ranks fourteenth in education. So with that being said, what logic is there in making a drinking age? Most citizens of the U.S. are aware that the legal drinking age is twenty-one. So if eighteen year olds are given immediate privileges to take out a loan then why would the government set the drinking age at twenty-one? Obviously a change of age is needed. European country Denmark came in first place for producing some of the best engineers from the years 2000-2010. drinking age is eighteen and you are able to drink starting at sixteen with adult accompaniment. As time flows by, ranks change as well. Everyone knows that Germany is in first place now but nothing changes from Denmark to Germany, in fact in Germany, kids start drinking before the age of sixteen and still produce some of the best Biotechnology and Mechanical engineers. This is a country filled with proof that the drinking age at twenty-one does really does not make a difference in terms of young adults making the right decisions in life. In 2008, more than one hundred college presidents initiated a national debate when they, a petition saying that the legal drinking age was ineffective. In fact, in 1980 the legal drinking age was changed from 18 to 21 solely for the purpose of reducing highway fatalities. As everyone knows, teenagers and freshly appointed legal adults still drink to this day regardless of the law. Bibliographic Entries 1. Press, Blog. The U.S. Ranks 14th in  Ranking America. Blog Press, 6 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. o This is important to the paper in order to establish and prove that rank not even in the top 10 for education regardless of the strictly enforced drinking law. 2. Education, Times Higher. Top Countries in  Times Higher Education (THE). Time Higher Education, 22 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. o This is important to the paper in order to point out that in categories such as Engineering, Germany holds first place. Germany, like many European countries, have their drinking age set at 18. In places like Amsterdam, you can drink from the age of 13, especially during the drinking festivals where even a five year old could drink and no one would care. 3. Kaiser, Robert. The Institutional Foundation of Innovativeness and Competitiveness of Two German Industries: Biotechnology and Mechanical Engineering  Http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/. Springer, 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. o This is important to the paper in order to establish the fact that Germany excels in vital areas of Engineering regardless of their drinking age being set at 18. Furthermore, even though the age is 18, you can get away with drinking at ages earlier than 18. However, this does not affect the high rank and respect that Germany receives for their excellence in Engineering. 4. Aasland, Olaf G. Age differences in alcohol drinking patterns among Norwegian and German hospital doctors a study based on national  Age differences in alcohol drinking patterns among Norwegian and German hospital doctors. German Medical Science, 2010. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 5. NewsRX LLC. Research from J. Rosta and colleagues has provided new data on alcohol  Research from J. Rosta and colleagues has provided new data on alcohol drinking. 5 Apr 2010. Web. 12 Feb 2017. 6. Barnhill , John H.. Drinking Age  John H. Barnhill, 2008. Web. 12 Feb 2017. o This is important to the paper because of the fact that this debate has already happened before and it was started by presidents of Universities in America. It also gives out valuable information stating the main reason of why the drinking age was set at 21 in the first place (the reason is not completely irrelevant now but somewhat irrelevant because of the fact that modern day young adults know of the consequences of driving after drinking compared to back in 1980).