Cameron Vonhof Professor Uddin Comp. 1 1-29-17 Effect of Violent Video Games Technology keeps improving, graphics are getting clearer, and video games are becoming more violent with each new edition. Throughout the creation of video games, one of the most popular genres has always been war and fighting. For example, in the it was Street Fighter and Resident Evil, then in the games evolved into Grand Theft Auto and early Call of Duty. Now, in the half the video games one utilizes are violent. At first it was just shooting at targets that resembled humans, but now video games today look as lifelike as their cinematic counterpart. The targets now have more realistic human characteristics and mannerisms. With all the improvements, it seems as if video games are exceptional simulations of real war. If the teens of this generation are experiencing these realistic simulations, some scholars say it cannot be healthy for their brains. When the video game ends and the replication is over, the kids may still feel the same violent urges in the real world. However, the larger number of scholars says there is no lasting effect of playing violent video games. This leads to the question of this paper- Does violence in video games lead to violent behavior in teens? Julia Kneer, Malte Elson, and Florian Knapp. Fight Fire With Rainbows: The Effects Of Displayed Violence, Difficulty, And Performance In Digital Games On Affect, Aggression, And Physiological  Computers In Human Behavior 54.(2016): 142 148. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In this study, Julia Kneer tested the mood of subjects after they played a video game where they were a first person shooter. There were two different variables in the study, displayed violence and difficulty. The study had 84 participants, with 21 in each of the four different game conditions. In the first game condition the difficulty was very hard, this data was compared to the second condition that was played at an easier difficulty. The third set was very realistic and violent which was compared to the fourth set who played a nonviolent version of the game at the same difficulty. Kneer writes the difficulty nor the displayed violence had an effect on psychophysiological arousal during play, post-game aggressive cognitions, nor aggressive Kneer would even go onto find out that the game play difficulty has more effect on emotions after playing. Success while playing by having a high number of kills and a low number of deaths had the highest post-game affect. Julia Kneer is a professor at the Erasmus School of History, Culture and Communication at Erasmus University Rotterdam in Rotterdam Netherlands. Another Author, Malte Elson is a professor at Ruhr University in Bochum, Germany. The last author is Florian Knapp a professor at the University of Cologne in Germany. All of the authors have done work in this field before and the study is peer reviewed. Fournis, and Nidal Nabhan Abou. Violence, Crime, And Violent Video Games: Is There A  Psychiatric Times 31.9 (2014): 1-4. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fournis, the author, looked back on past studies of the topic. He found that in 1998 there was a literature review that claimed that is a link between violent video games and In 2002 it was hypothesized that behavior was likely a consequence of desensitization and disinhibition caused by violent video The most recent meta-analysis results showed playing violent video games lead to less sensitivity to real violence, which could increase the risk of aggression. Another study showed that violence on television leads to more aggression than violent video games. After this, more and more scholars became skeptical of the link. It was suggested that the effects of violent video games were overestimated. One study actually found negative correlation between violent video games and and another found negative correlation between an increase in the sale of video games and Fournis concluded that the about the effects of violent video games on aggressive thought patterns, emotions, and behavior are but believe the evidence is conclusive enough to show it leads to increase in criminality, aggressiveness, or violent The authors, Gael Fournis and Nibal Abou, both have their and are psychology professors in France. They report no conflict of interest and the article was peer reviewed. Ferguson, Christopher J., et al. Violent Video Games Increase Hostility In Teens, But They Do Stress Girls  Psychiatric Quarterly 1 (2016): 49. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Most experimental studies involving violent video games (VVGs) have been done with college students and give varying results. For these reasons, it is still uncertain what their affects are on youth. This study only looked at the result they had on teens, children between twelve and eighteen years of age. Ferguson randomized the teens to either a violent or non- violent video Participants needed to report their stress and hostility levels before and after the games. According to Ferguson, levels neither decreased nor increased following violent game However, they did find something somewhat interesting, exposure increased stress, but only for Ferguson is so sure of his research, he even went onto claim impact of VVGs on teen hostility is There is an unpleasant reaction by participants who are unaccustomed to these types of video games. Christopher J. Ferguson is a professor in the department of psychology at Stetson University in Deland, Florida. This article has been certified as peer reviewed and was published by Springer US. The study directly reflects to my research question because it is asking about the same thing- Does violence in video games lead to violence or hostility in teens. Rueda, Stephanie M., and Ferguson, Christopher J. The Hitman Study: Violent Video Game Exposure Effects On Aggressive Behavior, Hostile Feelings, And  European Psychologist 15.2 (2010): 99-108. PsycARTICLES. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Throughout this study, Stephanie M. Rueda analyzed frequently debated theories of violent video game impacts on behavior. Specifically, social learning, mood management, and catharsis She performed an experimental study to test the effects of violent video games. Rueda set up the study with young adults were given a frustration task and then randomized to play no game, a nonviolent game, a violent game with good versus evil theme (i.e., playing as a good character taking on evil), or a violent game in which they played as a She reported that the do not support a link between violent video games and aggressive behavior, but do suggest that violent games reduce depression and hostile feelings in players through mood She was even able to report that her contradicts both the social learning and catharsis hypothesis regarding violent video game effects on aggressive Stephanie M. Rueda is a graduate student in the counseling psychology program at Texas A&M International University. The article is certified as peer reviewed. It is very similar to my research question in the sense she was looking at the link between violent video games and aggressive or violent behavior.