Freixa 1 Carolina Freixa Erika Staiger ENC1102 005 Sunday, January 29, 2017 Animal Testing on Cosmetics Cosmetics companies test their products on animals to see if they are safe for human use. It is up for discussion whether it is ethical to be using animals because they cannot speak for themselves. Americans for Medical Progress builds an understanding and appreciation for necessary and humane animal research. AMP is for animal testing within certain boundaries and cause. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals is an animal rights organization that their attention on four major areas where animals suffer the most; in the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories, and in the entertainment industries. PETA is completely against using animals in any means. AMP and PETA both want what is best for society while doing so in the most humane way possible. AMP is for testing cosmetics on animals while PETA is completely opposed to using animals for our benefit what so ever. In Vitro could be a possible compromise for both organizations. Americans for Medical Progress is a non-profit charity that has a lot of support from universities, businesses and scientists. AMP foundation is a board of directors composed of physicians, researchers and veterinarians. They provide accurate information to support and defend the huge debate about animal research and testing issues when it is necessary to advance our understanding in biomedical processes. These scientists are for animal testing on cosmetics when they deem necessary and provide reason and facts to back up their views. to beginning a study, scientists must demonstrate that they have considered alternative methods to Freixa 2 animal research, that their research cannot be successfully done without animal (Americans for Medical Progress). According to AMP, they provide ethical treatment and follow guidelines and be conducted in facilities that are in accordance with laws and standards for animal research and (Americans for Medical Progress). While AMP feels the need to use animals for testing, they want what is best for society because they only use animals when absolutely necessary to benefit humans. On the other hand, PETA represents and is a voice for animals who cannot defend themselves. PETA, People for Ethical Treatment of Animals, is the largest animal rights organization. They have a wide range of supporters which makes what they do effective. One of their main focuses is on animal testing in laboratories. PETA argues that the use of animal testing is cruel and strive for animal free cosmetics. They work through education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, (PETA). Currently, no ban has been set on using animals for testing within the U.S yet. who are the major consumers of cosmetics, largely oppose animal testing of cosmetics, with 72 percent of those polled (The Humane Society). While opposing to animal testing many people across the country are becoming more aware and only buying cosmetics from companies who promote non-animal testing such as Urban Decay and Too Faced. PETA also brings up that cosmetics brands who do use animals for testing of their products will start wanting to go animal free because they will lose business. Testing on animals has become a huge issue because the animals can no longer live a normal life once they have been tested. The chemicals create defects and may even kill the animal. A compromise can be suggested to benefit both organizations. With new technology advances, alternatives to animal testing have been proven to be safer and more effective. Freeing Freixa 3 animals and having a more efficient way to test products is beneficial for both sides. There are many benefits to not using live animals to test on such as; scientific tests are more reliable, more accurate, and more cost effective and environmentally friendly (NEAVS). Scientific tests are more reliable than animal testing because it has been proven through the testings of Epiderm, an in vitro. correctly detected all of the test chemicals that irritate human skin, while tests on rabbits misclassified 10 out of 25 test full 40% error (Neavs). In vitro is an alternative scientific test to animals and proves to be more reliable and beneficial. Using human tissue is also a more accurate testing method than animals, test can target toxic effects on specific human the agonizing death of an animal of a different species would not (Neavs). Using human tissue saves the lives of many animals and proves to me more accurate during a toxicity test. Although it seems PETA has won, it is suggested they help fund for the In Vitro. Since they do not want animals to be used, having them fund for in vitro is a positive compromise. Using an alternative is also beneficial for business. in four voters say that they would feel safer, or as safe, if non-animal methods were used to test the safety of a cosmetic instead of animal (The Humane Society). Lastly, alternative scientific tests are also more environmentally friendly because once an animal has been tested on they are normally thrown out as pathogens or hazardous waste. Scientific tests are a better compromise for both scientists and cosmetic companies. To conclude, AMP and PETA want what is best for society, both ethically and morally. Americans for Medical Progress feel the need to test on animals when deemed necessary. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals have an opposite view of not using animals for human benefit at all. A compromise of In Vitro has been suggested which benefits the society by not using animals and could help boost business, this also suggests PETA help fund for the testing. Freixa 4 Therefore, both parties benefit from not using animals creating a compromise between AMP and PETA. Freixa 5 Works Cited Animal  Americans for Medical Progress. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.amprogress.org/animal-research/>. Animals Used for  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/>. Cruelty Free  Alternatives to Animal Testing Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.crueltyfreeinternational.org/why-we-do- it/alternatives-animal-testing>. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Alternatives to Animals in  In Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.neavs.org/alternatives/in-testing>. New Poll Shows Majority of Americans Strongly Oppose Animal Testing for  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. animal-testing-031213.html>.