Stress Among College Students Stress among college students is something that has been an ongoing issue for quite some time now and only progresses as time goes on. Nowadays, college classes are becoming more advanced and many colleges are trying to make their schools into ivy league universities. The pressure of a college student comes from a variety of sources: eating and sleeping habits, time-management skills, balancing school and a personal life, etc.. Most, if not all, universities offer stress reduction programs that are designed for the college student to help them learn to deal and cope with the stress. Stress is inevitable to everyone, however studies show that the stress of a college student is more severe than the average person. Bibliographic Entries 1. Physiology today provided an overview of stress among college students. This topic has been getting a lot of attention recently, The New York Times, post, and Inside Higher Ed have all been conducting their own research and articles regarding this issue. New year freshman coming into college have to deal with stress before class even starts, they have to deal with leaving family from home, wanting to get good grades, already searching for the right career path, trying to establish a romantic and social life, and of course stability. This article connects well to the topic because it informs us about the different common reasons as to why college students experience high amounts of stress. It shows us how big of an issue this is becoming. This source has data from The New York Times, Post, Inside Higher Ed, UCLA, Colombia University, University of San Diego, and the University of Georgia/ in College  Psychology Today. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 2. The second source I used was an article from Florida International University. an article with showing that stress among college students is increasing. It is also personal to a student that attends Florida International University, she talks about her student life and her stress with everything involved with. This article connects well to the research question because it gives us the inside from a college student herself. She gives credible research that collected herself, and gives us her own experiences with stress. show-increase-in-stress-among-college-students/86911 3. Nicole Stearman, and college student at Eastern Washington University shares her story about a panic attack she experienced while stressed over the class she was in. She gives us insight about the counseling center at her school, she says really time my panic attacks to hit only on weekdays during the centers 11 am- 4 pm counselor walk in hours, while the counseling center is a great resource, it could be a lot This source connects well with the research question because it was personal to a college student. She tells us about the counseling center and how she tried to use it. 4. Emotional Stress in the College  Mental Health in College and University (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 4. This source is a student guide to surviving stress and anxiety in college and beyond. It addresses, what stress is, the different types of stress, how stressed you think you are, symptoms and signs, causes, data, 5 school stress busting tips, and how to get help for student stress. This source has provided us with the most helpful tips say on getting to know your stress. How to identify the causes, and how to learn to deal with it and coping mechanisms. Student Stress & Anxiety  Psychology. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 5. This source gives college students tips to handle stress in college directly from experts. They give tips on how to reduce stress with study habits and counseling centers. This article goes more into depth about the consequences if stress levels remain high. This source informed us mostly about how to reduce stress and what will happen if your stress continues and/or continue to increase. http://college.usatoday.com/ 2015/10/29/college-student-stress/ 6. According to this source 8 in 10 college students report that they experience stress. This is an increase of 20% from 5 years ago from their last survey. Basically how it is is that no time for games, sleep or parties. Most students give all their focus to their studies and GPA. This source connects well because of how it talks about the studies part of college, in ivy league schools. Some students even have time to sleep or eat sometimes because of how stressed they are about their school work. This is from the Stanford Daily news and they collected their data themselves. http://www.stress.org/ college-students/