1 Student Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 12 February 2017 We Can Do It As one of the fastest growing industries in the world, technology has made an outstanding impact on the people who use it every day. It has made their lives more entertaining and substantially easier, however, men are currently outnumbering women in this industry, which is kind of discouraging. Despite this setback for women, an organization was developed to help women in tech succeed. Women Who Code is a non-profit organization that provides programs, career paths, and job opportunities for women. It sets a global community that supports women in the USA and is currently branching out around the world. As mentioned on this website, the primary claim of this organization is to women to excel in technology (About Us, womenwhocode.com). Women Who Code demonstrates this purpose through several visual and rhetorical strategies in two figures on their website to communicate their mission statement, persuade the audience that any woman can pursue a career in the tech industry, and propose that these figures are quite relatable. To begin, Figure 1 is a pie chart located on the home page of the website. (Women Who Code) (See Fig. 1). The message WWC is trying to communicate through this image is that they are comprised of positions from each end of the spectrum. Women who join could just be starting out with this type of career or could already be a successful executive. Either way, they offer set of programs for engineers to help build the careers we (We 2 Student Are Women Who Code, womenwhocode.com). It initially allows the reader to believe that women can handle these highly advanced and diverse positions. To convey the intended message, visual cues are used within Figure 1. The visual cues that are used is the actual pie chart itself, which presents the number of women that works in each position and the amount of positions that are involved in Women Who Code. These cues demonstrate that a wide-range of positions are accepted and have the potential to thrive. The colors of the pie chart can definitely catch the attention of someone looking at this website, not only that, but the fact that women who are still learning to code and engineers have the most people. By using the bright and pretty colors for the pie chart, it adds a welcoming feel to it and makes the observer of the pie chart more comfortable. The text in Figure 1 labels the positions that are currently apart of WWC and allows the observer to easily read the pie chart. Additionally, rhetorical strategies are used to fully break down the meaning of these figures. In Figure 1, logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos demonstrate meanings from different perspectives. appeals to so it is present in Figure 1 because the pie chart is split to show how many women are engaged in each position. (Lane, Lee, Mckee, McIntyre, and Pantelides 23). Since the website provides Figure 1, they establish authority and obtain credibility for their organization, therefore, creating ethos. Even though Figure 1 depicts a pie chart, emotional appeals are still present. When other women interested in this industry see this image, they will feel relatively connected and their emotions will surface due to their intense passion for this field. Figure 1 and this website wants empower women with the skills they need for professional (Our Goals, womenwhocode.com). Kairos appeals to the right time to express persuasiveness and since the goal is to women to 3 Student excel in technology the types of different positions held by women in this organization are present. Similarly, Figure 2 is located on the home page and it depicts women working in their everyday tech careers. (See Fig. 2). The message this organization is communicating through Figure 2 is that women can engage themselves in tech careers. Women acquire the abilities to establish themselves into a challenging industry that is mainly comprised of men. The visual cues that are used in this image to convey that intended message are the computers and the women. These key components represent how women can interact with technology and cooperate with each other in a professional matter. Since they are in their everyday work setting, other women can surely relate to Figure 2because they can see how natural it is for these women to work in this environment. Although Figure 2 contain any text, the components of the picture are enough to give it a powerful meaning. Like Figure 1, Figure 2 also uses all the rhetorical strategies like ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Since is the appeal to it is used in this image to demonstrate that women are capable of working with technology and thriving in the tech industry through the women and the computers. (Lane, Lee, Mckee, McIntyre, and Pantelides 23). Ethos is represented in this image to show how much authority women can have in a field that is predominately men. Plenty of women are in higher positions at top-notch companies (Yahoo, Women Who Code, etc.) and can produce outstanding ideas that make their company thrive. When other women see Figure 2, they will feel a sense of emotion because seeing other women thriving in this industry is relatable to them, thus introducing the rhetorical strategy of pathos. Because the goal of this image is to encourage women to thrive and inspire women to engage in something they are passionate about, kairos becomes present. 4 Student Overall, these two figures reveal rhetorical and visual strategies that communicate their mission statement, which is to women to excel in technology persuade the audience that any woman can pursue a career in the tech industry, and propose that these figures are quite relatable. (About Us, womenwhocode.com). The first image depicted a pie chart showing the number of women in each tech position and it exhibited visual cues, ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos that allowed the audience to fully understand the meaning of it. The second image depicted women working in their everyday tech careers and exhibited visual and rhetorical strategies, but from a different perspective. Essentially, Figure 2 could be quite relatable to other women also. When inspired women look on this website and see these figures, they will feel empowered to prosper and succeed in whatever tech career they are pursuing. With their help, are changing the face of the tech industry by supporting this generation of women in tech to become role (About Us, womenwhocode.com). (WC: 1099). 5 Student Works Cited About Us, 2016. Women Who Code. womenwhocode.com. Web. 20 January 2017. Emily Lane, Kendra Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantellides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. Print. Julie Gerdes, Sarah Beth Hopton, and Joshua M. Rea. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-338. Print. We Are Women Who Code, 2016. Women Who Code. womenwhocode.com. Web. 20 January 2017. womenwhocode.com. Women Who Code, 2016. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. 6 Student Figure 1 We Are Women Who Code, 2016. Women Who Code. womenwhocode.com. Web. 20 January 2017. 7 Student Figure 2 About Us, 2016. Women Who Code. womenwhocode.com. Web. 20 January 2017.