Global warming is becoming more and more prevalent every year. Scientists have studied climate change for decades now and have argued over whether climate change is happening. Some scientists believe that climate change is happening but that it is a natural occurrence. Today, the majority, if not all, of scientists agree that global warming is happening and human activities have contributed to the earths rapid increase in average temperature. Greenhouse gases are gases found in our atmosphere that help trap heat inside the atmosphere while also reflecting or absorbing ultraviolet rays (UV rays). Global warming is caused by a change or imbalance of greenhouse particles in the atmosphere. Humans have contributed to climate change by increasing the amount of greenhouse gases in the environment through emissions. The use of aerosols and other products have also released chlorofluorocarbons in the atmosphere which causes the ozone layer to break down. This allows more UV rays to get through the atmosphere. Scientists are researching the effects of climate change on the world around us. They have found that sea levels are rising, animal habitats are being destroyed, and even health is being affected. The increase in UV rays has resulted in many direct and indirect health risks to humans. 1. Karl, Thomas R., and Kevin E. Trenberth. Modern Global Climate  Modern Global Climate Change. Science AAAS, 05 Dec. 2003. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. This source was written in 2003 by Thomas Karl and Kevin Trenberth. The title of the article is Global Climate Karl and Trenberth begin by informing the reader on what global warming is and then explain the causes of global warming. They do this through many examples and use graphs and data to help them explain. Then Karl and Trenberth look at possible long term effects of global warming. This is also explained through examples. 2. McMichael, Anthony J., PhD, Rosalie E. Woodruff, PhD, and Simon Hales, PhD. Climate Change and Human Health: Present and Future  The Lancet 368.9538 (2006): 859-69. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673606680793>. This article was written in 2006 by Anthony McMichael, Rosalie Woodruff, and Simon Hales. The title of the article is Change and Human Health: Present and Future McMichael, Woodruff and Hales initially provide a summary of health risks and the effects on nature due to global warming. They also provide some benefits of global warming however much of the article is focused on the disadvantages. Then they begin to go more in depth on specific effects of global warming using examples. 3. Bonan, Gordon B. Forests and Climate Change: Forcings, Feedbacks, and the Climate Benefits of  Science 320.5882 (2008): 1444-449. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. <http://science.sciencemag.org/content/320/5882/1444.full>. This article was written in 2008 by Gordon Bonan. The title of the article is and Climate Change: Forcings, Feedbacks, and the Climate Benefits of This article looks at the benefits of climate change in forests specifically. He does this by explaining the climate models of the forests through diagrams. This helps the reader understand how the environment of forests work and how the change in climate helps the ecosystem. 4. Perera, Frederica P. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate  Environmental Health Perspectives 125.2 (2016): n. pag. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article was written in 2016 by Frederica P. Perera. The title of the article is Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate This article looks at the threats of climate change to developing children as of 2016.