Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 712 14 February 2017 Wind Energy: Generating the Power Since the industrial revolution, American companies, along with everyday households, have consumed an outrageous amount of power. Power usage has increased throughout recent decades, primarily involving fossil fuels. With the large consumption of these fossil fuels, many consumers question will we run out of these A significant proportion of Americans have used solar energy to partially or fully power their homes as an alternate to fossil fuels, but many do not consider wind energy, an untapped power resource for a country with so much land. The Wind Energy Foundation focuses on working towards educating the public through a newer perspective, to allow funding and creation to be incorporated for this underutilized industry (Wind Energy Foundation). To gather interest in this resource, the Wind Energy Foundation focuses on informing its consumers about the positive impacts of wind energy through the use of visual and rhetorical strategies. The Wind Energy Foundation accomplishes promoting the betterment of the environment through wind energy while inspiring individuals to continue their mission. The homepage of the Wind Energy Foundation captivates the individual with beautiful images and allows the reader to stay intrigued and interested in wind energy with its astounding facts: There have been megawatts of installed wind but energy counts for less than 3 percent of all federal energy (Wind Energy Foundation). Facts with notable numbers have gathered the attention of the audience through a logical appeal, accomplishing one of their Student 2 primary goals of awareness. This interest leads to readers communicating the importance and reliability of wind energy, establishing new educators for the renewable energy source and encouraging others to invest in both the foundation and wind energy production. The foundation encourages interest throughout their target audience by presenting themselves as a newer organization. Since the organization is young, many would not expect a large support system, yet the company has partnered with massive organizations, such as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and the U.S. Department of Energy (Wind Energy Foundation). This overwhelming influence gave the company an ethological appeal amongst readers, and captivated the targeted audience of and other major company decision makers, the media, and many U.S. citizens who are concerned with the environment. This widespread base has allowed the Wind Energy Foundation to communicate their importance to a large group of the younger generation, who will continue to promote the message in the future, ensuring a successful continuation of the foundation. The foundation continues to spread their goal of informing the audience about wind energy by enticing website visitors with scenic views and inspiring messages. The four images opening the website show that wind turbines amplify the beauty of any view, never dulling one. Two of these images specifically catch the attention, showing the importance and the impact of the company on wind energy. The first is captioned Renewable implying that this organization is focused on gaining the attention and support of all Americans (see figure 1). The image depicts a large horizon of windmills during early morning, contrasting the darker portion of the image with its white text. Some of the visual cues within the image include the windmills being placed within the center of the light background to showcase that the renewable energy sources are the main focus of the company, ensuring the audience is aware of the power Student 3 the foundation holds. The white text contributes to this message by showing the purity of the company, and the purity of this power source. Along with the strength and beauty showcased by the background, the text allows the foundation to acknowledge that instead of working towards the betterment of a specific group, they are working on the betterment of an entire nation. been expressed that the Wind Energy Foundation uses outstanding visuals to inspire their message, but even more daunting is the rhetoric incorporated, unconsciously swaying the reader to feel the logic and timeliness in each image (Hoffman et al. 364-374). The foundation shows within the same image that many are drawn to their own desire to improve the world. They instill a feeling of power and the potential to create a more sustainable world through wind energy. The use of logos factors into our pathological feelings drawn out by the bright colors at sunrise. Not only does this sunrise show the potential of this energy, but it allows the reader to see that wind energy is ahead of its time, calling attention to both corporations and progressive movements. The Wind Energy Foundation shows us that not only are we empowering houses, we are empowering and highlighting resource potential for a better future. The second impactful image on the homepage of the Wind Energy Foundation reiterates the ideals of the mission, but through a different light (see figure 2). There is a view of a large horizon with windmills seen at sunset. At first glance, the audience notices the bright background, showing them that both the beginning in the first image, at sunrise, and the end in the second image, at sunset, are positive. The image is a continuation of displaying a wide range of colors, showing the differing uses of the wind energy produced in those windmills. In addition, it promotes a diverse audience, and the variety of individuals supporting the mission. The text is centered but not bold, showing that Student 4 the opinions of the board do not overpower the opinions of the support, promoting that the importance of wind energy would not be as widespread without the audience. No one color is outshining the others in this image, reiterating the diversity of this organization. Overall, the whole image and text communicates that there is diversified group of individuals passionate about this organization, contributing to the goal of spreading awareness. In addition to the visual cues provided within the second image, it incorporates the same complexity of rhetoric that the first image does. There is an ethological appeal to support this company by its association with the United States transitioning as a whole to a homegrown source of which also instills logos in the need to educate the country (Wind Energy Foundation). The pathos within the image is shown through the bright colors, enabling the audience to feel a sense of pride for the nation and the organization. Possibly the most important rhetoric in this image is the karios, which is presented in the timeliness of the sunset. It shows the reader that at the end of each day, the foundation will accomplish their goal of spreading the knowledge and importance of wind energy. The Wind Energy Foundation immediately presents itself as a strong stakeholder for wind energy through its messages of empowerment and education. By incorporating the two images discussed, the website is able to explain the diversity and versatility of the wind energy community, committed to making everyone aware of this reliable energy source. The newer perspective of the foundation captivates a wide audience, and combining this with the subtle rhetoric on the website will contribute to the success. (Word Count: 1189) Student 5 Works Cited Fig. 1. Wind Energy Foundation; windenergyfoundation.org; 22 Jan. 2017; http://windenergyfoundation.org/. Fig. 2. Wind Energy Foundation; windenergyfoundation.org; 22 Jan. 2017; http://windenergyfoundation.org/. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Wind Energy Foundation. Wind Energy Foundation, 2017, http://windenergyfoundation.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1: http://windenergyfoundation.org/ Figure 2: http://windenergyfoundation.org/