Student 1 Student Professor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 There should be an increase in the federal minimum wage It is a principled position to support the increase of the federal minimum wage; no one can argue that it would not eliminate people out of poverty and ultimately boost the economy, after all, higher income equals higher consumer spending. The fight for the $15 movement was ignited in 2012 at the heart of minimum wage employees; the fast food service. Over a hundred fast food restaurant workers in New York City started a strike demanding from their employers a minimum wage of $15 an hour. Since then they have made much strides, their main website, fightfor15.org, has been set up to share information on the movement which has now reached many cities in the United States and even impacted 60 countries on 6 different continents (Why We Strike). Its main message encourages the population to take into account the reasons for raising the minimum wage in order to help those workers currently earning minimum wage across the United States and around the world. To achieve this goal, the website utilizes both visual and rhetorical appeals to persuasively show the effects and conditions of people with minimum wages in different respective states. It utilizes visual cues through images of workers striking, while smoothly appealing to the mind with these stories about their conditions. Fightfor15.org uses excellent strategies of rhetoric appeals which quickly captures the attention of entry-level workers, employers and underpaid workers. Not only this, it also informs persons on the outside looking in who are not directly affected by the issue and engage their emotions in hopes of influencing them to join the movement. Student 2 The first image (see fig. 1) appears on one of the blog posts on the main website (Pope Francis Speaks Out on Income Inequality). The image is very effective in many ways, most significantly by incorporating various elements of visual and rhetorical cues such as topography and color (Pack). Through observation the first thing one can assume is that the target audience is people who are religious. The imagery features the head of the Catholic Church; Pope Francis. This directly affects the audience views by showing that the issue itself is not aligned with that of Christ. Using both the image of the Pope as well as highlighting a quote spoken by the Pope, aligns with the goals of the movement which is reaching and informing new people and getting them involved with the movement in order to effect change. This makes an appeal to their pathos by inclining that the current situation is not ethical. The color scheme of the image is also very effective. The imagery is primarily black and white and the key elements such as the word which the group is trying to highlight are colored in bright yellow and stand out. The strong context which is in a standard font that is straight forward and to the point does not detract from the seriousness of the cause. The location of the Pope extends from the top to the bottom of the image which smoothly integrates with his scaling to highlight his importance in the purpose. However, the quoted text is central in the image and is not overpowered by the larger image of the Pope. Viewers would be able to distinctively portray why low standard of minimum wage is unethical through this strategy. The image also displays various elements of rhetoric appeals (Allyson Hoffman). The use of the image of the Pope is a perfect example of Ethos, by associating the views with that of the cause, it lends the credibility of the Pope to the cause of the movement. Many would view the Head of the Catholic Church as a symbol of high authority and a very credible resource. It also exhibits elements of Pathos, as the quotation is the root of social can invoke Student 3 feelings in the viewers that make them assess the morality of the issues which the cause is targeting. The combination of the quote and the Pope both act together to get the viewers to think empathetically and logically about the cause and is not overpowering in its effect. The image and the text are simplistic and add just enough elements of Pathos, Lagos and Ethos to get the point across. The second image (see fig. 2) (73% of NYC Voters Agree) conveys a powerful, persuasive statement with visual and rhetorical appeals to lure viewers into the movement. Arrangement, topography and color (Pack) also play a major role in capturing the audience. The image is primarily text with no photo however the text is excellently arranged so that it catches the attention of the viewers. The bright blue background of the image contrasts smoothly with time for $15 in making it easy to understand. The font varies in size, the percentage statistics is the most important text on the image as it is in the largest font and draws the attention directly to the important number first. All of which highlights the purpose by showing that it is gaining favorability among others. On this account, the combination of both the scaling, the background color of the image and the contrasting color of the text all tie in cohesively, making the image very readable, which is yet another element of visual rhetoric. There are also various elements of rhetoric appeals (Allyson Hoffman) displayed by the image. The context of the text is a great demonstration of Logos with the use of statistics that lends credibility to the cause. Using this statistic, the huge number of growing support for the cause also highlights its importance and why others need to be more aware. In this sense, it directly appeals to the pathos of the audience. The image also employs use of Kairos. There is a time element to this image in the last text Time For $15 in Not only does this suggest that the cause is working toward change happening soon, but also it can be interpreted that they Student 4 are also employing Kairos, as a mean to incite the targeted audience to act in a timely manner to achieve the goals of the movement. This is distinct through the wording of the text. Fightfor15 comprises of many blogs with associated images to help promote their cause. The two selected images are just a few of many, which employ both visual and rhetorical strategies. Fight for $15 continues to work to build and execute their initiative of raising the minimum wage for all across multiple cities in multiple countries, starting with the United States. More and more minimum wage paid workers continue to join the cause and websites like that of Fightfor$15.org continues to make information available to population to highlight the reasons the minimum wage should be increased. (WC 1146) Student 5 Works Cited 73% of NYC Voters  Fightfor15.org .6 Aug. 2015. 25 Jan. 2017 About Us. Fightfor15.org 13 Apr. 2016. 25 Jan. 2017 Allyson Hoffman et al. Rhetoric Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an  n.d. Writing Commons. Creative Commons. 25 Jan. 2017. Pope Francis Speaks Out on Income ,23 Sep. 2015. 25 Jan. 2017 http://fightfor15.org/pope-francis-speaks-out-on-income-inequality/. Why We Fightfor15.org. 25 Aug. 2016. 25 Jan .2017 Student 6 Fig. 1 http://fightfor15.org/pope-francis-speaks-out-on-income-inequality/ Fig. 2 http://fightfor15.org/73-of-nyc-voters-agree-its-time-for-15-in-ny/