Foster 1 Foster, Wesley Bob Botkin ENC 1102 31 January 2017 Money Talks Against College Athletes There has been a serious debate over the years about whether or not athletes in college should be paid to play. This debate has been going on since before the seventies and still is a big issue in our society today. College athletes are working from the moment they wake up to the moment they go to sleep but that is what they signed up for and have dedicated their lives for. These kids have been playing since they were little and only dreamed about making it big time. Millions of people are involved in sports and watch them on a daily basis but not everyone is lucky enough to make it. These athletes have their entire college tuition paid for which saves their parents money and the student gets to play and represent their school. This paper investigates whether or not college athletes should be paid to play. There is a reason that college athletes are not getting paid and that is because they are not professional athletes. The athletes at the collegiate level are still only students who already are earning a college education through their participation and dedication through sports. College athletes play the game they love because they love to compete and have dreamed about one day being drafted by their favorite team and finally making a living doing what they love. Student- athletes are exactly what their title states they are, students first and then athletes second. It fails, first of all, to recognize the value of sports as a part of education. Yankah in his article states that value can be seen in the countless student athletes, from gymnasts to softball players, who pour hours of work into training and competing with no hope of going (Yankah). There are Foster 2 only two sports that actually generate a profit when it comes to college sports and that is football and basketball. College athletes getting paid to play would only distract them and would make them not work hard in the classroom since they are only getting paid to play and not paid for their grades. Another reason why college athletes should not get paid is because they already have their entire college already paid for. For example, a high school prospect will commit to a college and sign a letter of intent saying that they are receiving a full athletic scholarship which covers their books, tuition, and housing. Typically, a student pays $10,000 a semester for tuition, books, and most importantly housing but student athletes do not pay a dime. Getting paid a salary takes away from the actual sport itself and many collegiate organizations break even or lose money towards the end of each season. If college athletes were to get paid a salary on top of the free education plus all the clothes, uniforms, and free memorabilia that they already get while playing, there would be struggling to find money for these athletes since the budget will be near too empty. On the other hand, paying student athletes wont only affect their performance on the field but also in the classrooms. They will not be focused on their academics if they would be getting played to plays sports since that is what is paying the bills. Universities would have to start making cuts due to the fact that the athletic departments are costing so much money to fund these athletes that the entire school would start degrading. are amateurs who choose to participate in intercollegiate athletics as a part of their educational experience, thus maintaining a distinction between student-athletes who participate in the collegiate model and professional athletes who are also (Mitchell). There is a severe controversy between the athletes and their families against the NCAA that feel that their kids should get paid for their hard work and dedication. Some athletes may Foster 3 argue that getting paid will make them stick around and not go pro too early during their careers. There would be no reason to leave a college campus where they are getting paid to do the same thing that professionals do but at a level where they can actually compete in and prosper rather them ride the bench on a professional roster. To reiterate, if college athletes were to get paid, there would be several shortages in athletic programs: for instance, Sports Medicine and Injury. Some athletes feel they are being used and abused by being an athlete since they are working hard day in and day out, practicing to hopefully win a title. These College coaches are paid millions to coach these athletes and yet there are still issues in society about whether it is fair or not to have these athletes just play for a scholarship. It is true that these student athletes work hard in the classroom and on the field but that would all change if they were getting paid to do what they love. These athletes are on such a strict schedule that they cannot work a real job so they are looking to get paid in order to make up for the time lost. Sports that are not as popular as basketball, football, and baseball would not get the same amount of money for the athletes since the sports do not make as much money since they are not televised or do not make as much money for the school. This is unfair to these sports and that is why athletes do not get paid to play college sports. offense to the athlete who plays a sport that does not air on national television but it does not seem acceptable that they get paid the same amount as the college football player competing in the National Championship with 33 million people watching (McCauley). They are too young and are still in school and do not deserve to make a salary. Only the lucky ones get a chance to compete at the professional level and that is where you make the money. Since these athletes do not get paid, they should work twice as hard to make it to the next level so college is just a taste of what being a professional is really about. Only the best of the best are able to compete at the next level and make the big bucks. Foster 4 In the end, college athletes get enough paid for them with school and housing so getting a salary is not viable. Student athletes are already on scholarships so there is no reason that they should be paid to play. Getting good grades should be their main priority along with excelling on the field. Being a professional and being a college athlete are two completely different levels of skill and there is a reason that college athletes do not get paid. school and college players understandably use the National Football League and the National Basketball Association salaries as the gold (Thelin). They are still too young and they are just student that do not deserve to make a salary since they are on scholarship and are recruited out of high school. College athletes should not be paid to play due to the fact that they are students first and athletes second. If they want to get paid than then they should work twice as hard, be up an hour earlier, and be the first one on the field and the last one off in order to sign the million-dollar pro contract that is dream come true. Foster 5 Works Cited Academy, U.S. Sports. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  The Sport Journal. N.p., 31 Jan. 2015. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Thelin, John R. Why We Pay College  Time. Time, 01 Mar. 2016. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Jackson, Scoop. The Myth of  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 12 Sept. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McCauley, Kieran. College Athletes Be  College Athletes Be Paid. Daily Local News, 28 Apr. 2015. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Paid to  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Scott Bordow - Jun. 21, 2011 12:11 AMThe Arizona Republic. 4 Reasons the NCAA Should Not Pay  Azcentral.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Yankah, Ekow N. Why N.C.A.A. Athletes Be  The New Yorker. The New Yorker, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.