Hamed 1 Ahmed W. Hamed Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 January 27 th , 2016 Would the Legalization of Anabolic Steroids Be Beneficial for the Sports Industry? The Physique will begin in three weeks! Arnold has been hanging on a thread of his sanity this past year with his daily grueling dieting and intense workouts. However, after having a long look in the mirror, he realizes that he is nowhere near the level of his competitors. At this point, Arnold has two critical options. He could either take a or hope for the best. Although, the choice seems to be a no-brainer, what if he knew that this would cause numerous detrimental consequences that could affect him until the day he dies. Nevertheless, Arnold picked the route and went on to win the grand physique title of throughout most of the 1960-80s.This shortcut takes the name of Anabolic Steroids and this bodybuilder takes the name of Arnold Schwarzenegger. The use of anabolic steroids in the bodybuilding industry raises many questions that have very arguable answers. steroids cause cancer? Do steroids increase natural testosterone? Due to its high level of controversy, the topic of steroids has become the of the sports industry ever since Congress placed anabolic steroids under the Controlled Substance Act in the late 1980s. The pro-dope community has ignored the negatives and the anti-dope community has overlooked the benefits. The question has wandered the Earth for decades, always left unanswered: Would the complete legalization of Anabolic Steroids be beneficial for the bodybuilding industry? Hamed 2 Bibliography 1 Jenkinson, David M., and Allison J. Harbert. Supplements and  Am Fam Physician, November 1, 2008, 1039-046. Print The article talks about general supplementation in the sports industry. It provides a detailed summary of every major supplement used by athletes. It talks about their scientific makeup, their benefits, and even health factors. The article provides comprehensive charts and tables that show plenty of information regarding every single form of supplementation. The entry brings forth in-depth information regarding anabolic steroids and artificial human growth hormone. These supplements are two of the most used performance enhancing drugs by athletes and competitors around the world. The report also connects the effects of performance enhancers with other basic supplements used by showing of how they affect one another. Based off of the information given in the entry, lots of comprehensive information could be drawn from the source that answers whether or not performance enhancing drugs could be beneficial for athletes in the sports industry. The article will give massive references with its informative charts and figures about the true benefits of performance enhancing drugs. What makes this article so reliable is its two authors being two health professionals who have years of experience and knowledge. David M. Jenkinson is a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine while Allison J. Harbert has a Medical Degree. The two are held in high-esteem due to the renowned prestige of their positions. Hamed 3 2 Costine, Beth A., Donna M. Porter, and Joseph G. Oberlander. Chronic anabolic androgenic steroid exposure alters corticotropin releasing factor expression and anxiety-like behaviors in the female  Psychoneureondocrinology 35.10 (2010): 1473-485. Print. This source talks about a large scale experiment preformed on mice taking anabolic steroids. The purpose of the experiment was to determine any psychological or neurological phenomena taken place in the brain of a steroid user. The test results did determine an emotional and cognitive difference in mice that would take the steroids. These difference include increase anxiety, fear, and other unsettled behaviors. The entry provides many of the statistics using charts and bar graphs to help the reader comprehend the results of the experiment. In the experiment, the mice were constantly startled by the same stimuli but were more reactive after they took the steroids. Not only is this a peer reviewed source, also shown to be very reliable due to the large use of bar graphs and charts that display the results of the experiment. The experiment is performed by professional scientists in a high-end laboratory. Many different types of anabolic steroids were used in the experiment to further improve the accuracy of the conclusion. This source is very useful because it provides a strong counter argument against the beneficial aspects of steroid use by providing its negative impact on the mind. The source is factual evidence that anabolic steroids could cause anxiety and stress in steroid users. 3 Lenehan, Pat. Anabolic Steroids and Other Performance-Enhancing Drugs. London: Taylor & Francis, 2003. Print Hamed 4 This source goes in depth about the use of anabolic steroids by explaining them in a less technical sense. The book puts high emphasis on not using any high-end medical or biological terminology to provide a more comprehensive study for the average college student. The book provides many different aspects in regards to the use of steroids. It also looks specifically at the use of anabolic steroids in the bodybuilding industry. The book discusses the benefits and consequences that come with the use of steroids. The book also provides a high quantity of sources throughout its articles that provide lots of information about the science of steroid use. This book was written by Patrick Lenehan, an MD with personal experience of anabolic steroids. This book references and sources many different experiments preformed around the world with anabolic steroids in professional laboratories. These experiments are all performed by highly experienced scientists. The information provided in this book could give a huge amount of information in regards to anabolic steroids use in the bodybuilding industry. Many of the experiments listed in the book provide clear descriptions of steroid usage and effects on day to day life. This data will be able to determine the true benefits of steroid use in the bodybuilding industry and whether it would be a truly good decision to legalize them. 4 Kuiper, Hartgens F. Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in  Sports Medicine, 2012. Print This article dives deeply into every detail about anabolic steroids. The article explains the science behind the benefits and consequences of steroid use for athletic purposes. The source also looks at steroid use in a historical manner by presenting its development since the 1920s. The article also provides a numerous amount of research studies that test different aspects of Hamed 5 steroid use. These studies include case, observational, prospective, and long-term studies which help the reliability of the source by providing factual information. The studies look at outcomes, diseases, benefits, consequences, and a great many things involving the use of anabolic steroid use in the athletic industry that one would want to know specifically for research. This source was created to provide a plethora of scientific information based off of anabolic steroids. As noted before, anabolic steroids are one the two most used performance enhancing drugs in the fitness and athletic industry. By using the information in this source in regards to steroids, the answer of whether performance enhancers would be more beneficial for the athletic industry becomes more clear after a display of the scientific background behind the drugs. In addition, this source was created by Medicine that show raw proof of their studies by providing the reader with numerous experiments and their outcomes.