Hegenbarth 1 Fritz Hegenbarth Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 30 January 2017 The Struggle between Privacy and Security In the last five years the government has been trying to use the personal information of the citizens collected by companies such as Apple and other big technology companies. As some might know everything done in a computer or cellphone is collected as data and stored. This might sound scary because everything a person is doing is being recorded even though he or she has not done anything wrong, but for now the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) cannot use that information. The reason this has not happened yet is because the American Civil Liberties Union has set their goal to protect the privacy of the citizens. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) are against each other because the FBI wants to use the privacy of the citizens and the ACLU is trying to protect it. In this case the FBI would provide more security and the ACLU will make sure people have their right to be left alone and prevents the misuse of the information collected. The goal of both of them is to protect the citizens The FBI is the main federal enforcement agency of the United States whose mission is to protect the American people and defend everything stated in the Constitution. The values of the FBI include: obedience to the Constitution of the United States, respect for the dignity of all those we protect, compassion, fairness, uncompromising personal integrity and institutional integrity, accountability by accepting responsibility for our actions and decisions and the consequences of our actions and decisions, leadership, both personal and professional, and Hegenbarth 2 (Welcome to FBI.gov.). Their main purpose is to protect the United States of America form terrorist attacks, foreign operations such as espionage, and technology attacks. Also, combat criminal organizations either national or transnational, and significant white-collar and violent crime to The FBI once tried to make a forensic examination on an iPhone 5c owned by Syed Farook, who performed a mass shooting along with his wife that left 14 dead and 22 extremely injured. Due to the security features of Apple the FBI could not access the phone unless they had the passcode. The FBI requested help and they refused to help because of they had fear they could misuse it. With the help of other organization the FBI could use the information safely (Mansfield-Devine 12). The FBI wants to protect the citizens from the United States, but at the same time they will be violating the rights and making them think whether they prefer security or their privacy. However, there is a stakeholder that has a different view in respect to privacy. The ACLU is a non-profit organization whose mission is to defend individual rights and to reach people who is being denied of these rights. The ACLU values include, the death penalty; supporting same-sex marriage and the right of gays to adopt; supporting birth control and abortion rights; eliminating discrimination against women, minorities, and LGBT people; supporting the rights of prisoners and opposing torture; and opposing government preference for religion over non-religion, or for particular faiths over (American Civil Liberties Union). The ACLU sued the FBI Director James Comey for violating the First and Fourth Amendment in 2013. The FBI obtained and used orders to make some telecommunication service providers to produce information about communications between telephone identifiers (Connare 398). The goal of the FBI and the ACLU is to protect the citizens. The FBI tries to use the Hegenbarth 3 privacy of the citizens to provide them with more security. By using the privacy of the citizens the FBI violates the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution. The ACLU tries to prevent the rejection of the rights, in this case privacy. Both of these stakeholders share a goal which is to protect the citizens of the United States. Although they have different points of views to protect the citizens a fairly beneficial point for each stakeholder can be reached. Both the FBI and the ACLU can reach an agreement in which both will be doing their goals. As said by Simone invasion of privacy is not only a technical problem, but has also social, legal and psychological dimensions, a holistic approach to a privacy-friendly use and design of security mechanisms is necessary, which has to involve specialists from different (104). To protect the privacy of the citizens the FBI would have to stop using the data collected by technology and telecommunication companies, meaning the prevention of crimes will be harder. To ensure security without violating the privacy the FBI and the ACLU can work together. In this case, the FBI workers and ACLU employees will have equal amount of authority in deciding whether a can be searched or not. The decision will be based on the criminal record, unusual and weird movements, use of words such as bomb, explosion, kill with an automated system in which the person will not have to be reading the text. By having workers from both sides and making a rubric in which both stakeholders cannot make a decision over the other. This can definitely work and an example of this is explained by Simone and is happening in Germany. German data protection act in 14 IV BDSG therefore restricts the use of personal data collected for privacy protection controls, backup or operation maintenance only to those (104). In Germany personal data can only be used for security purposes under certain circumstances, such as the suspicion of a murder, bomb plant and other high order felonies. Hegenbarth 4 In conclusion, privacy and security can come together and be beneficial for everyone. Citizens will have security and at the same their privacy will be protected. By having the ACLU protecting the privacy of the citizens and the FBI on the other hand making sure there is no major violent attacks everyone will be secure. Both stakeholders will be accomplishing their goals and making the people of the United States live a better and serene life without having to worry of someone seeing what they are doing or insecurity. The differences came together to form something that will work better and with the satisfaction of the people. Hegenbarth 5 Works Cited Civil Liberties American Civil Liberties Union, 2014, https://www.aclu.org. Accessed 29 January 2017. Connare, Erin E. ACLU v. Clapper: The Fourth Amendment in the Digital  Buffalo law review, vol. 6, no. 3, 2015, pp. 395-419. Accessed 29 January 2017. Simone. IT-security and privacy: design and use of privacy-enhancing security mechanisms. Springer, 2001. Mansfield-Devine, Steve. The battle for  Network Security, vol. 2016, no. 6, 2016, pp. 11-15. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/journal/13534858/2016/6. Accessed 29 January 2017. Welcome to  FBI. FBI, 24 Apr. 2016. https://www.fbi.gov. Accessed 29 January 2017.