Linzhi Jiang Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 909 January 30,2017 Breath of The Smog Beijing, a flourishing city that supposes be filled with brightness lights. At the end of the 2016s, the whole city appears hazy whiteness, it is not because of the snow, it is because of the smog in the air which reduced the visibility that turned Beijing into The residents of Beijing have been suffering through the longest air pollution in history, according to the Levin, Outdoor air pollution contributes to the deaths of an estimated 1.6 million people in China every year, or about 4,400 people a (Levin). This serious problem perplexes Chinese government. What has made Beijing is a kind of pollutant is known as fine particulate matter, it is also known as PM 2.5, this kind of pollutant is very unhealthy for the human body, this is the reason Beijing had 1.6 million death from breathing in the air pollution on 2015, which is scarily harmful (Levin). The PM 2.5 is mainly produced by the coal burning, and the biggest coal power station owner in northern China is Huaneng Power International Inc, also known as Huaneng Group. Fundamentally to solve the problem of air pollution in Beijing and benefit Beijing health, Chinese government, and Huaneng Power International need to collaborate. Huaneng Group need to shut down most of their coal power stations the in northern China, Huaneng Group can transform their coal burning into power plants, use natural resources to invest energy to continue their business. Chinese government is required to find places that are good for Huaneng Group build their power plants, and Chinese government need to provide funds and assist to help Huaneng Group implement their duty. For a better environment everybody are living, they need to practical action. Huaneng Power International Inc. (Huaneng Group), one of the five largest power producers in China, it engages in the development, construction, and operation of large power plants. The coal power stations that are owned by Huaneng Group, have covered the most part of northern China near Beijing. According to the article from the book Applied Energy, first industrial-scale CO2 capture plant in China has been demonstrated at Huaneng Beijing power plant has shown that this technology is a good option for the capture of CO2 produced by commercial coal-fired power (Huang et al.). Huaneng Group is trying to develop more power stations to make themselves better off. However, in the year of 2016, their power generation within China has decreased by 2.13%, according to the news on Yahoo Finance, decrease in the power generation for the year of 2016 was mainly attributable to the following reasons: (1) the installed capacity growth outpaced the growth of the nationwide power consumption while the utilization hours of coal-fired power generation units saw a year- on-year fall; (2) the growth of the installed capacity was below the average of its regional (Newswire). Another reason for the decrease in power generation is because of the air pollution in Beijing, Chinese government representing the residents of Beijing is trying to cut down the coal power stations near Beijing. The benefits of coal and biomass fuels contributed to the economy and human development are very important; however, the Chinese governments have realized that the mass quantity of usage of coal causes great damage to human health and the environment. The governments have been collecting the data of coal and biomass fuels consumption for years, they found out that there are 67% of total energy consumption is coal, which it is high as 1.63 billion tons of oil in 2012. Also, the usage of coal in china is almost reached 50% of the total coal consumption (Zhu et al.). Rural residents and partial urban residents utilized those huge amounts of coal and biomass fuels for householders cooking and heating, which it results in approximately 720,000 premature deaths annually due to the indoor and outdoor air pollution by burning those solid fuels (Zhang & Kirk). In addition, the air pollution causes more health problems like lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Zhang & Kirk). Furthermore, the air pollution contributed by coal and biomass fuels not only affect premature deaths, but also it causes many severe environmental issues, such as global warming, climate changes, and fog-haze. The coal and biomass consumptions emit plenty of chemicals into the atmosphere, like carbon dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, which it increases the level of greenhouse gas and causes global warming. Consequently, it leads to the sixth extinction of species including human, loss of biodiversity, and broken ecosystem. Besides, the loss of biodiversity and broken ecosystem will cause food shortage and nature disaster. Therefore, the governments think that the behavior of householders and lifestyle need to be changed into a high-tech level to utilize the resources that will not harm the earth seriously. They appeal that the residents and industries to use more alternative resources, which are less polluted and renewable. Huaneng Group is a business company, on one hand, they are more focusing on maximizing their profit, but in another hand, they are also residence in China, they also want healthy environment to live. Chinese government, the leader organization of China, on one hand they want the grow economic fast, in order to grow economic, Chinese government wants more and better businesses in China. But on the other hand, they need to protect their residence from bad air pollution. Huaneng Group and Chinese government, they are both the bellwether in China, Huaneng Group carries the most factories in China, Chinese government carries the most power in China. If Huaneng Group and Chinese government works together, the air pollution problem in China will be saved. In order to solve the Beijing air pollution problem, both Huaneng Group and the Chinese government have to step back from their current action for the benefit of Beijing health. Huaneng Group needs to shut down eighty percent of their coal power station in northern China, and a lot of the coal power stations appear right now are not valuable, many of them are over producing coal that China does not need that much. The Chinese government needs to help Huaneng Group to shift their coal burning station into power plants, and Chinese government need to financially help Huaneng Group on their action. According to the Xu and article about pollution control, pollution externality, economic method is to set up a price reference system and then construct an inexistent market. Demand and supply are created and trading begins. These system construction cost are not paid by firms but really needed. Only government affords the cost. Trading firms afford not only pollution control fee but also transaction fee. Many agents and exchanges can prove large transaction cost (Xu and Liu 583). If every process works well, the pollution in Beijing will decrease obviously, there will no longer have people death innocently, every resident will have fresh air to breath. In Conclusion, Beijing residents have been suffering the biggest air pollution in history, and the unbelievably huge amount of coal burning is the main factor in causing the pollution. Huaneng Power International Inc. (Huaneng Group) is one of the biggest power generation in China, and the Chinese government has the duty to negotiate with Huaneng Group about cutting the pollution down to minimize the coal power stations that are owned by Huaneng Group, or to shift the coal power station into the power plants. In that way, Huaneng Group still can continue their business of producing power, and in another hand, the Chinese government can protect their residents from breathing in the pollutant in the air. For the health of the country, they have to make an agreement. Works Cited Levin, Dan. Link Polluted Air in China to 1.6 Million Deaths a New York 13 Aug. 2015, www.nytimes.com/2015/08/14/world/asia/study-links-polluted-air-in- Accessed 30 January 2017. Bin Huang, Shisen Xu, Shiwang Gao, Lianbo Liu, Jiye Tao, Hongwei Niu, Ming Cai, Jian Cheng. Industrial test and techno-economic analysis of CO2 capture in Huaneng Beijing coal-fired power  Applied Energy (2010): 3347-3354. Newswire, PR. Huaneng Power International, Inc. Power Generation Within China Decreases by 2.13% for the Year of 2016. 10 January 2017. 30 January 2017. Zhang, Junfeng, and Kirk R. Smith.  Household Air Pollution from Coal and Biomass Fuels in China: Measurements, Health Impacts, and Environmental Health Perspectives Vol.115, No.6 (Jun., 2007): 848-855. The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Zhu, Chen, Jinnan Wang, Guoxia Ma, and Shen Yan. China tackles the health effects of air  ProQuest. ProQuest LLC, 14 Dec. 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Xu, Shuangqing. and Liu, Bin.  The Discussion of Mechanism Selection for Pollution based on Chinese SO2  Science Direct, vol 16, 2012, pp. 579-584, www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S1876610212001038?. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017.