Nguyen 1 NGUYEN Hoang Thuan Kristin Gocinski Composition II ENC1102 January 30, 2017 Women in Gender Inequality It is said that men are created but is it true to what most people believe? And how about women equality in this world? Until this day, inequality still exists in the society. For thousands of years, there were people who seek for equality, peace, and unity of human race. The world has never been balanced, from the treatment of slavery to the ignorant in gender inequality. Back then, it was rare for a woman to be heard since they all were seen as housewife, who usually stay home, cooking, and cleaning for the husband. As time goes on, women are reclaiming their rights, but they really get appreciated by the society. Nowadays, there are organizations that stand as a voice platform for women in the society, to find their dignity and their values. The National Organization for Women (NOW) is a stakeholder that stands up for women in general, to gain equality in the society. On other words, the NOW believes that women are not being treated as good as men and also there is no equality between men and women. Due to the differences in perspective and point of view, women have been divided into many different groups, no longer united as one. The group of Women Against Feminism (WAF) is a stakeholder that stands against the idea of feminism, since they believe that equality exists and they can take responsibility for their actions. In the modern world, the NOW promotes feminism and fight for more women rights to claim the equality for women, since they believe that women are not equal to men. However, Nguyen 2 the WAF want to be seen as being left behind in the society, so that they empower women and refuse to become a feminist because they believe that there is equality. After all, the only option that should be promoted is egalitarianism. The National Organization for Women (NOW) is one of the largest organizations of feminist grassroots activists in the U.S. The main goal of the NOW is take action through intersectional grassroots activism to promote feminist ideals, lead societal change, eliminate discrimination, and achieve and protect the equal rights of all women and girls in all aspects of social, political, and economic (par 1). For years, women have been fighting for their rights, but they still get the value that they are deserved. According to Stephanie Sipe, Donna K. Fisher, and C. Douglas Johnson that tend to work in dead-end jobs, resulting in a lesser likelihood of promotion, and women are less likely than are men to exercise authority in the (340). In other words, women are less favorable than man in the U.S. workplace, which shows that women are underpaid and have less opportunity to get a good job. Moreover, the group main objective is to promote rights by taking action through international grassroots activism. Add to the statement that Sipe et al. had mentioned, Pomerleau stated in his article, have achieved equality under law but minority women, still relegated to the bottom of the economic ladder, can only achieve equality in token (853). Since gender discrimination is a thing, so NOW is a stakeholder that is approaching knowledge and information to make voice platform for women. The group has been gathering women in general, to make a louder voice to gain more rights for women. However, not every woman has the same perspective about the world inequality and not every woman who choose to be a feminist to fight for their rights. Nguyen 3 The Women Against Feminism (WAF) is a group that has been created by one of the independent woman, since it is a group where women believe that equality is achieved and feminism is a word that demeans stay-at-home mothers or being a who love to cook and clean for a man. Moreover, Cathy Young stated in her article, Stop Fem-Splaining : What Against Gets Right, belittles and demonizes men, treating them as presumptive rapists while encouraging women to see themselves as (par 3). In other words, there are women want to be seen as victims, so that they empower themselves to take responsibility to their action. The WAF note that many studies that show the large pay gap between men and women are due to choices of getting the job that is family-friendly and life- friendly job. According to Cathy Young in the article, Women Against Feminism: Some women want equality without anger, point out that men are at higher risk than women for most violent crimes and may be far more likely than previously thought to experience domestic violence and sexual coercion. They say that in many areas, from divorce to mental health to workplace safety, men who have it (par 5). There are women who believe that there is equality among sexes, so that they want to ask for more. Moreover, they need others to fight for them or to stand by their side. They state that they can handle themselves and can take responsible to their actions. As mentioned above, the WAF actual stand by men side when the feminists were making jokes about men, when a minority of men committed to a crime or has done something bad towards women. The problem of gender inequality has been spinning around women for a while and somehow women in general are connected in understanding the circumstance, but there is a conflict between the differences in perspective. Nguyen 4 Gender equality is what all women want and they have their own movement in achieving it. The NOW is known as a group that for women, where they find every opportunity that can empowers the value of women. By using the movement of feminism, they can show people what most women are suffering. According to Young that Jessica Valenti, one of the leaders of feminism, stated clearly that being a feminist means believing that women in America are victimized They are discriminated against in school, work, and politics; being objectified, and harassed, attacked, and sexually assaulted. This is not a matter of politics, but of (par 4). Similar to the NOW, the WAF also wants their equality, which they believe that it is gained. However, the WAF accept to be named under feminist, due to the fact that they characterized themselves as victims. The WAF acknowledges and gives credit to the past battles for right, but it also says that modern feminism has become a hateful force, where movements are dramatically exaggerates while ignoring problems (Young par 10). Furthermore, none of feminists in particular and women in general have thought about egalitarianism or speak up about it. Meanwhile the two groups are fighting each other about feminism or gender equality, there is a minority of women who acknowledge the value of egalitarianism and make it to a bigger movement. In order to gain equality among human race, the two groups must put down their fences and come together. The March on Washington was a good start for all women to start uniting again. March was an idea that then generated into a big movement. Originally, the purpose was to send a message to the government that rights are human rights, but then it turned into a place where women stand together, to recognizing that defending the outsiders among Nguyen 5 them is defending themselves. According to the Mission &Visual of the www.womensmarch.com, rights are human rights, regardless of a race, ethnicity, religion, immigration status, sexual identity, gender expression, economic status, age or (par 4). March is a great platform for all women to start to get along and to preach about egalitarianism and its nature. To begin with, human beings have equal moral status. Human is a kind of authority in the realm of values, so that create the status or value of a person. According to Lippert-Rasmussen, Kasper, and Nils Holtug in the Egalitarianism: New Essays on the Nature and Value of Equality, status is based on the fact that human beings all have essentially the same basic capacities to be authorities in the realm of (54). For many years, there were rights and laws that were amended by the authorities to keep men and women equally, but not many accept that as a fact and get along with each other. Women in particular and human in general should believe that all men and women are created equal, so that they can progress into an egalitarianism era. In conclusion, the movement of feminism of NOW is supporting women to achieve equality and to match with men. Meanwhile, the WAF accept the term feminism as it refers to victims. Both groups are for and against on a topic that is about them, and not really think about a better solution for the problem. March is a good start for women as a whole to start uniting and progressing into an era of egalitarianism, where all men and women are equal. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Lippert-Rasmussen, Kasper, and Nils Holtug. Egalitarianism : New Essays On The Nature And Value Of Equality. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 2007. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 15 February 2017. Mission &  March on Washington. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Pomerleau, Clark A. Empowering Members, Not Overpowering Them: The National Organization for Women, Calls for Lesbian Inclusion, and California Influence,  Journal of Homosexuality 57.7 (2010): 842-61. Tandfonline. 27 July 2010. Web. 15 February 2017. Sipe et al. University Perceptions of Gender Discrimination in the Workplace: Reality Versus  Journal of Education for Business 11th ser. 84.6 (2009): 339-49. USF Libraries. USF Librarian, 1 July 2009. Web. 15 February 2017. Young, Cathy. Stop Fem-Splaining: What Against Gets  p1- 1. (2014): 1. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 15 February 2017. Young, Cathy. Women Against Feminism: Some women want equality without anger - The Boston  BostonGlobe.com. N.p., 02 September 2014. Web. 15 February 2017.