Lillia1 Matthew Lillia Project 2 Intermediate Draft February 26, 2017 Dorinda Davis The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence One of the biggest anti-gun organizations in the country is the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, or the CSGV. The main purpose is to end all gun violence in the US. The organization fights for much stricter gun laws and restrictions on gun owners and gun manufacturers. The first image is of a woman with boxing gloves and the caption reads: to fight the good fight against gun The image appeals to pathos and ethos because of the connection to ethics and emotions towards gun violence and the NRA. It is trying to urge them the stand up and fight instead of waiting in the background. It also appeals to kairos by telling the audience that now is the time to stand up and fight. The second image has a machine gun on the front and the caption reads: against democracy intimidation to stop This is also an to appeal to the ethos, pathos,and logos. The image is really trying to scare the audience of what the NRA and pro gun supporters are doing. They want them to stop the intimidation and stand up to the NRA. Both images are urging people, specifically women, to stand up to Gun Violence; both images use rhetoric appeals to make their audience feel that they need to stand up now against the NRA. Both of the images try to use ethos, or the appeal to ethics, to get their message across to their audience. Both these images are trying to reach out to women, and the CSGV is relying on the core beliefs of women that oppose the NRA and the pro gun supporters. The first image has a Lillia2 women in boxing gloves and the caption reads: to fight the good fight and end gun It is trying to urge women to see that the right is the side against gun violence. The image is relying on some core ethics to realize what side is the right side. The image is also painting the CSGV as the underdog against the NRA, that the NRA is the bad and that they are the that need support. The second image uses a lot of ethos as well. The image as a machine gun in the background and the caption reads: against democracy intimidation to stop The image is again trying to show the NRA and the pro gun supporters in a bad light. It is also again trying to show the CSGV as the underdogs fighting against this huge terrible organization. The CSGV relies women to trust their core values and stand up to the pro gun movement. The CSGV also uses a lot of pathos, or appeal to emotion, in their advertisements. Emotion is one of the biggest driving forces in their messages especially to women, it is no different for these two advertisements. The women boxing in the first image is really trying to motivate women to stand up and fight against the pro gun movement. Her boxing gloves are red which is an aggressive color which is showing the NRA that the CSGV is capable of fighting back. The second image also uses a lot of red and is urging women not to get bullied by the NRA and to be not be scared of them. Its women to stand up against the other sides intimidation and to fight for the right side. Women in the CSGV and other anti-gun organizations have dealt with a lot of opposition from the other side. In an article on CSGV.org Shannon Watts talks about the opposition she has felt from the pro gun supporters. She said that one angry gun supporter told her this personally feel you and your kind should lose your citizenship and be removed from this He also said, i sincerely hope that you are your Lillia3 family soon meet with a horrible and painful demise You will be hearing from me again, on the battle That is the type of aggressive intimidation the second image is talking about. This is the type of behavior both images are urging women to stand up and fight against. The advertisements use ethos to motivate women and get them to rally behind their side and fight against the NRA. Another rhetoric appeal the CSGV uses to get there point across to their audience is using logos. Logos is the appeal to logic and both images use that to show why they are the logical side in this argument. Both images again try to paint the NRA has a horrible super organization that needs to be taken down. In the first image part of the caption reads: to fight the good This is trying to show women that there side is the logical is side, if you stand up with the CSGV you are fighting the good fight and for the logical side. For the second image it is again painting a bad image of pro-gun supporters and trying to show their audience that the NRA is horrible organization and that the logical choice is the CSGV. The CSGV uses advertisements like these and other ways to make the NRA look bad. The CSGV has publicly bashed the NRA and has recently labeled them as a terrorist organization. the lead of New York Daily aptly named columnist Linda Stasi, The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence recently labeled the NRA a terrorist Farago). like the Brady Campaign are trying to rally everyone behind their cause against the NRA, and advertisements like the two used in this essay are ways for the CSGV to rally support away from the NRA. The fourth and final rhetoric appeal the CSGV uses is kairos or the appeal to timeliness. Timeliness is one of the biggest points of both of these advertisements, they are urging women to Lillia4 stand up and to stand up now. The CSGV is selling that the pro-gun supporters have bullied them for long enough and it is time for the women to take a stand against gun violence. In the first image at the bottom the caption reads action to end gun That is showing women that action needs to be taken now, that they can not sit back any longer and that action needs to happen now. The New York Times wrote an article about the CSGV and their fight to stand up against the NRA. It talks about how the CSGV is urging supporters to stand up now and demand legislation change (The Editorial Board). The CSGV wants people to take action now and stop the hold that the NRA has on Congress. They use Kairos in these images to make women understand that now is the time to stand up and fight back. The CSGV used all four of the rhetorical appeals in there two advertisements to make women back the CSGV in their fight for stricter gun laws. They tried to display the NRA has a horrible supper organization that has caused to many problems in America. They tried to scare and motivate women into fighting back. Public claims and campaigns have also contributed in the fight against the NRA. The advertisements did a good job of incorporating all the rhetoric appeals into their images and clearly getting their point across to their audience. Lillia5 Work Cited Farago, Robert. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence: The NRA Is A Terrorist  Truth About Guns . N.p., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. New Moms Leader Brings out the Misogyny in Pro-Gun  to Stop Gun Violence . N.p., 15 Sept. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Board, The Editorial. Standing Up to the  New York Times . The New York Times, 16 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/2d/e0/4f/2de04fff07c7937804b1a5295c42f30c.jpg Lillia6 https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/65/d3/82/65d382396f58f47a78d6c80daf2c8930.jpg