Beck 1 Nicholas Beck Professor Drugan English Composition 2 3 February 2017 Labeling Our Biggest Secret Environmental activists, along with the top money making companies in the food industry, have been part of an ongoing rivalry due to conflicting interests. On one hand, those who support environmentally friendly industries will consequently demand that the products sold are challenging polluters that make their profit off of cheap manufacturing practices. There is a major difference between environmentalist and industrial goals. This strong contrast lies in the costs associated. Environmentalists view unregulated and polluting companies as causing a cost to ecology and human health, but industrialists see more cost in being monitored. Since industrial goals more often than not revolve around making the most profit, that leaves little room for compromise when it comes to environmental health, and unfortunately, consumer wellbeing. Proper waste management, as well as sustainably-sourced materials, costs more money to employ compared to free-dumping and cheap resources. However, the risks for not following environmental standards, such as potential lawsuits being filed against them, can significantly outweigh any extra costs a company was trying to avoid in the first place. Lawsuits could result from illegal dumping, for example, thus it is better in the interest of all if the route is avoided. There is an exception though, and this being a winning cooperation, that is when it pays to be environmentally friendly. In most instances, consumer choice determines what products will be put out into the market. The popularity of organic products has been on the rise in the past 5 years, with an annual growth rate of 2-3%. As a result, major companies are jumping on the bandwagon and choosing to put out organic products to meet Beck 2 consumer preference and beat competitors Food Sales See Healthy Organic products undergo thorough evaluation under USDA government standards in order to be certified as being organic. The USDA Certified Organic label ensures to the consumer that the means of production and ingredient sourcing is sustainable, and that it does not contain GMOs. I propose, as well as many others, that products which have genetically modified ingredients are labeled accordingly. Consumers hold the right to know what they are buying and putting into their body, and almost always, most people prefer non-GMO food. The problem with organics being more expensive could be solved if consumer choice shifted even further away from genetically modified products- which is a possible near future if labeling is enforced. The foundation of the United States lies in a constant push for growth. Similar to the goal of any capitalist society, corporate powers that control the flow of goods and services likewise have the motivation of growth in mind. Growth in terms of higher yield, with less spending to achieve it, results in corners being cut. As an illustration, a pesticide producing company decides it is cheaper to use a method of production deemed unsafe, and so some other aspect in the production line or resulting product is negatively affected. Oftentimes, the environment suffers from such greed, not the company... except for when a company is found out. Illegal dumping of toxic waste causes it to seep down into groundwater, contaminating nearby wells, polluting rivers, and killing wildlife. Unregulated pollution, and regulated for that matter, builds up over a period of time, going unnoticed until too late. These harmful results of an industrialized world are also tied into the industrialized farming involved in GMO crop production. This is why it is very important for these corporations to be required by law to label their products so consumers are more cautious of their choices, and hopefully come to know the destructive, and what should be illegal, means of operation that these corporations try to hide. Beck 3 The new genetic combinations contaminate other naturally-occurring things like weeds and insects, leading to indestructible super bugs and super weeds that can now only be killed with ever stronger and more poisonous herbicides. Their profit is at the cost of you, and your environment. Europe is a prominent example of GMO food labeling put in practice under state law. Notions of opposition towards food labeling hold little value, with a count of 64 nations, not including the U.S., requiring labeling (Will European Requirements for Labeling GMO Foods Survive New Trade Negotiations?). The citizens of this nation deserve to generate an opinion and make informed decisions accordingly on GMO foods. Millions of Americans are purchasing food unknowingly containing GMOs and are unaware that their everyday diet consists of so many genetically modified ingredients. Organic products can be seen at any grocer with labeling made clear on the front of the packaging. Under the Organic Foods Production Act, organic products are required by law to meet certain standards, as is their means of production and handling. Meeting these requirements can be difficult and need to meet the standardization set in place to be labeled USDA Organic. Contrasting foods comprised of GMOs require labeling. This needs to be changed. not pushing towards industries means of production to change, and ultimately, not trying to change the products they bestow on the public. I simply propose that their products be labeled as containing GMOs under state law. It tolerable that these corporations are not making it clear to the consumer what they are purchasing, and fall back on the idea that there is not enough research to provide any health effects. Furthermore, the corporate view is that the government has no right to intervene, especially if they are law abiding, tax paying citizens. However, that way of operating has proven to be dangerous, and concealed to the eye. The traditional way of farming has worked for Beck 4 thousands of years, it is only in the recent decades that food production has become a ring of big business, and infiltrated with companies that have seized their opportunity for profit. Modern technology is needed to bring higher yield. I agree that with recent incredible population rise, higher crop yield was a good thing, however the current way of farming is no longer a safe or healthy practice. Its costs will soon outweigh its benefits. The once traditional methods such as crop rotation, planting with the season, natural means of pest resistance, and so on, has been replaced by monopoly companies such as Monsanto that force farmers to use their lab-produced seed. The farmers that refuse, and are found to have GMO trace seed in their fields, due to the force of wind which carries the pollen and causes cross contamination, are sued by Monsanto. Monsanto refuses to answer questions by reporters and journalists, and they provide no real proof that are safe, just a scientist despite a study conducted on lab rats that developed numerous tumors from eating only GMO feed. (A Comparison of the Effects of Three GM Corn Varieties on Mammalian Health). Products sold nationally in the U.S. containing genetically modified ingredients wreak havoc on the body, and are continuously being sold blatantly to the public. Consumers want low prices. It costs less to buy the bag of cheaply produced Doritos than the bag of organic corn chips that have much higher nutritional content and no preservatives. This is largely due to demand. If consumers were made more aware the extent of products with GMOs, there would be a far more drastic shift to purchasing organic products. With an increase in demand from consumers, the supply would soon outweigh it, resulting in lower prices. This has already been evident in recent years as everyone consumes at least some organic products, regardless if they care about their health and the environment. Shelves at local grocers are now being stocked with new organic lines in just about any food group. This means that many Beck 5 Americans are becoming aware of the environmental degradation and adverse health effects of cheap production and cheap However, the majority of Americans are unaware to the consequences GMOs have on the environment and their health, and deserve knowing whether products they are consuming contain them. Environmental activists want to make the public aware of the appalling effects GMOs have. Effects include cancers, fatty liver disease, tissue necrosis, and antibiotic resistance are directly related to the use of GMOs Effects of the Agent). A study conducted on rats fed genetically modified corn as the staple of their diet, made it evident that GMOs lead to tumors and cancers, and tamper with our biological system. These rats developed shocking amounts of tumors and severe health issues (A Comparison of the Effects of Three GM Corn Varieties on Mammalian Foods like soy, corn, and milk are amongst the most heavily GMO contaminated foods in the industry, and comprise much of the American diet. These products need to make it clear to the public that they contain genetically modified organisms and the corporations backing their production, argue that GMOs are safe and are no different in value than foods without genetic modification. If these various corporations within the industry argue their products are safe, there should be no issue labeling their products accordingly. Consumers have the right to know what they are consuming. We all deserve to know our biggest secret. Beck 6 Bakashi, A. adverse health effects of genetically modified crops, Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health, Part B, 6, 211-225. enhs.umn.edu (Harmful Effects of the Agent) This article provided an abundance of information about the links between GMOs and adverse health effects. It lists direct effects from studies, as well as correlations that have yet to undergo extensive research, but prove to look promising as more evidence of the harmful effects from GMOs. I incorporated this into my essay, listing a few of the multiple effects. It helped to strengthen my compromise and provides much needed information that Americans need to be made aware of. Dr. Mercola, Joseph. Dangers of This article provided evidence of a staple food in the American diet, contaminated the most by GMOs. Soy products are found to have the largest amounts, as well as numerous traces of GMOs compared to any other food. Beck 7 This fir into my essay quite nicely and allowed me to use soy as a primary example of such a common food in day-to-day diets, and what it actually consists of. de JS, Roullier F, Cellier D, GE. Comparison of the Effects of Three GM Corn Varieties on Mammalian Int J Biol Sci 2009; 5(7):706-726. doi:10.7150/ijbs.5.706. Available from http://www.ijbs.com/v05p0706.htm This article provides detailed information of the effects on rats fed genetically modified corn over their lifetime. These rats developed an alarming amount of severe tumors, various cancers, and diseases within the blood and other internal organs. I incorporated the use of this research into my argument to provide evidence of the effects that GMOs have. It helped show a detailed study of how GMOs tamper with cell production and function within the body. Lipsky, Michael. European Requirements for Labeling GMO Foods Survive New Trade This article provided information on other industrial nations who enact GMO labeling, as well as mentioning the monopoly Monsanto holds. Beck 8 I used this in my essay to provide evidence that other nations, especially those that Europe comprises of, enact GMO labeling laws. This provides the consumer with knowledge of what they are eating, and allow the food industry to sell their products without making it easily known what the product contains. (TITLE XXI OF 1990 FARM BILL) FEDERAL ORGANIC FOODS PRODUCTION ACT OF 1990 The Organic Foods Production Act provides detailed information, under law, on the definition of organic products, as well as the handling and production of such products. This Act indicates the requirement that must be met to be labeled as USDA Organic. This resource proved quite useful in my essay to help back my proposed compromise. I used it as reference to argue why GMO labeling should be enacted under law, similarly to how organic products are labeled under law.