Li 1 Runmin Li William Drugan ENC 1102.072 29 January 2016 The Benefits of Biofuel between Corporations and Environmentalists in USA It has been considering for a long time that the relationship between sustainability and massive production-living standard we have and pursuit. Since the great industrial revolution started in 1800s, human consumption has been increasing exponentially, and no one would refuse the desires from our inside for high living standard by using those nature resource, like petroleum, via technology. Although the economy has been dramatically increasing and the population increases as well, the environment that nobody had considered at that time has been confronting serious problems, which causes global warming and various pollution. In addition, the transportation contributes the most of the greenhouse gas emission, and the water pollution and air pollution are derived from it. Then the raise of environmental awareness of human make people to pay attention on the environment and the issues, and those who called environmentalists are trying to protect the environment by reducing the massive production via petroluem. However, the human development is driven by economy, which it means that the massive production brings the high quality of live and creates the job opportunities. Also, it produces many useful tools and products that support scientific experiments and development. The companies and factors will not stop maximized utilizing resources to produces increasingly. Therefore, there are always controversial perspectives on petroleum between the two groups, but a renewable resource is invented recently, biofuel, and Li 2 it can bring a plenty of benefits and satisfy both side of the groups. First, the maximized productions make a huge contribution to human development and economy, and it also accelerates the progress of technology to create a better life for human. Furthermore, the massive productions serve enough food, cloths, vehicles, and entertainment for the huge population in the world. The corporations play an important role in the whole economy and human development because it creates a plenty of job opportunities and produces as much as they can to satisfy the needs for all human. Especially, the automobile industry is the best example of massive production. The large amount of manufacturing and assembly facilities spread out around the world and reduce the pressure of unemployment (Holstein & Morris). Also, they improve living standard and makes work more efficient by producing more vehicles. With the increasing quantity of vehicles, the economy is getting better and everyone gains a lot of benefits from it, and the demand of petroleum increases, too. The United State imports 27% of petroleum from foreign countries according to the article Benefits and Moreover, there are 56% of all energy that people consumed in transportation is petroleum based on the article Use for Those huge usages of petroleum contribute a lot of benefits for human development. With the benefits, it also cost many problems, too. In addition, it is non- renewable resource, and human civilization would be extremely impact negatively when petroleum runs out, and there is no new resource to instead it. However, those potential costs will not stop companies and factories to continue mass productions because they think that when the technology reach a high-level stage, human can use those technologies to regenerate or invent new resources to satisfy the demand. Therefore, companies and industries will keep Li 3 maximized production to innovate new techniques and improve the quality of human life. Second, the environment and nature of earth is where human come from, people have the right and responsibility to protect and preserve it sustainably not just take the advantage on it. The environmentalists try to appeal people to reduce the consumption and mass productions due to the damage and limited resources. Especially, petroleum, the non-renewable resource, causes a plenty of problems and pollutions. According to the article the petroleum itself contains dangerous chemicals, sulfur and nitrogen compounds, and industries use it to produce products containing very toxic chemical, hydrocarbon molecules which hurt all the organisms, including human. The demand of petroleum products increases and promotes the economic growth, but the large number of toxins has been released into the environment and threat our ecosystems and populated areas; also, those toxins negatively affect our health. Furthermore, the petroleum also is a hero in both air pollution and water pollution because the spills of petroleum into ocean during transportation or extracting had happened several times, and the impact of the spills is very painful. Those sea animals and birds that lives in coast died due to the petroleum; also, the stained water not only affects animals, it also affects those people who live close coast. This causes food shortage and recession of fisheries, which it means that people will suffer from starvation and lose their jobs. Moreover, the transportation burns a lot of petroleum and emits a huge amount of greenhouse gas into the atmosphere. This causes global warming and climate changes, which it can lead an extinction of some species and force some species to find new habitats that fit their survival condition. The consequences will get worse when people keep doing mass production, such as the loss of all biodiversity, the break of food chain, and the chaos of Li 4 nature system. Therefore, environmentalists think that sustainability is more important than mass production, and people need to establish a close relationship with the environment and nature. They ask companies and factories to stop over producing and maintain at a steady amount to let the nature system recoveries itself. The two groups are trying to convince each other to support their goals, but they have not found an appropriate way to satisfy each other yet. Recently, a renewable resource is invented and this resource is perfectly to meet the expectations of both environmentalists and companies. This resource is biofuel which is made by animal fat, vegetable oil, and recycling cook grease, and alcohol, and this kind of fuel does not contain any of very dangerous toxins and does not release toxic chemical into the environment after burning (Biofuels Basics). Also, biofuels emit 70% greenhouse gas less than petroleum, which it reduces the impact of global warming and climate changes. Furthermore, this fuel can be used instead petroleum to keep mass production and maintain the sustainability. Besides, the spill of biofuel will not cause harmful damage to the environment and species Therefore, the biofuel is the best alternative energy to replace petroleum to satisfy both environmentalists and companies. In conclusion, the industrial revolution leaded the mass production and caused some severe environmental issues. This makes companies and environmentalists have two different and controversial perspectives on petroleum, maximized production and sustainability. The new resource, biofuel, can completely take the place of petroleum and reach both maximized production and sustainability due to its feature. Therefore, the maximized production is no longer negatively affecting the environment like petroleum did. Li 5 Work Cited Biodiesel Benefits and  Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy. U.S. Department of Clean Cities program, 21 Sept. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Biofuls  National Renewable Energy Laboratory. U.S. Department of Energy, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Energy Use for  U.S. Energy Information Administration. U.S. Department of Energy, 4 Oct. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Holstein, William K., and Morris Tanenbaum. Mass production ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA. ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA INC., 30 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Pollution Issues. Pollution Issues, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.