1 Christiana Owowo Professor Uddin ENC 1101 11 February 2017 Strict or Aloof? In psychology today, there are four major recognized parenting styles: authoritative, neglectful, permissive, and authoritarian. Parenting styles affect many different factors that are significant in a development. Each one contains different characteristics that affect children differently. They show what discipline strategies are effective on each child and help to establish effective communication between parents and children. For example, authoritative parents are warm but firm. They encourage their adolescent to be independent while maintaining limits and controls on their actions. Authoritative parents do not invoke the I said rule. Instead, they are willing to entertain, listen to, and take into their viewpoint (Kopoko 1-2). The perfect balance between limits/firmness and warmth tend to have a positive effect on the development of children. It creates the healthiest environment for a developing child and helps to promote a productive relationship between the parent and the child. Another example is the neglectful parenting style. Neglectful parenting is one of the most harmful styles of parenting that can be used on a child. This type of parent decides to have little to nothing to do with their life which allows room for the child having a difficult time developing relationships with people in the future. The authoritarian and permissive parenting styles butt heads because they both have their balance of beneficial and harmful effects on child development. Although authoritarian parents show little warmth and are very strict, their children are more disciplined 2 and they tend to show more respect to figures of authority. Likewise, permissive parents show warmth but enforce minimal rules and restrictions, which brings to surface the question: Is the authoritarian parenting style for beneficial child development than the permissive style? Kopko, Kimberly. Parenting Styles and Adolescents. Cornell Cooperative Extension ,2007. Web. This article is about the different parenting styles, their different components, and the effects that they have on adolescent development. After giving a brief description of each style and providing evidence with research findings, Kopko dives into the specific research on parenting styles. She describes how researchers analyze parenting styles and how they differ between parents; also, what researchers on the nature side of the nature-nurture debate focus on compared to the researchers on the nurture side of the debate. The author then discusses parental styles and which ones are more prominent in certain ethnical groups. The author of this article is Kimberly Kopko. Kopko is a credible source not only because her work was peer-reviewed but because she is an Extension Associate in the Department of Policy Analysis and Management at Cornell University. As described by the University, The Department of Policy Analysis and Management (PAM) faculty bring a rigorous disciplinary focus to describe and analyze public policy problems, particularly in the areas of health policy, regulatory policy, and social policy. This article includes both health and social policies, which are included in the focus so Kopko is a great source for analyzation of parenting styles. Although the article does not answer the research question directly, it provides information on the two different parenting styles being compared. 3 Rosli, Noor A., Effect of Parenting Styles on Emotional and Behavioral Problems Among Different Ethnicities of Muslim Children in the  (2014). Dissertations (2009 -). Paper 376. This dissertation is centered on associations between parenting style and measures of emotional and behavioral problems in Muslim American children. Culture is implemented into the focus on parenting styles and their effect on emotional and behavioral problems, and the author is focused on the Muslim children in the US. The paper is centered on associations between parenting style and measures of emotional and behavioral problems in Muslim American children. The author analyzes each parenting style and its effects on specific areas of childhood development very effectively. For example, when analyzing the neglectful parenting style, she used categories such as effect of neglectful parenting style on and effect of neglectful parenting on The author of this dissertation is Noor A. Rosli. Rosli is credible because her objective is to inform, educate and explain. Her arguments are also supported by properly cited facts from multiple sources. The dissertation is also clearly organized and relevant to the topic at hand. Stein, Stephanie, and Lillian J. Breckenridge. Parenting  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2016): Research Starters. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. This article is about the different parenting styles and their important effects on the development of children. It analyzes the specific styles of parenting (such as authoritarian, authoritative, permissive, and neglectful), the dimensions of parenting behavior (such as 4 demandingness and responsiveness), the consequences for child development (such as high self- esteem) and how gender makes a difference. This article is a great source for to use because it takes a position in the argument at hand. It emphasizes the harm and the little to no benefit that the permissive style of parenting consists of. This is a credible source to use because been peer-reviewed, free of errors, and because the scope of the topic is clearly stated. One of the authors, Lillian Breckenridge, has her Ph.D. in Child Development her background in this subject matter makes this article more credible because the focus is on the effects of parenting styles on childhood development. Mensah, Monica K. and Kuranchie, Alfred. Influence of Parenting Styles on the Social Development of  Academic Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies, vol. 2, no. 3, 2013, pp. 123-29. This journal/study is about the parenting styles that are used by the majority of parents and the effects that the components of those styles have on the social development of children. It analyzes with great detail the different parenting styles (such as permissive, authoritative, and authoritarian). It provides evidence with research from other studies and the findings that surfaced as a result. Then the authors provide the methodology that was utilized to conduct and conclude the study. This study is credible because the information is reliable an objective. The purpose of this source is to aid parents, guardians, teachers and school authorities to understand the relationship between the parenting styles and their impact on the social development of their children. This source relates to the research question and helps shaping it because it describes the different 5 types of parenting and their observed effects- providing more benefits and potential harm each one can bring about.