Kelley 1 Jen Kelley Adam Carter English Composition 14 February 2017 To Hear or Not to Hear Whether or not to give a baby who is born deaf or hard of hearing cochlear implants has stirred up controversy. Cochlear implants are devices that allow people to sense sound The debate centers on the idea that doctors view deafness as a disability with a cure; however, people who are deaf see deafness reflecting a rich culture. A main advocate for the child to be emerged into the Deaf culture is the National Association of the Deaf (NAD). NAD is a civil rights organization created in the 1880s protecting the rights of the Deaf community. NAD recognizes that there are growing technologies helping life run smoother for people who are deaf; however, they believe cochlear implants are appropriate for the entire Deaf community. Furthermore, they fight the idea that a cure for deafness Statement on Cochlear On the other hand, there are organizations like Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (AG Bell). AG Bell is an independent, nonprofit organization with the goal of enhancing listening and spoken language for the deaf and hard of hearing. Upon this idea, they emphasize the importance of cochlear implants Statement: Cochlear Although both of these organizations have conflicting views, a common ground can be discovered between the two. For instance, they both highlight the importance of early intervention for children who are born deaf or hard of hearing, as well as the importance of improving the quality life for these children. To reach an agreement Kelley 2 between the National Association of the Deaf and the Alexander Graham Bell Association, an educational class ran by a doctor and a person who is deaf should be an option for parents to attend. Furthermore, the class should be equally focused on the risks and benefits of cochlear implants and the Deaf culture so it can be a learning experience for the parents, the Deaf community, and the doctors. NAD recognizes that parents have a choice of whether or not to give their child cochlear implants; however, they agree with how doctors and media are treating deafness as a problem. In mission statement they write, implants do not eliminate deafness. An implant is not a and an implanted individual is still deaf. Cochlear implants may destroy what remaining hearing an individual may Statement on Cochlear In their mission statement, their audience is the media, medical professionals, and parents of the deaf. NAD views deafness as a culture meaning they have values, history, a language (ASL), and traditions thus forming a culture. By NAD saying no they mean that there be a solution for something that a problem. Extending upon this point, they are rebutting the way that medical professionals go about dealing with people born deaf. Whether or not the child has an implant, NAD argues that people who are deaf flourish just as much in society as anyone else. A strong advocate of this view is Robert Sparrow in the Journal of Political Philosophy. He writes about how the majority culture is imposing bias views on a minority culture. He sees that there may be a point in time where one needs to be (Sparrow 135). By majority culture and minority culture, he is referring to the hearing and the Deaf cultures. Therefore, as the cochlear implants become more advanced, the minority culture gets smaller. Along with this, they restrict the chance of being fully part of either the hearing or the Deaf culture. Although Sparrow agree with how medical professionals are Kelley 3 treating deafness, he does believe in the integrity of people who are deaf to make their own decisions (135). It becomes essential in the debate to understand that deafness is not a black and white subject with two different point of views. On the other end of the controversy, AG Bell sees independence for a child born deaf as only being achievable if he or she can fully interact with the hearing world. Their mission statement summarizes the importance of the acquisition of spoken language, knowing the risks and benefits of the cochlear implants, and early intervention Statement: Cochlear In their mission statement, AG audience is oriented toward parents who have a child who is deaf or hard of hearing. In comparison to view, AG Bell believes in the importance of being able to interact with the hearing world, and the earlier the child starts the better. A study that was done in Ear and Hearing confirms the importance of this. In their study, they found that children who got cochlear implants under age 12 got higher scores on receptive and expressive language growth than children who got cochlear implants between ages 12 and 24 months (Dettman et al. 17). These results conclude that early intervention is in the best interest for a child if he or she is going to be implanted. Overall, AG Bell wants children born deaf to be implanted immediately so that the child can access the hearing world. The cochlear implant controversy has been long debated; however, the only way to move forward is finding a common goal both sides argue for. Both NAD and AG Bell highly emphasize the importance of early intervention. AG Bell argues the importance of early intervention to improve the results of the cochlear implants, and NAD argues the importance of it to learn sign language. Along with this, they both agree on the idea of improving the quality of life for people who are born deaf or hard of hearing. According to NAD, they recognize any technological advancement that improves the quality of life for people who are born deaf Kelley 4 Statement on Cochlear By technological advancements, they mean items like text telephones. On the other hand, AG Bell thinks necessary for people who are deaf to interact with the hearing society to enhance life Statement: Cochlear Although they are both trying to improve the lives of people who are Deaf in different ways, they have similar motives. The first way of dealing with this dispute is having both sides eliminate preconceived notions about the other point of view, and then working together to create an educational class for parents to optionally attend. According to the transformative model, mediation practice consists of providing opportunities for empowerment and recognition. Empowerment occurs when the parties gain greater clarity about their goals, resources, options, and (Mareschal 428). Therefore, the first step to solving the debate is putting one another in each shoes. AG Bell needs to look at deafness in the cultural form, and NAD needs to look at the benefits of being able to fully communicate with the hearing society. Then, education classes for both sides need to be available for parents to seek when trying to make the decision. A beneficial set-up would be one similar to the set up for school-based alcohol and other drug prevention programs. Although cochlear implants and drug prevention are completely different, awareness is one of the ultimate goals. The set up outlined in this journal is adopt a curriculum, address multiple strategies, choose instructional leaders, allow for active participation, and modify (Elmquist 16). The curriculum for the cochlear implant educational class would involve education about the risks and benefits of cochlear implants, and it would also involve learning about the Deaf community and American Sign Language (ASL). Addressing multiple strategies is vital for the resolution for this debate. The multiple strategies are the choices the parents are making for their child. Then for instructional leaders, there should Kelley 5 be a medical professional and someone part of the Deaf community. The parents should be allowed to ask questions and then discuss experiences with the other people in the group. Finally, as the program moves along, modifying it to better fit the needs of the parents is also needed. By having educational classes for the parents, it allows the parents to confidently make a decision for their child. There will always be activists on both sides of this argument that will be blind to the other side; however, if raised awareness on both sides and less biases, the extreme views can be decreased. Although neither of the sides can ultimately win this debate, in their best interest to understand the alternative view. Understanding each goals would be in the best interest for the child. also a necessity that parents have resources available to them to help make the decision, like the education classes outlined above. The educational class will be an important step in the decision-making process. Additionally, it will meet the needs for the common goal of both of the organizations, which is making life as easy as possible for the deaf. Kelley 6 Works Cited Cochlear  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 21 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dettman, Shani J., Darren Pinder, Robert J. S. Briggs, Richard C. Dowell, and Jaime R. Leigh. Communication Development in Children Who Receive the Cochlear Implant Younger than 12 Months: Risks versus  Ear and Hearing 28. (2007). Web. Elmquist, D. L. School-Based Alcohol and Other Drug Prevention Programs: Guidelines for the Special  Intervention in School and Clinic 27.1 (1991): 10-19. Web. Mareschal, Patrice M. Solving Problems and Transforming Relationships: The Bifocal Approach to  The American Review of Public Administration 33.4 (2003): 423-48. Web. Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in  Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in Children AG Bell Listening and Spoken Language. Alexander Graham Bell Association. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Position Statement on Cochlear  National Association of the Deaf. 6 Oct. 2000. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Sparrow, Robert. The Journal of Political Philosophy 32.2 (2005): 135-52. Web. 21 Jan. 2017.