Jonathan Hernandez ENC1102 Adam Carter 29 January 2017 Rights and Equality: Finding Common Ground One of the most controversial subjects of most recent history in the United States has been: are American women oppressed? The talking points, that often lead to arguments, are the ideas that women make different wages, workplace sexism is prevalent, or the amounts of rights given to women make them feel powerless. These ideas fill discussion any time the subject of feminism comes up. On one side is the group of people who say these ideas are the most important issues facing America and until people face these problems, there will always be division. One of the most prevalent speakers for this side is Gloria Allred. She is a spokesperson for feminists and a practiced lawyer for the movement, taking many popular and newsworthy cases. The opposing side would argue that these problems are either not important enough to top the list of issues facing the country or they are nonexistent in the first place. A stakeholder on this side of the discussion is Milo Yiannopoulos, a public speaker and journalist for Breitbart News, who believes feminism and people like Gloria Allred are not good for the country. Both sides of any feminist argument want the same thing: the best for women in America. The only reasonable way to come to an agreement on how to accomplish this is to diminish each radicals, building a platform for rational people to make reasonable decisions. By ignoring the loudest and most stubborn, those who want what is best for American women will be able to come to a sensible conclusion. Hernandez 1 The first stakeholder, who has gained a large amount of national attention, is Gloria Allred and her admirers. She is recently famous for her work for the women suing Donald Trump. Her work centers around feminism and she fights because she believes she is doing what is best for American women. A major fighting point for Allred is fighting against the wage gap. Recent data and polls show that women in the work force make 79 cents to every dollar a man makes (Fleming). Fleming attempts to show that status groups (such as white males) engage in exclusionary practices that reserve the best opportunities and jobs for members of the Allred and her advocates contend this is a major dividing factor in America and, along side blatant sexism, the country needs to focus on equality for women. Many protesters took to the streets after Donald inauguration to voice their opinions on this subject. Allred, and many of the feminists that consider these issues as serious as she, state, not a feminist, then you are a The gender wage gap is what many believe to be the worst aspect of work environment sexism. That is not the only aspect, however. Allred often takes cases of sexual harassment. She posits women are almost always the victim of sexual harassment, even if they realize it. This side believes it is almost impossible for women to get ahead because they are seen as sexual objects, instead of capable competitors, in the work place. She said, are endless new variations on how to hurt a woman physically, emotionally, financially, and This point of view, taken to the extreme, envisions a world where men are oppressors, women are victims, and always a fight to be had because women will never be equal. Milo Yiannopoulos is someone who will tell a person exactly what he is thinking at any given moment, often without any sort of filter. His supporters see this as a positive characteristic, Hernandez 2 whereas others see it as being rude and offensive. He (in)famously told a student at one of his I give a shit about your feelings, I just care about This was quickly followed by cheering from his fans, and from his opponents. Yiannopoulos gives speeches at dozens of universities around the country. Many of these talks are on the subject of new feminism. One of the top disputers of feminist claims, Yiannopoulos feels very passionate about sharing his findings with people he believes are uniformed and misled. He argues that feminist claims that women make 79 cents to the dollar of a man is deceptive. He said, in a talk he gave to students at Auburn University, [the wage is something that no real economist takes seriously. . . it is about life choices, not He goes on to explain how the 79 cents figure comes from life choices and not from blatant sexism in the workplace. Whether it is choosing to take care of a family or their own fear of asking for a raise or promotion, which women are half as likely to ask for, these factors, Yiannopoulos says, are the real properties holding women back in the workplace. He explains that the 79 cents figures come from a very broad sweep of all jobs and people working, but when each job cell (which is a word to describe all employees working in the same occupation as a specific point in time) is looked at separately, that number does not stand up (Ludsteck). Ludsteck actually proposes there are more women, in recent years, being hired than men due to the fear employers have of being labeled sexist. Not only does he feel the 79 cent statistic is purposefully manipulated, but he feels that women have become oversensitive in the workplace, and look for problems. feminists think safe spaces will protect them from the world, but they In fact, safe spaces grant the rest of the world a brief reprieve from dealing with left-wing stupidity, which is the only real argument for them. But the real result of a safe space is to Hernandez 3 reinforce ignorance, fragility, and a toddler mentality. therapy Yiannopoulos states. His bombastic statements often give rise to shouts of protest. He believes feminism has gone so far, that not only are women not discriminated against, but that the country is now being damaged by this push from what he calls third wave feminism. He uses military studies that show that women are more inclined to be physically hurt in combat, that only eight percent of military females want combat roles, but that the military still pushed for women in combat for fear of backlash. They simply lowered the standards to make it possible for women to pass. Although this topic has two very different sides, there is an important common ground. The common ground comes into play when considering what each side wants. Both sides want what is best for American women. Even though they go at this in different ways, both sides believe that what they stand for is benefiting American women the most. Any person who already leans in one direction is going to find the strong statements of both Allred and Yiannopoulos to be off-putting. Both of their outlandish approaches to the topic make it difficult for listening to take place. A rational approach, or compromise, to the topic can bring about a balanced position on the subject of American women and oppression. For instance, the 79 cent wage gap seems, at first glance, to be proof that women get ahead in the workplace. However, a close look at those numbers, without the name calling, does show that the studies that show this large gap do tend to do very little in the way of discriminating between reasons for the the gap. For instance, goal facing most researchers is how to decompose the observed gender wage gap of employed men and women into differences in preferences and constraints. This decomposition is important for policy. If women would have received a higher wage by working full-time but did not choose to do so due to strong preferences for part-time Hernandez 4 work, their lower wages reflect outcomes from voluntary choices rather than any malfunctioning of the labor (Liu). The reasons for gaps is often explainable for things are outside of discrimination, and using data and hard numbers can explain the differences. However, ignoring the fact that some women are harassed work either. Individual cases should be looked at and it should be easy to understand that just because one instance of harassment is accurate, that then apply to every woman, in every workplace in America. The debate on rights in America continues. Gloria Allred advocates for rights and insists women are oppressed. Milo Yiannopoulos would argue that American women have infinite rights compared to women in other countries. A compromise by extremists would be difficult. But this compromise could be reached by calm education of both sides, separating facts from opinions. The rational fact is that although isolated incidents of discrimination against women are happening, extrapolating those instances to all women in America overgeneralizes and gives absolutely no acknowledgement to the fact that American women remain some of the freest women in the world, with endless possibilities to succeed at their fingertips. Hernandez 5 Works Cited Allred, Gloria. Gloria Allred Discrimination Attorney Feminist  Allred, Maroko & Goldberg. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Liu, Kai. Explaining The Gender Wage Gap: Estimates From A Dynamic Model Of Job Changes And Hours  Quantitative Economics 2 (2016): 411. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ludsteck, Johannes. The Impact Of Segregation And Sorting On The Gender Wage Gap: Evidence From German Linked Longitudinal Employer- Employee  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 67.2 (2014): 362-394. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wienclaw, Ruth A. Gender And Economic  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Yiannopoulos, Milo. FULL TEXT: MILO On How Feminism Hurts Men And  Breitbart. N.p., 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hernandez 6