Jhaveri 1 Ismail Jhaveri Erika Staiger ENC 1102 29 January 2017 A Healthcare Compromise Under the Affordable Care Act many people still do not have the insurance that they want and feel that they pay too much money for the insurance that they have. Currently American opinion can be divided into people who believe in a single payer system, where the government picks a healthcare plan for all their citizens, and those who believe that the private market will create reasonably priced healthcare under the right conditions. The Democratic National Committee (DNC) and the Grand Old Party (GOP) are the two main political parties in charge of reforming the healthcare system and represent two different views on healthcare. The DNC believes that all Americans should be required to have basic healthcare at an affordable cost. They plan to do this through federal contracts with insurance and medical companies and negotiate lower prices while subsidizing premiums and other medical costs (2016 Democratic party platform 34).The GOP also wants basic healthcare for all citizens however they believe that healthcare should be the responsibility at the state rather than federal level and want people to have more of a choice in their insurance (Republican platform 2016 36). Currently many Americans are covered through the Affordable Care Act also known as Obamacare. However many people dislike Obamacare due to its high costs and lack of options. A state run employer- subsidized insurance program is where the consumer, employers, and the government share the cost of healthcare and will make a good compromise between the GOP and the DNC. Jhaveri 2 The views lean towards a public single payer system. In a single payer system the government provides healthcare to all its citizens and is funded by taxes. This works because the government will be the only customer on the market for healthcare and therefore have all the purchasing power causing insurance companies to offer lower prices in order to gain a contract with the federal government. The DNC plans on enacting this plan through the expansion of Medicare and Medicaid claiming that over 55 should be able to opt in to (2016 Democratic Party platform 34). will keep costs down by making premiums more affordable, reducing out-of-pocket expenses, and capping prescription drug costs and we will fight against insurers trying to impose excessive premium (Democratic Party platform 34). The government will achieve this by creating contracts with drug companies in order to create cheaper drugs and create generic drug brands to compete with commercial companies. The DNC wants to create a government led single-payer program to place everyone under affordable healthcare. The healthcare system focuses more on a laissez-faire approach. The GOP wants to decrease regulation for insurers and pharmaceutical companies and incentivize the private market into increasing health coverage while still keeping cost low. The GOP wants to keep healthcare in the hands of states to decrease mandates and create a more robust insurance market. The GOP also wants to increase transparency in exactly what benefits you are paying for and how much different medical treatments will cost. The GOP wants to allow insurance to cross state lines therefore allowing more competition in the insurance market and driving down prices. However the GOP does not believe that abortions and dental care should be considered basic healthcare(Republican platform 2016 36). The GOP wants to work with the private healthcare system to insure that all Americans receive basic affordable healthcare. Jhaveri 3 A healthcare plan like healthcare system would make a very good compromise between the two parties. Singapore ranks sixth in healthcare outcomes well ahead of many developed countries, including the United (Haseltine 146). Singapore spends very little on healthcare only 8.5% of their GDP while the U.S. spends 17% and Singapore still has higher quality healthcare compared to the US. Singapore has multiple healthcare options at different prices and benefits. Healthcare is payed 20% by the consumer and 16% by their employer while the government pays the other 64% (Haseltine 435). This allows for private insurance to flourish and keeps costs low. healthcare system is low cost and high quality and America would benefit greatly from having a healthcare system like Singapore. Like Singapore the U.S. would benefit from employers, consumers, and the government splitting the cost of healthcare. Individuals will choose their healthcare plans from state- approved private insurers. The bill will also make the cost of health insurance more transparent so people will know exactly how much each healthcare plan is this will incentivize insurers to lower prices. The healthcare system is paid for both publicly and privately. Currently employers receive a tax exclusion for providing healthcare to their employees, however under the new system employers no longer will receive this tax exclusion and instead will have to pay for a portion of their healthcare. The employee chooses a healthcare that fits their needs and their employer is required to pay a certain portion of the cost while the employee pays for the rest of the cost through state taxes. The state will be in control of providing government contracts to the insurers that provide healthcare at reasonable costs. The state will determine what they consider to be reasonable costs and what counts as basic healthcare based on the income and needs of their residents. However if an individual does not like any of its states Jhaveri 4 healthcare plans they still have the choice to get their own but have to pay for it on their own. This plan will insure that everyone will be able to afford healthcare without losing the private market for health insurance. This plan is similar to what the DNC wants but with some key diffrences. Instead of a national single payer system that is able to strong arm insurance companies into government contracts there are statewide single payer systems in which the state still pays the insurance company but the consumer has more choices on which insurance plan to choose from. However the plan does not satisfy everything the DNC wanted. The plan does not affect the price of drugs and does not open up the drug market to foreign competition. It also does not insure that all states will pick insurance plans that cover dental, mental health issues, and abortion. This is because these plans will defer based on what states determine basic healthcare is. The GOP will like this plan because it increases states powers and allows for more options for the consumer. The decision states have in determining what healthcare plans will benefit their states will allow for more personalized healthcare plans. For example states with large amounts of air pollution will want insurance plans that cover respiratory problems more than other states. However this bill is not laissez-faire as republicans want and instead increases regulations on insurance companies. The bill however does increase transparency and still keeps the private market alive. This bill is similar to another bill called the Wyden-Bennet Act which was a bill that attempted to create employer-subsidized insurance in 2009. The bill was cosigned by 9 Democrats and 11 Republicans and had potential for passing through the senate. However at the time the bill was too radical for many to even consider passing a universal healthcare plan. However political views have changed since 2009 and now the question is not whether we should have universal healthcare but how to structure it. Even Obama in 2009 said that he agreed Jhaveri 5 with 90% of the Wyden-Bennet plan however believed it was too radical at the time (Lane 2009). Parts of the act were implemented into Obamacare such as giving states more power in regulating insurance companies and having everyone register Both parties are interested in giving all Americans healthcare and this bill is a good middle ground which both parties can agree on. Healthcare is a right not a privilege. Both parties want universal healthcare for all and must compromise if they plan on achieving it. The plan proposed in this paper is neither completely in the private or public sector and gives states more power while maintaining a modified single payer system creating a compromise between both parties. Although the bill does not completely agree with any side it still adequately provides cheap insurance to everyone in America. A reasonable healthcare system is better than no healthcare system at all. Jhaveri 6 Works Cited S.391 - 111th Congress (2009-2010): Healthy Americans  S.391 - 111th Congress (2009- 2010): Healthy Americans Act Congress.gov Library of Congress. Congressional Research Service, 02 May 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2016 Democratic party platform. Orlando, FL: Democratic Platform Committee, 2016. 8 July 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Haseltine, William A. Affordable excellence the Singapore healthcare story. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 2013. Print. Lane, Dee. Obama calls Wyden health plan  The Oregonian. The Oregonian, 2 July 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Republican platform 2016. Cleveland, OH: 2016 Republican National Convention, Committee on Arrangements, 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.