Nathan Guillermo Professor Roth ENC 1101 19 February 2017 The Use of Nuclear Energy Nuclear energy is a topic that has been shrouded in controversy for several decades. Scientists, politicians, and environmental activists have gone back and forth over whether or not nuclear energy can be used as a reliable source of power. In the past, this discussion on the use of nuclear energy on a commercial scale lost some of its relevance as it seemed that using nuclear plants was just too risky to even be considered for widespread use. However, the push for renewable energy was not as strong then as it is now. In world, we are facing drastic changes in our climate caused by the over reliance on fossil fuels, a non-renewable source of power. Inevitably, the fossil fuels will run out and the world will need a new source of energy. This need has pushed nuclear energy back into the foreground of consideration as the worlds new form of power. So is nuclear energy a source of power that can be relied upon? With the advanced technology of our age and a sound plan to keep nuclear energy clean, efficient, and safe; nuclear energy can take the mantle as the new source of power. Ferguson, Charles D. Nuclear energy: what everyone needs to know. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2011. Print. 29 January 2017. Nuclear energy: What Everyone Needs to Know by Charles D. Ferguson explores the commercial use of nuclear energy and the controversy behind it. Issues such as global warming due to pollution and on over dependence on fossil fuels have instituted a growing need for a new reliable source of energy; and experts have looked to nuclear power as a potential candidate. However, nuclear disasters and skeptics have raised suspicion about whether or not nuclear energy could be used as a dependable power source. How can nuclear power plants be used safely? Is nuclear energy able to create sufficient amounts of power? Why is nuclear energy a viable option for producing renewable energy? Ferguson addresses these key questions and sheds more light on matters that must be considered before nuclear energy is implemented on a commercial scale. I found this source in the recommended sources from the USF Library website, which speaks well for its credibility. Additionally, it was published by Oxford University Press which is a respected publication source who produces credible work. Additionally, This source is very relevant to my research question. By giving information on how nuclear energy can be used on a commercial scale, Ferguson is also answering how nuclear energy is a reliable source of power. He touches on several issues such as the safety precautions of nuclear plants, amounts of electricity created by nuclear plants, and nuclear energy as a renewable power source. This provides useful information that can be used to show that nuclear energy can be a clean, efficient, safe, and therefore reliant manufacturer of power. Tabak, John. Nuclear Energy. New York: Facts On File, 2009. Print. 29 January 2017. Nuclear Energy by John Tabak provides an overview of the multiple components behind the production of nuclear energy and gives the history of how it became such a prominent source of power. There are several important topics that Tabak touches on which include the prehistory of nuclear power, nuclear reactor designs and safety, the business of producing electricity, and the physics behind the nuclear process. Tabak describes in detail these fundamental topics of nuclear energy which are crucial to understanding how nuclear energy is created and managed. Therefore, Tabak provides the reader with a basic understanding of nuclear energy and exposes them to the several possibilities in which nuclear power can be implemented in world. Tabak brings an efficient amount of credibility as he has earned a PhD and has authored several scientific publications. His work was also featured on the USF Library website which provides credible sources. Furthermore, The history behind nuclear energy and the additional information given by Tabak can be very useful in determining if nuclear energy is a reliable source of energy. The origin of this form of energy can provide beneficial insight on how nuclear energy came to be, what issues were faced when using this power source, and the lessons learned from shortcomings in the nuclear industry. By using the information found in this source, a clear picture of how nuclear energy has progressively improved over the years into a more a reliable source of power can be articulated to aid in my argument. Stover, Dawn. Kerry Emanuel: A climate scientist for nuclear  Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 73.1 (n.d.): 7-12. General Science Full Text, 2017 . Web. 5 February 2017. Emanuel: A climate scientist for nuclear is a very unique source mainly because it is an interview with scientist Kerry Emanuel. Emanuel, a MIT meteorologist, gives an explanation as to why he and three distinguished climate scientist have come to the conclusion that nuclear energy is the answer to the problems of climate change. In this interview, he points out that all energy creating methods pose threats to well being, and that the risks involved with nuclear power must be properly compared to these other energy sources. In addition, Emanuel talks about both the issues that come with nuclear energy and the beneficial opportunities this new power source provides. This interview provides substantial benefits to my paper in two ways. First, the reputation of Emanuel and the three other scientists that he mentions as renowned climate experts adds credibility to the information provided in this source. By citing the information from this interview, I am able to make a logos appeal to the audience. Therefore, the credibility of my argument about nuclear energy is significantly increased by my use of the information and opinions of credible scientists. In addition, since Emanuel is such an expert in climate change, he can provide a sound analysis of the reliability of nuclear energy on an environmental level. Murray, Raymond L. Nuclear Energy : An Introduction to the Concepts, Systems, and Applications of Nuclear Processes. Kent: Elsevier Science, 2014. Print. 5 February 2017. Nuclear Energy: An Introduction to the Concepts, Systems, and Applications of Nuclear Processes by Raymond L. Murray gives a thorough explanation to the reader about what nuclear energy is, how it works, and how it can be used. The author presents to the audience an accurate and basic picture of nuclear energy and the different kind of systems in which nuclear reactions are involved. Murray also delves into what a future with nuclear energy would look like and the opportunities and setbacks that would come with the use of such a unique source of power. Raymond Murray has a substantial amount of credibility, holding a PhD and the title of Professor Emeritus in the Department of Engineering of North Carolina State University. book would make excellent contributions to my research report because it provides key facts about nuclear energy that would help the reader understand the potential behind such a power source. Additionally, the book touches on how a future with nuclear energy would work. Murray explores a full spectrum of nuclear energy knowledge ranging from nuclear devices to the peaceful application of nuclear power. Such information is invaluable when trying to explain how nuclear energy is a reliable energy source. in depth explanation and insight on the future use of nuclear energy will definitely aid in convincing my audience that nuclear energy can be use safely, efficiently, and cleanly. Handtula, Richard. Nuclear Power. New York: Chelsea Clubhouse, 2010. Print. 19 February 2017. Richard Nuclear Power touches on several factions of information about nuclear power. He explains how energy is obtained from atoms and the process in which the splitting of atoms results in the production of a surge of power that can be harnessed to produced electricity. Additionally, Handtula makes an excellent case for nuclear power. He shows how nuclear energy can be used safely, efficiently, and effectively. The author also addresses the problems of nuclear energy such as nuclear waste and security and provides logical solutions to these dilemmas. This source has an excellent amount of credibility. The author is well versed in the sciences; working as a writer, editor, and translator of scientific and technological works for over three decades. He also held the position of Senior U.S. editor for the Macmillan Encyclopedia of Sciences. Furthermore, this would be an excellent source to use for my research paper. Information on the reliable use of nuclear energy is given throughout the work as it explains how using nuclear power is a great alternative to current energy alternatives. Additionally, Handtula shows how the problems with the safety and reliability of nuclear energy are being addressed. Kharchenko, Vyacheslav, and Micheal Yastrebenetsky. Nuclear Power Plant Instrumentation and Control Systems for Safety and Security. Hersey: IGI Global, 2014. Print. 19 February 2017. Nuclear Power Plant Instrumentation and Control Systems for Safety and Security by Michael Yastrebenetsky and Vyacheslav Kharchenko explores the issues of safety behind nuclear power plants and how they are being addressed. The authors describe several factions of safety that provide insightful knowledge as to how nuclear power plants are kept secure. They delve into topics such as cyber security, emergency systems, general architecture, power grid resilience, preventative measures, safety requirements, and system modernization. These are crucial players in the safe use of nuclear energy, and understanding how they work might bring reassurance to those skeptical of the reliability of nuclear power. Yastrebenetsky and Kharchenko are extremely credible authors. Vyacheslav Kharchenko has earned a PhD and holds titles such as Doctor of Technical Sciences, Honor Inventor of Ukraine, and Director of the Center for safety infrastructure-oriented research and analysis. He is also the author of 32 monographs and textbooks, more than 700 inventions, and 200 articles. Furthermore, Michael Yastrebenetsky is equally as renowned, having also earned a PhD and has the titles of Doctor of technical sciences, Honor Scientist of Ukraine and Head of Department of Automated Control of the Central Scientific Research Institute of Complex Automation. He is also the author of 12 monographs, 290 articles, 35 international and national standards and regulations. The information that these authors provide in this source will allow me to by show my audience the procedures and technology that is responsible for keeping nuclear energy safe which, in turn, will convince the reader that nuclear energy is a reliable source of power.