Gartrell 1 Dylan Gartrell B. Botkin ENC 1101.099 09 February 2017 The Affordable Care Act and its Impact on Health Care There are many issues that are currently pressing society. One of the many political issues Americans are faced with is The Affordable Care Act and how it impacted the healthcare system. The Affordable Care Act is a healthcare reform law that was brought to fruition in March of 2010 under the Obama administration. It is more commonly referred to as and its primary function is to provide healthcare to those that are placed below the national poverty line as well as to expand and strengthen the Medicaid program. It is widely assumed that The Affordable Care Act was, and still is directly responsible for the rise in healthcare premiums and prescription drug prices in the years following its enactment. This paper investigates how The Affordable Care Act has had an impact on drug and healthcare premium prices throughout the United States. Many saw the Affordable Care Act as having a great positive impact on the American people. One of the key reasons why it was perceived this way is that it provided healthcare to over 12.7 million Americans who were previously uninsured. Further, the Affordable Care Act removed coverage discrimination based on preexisting health issues. When looking at what the Affordable Care Act provided, it is easy to think that it was a well-rounded bill that had a tremendously positive impact on the healthcare system, though some do not agree with that. Others claim that the Affordable Care Act was solely responsible for the recent increase in prescription drug prices. And while there is validity to this claim, it is not independently Gartrell 2 responsible. Other factors such as a lack of competition had a staggering impact on the prices of prescription drugs. When one manufacturer has a monopoly on a certain drug, they are free to raise the price to whatever they desire, and many are forced to pay, knowing there is no alternative. In effort to combat this, regulators are putting a focus on generic drug approvals as a potential solution to the rising cost of prescription according to xtalks, an online journal site (xtalks). In a paper published by Thomas Buchmueller, it was discovered that the Affordable Care Act created new federal funding for states to extend coverage to all adults with family income below 138% of the federal poverty (Buchmueller). And through this, healthcare was able to reach thousands of people who were previously unable to afford it. Though not everything to have come from the Affordable Care Act is positive. In fact, this act has had multiple detriments to the healthcare system. The most notable one is that it caused a significant increase in insurance premiums across the United States. Many proponents of the abolition of the Affordable Care Act claim that it has seen to the staggering increase in the prices of many prescription drugs. An example of this is seen with Daraprim, a drug used to treat and prevent malaria and other diseases. Heather Long, a writer for CNN reported that Martin Shkreli, the CEO of Turning Pharmaceuticals increased the price of Daraprim 5000% after obtaining manufacturing rights to the drug. This stands to show just how much of an impact a monopoly on a certain drug can have on its market price. Turning Pharmaceuticals was the sole manufacturer of this drug Daraprim and as a result they were able to inflate the price of the drug as they saw fit as there was no alternative cure at the time. Another incident of this astronomical increase in drug prices was seen with the Mylan pharmaceutical company and the Epi-Pen. The problem surrounding this incident is that after the company began lobbying and promoting awareness for the product they marked the price of Epi-Pens up by over 400%, as well as Gartrell 3 mandating that they be sold only in pairs What else proved to be significant about this article is that it introduced the idea that an increase in drug prices is directly responsible for an increase in healthcare premiums and copays. Insurance companies always have been and always will be based on profit. As a result, when drug companies cause a spike in prices, the insurance companies pass the financial burden onto the patient to offset their increase in cost Both parties are capable of compromise. And there are many ways to achieve a common ground between the two stakeholders in the Affordable Care Act. Achieving compromise within healthcare does not require complete abolition of the Affordable Care Act, a compromise can be reached through an adjustment of policy rules. One thing that the Affordable Care Act, or ACA did was remove private healthcare and required all insured Americans to apply under the new policy. Reinstating private healthcare would be one of the many compromises necessary to bring both stakeholders into agreement. Reinstating private healthcare would help reduce premiums while still allowing for those who fall under the poverty line to receive healthcare. One compromise that both stakeholders can come to agree upon is that those who enroll in the healthcare plan would be eligible for tax credits based on income. This would help subsidize the higher insurance premiums that the middle class pays for health insurance, all the while keeping rates low and affordable for those who fall below the poverty line. The Affordable Care Act was and still is a powerful piece of legislation. It completely redesigned the healthcare System and had either positive or negative effects depending on which side of the policy you resided on. Moving on it will be crucial to see how the two sides of the argument react to determine the future viability of the plan. It is clear that neither side has a clear Gartrell 4 and flawless argument though it is important to recognize and consider the merit of both sides of the argument. Gartrell 5 Works Cited Beier, David. A Compromise On The Affordable Care  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 08 Dec. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Buchmueller, Thomas, Zachary Levinson, Helen Levy, and Barbara Wolfe. Effect of the Affordable Care Act on Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Health Insurance  Http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=2&sid=65be715c-4d96-4d2e- 8537-cf8a27537cc3%40sessionmgr101&hid=120. AJPH, Aug. 2016. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. FDA Fights Back Against Price  FDA Fights Back Against Price Gouging: Agency To Prioritize Generic Drug Approval. Xtalks, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Long, Heather. What Happened to AIDS Drug That Spiked  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, 25 Aug. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Obamacare, Facts. ObamaCare Enrollment  Obamacare Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Mollie Wilson. Feel A Little Pinch: Mylan & The Epipen  Commonwealth 17 (2016): 6. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.