Murdock 1 Kennedy Murdock Professor Roth ENC 1101 SEC 018 January 29 th , 2017 How does the new age of social media psychologically impact girls at a young age? Brooke, a twelve-year-old girl finally, receives her very own cell phone as a Christmas present. The first thing she does with this shiny new piece of technology is create an Instagram account like all the girls in her class. Through this account, the young girl follows all the beautiful women she admires, ranging from makeup mogul Kylie Jenner, to her favorite YouTube star Maddi Bragg, and even the most popular girls at her school. Next, the girl begins to take her very first photo to post. She begins an attempt to recreate a picture she liked of the model, Gigi Hadid, and purses her lips. After a few tries, the young girl results in what she considers a selfie of herself and posts it on her page. Afterwards, throughout the day, Brooke is consciously haunted about the number of likes it got and how other people perceived her picture. Why do you think something as insignificant as a photo would leave such a bothersome thought on mind? Researchers Trudy Hui Hui Chua and Leanne Chang state that these forms of social media have provided that manifest media and peer influences on teenage understanding of beauty towards an idealized Through research such as Chua and Chang, I will be continuing to analyze how the new age of social media psychologically impacts its user engagement, such as Brooke, the young girl from before. Murdock 2 Annotated Bibliography 1. Alexander, Antoinette. Decoding millennials: marketing to the nontraditional  Drug Store News 2014: 18. General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 This article analyzes and goes over companies nontraditional ways of successful marketing and advertisement used now for the younger generations. Brands have started using social media platforms as a way of selling products and introducing new trends to the younger generation in order to appeal to their tech savvy usage of the Internet. Not only does marketing use social media for advertisement, they also use it to subtly convey and attempt to persuade their reasoning and perceptions. This source is related to the research question as it provides a base on how different companies use their marketing strategies to compel the user of engagement and what effects and results it produces on the users response. 2. Chua, Trudy Hui Hui, and Leanne Chang. Me And Like My Beautiful Selfies: Singapore Teenage Engagement In Self-Presentation And Peer Comparison On Social  Computers In Human Behavior 55.Part A (2016): 190-197. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. A study that interviews 24 girls in length and analyzes their interpretation and self perceived ideas of beauty standards based on form of collected peer such as and comments on photos from different social media accounts. Shows the effects of social media on how it affects girls and their perceptions of themselves as a person. This article is appropriate as a source because it is a peer reviewed and introduces the use of actual children and their perception of their behaviors relating to the topic. This article is also published and accepted with notoriety in the science community. 3. Foster, Regan. Social media, previous eras influence back-to-school  Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, CO) 2015: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article examines the use of social media and how it has influenced many of the users sense of style based off of advertisement and the media engagers. The articles also lists different way teens and younger kids are using social media to purchasing This article is related to the topic as it provides interviews in which kids explain where they get their outfit ideas and what social media factors influence how they dress and style certain items. The relevance shows how the effect of hyper advertisement through social media impacts the cognitive judgment of hot and 4. Glass, Katie. Deep; Have you applied your filter? With 1.8bn images uploaded on social media every day, digitally enhanced beauty is taking over but more to the selfie than meets the  Sunday Times (London, England) 2015: Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. More and More girls are now turning to different photo editing apps in order to alter and their appearances for social media. Now, girls care more about how they are perceived online then sticking to how they actually look like in real life. This ideal can be noted as the age of the perfected selfie. This article is connected to the research question as it highlights one of the psychological Murdock 3 effects social media is beginning to have on younger kids. The use of photo editing has become an outlet to correcting what people ideally think is of social networking sights. Glass also gains credibility for her work as it is posted in a well-known English. 5. Smith, Candace. Cover Girl Culture: Awakening the Media  Booklist 2010: 69. Literature Resource Center. Web. 16 Feb. 2017 This film is a documentary created by filmmaker Nicole Clark who once was a popular international model. Using her connections within the advertising and Fashion industry, Clark interviews editors and agencies on how they promote their product to a certain audience. In this case, he audience is adolescent and teen girls as well as adult women. Clark then interviews many other people affected by the onslaught of this form of advertising and media and ask how they feel about the situation, which the ideas of the people selling the material themselves. Clark also has a good credibility within the analyzing of her work as she uses many certified people to explain the situations being created such as the issues with body image and the psychological damage being created in the younger generations. This video also has been officially published and available to watch at a number of prestigious places. This Article is essential to the research essay as it is a source that relates to the question but is taken place in a time before we saw the exact form of social media we have today. 6. Gallardo, Heather L. Review Of Instant Identity: Adolescent Girls And The World Of Instant  Journal Of Language And Social Psychology 27.3 (2008): 306-309. PsycINFO. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Using the form of instant messenger (another form of social media from a previous time period), Stern is attempting to a look from the inside lives of adolescent and demonstrate how the communications, etc. is effected from this use of entertainment. This source is also very credible as it is a nonfiction research book conducted by a college graduate. Through the use of many different peer reviews and a publishing it to a scientific website, Gallardo also created an earlier source related together. Another great detail is the fact that his publication also had the capability to relate to the research question. The work presented in the study shows the physiological state of many girls and how the very baby stages of social media can effect the you adolescent girl populous.