Ballard 1 Emmery Ballard Professor Uddin ENC 1101 January 28, 2017 Defining Dissociative Identity Disorder In history mental Illness has been confused as insanity, possession and witchcraft. Scholars have since been able to dive deeper into mental illnesses with new knowledge and technology. Mental illness has been explored in all sorts of media platforms but the rising topic in this area is multiple personality disorder; this is now referred to as Dissociative Identity Disorder (also known as DID). DID has been quite controversial amongst professionals in the field of psychology in regards to its roots in the mind and its legitimacy. In a thorough and comprehensive review of empirical work relating to DID, Dorahy et al. (2016) noted that the disorder linked to antecedent severe, chronic abusive and traumatic experiences in childhood, typically at the hands of an attachment (p. 408). words give us incite on the reason DID is developed. Professionals have questioned the validity of DID as a disorder, Vissia et al. (2016) mentions, the inclusion of DID in the DSM since 1980 and studies on reliability and validity of the diagnosis, DID is viewed as a controversial diagnosis by skeptics who debate its diagnostic validity and Considering all of this, this paper will take up the question of the root of Dissociative Identity Disorder and whether it is trauma or fantasy based. Ballard 1 Works Cited: Dorahy, Martin J. Using the past to Fertilize but Not Determine the Future: Reflections on Dissociation in the International Society for the Study of Trauma and  Journal of Trauma & Dissociation 18.1 (2016): 1-10. Web. Floris, Jessica, and Susan Mcpherson. Fighting the Whole System: Dissociative Identity Disorder, Labeling Theory, and Iatrogenic  Journal of Trauma & Dissociation 16.4 (2015): 476-93. Web. Vissia, E. M., M. E. Giesen, S. Chalavi, E. R. S. Nijenhuis, N. Draijer, B. L. Brand, and A. A. T. S. Reinders. Is It Trauma- or Fantasy-based? Comparing Dissociative Identity Disorder, Post- traumatic Stress Disorder, Simulators, and  Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica 134.2 (2016): 111-28. Web.