Dalla Costa 1 Sarah Dalla Costa Andrew de Carion ENC 1102: Composition II Spring 2017 14 February 2017 Analyzing the Debate on Labeling of Genetically Modified Organisms While walking through the produce section in the grocery store, most people may not realize that most of the produce they are passing is probably genetically modified (GMO), up to 85% of soybean yields have been modified in a lab, yet it is nearly impossible to know which food items contain these genetically engineered ingredients (Urban). This can be defined as the process of injecting genes from one species into another entirely unrelated species. (GMO-Awareneness). One example of this is rice injected with genes derived from humans. When this change is made- the rice produces human immune system proteins in its seeds (Weiss). GMOs have been at the center of controversy due to its unknown effects on not only human health, but also its effects on the environment. There are two prominent stakeholders in the debate concerning whether should be labelled, the first one being the non -profit organization The Non-GMO project, and GMO producing company Monsanto on the other side of the battle. Both sides believe they have a positive impact on society through sustainable food production, and perhaps the only compromise that can work is through the fair and factual labelling of GMO products. The Non-GMO Projects main goal is to have constant product verification, specifically products containing GMO ingredients. They describe themselves as a non-profit organization Dalla Costa 1 committed to preserving and building the non-GMO food supply, with an aim to educate consumers and the food industry and to help build awareness about GMOs impact on our health and food systems. (Non-GMO Project). The Non- GMO history page talks about how it was created in 2007 when two grocery stores who were passionate about selling non-GMO products to the public, discovered that most producers were not being honest on their labels. This was a concern to them because GMO products have not been proven to be unsafe, however a study done on rats who were fed a diet of [genetically soybeans gave birth to stunted and sterile pups (Urban). To allow the project to get the support they needed they worked with the Global ID Group, who are the leaders for non-GMO testing. In the 2010 the first products with the Non-GMO signature butterfly was released to the public market and has since grown exponentially. On the opposing side of this argument stands the corporate giant Monsanto, whose stake in this instance is to make a profit from the seeds that they produce. They were the first to genetically modify organisms. Monsanto defines genetic modification as taking a beneficial trait that helps a living thing thrive in nature, like the ability to use water efficiently, and adapts that trait to a new plant so it can better survive in its environment. (Monsanto) It was first created to aid in pest control, believing it would in turn increase crop yields. They produced a crop known as a which eradicates pests when they bite into the crop itself. This characteristic of the crop could be beneficial to farmers who are being affected by pests, such as India where Monsanto has had a major impact in the agriculture sector by providing farmers with seeds that grow pest resistant crops. Dalla Costa 1 mission statement on the topic of agriculture states: are proud to be a sustainable agriculture company. We offer solutions to complex issues by developing better seeds and systems to help farmers with productivity on the farm and grow more nutritious food while conserving natural (Monsanto) Monsanto has benefitted farmers in a multitude of ways with increased output of crops resulting in reduced costs of crops. It has also improved the crops resistance to insects and disease and increased crops tolerance to heat, drought and other environmental factors. Although both sides stand on opposing ends of the GMO debate, common ground exists between the two entities as both Monsanto and the Non- GMO project aim to improve the food manufacturing and consumption industry. Monsanto is achieving this by altering and mass producing seeds with beneficial traits which bear crops that are not only more resilient but can also be grown in larger quantities. This not only helps provide food for the world, but also generates an income for the farmers. The Non-GMO project is trying to improve the food industry by attempting to make consumers aware of what they may be hidden in the food that they are buying and feeding their families. The most viable compromise would be the honest labelling of GMO products. 64 countries with over 40% of the population already label genetically engineered foods (Label GMOs ) however, this has not yet been achieved in America. Mainly because the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not require labelling of GMO foods, they currently believe that GMO products do not impact human safety, unless it has been shown to cause allergies. Because of this GMO labelling remains unrequired by the FDA. This entity is the determining factor to if this compromise will ever be reached. Dalla Costa 1 The labelling of GMO as well as Non-GMO products and provision of information will be a fair compromise that will allow consumers to decide for themselves whether they wish to buy GMO products or not. Secondly, the labelling must be consistent and from a third party to avoid any bias between the two parties. For example, the Non-GMO project perhaps may not agree with a particular product and may therefore not allow them their signature label just simply because they disagree. On the other hand, Monsanto may not fairly label a product that they produce by omitting some ingredients. In conclusion, this compromise will benefit both parties, as the Non- GMO project wishes to inform consumers of what they are eating, in doing so, their articles and blogs on media can negatively impact progression towards a genetically modified future. This is because people unfamiliar with what GM is will be bombarded with negative information about it. Providing facts are important, due to some people not fully understanding what the Genetically Modified Organism term means and buy a Non-GMO labelled product out of fear due to ignorance, hence labelling can be the solution to this issue. Dalla Costa 1 WORKS CITED GMO-Awareneness. GMO Defined. 2014. Jan 2017. <https://gmo-awareness.com/all-about-gmos/gmo- defined/>. Label GMOs . labelgmos.org. 2013. Jan 2017. Monsanto. Innovations/ Agricultural Biologicals. n.d. 2017. <http://www.monsanto.com/innovations/pages/agriculture-biologicals.aspx>. Non-GMO Project. About the Non-GMO project. n.d. 09 Feb 2017. <https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/>. Urban, Shilo. 8 Reasons GMOs are Bad for You. 23 August 2010. 09 Feb 2017. <http://www.organicauthority.com/foodie-buzz/eight-reasons-gmos-are-bad-for-you.html>. Weiss, Rick. USDA Backs Production of Rice With Human  02 Mar 2007. Washington Post. 09 Feb 2017. <http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp- dyn/content/article/2007/03/01/AR2007030101495.html>.