Lamusse 1 Kelly Lamusse Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 January 2017 Diego Garcia: The Loss of One-Thousand Five-Hundred Homes Diego Garcia was the largest and only inhabited island in the Chagos Archipelago; a group of sixty small islands located in the Indian ocean. In 1965 the UK-USA mutual defense strategy was signed. In this agreement, all islanders would be evacuated and sent to the neighboring island of Mauritius. This deal took place so that the US military could build an important air base and naval base in the Indian Ocean, and in exchange, Britain would benefit from fourteen million dollars of missiles. This paper will explore why the US military agreed to remove innocent people from their homes and how The Chagos Refugee Group (CRG) are helping all the Chagossians adapt to their new lives. After analyzing both stakeholder views, the student will prove that a possible compromise would be to send the islanders back to the Archipelago. Although Diego Garcia has been transformed and will never be habitable again, the Chagossians may relocate to other islands, or simply visit and return to life in Mauritius. There are many reasons why the US military invaded the island; the excellent size, location and layout of Diego Garcia enabled the US to construct one of their most strategically important overseas military bases. According to Joseph E. Harris, a history professor at Harvard, Diego Garcia could accommodate the largest United States battle ships, high performance aircraft and cargo planes. The island also became a vital refueling and communications station, major maintenance facility, medical and weather unit (Harris 25). All of the above combined to give the United states more power, control and increased the overall safety of their nation. The wonderful Lamusse 2 lifestyle in Chagos facilitated the recruitment of new officers and contributed towards the growth of the army. The Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia are in charge of all the US marines who serve on the island, their website states looking unbelievable recreational facilities and exquisite natural beauty, then you are coming to the perfect The recruitment statement highlights the great potential and value of the island. Sean Carey from the New African magazine recently reported that the United States has spent over seven-hundred million dollars on Diego Garcia. Since so much change has been done to the island sending the Chagossians home is not a good solution; the military wish to stay and maintain global safety (Carey 71). Acording to The Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia, they are contributing to world safety and developing more knowledge and power over the world. Unfortunately, The Chagos Refugee Group strongly disapprove of the military presence. The CRG was set up to help and support to the refugees of promote their welfare and (Chagos Refugees Group). The chair of the Organisation is the acclaimed Olivier Bancoult who has spent the past 40 years fighting for him and his people to return home. Renowned journalists such as John Pilger from Australia were key in exposing the odious tactics employed by the military; spread rumors we would be bombed, then they burned our dogs in front of Pilger effectively demonstrated how badly the islanders were treated, which explains why Bancoult is so determined to receive justice. The evicted islanders are angry that they have never received fair compensation; they were in and many have failed to adapt (Pilger 137).) The CRG lack the sufficient resources to help every Chagossian succeed in their new lives. Mr. Bancoult will continue to thrive for more financial support and the ability of the islanders to return to neighboring islands in the Archipelago. Although both stakeholders have opposing values, a mutually beneficial compromise is Lamusse 3 possible. The United States must financially assist the Chagossians who currently face unemployment and impoverishment in Mauritius (Chagos Refugee Group). This will restore the current negative image of the US military as well as help them secure their future position on the island (Carey 71). The Chagossians will finally be able to forgive the military, move on from their terrible experience and enjoy higher living standards (Pilger 138). According to The CRG, several Chagossians definitely return but others need to visit the islands to make up their minds; the military must respect the rights of the people to explore their home land and relocate to the other islands of Peros, Salomon or Banhos. If the military coexist with the chagossians they could benefit from their local expertise and labor; Chagossians are known to be extremely diligent and knowledgeable about their surrounding ocean, flora and fauna (Harris 25). Moreover, Pilger believes that the cultural heritage of the Chagossians must be preserved and protected and the military must provide a public apology. If the US military successfully demonstrate their empathy and regret then the costly court cases between the different stakeholders will finally come to an end (Harris). In the final analysis, the time has come for the Chagossians to visit their home land. Both stakeholders are responsible for relieving the islanders from poverty and providing them with an education and a brighter future. The US must provide the financial aid and the CRG must continue to help those who continue to suffer today. The military must deliver the apology the Chagossians have longed to hear, and in return the islanders must accept the situation and adapt to their new lives. All in all, Diego Garcia will never be the plantation site it once was which is why the military can remain on the island as long as it continues to act with their heart and look after the Indian Ocean ( Harris 25). Lamusse 4 Works Cited Carey, Sean. Chagos Is My  New African 566 (2016): 70-72. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Harris, Joseph E. The Ilois  Transafrica Forum 7.1 (1990): 25. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pilger, John. Plight Of The  New Statesman 137.4925 (2008): 22. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Naval Support Facility Diego  Commander, Navy Installations Command. N.p., n.d. Web. Chagos Refugees Group Fighting for the rights of Chagossians  Chagos Refugees Group RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017