Van Decker 1 John Van Decker Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102-909 30 January 2017 Alpha Sig Leadership on Campus The University of South Florida (USF) offers a multitude of opportunities for students to grow in many different aspects. One of these aspects is in leadership. USF allows students to grow in leadership ability through positions like Room Assistant (RA), Orientation Leader (OL), and positions at Student Government (SG). The sheer amount of potential that USF provides for their students is something that one could not simply pass on, or is it? Alpha Sigma Phi, a Greek organization whose Zeta Omicron Chapter presides on campus, has been restricted access to such positions. USF believes that access to these positions would overflow their infrastructure with members of this Greek organization creating a power struggle with other organizations on campus in terms of student positions, recruitment, and decisions made in the upper echelons of Student Government. USF also advocates for diversity, and believes that restricting Alpha Sigma Phi will allow other groups equal representation. The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi believes that they should have access to apply for these positions since they believe that their members should be treated like normal students despite their association with the organization. Both stakeholders are at odds with each other with restrictions in student leadership, while USF is against giving access to increased student leadership involvement to members of the Zeta Omicron Chapter, and Alpha Sigma Phi believes that their members should have equal privilege to the positions, the two share a common interest in improving the individual and could compromise by having the USF Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life loosen the restrictions put Van Decker 2 on the members of the Zeta Omicron Chapter while having the chapter regulate who applies for what instead of the school. The University of South Florida is an institution that seeks to educate and prepare students for their future. Their mission statement is, deliver competitive undergraduate, graduate, and professional programs, to generate knowledge, foster intellectual development, and ensure student success in a global and This means that they strive to make a competitive and constructive environment for students to grow as individuals and participants of society. USF believes that creating diversity will make for a more improved infrastructure (equal-opportunity). Therefore, restricting one organization from having too many members in student leadership positions will give other groups a chance to grow and have equal representation. Researchers Adalberto Aguirre et. Al. wrote an academic journal explaining how diversity is of the upmost importance in higher education leadership. Without diversity, the influx of new ideas and innovation is slowed or even halted. Dominant groups can also reserve the power to make decisions biased toward their own group, instead of those beneficial for the entire population. Aguirre et. al. concludes that diversity in leadership, even if it is forced, allows for more positive growth in an organizations infrastructure (Aguirre et al. 60). This conclusion gives USF justification for their actions in restricting Alpha Sigma Phi Zeta Omicron Chapter from campus involvement. Alpha Sigma Phi is a Greek organization that seeks to better their individual members through brotherhood and leadership. Their purpose is, better the man through the creation and perpetuation of brotherhood founded upon the values of character: Silence, Charity, Purity, Honor, and Mission, and Pushing their members to participate in student leadership is one of the ways that they can make this goal happen. They believe that Van Decker 3 allowing their members to be a part of student leadership, that they can grow to be better men. Ann T. Hilliard, writes on participation in student leadership. She explains that leadership is something that can be developed and must be nurtured (Hilliard 94). She concludes that student leadership has major benefits to the individual for the future and encourages as many people as possible to get involved on their respective campuses as it can prepare them to achieve in the future (Hilliard 96). Alpha sigma phi focuses on bettering the individual heavily and tries to create an environment where that could happen. With USF restricting the members of this organization, they feel compelled to take action. Both organizations may be at odds with one another, but they do share a common ground. Just from reading their mission statement and purpose, it is blatantly obvious that both wish to better the individual, whether that be through education, brotherhood, and leadership. Both sides have their reasons for making the decisions that they do, but in the end, they both want near the same thing. While USF wants diversity, they cannot truly have diversity without the involvement of all individuals. Leadership researcher Warren Bennis wrote an article about how exemplary leadership is not possible without full inclusion. While a dominant group may not have the newest ideas that promote growth, that does not mean that does not work. Without full inclusion, there cannot be successful and exemplary leadership as the restricted group would feel less willing to cooperate. This old traditional leadership is maladaptive and problematic (Bennis 71- 79). However, this does not mean that Alpha Sigma Phi should have unlimited access to certain leadership positions either as this all-inclusiveness does account for diverse thinking and ideas. In short, a compromise must be made between the two stakeholders. The compromise that could be proposed could be that USF loosens restrictions on the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, allowing more members to participate in student Van Decker 4 leadership. USF could then loosen the restriction but then work with a representative from the chapter to figure out ratios for how many members would then be allowed to go for certain positions, and then offer the overflow that is still qualified other jobs and positions on the campus. This would then allow the university to keep managing the chapter and ensure that there are not too many in crucial positions while also allowing Alpha Sigma Phi to have a say in the issue. This would also ensure that their qualified members are still given the positions and opportunities to better themselves like all other students on campus. There could be meetings before the beginning of every semester to discuss the number of Alpha Sigma Phi brothers that would be allowed in each set of positions. A delegated brother of the Fraternity and an official from the OFSL would take part in this meeting. This is a cost-free and time efficient compromise that would only take one meeting per semester and would give both sides a say. In short, this would fix the ongoing conflict between the two entities and would create a tension free relationship while giving Alpha Sigma Phi an increased representation in student leadership that would give more opportunity to brothers. Currently, the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi faces the University of South Florida and fights to try and get all their members the chance to participate in leadership while restrictions are put down on the organization for understandable cause. Alpha Sigma Phi encourages all their members to be bettered through leadership and brotherhood, while the University of South Florida wants diversity in their leadership. Even though the two organizations are in conflict, they both wish to better all those who come through their domains. Therefore, they can compromise by having meetings before each semester and discussing ratios for crucial leadership positions for Alpha Sigma Phi brothers while allowing those still qualified for the positions to be placed in a non-crucial position of leadership on campus that would not Van Decker 5 affect critical decisions made by USF. Like previously mentioned, this will allow for increased positive relations between the two entities and can allow brothers to participate on campus while giving the university the right to maintain balance. This compromise works for both very well and can lead to a better future for the campus. (Word Count: 1294) Van Decker 6 Works Cited Aguirre, Adalberto et. al. Practices and Diversity in Higher Education: Transitional and Transformational The Journal of Leadership Studies, vol.8, no. 3, 2002., pp. 53-62, Baker College Portal, Accessed 28 January, 2017. Bennis, Warren. End of Leadership: Exemplary Leadership is Impossible Without Full Inclusion, Initiatives, and Cooperation of Organizational Dynamics, vol. 30, issue 1, 2001., pp.71-79, Science Direct, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/journal/00902616/28/1. Accessed 28 January, 2017. Hilliard, Ann T. Student Leadership at the  Journal of College Teaching and Learning, vol. 7, no. 2, 2010., pp. 93-97 ABI/INFORM Collection; ProQuest Social Sciences Premium Collection, https://search.proquest.com/docview/218888073?accountid=14745. Accessed 28 January, 2017. and USF, http://www.usf.edu/about-usf/mission-vision.aspx. Accessed 30 January, 2017 Mission, and Alpha Sigma Phi, http://alphasigmaphi.org/vision-mission-and- purpose. Accessed 30 January, 2017.