University of South Florida Violence and Video Games Elijah C. Emond ENC 1101 022 Sabah Firoz Uddin, PhD 1 Video games have become an epidemic over the last few decades, resulting in the community to grow and become more renown every year. For people who even affiliate with gaming they will have at least some knowledge of the topic. Some have used it as a target for accusation of behavior changes; while others have established it as a tool for creativity, and storytelling. Specifically, some groups or originations have arraigned that video games cause violent behavior. Others would like to argue that video games are not to blame, but other key factors were the actual cause. As the rise of gaming continued cases of video games causing violence also began to spark. Early studies began to take shape on whether these games were causing violent behavior. Many violent acts such as shootings were committed across the nation, and many people wanted to find whether these acts where directly in correspondence to these violent video games. Although many of these early studies were stated to have no conclusive correlation could be drawn due to conflicting results. As years went by and the technology got more advanced so did the games allowing developers to create worlds and narratives that were deemed violent and aggressive in behavior. With this increase, more of the youth were playing these games. Some of the most notorious games that have been called into question but are not limited to have been; Mortal Kombat, Grand Theft Auto, and Call of Duty. This paper will confront whether there is a correlation between video games and violence within teenagers. Anderson, Craig A. An Update on the Effects of Playing Violent Video  Science Direct. Video Games and Public Health, 24 Dec. 2003. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. This article expresses the results of multiple research studies of the correlation between VVG (violent video games) and five traits. Aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition, aggressive affect, and cardiovascular arousal, and the decreases in helping behavior. It starts with the declaring the linkage to real-world studies have underestimated the seriousness of these 2 observed effects. Then identifies the flaws within said studies, such as the lack of volume in studies or this topic. And that even though answered many questions, that they have left just as many unresolved. Picking its argument, the article continues that playing VVG increases aggressive thoughts, feelings, behavior, increases arousal, and decreases helpful behavior; which is repeated throughout the article. It explains how studies have taken a selected group, and exposed them to an assortment of factors, such as some selected induvial are given VVG, while others are given non-violent games to determine the resolution of outcomes. The studies given results were stated that regardless of how the subject was exposed to game, there was an increase in these five traits. Some not as much as others but a clear correlation. With this article, you could conclude that there is a definite correlation to video games and violent behaviors. Also, that there is much biases within their study cases. Regardless their studies have data that is conclusive to their argument that VVG do cause violent behaviors with adolescent children and teenagers. Tom take note Dr. Anderson critics have said that his work overstates his results, and fails to justify different perspectives, as well as limiting factors. Amongst the U.S. Supreme Court, he has had his work by every court to consider not prove that VVG cause minors to act Anderson, Craig A. An Update on the Effects of Playing Violent Video Games. Direct. Video Games and Public Health, 24 Dec. 2003. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. In this article, it discusses how playing a video game with a variable amount of blood in it (Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance) will affect aggression, hostility, and arousal. Throughout the article, it describes how the studies was constructed. Using a certain age group that averages to nineteen years of age, and amount of play time on an average basis, which was at average of seventeen hours per week. They recorded different individuals who played the same amount of 3 time, with different blood settings. Recording how the fought in game and how it affected testing. The State Hostility Scale as used to measure state hostility, a 35-item questionnaire which asks for a 1-5 Likert Scale. As well they recorded how the heart rate over time, and the amount of in-game time one would use weapons of means to expel blood from opponent. With their given data, there was a definite increase in hostility, arousal, and use of weapons in- game. These results support the argument that there is a correlation between video games and violent behavior. The results shown significant trait aggression was covaried. Christopher P. Barlett is a non-renown writer compared to most. He is currently working at Iowa State University in Date Analyst. Although not extremely experienced, he has published multiple works on violence and video games. Scutti, Susan. Video Games Lead to CNN. Cable News Network, 26 July 2016. Web 13 Feb. 2017. This article talks about how the 18-year-old gunman is Munich, Germany and his interest in first person video games has led many to believe that VVG are affecting the children. She clearly states that the AMERICVAN Psychology Association and the American Academy of Pediatric take stance against children and teens playing VVG. Using statistics as 90 percent f children and teens play VVG and 97 percent of 12-17-year-old play VVG as well as 85 percent of games contain violence. The American Psychological Association has declared that there is a definite link between VVG and aggressive behavior. The American Academy of Pediatrics state that video games, not use human or other living targets as award points for killing, because this teaches children to associate pleasure and scores with their ability to cause pain and suffering to others. To argue she states Whitney Decomp says that evidence points to no relationship between playing video games and violent behavior. Christopher Fergen says that 4 playing video games reduces violent behavior due to not being outside causing trouble. Tracing sales of games and crimes the general social violence decreases after a new release of a popular title. This allows some insight on how VVG may not be the cause of thus violence. Aware of the studies that have been taken that state the direct correlation between video games and violence, she argues the studies are inaccurate for its inability to factor all variables. She dictates that video games are not the cause of violence within teenagers. Susan is a known writer for her fiction work and for her work at CNN. But as of recent years, go by more and more people have opinionated CNN to be a biased, uncreditable source. Toppo, Greg. Video Games Inspire Violent Scientific Scientific American, Scientific American, 29 May 2015.Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article starts with the controversial topic of Adam Lanza, 20-year-old shooter f the Sandy Hook Shooting. Known to many that he was an avid VVG player, such as Gears of War, Call of Duty, and Grand Theft Auto. But he mentions that his favorite game to play was Dance Dance Revolution, one that he spent sometimes eight to ten hours playing every day in his local arcade. Further he references VVG to violence as barnacle to a hull, not easily dislodged. He compares VVG accusation to the Victorian era, when educators were blaming the raucous culture on the violent, sex-soaked novels. Describing the Bobo doll experiment (studies on aggressive behavior towards a blow-up doll), critic Gerared Jones writes, is no evidence to suggest the punching of an inflatable clown has any connection to real life He later writes that VVG is not turning people into killers but may be causing harm in subtle ways, and that we are pointing fingers at the wrong people. This source clearly analyzes whether VVG cause violence. It answers that these VVG in mention do not lead to violence within children. And studies that prove these violent and aggressive behaviors, such as the Bobo 5 experiment are unreliable when in comparison to the topic on hand. As mentioned it can be concluded that with their information VVG may have an effect on teens and children, but not that of violence and aggression from these games alone. Brandon, Kiem. Science Knows About Video Games and PBS. PBS, 28 Feb. 2013. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The writer of this article says he is an avid gamer and enjoys the experience, but also goes on to tell that he also believes that there are some types of risk within gaming. He points out that there has not been an extremely revealing experiment conducted and that there needs to be one done. That past experiments and studies with this topic give us the exact detailed results that we need. And that countless people when faced with these shocking crimes, such as the Sandy Hook Shooting, turn to science to give them these answers of are these games causing these violent acts. He goes on to state that many psychiatrist, such as Ryan Hall go on to state that these games do not cause these behaviors because there is not enough evidence to suggest so. He gives another perspective; the monkey see monkey do premise. That the military trains with video games to break down the instinct repulsion to killing. That with every act in game they are reinforced for that act. He ends with that research has potential and that we stop looking, but it may take 20 to 30 years to get out answer. With this, it ties that there is no correlation between violence and video games, but as well that it is undetermined. That there may be but all evidence is not give us the information we need to answer this question. Brandon is not as a well-known writer. He has been declared as a freelance journalist but has been published with a variety of publishers, but with PBS being on the most trusted list. Publications, Harvard Health. Violent Video Games and Young  Harvard Health. Harvard Health Publications, Oct. 2010. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 6 Within this text, it goes on to discuss on how VVG may or may not cause violence within teenagers. Given facts such as 97 percent of youths play video games and two thirds of them played action adventure that contain violence; 75 percent play racing, puzzle games with little to no violence; and 62 percent of parents think video games effect their child. It says the AAP and AACAP believe that exposure to these violent media sources such as gaming but not limited to, cause violent behavior because the learn by observing, mimicking, and adopting behaviors. And that some causal observers assume that tragic school shooting proves a link between games and real world aggression. It states however in recent years researches have challenged this argument. Several of which contributed papers to a special issue of the Review of General Psychology. That these aggression acts are not caused by these games and that of three distinct personality traits: personality, situation, and motivation. It ends with how you might be able to protect your child if concerned with their vulnerability to the effects of violent content. Connecting this to the question, it sides with that video games do not cause violence with teenagers, but that there are traits that might lead to violence. That there are those who believe that there is a link, but so many researchers who have written published paperwork on to as why there is no link. Harvard Health Publications is under one of the most prestigious schools. Being known to give authoritative, trustworthy, and accessible content. 7