BARNETT 1 Payton Barnett Sarah Basil Composition II Section 106 11 February 2017 How Forestry Education Could Help People To Become Global Citizens In the time from 1960 to 2000 the world population increased from 3 billion to 6 billion people. Global food production and drinking water supply increased, and consumption of timber products rose by 50% (Yong Chen et al. 100). This influx of people put a strain on food consumption, which led to higher global food production, and drinking water, which led to the drinking water supply increasing. This trend should have continued with the consumption of timber products, people should have planted more trees and become more environmentally conscious long before now when the of agriculture, animal husbandry, and cities reduced forest (100). 69 countries reviewed and changed laws on forestry and 76 countries created or modified existing forest policies in the beginning of the 21 st century, but it was a century after existing world populations doubled and, again, of timber products rose by (100). These revised laws mainly included policies such as the creation of forestry development and key forestry engineering on key and priority fields of climate technologies favorable for and and improving policies and relevant incentive measure favorable for (102). With all of this information it is clear to see that forests around the world are incredibly important, not only to the 1.6 billion people who directly rely on forests for survival, but also for people who get many of their 2 BARNETT resources from forests (100). Forestry education is important in renewing forests to their previous glory, and the International Partnership for Forestry Education (IPFE) can help the American Wood Council (AWC) in terms of educating their many workers to not only use wood more efficiently, but also to understand exactly what is happening to our forests. The International Partnership for Forestry Education (IPFE) was started when the lack of international forestry education and status of global forestry education was noticed, which led way to a discussion, and then to the idea of creating something that would partner forestry institutions through curriculum development and networking in 2001 (IPFE background page). After the IPFE was established, there were challenges identified showing gaps in forestry education programs across the world (IPFE background page). The discussions that led the founding were from the Meeting of International Forestry Education Leaders, hosted by the University of British Columbia in December of 2001. vision, as stated on the main page of their website, forestry education that is contemporary, locally-relevant and globally connected, and responsive to the global development This means the IPFE not only wants to educate on general forestry, but also wants to connect forestry problems both locally and globally, as well as teaching forestry problems that are occurring currently. IPFE worked toward their vision by sending out newsletters in the years 2008, 2009, and 2010. They also attended events held by organizations such as FAO the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations and the UNFF the United Nations Forum of Forests. IPFE has virtual studies from four different member universities; Oregon State University, Oregon State University Extended Campus, BARNETT 3 University of British Columbia, and the University of New Brunswick, Faculty of Forestry (IPFE virtual studies page). Their mission is to assist university-level forestry education to meet needs, to teach people about forestry and how it works, including the minor and major connections all around the globe. They also partnerships between university forestry educators and other relevant institutions to jointly improve the quality and relevance of forestry education (IPFE main page). This means the IPFE joins educators and people to better forestry education and provide a more quality teaching style. The IPFE could help the AWC by means of educating its workers on current forestry problems, as well as the local and global forestry development agenda. The American Wood Council (AWC) is simultaneously the oldest and youngest major trade group in the nation (AWC about us page). The AWC was re-chartered in June of 2010, and it serves the modern wood products industry with a much broader mission to address a much wider set of challenges than it previously did as the National Forest Products Association (NFPA) back in 1902. The AWC has emerged as the leading voice for the wood products industry, it is an active presence whenever a matter of major concern relating to the industry surfaces at the state, national, or international level. The AWC is gaining recognition as one of the most powerful and effective trade (AWC about us page). It represents over 75% of an industry (that industry being wood product manufacturing) that provides almost 400,000 people in the United States with family-wage jobs. The AWC publishes an Industry Progress report available on their website, and their current report shows that have been significant improvements over the last decade in the areas of environment, energy and safety, despite 4 BARNETT the economic downturn that caused a drop in wood products manufacturing in This report also shows economic and employment data for the last decade. The AWC reasons that this data is important on their website, factors influence individual parameters so it is important to look at longer term trends rather than changes between Meaning that long-term trends are more important than simple and most likely small changes between individual years. If the IPFE were to partner with the AWC and educate the workers, there could be even more improvements in areas such as the environment in relation to the AWC and its work. The American Wood Council and the International Partnership for Forestry Education have not worked together as of yet. This is most likely because while the AWC employs almost 400,000 workers, the IPFE mostly deals with universities and other forestry organizations. These are two players on the same team, the IPFE wants to spread forestry education and the AWC is a very powerful trade organization in the woodworking industry. These stakeholders are not on opposite sides, and they would do well to become allies. If the AWC and IPFE teamed up in educating the hundreds of thousands of workers, then not only would the wood the AWC uses be more efficiently used, but the employees would understand forestry concerns on a global level if they did not before. the modern Samson Maekele Tsegay writes, can help to overcome various (11986). can enable nation-states to prepare labor for participation in the world economy and nurture citizens to be responsible global These quotes, from the paper Analysis of Globalization, the Planet, and Education, together mean that today, in the modern world, education does more than just BARNETT 5 teach. Education fosters students to participate in the world and to become global citizens. A global citizen is a person who works to better the global community, and not just their personal nation or state. When thinking of global citizens in terms of forestry, they do not just want to solve deforestation in their own backyard, but everywhere. If the workers of AWC were to be educated in forestry and become global citizens, more attention would be drawn to the environment and forestry in particular. The forests on our planets have been greatly diminished, and if IPFE and AWC teamed up and educated the many workers of this they will have a deeper understanding of the impact forestry has made globally. 34% of the forests are used for producing timber and non-timber forestry products, and forestry product structure has essentially formed in all regions so this number is expected to rise (Yong Chen et al. 100). If this number is going to rise, people should be educated in order to understand what this would mean, and educated in order to make this number rises slowly and forests are being protected. 6 BARNETT WORKS CITED American Wood Council. 2016. http://www.awc.org/home International Partnership for Forestry Education. 2014. http://www.ipfe.fi/index.htm Tsegay, Samson Maekele. of Globalization, the Planet, and International Journal of Environmental & Science Education. Vol.11 no.18, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China. 2016. pp.11979-11991. Yong Chen, Yankie Hu, Shuirong Wu, Bin Xu, Decheng Zhang. Issues and Trends of Global Forestry Asian Agricultural Research. Vol.5 issue 10, Research Institute of Forestry Policy and Information, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing 100091, China. 2013. p100-105.