Guseinova 1 Vafa Guseinova ENC 1102 Andrew DeCarion 14 February 2017 Privacy in the United States What does privacy mean? Do all people have rights to have this value? Privacy is an area of life of the individuals, which is outside of control of the state and society. All people should have rights to live a private life. However, in the 21st century, terrorism can destroy private lives of people. Terrorism has become a big comprehensive problem that affects many countries. Terrorism is a method or a cult of violence that is based on the ideological reasons used in a way to achieve certain goals. The main goal of terroristic attacks are pains and suffers to as many people as possible. Today, terrorism is happening even in the most developed countries. The common things that can be destroyed by terrorism are security and privacy of ordinary humans, the stability of the government system, economic development, and also safety of democracy. Terrorism began to affect the global economy, and there is serious issue in every country that starts fighting against this phenomenon by creating some organizations. In the US, one of the organizations, the National Security Agency (NSA), is the US government agency that engaged in intercepting and decrypting messages, as well as communication control of citizens for the national perspectives. In contrast, the Stand Against Spying (SAS) is coalition of organizations and individuals from across the political spectrum advocating for transparency and the end to the mass observations (SAS). While the NSA is collecting information about the US citizens for the national safety, the SAS argue that this can cut the privacy of individuals, and a compromise could be a limited data program on people who had or have an issue with law. Guseinova 2 The National Security Agency is responsible and has rights of collecting and analyzing Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) information about the US citizens (Beaudette & Major 30). For the NSA, national security is an important issue. After September 11 in 2001, the 43d President George W. Bush authorized the program of monitoring the electronic communications (including the control of e-mail messages, phone calls, financial transactions and internet activity). In September 11, 2001, many innocent people became victims of terror attack. That day was hard to go through for the whole country and for the whole world. This attack made all world realize that we are all potential victims. Among the dead people on that day, there were people of different nationalities whose only fault was that they were peaceful citizens of free society. This terror attack has become a threat to global scale. The state is trying to deal or prevent this problem, by creating various organizations such as the NSA to combat terrorism. That is why the NSA is listening to only the US phone calls, messages and emails. They are listening and collecting very carefully all information about all people in the US. According to Beaudette and Major, NSA only obtains communications meeting statutory requirements; it cannot, for example, acquire every email from a given (32). The NSA does not invade in privacy of people who are citizens of other countries; it makes the NSA more reliable and trustworthy. Stand Against Spying (SAS) is a coalition of organizations that support freedom and democracy of the US citizens. Every individual in the US have rights to live. This is the most generally accepted, natural and inalienable human right, the essence of which is that no one shall be arbitrarily spy on his or her life. In addition to rights to live, all people deserve right to human dignity, liberty and security of person. The right to human dignity is the duty of the state, its agencies and other citizens comply with the law and ethical standards in the relationship with every person, be legal, respectful, not to violate its actions its rights and freedoms. The SAS maintains Guseinova 3 that spying of millions the US people violates the US Constitution and international law. Also, collecting records of communications through phone call, messages, or Internet, paints an intimate portrait of people lives. These types of surveillance trample privacy, democracy and chill freedom of speech. The SAS said, believe that democracy and freedom thrive when Constitutional values and human rights are upheld. We believe all people, regardless of nationality, have a basic right to privacy and freedom of (SAS). The SAS stands for civil liberties and government transparency in democracy country. The SAS against committed to ending mass spying of the US citizens. The NSA and SAS have not come to a resolution yet because they represent different missions and different goals. Building upon this common ground both organizations the NSA and the SAS could benefit from some compromise. Their perspectives cover the national safety and democracy of the US. The representatives are the US government and Congress which finds national safety an essential issue. They are trying to avoid crime and terrorism by giving citizens peaceful life. However, the SAS maintains that the NSA is exploiting to invade the US privacy. The representatives are the US citizens. According to Glaser, the US citizens stand for the idea that they want to live without fear that somebody is spying of the people (2). The US citizens say that spying is contrary to freedom and democracy. According to the SAS, has not passed legislation to stop the mass surveillance or even to bring new levels of transparency to the surveillance (SAS). The SAS supports the democracy and an idea that government should follow what the people want. So, even though these two stakeholders that represent different groups of people and they have different motivations, goals they both prospects are national freedom and safety. Guseinova 4 To make the US lives better and comfortable this organization should compromise. Compromise between the NSA and SAS an agreement to limitative collecting database. The NSA should collect the information about people who have a law problem, criminal records; people who have mental health problems, and people from other countries. It will for work for the SAS perspectives; the innocent people will have privacy, freedom, and democracy. In conclusion, the goal is to prevent safety for the US nations by collecting information about citizens, at the same time, the SAS maintain that by listening and spying people life, the NSA cut the privacy. All people have rights in freedom and safety society. The NSA provides safety for nation, in contrast the SAS provides privacy for the US citizens. Therefore, the goal is prevent safety for the US nations by collecting information about citizens, in the same time the SAS maintain that by listening and spying people life, the NSA cut the privacy. The NSA and SAS can work together if the make agreement on limiting database. Works Cited Guseinova 5 Beaudette Jr., Major Peter. Compliance Without Credit: The National Security Agency And The International Right To  Air Force Law Review 73.(2015): 25-59. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Chen, Rui. Living A Private Life In Public Social Networks: An Exploration Of Member Self-  Decision Support Systems 55.(2013): 661-668. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Clarke, Richard A., and Emilian Papadopoulos. Terrorism In Perspective: A Review For The Next American  Annals Of The American Academy Of Political And Social Science 668.1 (2016): 8-18. PsycINFO. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Glaser, April. One Way to Stand Against Spying: Meet With A  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., 21 May 2015. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Lynn II, John A.1. Fear And Outrage As  Parameters: U.S. Army War College 42.1 (2012): 51-62. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. SAS: Where Do Your Representatives Stand on Illegal  StandAgainstSpying.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.