Cain 1 Karina Cain Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 15 February 2017 Deforestation: Environment Versus Business To date, it is estimated that more than eighty percent of the natural forests have already been destroyed, while areas of land half the size of England continue to be lost each year. Geographic: Eye in the The practice responsible for this alarming statistic is deforestation, which is the clearing of the forests on a massive scale and its Effects on the Deforestation is a practice performed by lumber companies that is necessary to produce common paper products. It is also a practice that can lead to many harmful effects, including climate change, erosion, water pollution, unclean air, and especially, the loss of species. However, it is the rate at which, and the type of way, that deforestation occurs which drastically affects the environment. The two most common techniques are clear-cutting, which is when every single marketable tree is cut down from a selected area and selective cutting, which is the cutting down of selected trees in a forest so that growth of other trees is not affected Glossary of Statistical The global issue of deforestation has pinned environmental organizations, such as Greenpeace, against large lumber companies, such as Pettit Timber. Greenpeace is a nonprofit agency which strives for forests that provide habitat for a variety of organisms, can maintain clean air, and sustain both local communities and economies Pettit Timber is a large logging company that strives for creating relationships with the community and producing paper products efficiently Thinning, Cain 2 Clear-cutting, Harvesting & Although, when it comes to the controversial issue of deforestation, Greenpeace has the goal of creating a world without deforestation and Pettit Timber has a conflicting principal goal of economic efficiency, the two entities do both share a concern with the environment, the economy, and the status they hold with the public, and can come to a compromise by implementing alternative sustainable practices, such as selective tree cutting instead of clear-cutting. Pettit Timber is a large logging firm focused on the economic success of its business. Located in North Georgia, it has been the leading family-owned and operated timber company in this region since 1978. On Pettit official business website, a list of several offered services include clear-cutting, monster timber harvesting, and specialty logging Thinning, Clear-cutting, Harvesting & Along with other large logging companies, Pettit Timber utilizes techniques that are typically known to produce a large amount of timber in a small amount of time and usually at a small cost, such as clear-cutting. From a business standpoint, this is the most efficient way to establish a successful business. A group of researches detailed a study that took place in Nasu and Tochigi Prefecture, Japan, which compared the two common logging practices of clear-cutting and thinning (selective cutting) (Aruga 99-104). Some of the final conclusions indicated that clear-cutting was an overall quicker process than thinning (Aruga 100-101). The overall productivity (the volume of lumber harvested) was greatest for the experimental sites that were clear-cut (Aruga 101-102). Finally, the cost was the lowest when clear-cutting on a gently sloping site, followed by clear-cutting on a moderately sloping site. The process of thinning forests was the most costly (Aruga 102). Thus, the evidence from this study Cain 3 legitimizes Pettit argument for continuing to partake in unsustainable deforestation practices from a business standpoint. Greenpeace is the largest independent environmental organization in the world, concerned with protecting the natural state by working toward a sustainable future. On its website, this company claims its mission is to use peaceful protest and creative communication to expose global environmental problems and to promote solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful Some of the goals listed on website include stopping global warming, defending the oceans and forests, and protecting the environment from nuclear disasters and toxic pollution. On the subject of deforestation, Greenpeace lets it be known that they believe forests are crucial for the health of people, animals, and the environment. In an article, a study is detailed, which investigates the effect of forest loss on biodiversity and, more specifically, on eating behavior (Arroyo-Rodriguez 3315-3325). This study took place within the Brazilian Atlantic rainforest, which was once significantly deforested. The researchers use the fact that the rate of insect herbivory depends on forces from both directions: bottom-up, such as available resources to the insects and the defense mechanisms plants have to protect them from insects, and top-down, such as the number of predators and herbivores within the forest. Thus, the number of insects heavily relies on the presence of many other organisms within a habitat. Some of the significant results from this article include the direct effect of leaf damage increasing with forest loss, as well as the indirect effect of leaf damage increasing with forest loss through a decrease in plant structure variability, which results in a dominance of herbivorous insects (Arroyo-Rodriguez 3322). There was also a lack of top-down control of herbivores by predators. The final conclusion was that Cain 4 forest loss favors insect herbivory (Arroyo-Rodriguez 3323). This is achieved through weakening the bottom-up control, antiherbivore defense mechanisms, of insects and by altering conditions which allow for rapid increase. Ultimately, this study demonstrates how forest loss has a domino effect on organisms with close relationships, harming all of those that closely interact. It also shows how forest damage can continue even after deforestation occurs, when a proliferation of insects continues to damage the forest. This helps legitimize stance against deforestation due to its disrupting effects on the natural interactions within forests. Despite the presented differences, Pettit Timber and Greenpeace share similarities in the importance that the companies place on follower support, healthy environments and economies, and pride in accomplishments. On the left panel of Pettit website, the company has a list of testimonials of groups they have served, which clearly shows the importance of opinions Thinning, Clear-cutting, Harvesting & This business obviously wants to be regarded well by its customers. On website, the organization makes it clear that they have no monetary support from industry or government, relying directly on volunteer donations and fundraisers There is also several places where the company inquires recruitment of supporters to donate or join the cause. Therefore, there is a clear reliance on follower support. Both Petit Timber and Greenpeace require paying supporters to help them reach company goals. Furthermore, Pettit Timber lists their long years in business multiple times throughout their website, indicating a sense of pride in authenticity and experience. One of the last sentences on their homepage states take pride in our work and accomplishments, and strive to build and nurture relationships within the communities we Cain 5 Thinning, Clear-cutting, Harvesting & This shows that the company desires to be authentic for customers as well as form relationships within the community they serve. Greenpeace also demonstrates similar behavior on its website, where there are multiple instances of stating the largeness of the company as well as its experience over the past forty years, which indicates its pride in its accomplishments Finally, each company similarly indicates interest in the goals of the other organization. Pettit Timber indicates some interest in the effects it may pose on the environment, because it claims to follow standards in terms of environmental and social Thinning, Clear-cutting, Harvesting & However, industry standards generally equate to a list of government regulations that do not require sustainable practices. This can be seen by the clear-cutting services offered by Pettit Timber as well as the multiple photos of cleared forests on the website. Even with this being said, the company still does have some interest in the environment, whether the concern be genuine or for greater customer favor. On the other hand, Greenpeace strives for forests that local communities and economies, are filled with unique wildlife, and keep our air clean and This statement reveals that the economy is still important to Greenpeace, as it wishes for forests to thrive while still providing for the human population. Therefore, there is more common ground than expected between two companies that rely on follower support, are strong and experienced, have pride in their accomplishments, and care for both the economy and the environment. A compromise exploring alternative tree-harvesting techniques, particularly selective tree-cutting, will be implemented between Pettit Timber and Greenpeace in order to achieve a more environmentally-friendly practice while still producing lumber at a reliable business Cain 6 standard. In another article, a study is presented which explores the two main commercial logging practices, clear-cutting and selective cutting, and each of their effects on biodiversity in tropical forests (Ding 1683-1691). Clear-cutting removes all of the trees from a particular site, leaving the ground bare, while selective cutting chooses particular trees, based on size, quality, or at random, to cut and leaves the rest of the forest intact. The study analyzes and compares species diversity and community composition between a selectively-cut forest, a clear-cut forest, and a forest used as a control. All three forests were tropical montane rain forests found on Hainan Island, China. Both the clear-cut forest and the selectively-cut forest were given forty years of natural recovery after they were cut, and the control was a forest with old growth. One of the significant findings from this study was that the clear-cut forest had seventy percent the species richness of the large trees in the old growth forest, but the selectively-cut and old growth forests had similar species richness (Ding 1686). This means that there were a similar number of different species found in each of the selectively-cut forest and the old growth forest, but much less in the clear-cut forest. This indicates that a clear-cut forest is not as complex and diverse as a selectively-cut one. Additionally, timber species that are typically high-value for logging companies had a lower abundance and base layer area of large trees in the clear-cut forest compared to the other two (Ding 1685). Also, huge trees were uncommon in the clear-cut forest, but frequent in the selectively-cut forest (Ding 1685). Finally, the results of this study conclude that the selectively-cut forest had a quicker recovery rate than the clear-cut forest (Ding 1687-1688). Overall, the selectively-cut forest was healthier and more similar than a clear-cut forest to an untouched forest after the same recovery time. However, there is still clear damage from deforestation regardless of the technique, which is where Greenpeace will have to Cain 7 compromise. The company will have to accept that lumber still needs to be harvested for the economy, which they indicate that they understand. They cannot yet eliminate deforestation altogether, but they can eliminate the harmful process of clear-cutting. For Pettit Timber, the company must accept a potential initial decrease in amount of timber produced, and increase in time and cost of production. However, after the initial changes, Pettit Timber is likely to become more profitable. From the previous study, it was found that timber species that are typically high-value for logging companies were lower in abundance and base layer area of large trees in the clear-cut forest. This means that if Pettit Timber chooses to leave immature or small trees each harvest, they can come back to the same location later and harvest the then-mature trees, which actually for better yield and productivity over several Forest Management: Selective Cutting vs. Clear Despite an initial increase in cost of production, Pettit Timber will cover these costs and potentially increase their revenue by only cutting large trees. This is because, over time, this produces more product per amount of labor than clear-cutting. Large, mature trees are often better quality as well, which the company could charge customers even more for. This technique will potentially save time in the end as well. Instead of clearing an entire forest, full of small and immature trees, and then waiting for the trees to regrow to be harvested again, selective-cutting would open the gates to a supply of mature, large trees consistently. Each year, trees are available for harvest, as opposed to having to wait a minimum of sixty years after clear-cutting Forest Management: Selective Cutting vs. Clear Finally, both Pettit Timber and Greenpeace are likely to agree to this compromise because they both require customer support. A feat like this will gain Pettit Timber more customers by appealing to a broader category, including environmentalists. Greenpeace Cain 8 will also gain support by achieving another goal by helping a logging company become more environmentally sustainable. Greenpeace will also help raise funds through their charitable organization to help Pettit Timber cover initial expenses. The compromise will take the form of a written agreement in which both parties must sign. Pettit Timber will be agreeing to eliminate their service of clear-cutting immediately, while Greenpeace will be agreeing to help cover costs and oversee the process, ensuring the contract will not be violated. Overall, both companies are experienced and proud of their accomplishments. This indicates a capability to make company decisions, like this compromise, as well as improve their organizations with an even further accomplishment. Ultimately, both Greenpeace and Pettit Timber must give up some of their goals in order to reach a compromise, but the implementation of selective-cutting will benefit them even more greatly in the long term. Deforestation is a worldwide concern due to its large impact on the environment and all of those who live within it, including people. However, this issue has developed multiple viewpoints and has caused people and groups to oppose one another in their beliefs. In one particular case, large logging companies like Pettit Timber depend on deforestation for a profit, and their upmost concern is business. However, environmental groups like Greenpeace oppose deforestation in all its entirety, and their paramount concern is working toward a sustainable world. Nevertheless, even these contrasting groups can find common ground. Pettit Timber and Greenpeace are both experienced, aged groups that take pride in their accomplishments and depend on a strong follower support. By taking these similarities and adding them to the key point that both companies demonstrate concern for both the environment and the economy, the two groups can come to a compromise by implementing an alternative way of harvesting trees. Cain 9 Through the technique of selective cutting, Pettit Timber has the potential to increase revenue, productivity, and efficiency all while gaining more environmentally-concerned customers. Greenpeace will also gain followers through its environmental triumph, as well as aid in working toward a cleaner future through a less damaging technique. Ultimately, this compromise will benefit both companies, the economy, and the environment in the long term. Cain 10 Work Cited Arroyo-Rodriguez, Victor., Deborah Faria, Madelon Lohbeck, Carlos Morante-Filho, and Teja Tscharntke. Forest Loss and its Multitrophic Effects on Insect Ecological Society of America , vol. 97, no. 12, Dec. 2016, pp. 3315-3325. Online Library. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1002/ecy.1592/full>. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Aruga, Kazuhiro., Yoshiko Mizuniwa, and Chikara Nakahata. Analyses on the Cycle Time, Productivity, and Cost Between Commercial Thinning and Clear-cutting Operations in Nasu-machi Forest Co-operative, Tochigi Prefecture, Journal of Forest Research , vol. 21, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 99-104. . <http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/10.1007/s10310-015-0518-x>. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Ding, Yi., Jihong Huang, Xinghui Lu, and Runguo Zang. Impacts of Selective Logging and Clear-cutting on Woody Plant Diversity After 40 Years of Natural Recovery in a Tropical Montane Rain Forest, South of the Total Environment , vol. 579, 1 Feb. 2017, pp. 1683-1691. . <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969716326511>. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. and its Effects on the Geographic. <http://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/global-warming/deforestation/>. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. <http://earthroots.org/index.php/clearcutting-item>. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. Cain 11 <http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/>. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Geographic: Eye in the <http://www.nationalgeographic.com/eye/deforestation/effect.html>. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. Glossary of Statistical <https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=2423>. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. Forest Management: Selective Cutting vs. Clear <https://soapboxie.com/social-issues/Sustainable-Forest-Management-Selective-Cutting- vs-Clear-Cutting>. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. Thinning, Clear-cutting, Harvesting & Pettit Timber. <http://www.pettittimber.com/>. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.