Rashida Dacas Professor Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 2/14/17 Years ago a peer that I once attended school with said in a class discussion that racism in the United States was dead. He stated laws were made and passed to help keep segregation of race under control. Can a written law truly change the way another mind works? These same laws that was said to help racial and biased ways seemed to have a way of leading in favor of certain cultural backgrounds. Almost as if the system was set up not to prevent one from back tracking but not to allow them to progress either. Over the years most recently in the 2000s racial profiling started to become a popular topic due to current events that seemed racial to the naked eye. One may say not the way the system is set up but the people behind the system who try to cheat behind it. In reality without this system we the people look up to for protection and guidance having the gaps and unspoken faults the people behind it have the room to act with such racial ways. Some say in modern times no one sees color but is that true? Does the criminal justice system we have structure itself not to be in favor of the african american citizen? Alexander, Michelle. New jim crow: mass incarceration in the age of colorblindness. Place of publication not identified: New Press, 2016. Print. In this book Professor Michelle argues that the justice system never got rid of the jim crow laws that they were simple redesigned. Her book goes into detail about the policies she believes is what the government uses in order to control cultural groups by not allowing them to have the access they need for growth. Mainly using the war of drugs as the camel supporting her argument against the racism in America against blacks. Professor Michelle Alexander is a civil rights activist that has only published two books. Both of her books are on the topic with race and empowerment. She has an educational background from Vanderbilt University and Stanford law school. Currently she is an associate professor of law at the school of Ohio state university mortises college of law. She is best known for her New Jim which is a well known book reviewed by others such as Lisa Chalet from Berkeley journal of employment and labor law and also Chronicle of higher education. She has been awarded an NAACP image award for outstanding literary work. Her work speaks more on the african american culture but it expands and touches other races when dealing with racism. This book is important to my paper because it supports a lot of the older facts showing racism being very prevalent in older times leading up to modern times. Berg, Mark T., Eric A. Stewart, Jonathan Intravia, Patricia Y. Warren, and Ronald L. Simons. Cynical Streets: Neighborhood Social Processes And Perceptions Of Criminal  Criminology 54.3 (2016): 520-47. Web. Within the Cynical Streets a study was conducted to support an argument that social groups within certain neighborhoods in the United States suffer different disadvantages than others. With African Americans being the highest race to endure these set backs. This article also tieS in police encounters of all racial profiling and mass incarceration showing that blacks are indeed in the forefront of racial encounters . Department of Sociology, University of Iowa; College of Criminology and Criminal Justice, Florida State University; Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology, Ball State University; Department of Sociology, University of Georgia. All of these authors either work in departments of criminology or sociology showing their dedication and study on this topic. Being that they are in the field of the subject allows them to give data that is valuable. The article also comes from a well known and peer reviewed journal. With text facts the authors also conducted an experiment of their own collecting data and information strongly supporting the race behind the justice system. This information will help me with my argument to further prove the injustice behind local culture groups and the laws hindering social growth. Brooms, D. R., and A. R. Perry. Its Simply Because Were Black : Black Mens Experiences and Responses to the Killing of Black  The Journal of Studies 24.2 (2016): 166-84. Web. This Article gives the inside version of how african american males feel treated in america. How they deal with encounters with police officers and authority within the government. The article also speaks on matters with recent unarmed killings of african american males. The authors of this piece attend the University of Louisville. This article comes from the journal of mens studies. The author Brooms contributes to a countless amount of other articles on the topic of black males in America. Even though the other author Perry has not contributed to as much pieces on race but she still speaks on the issue. This article will allow my argument to have a part of view from first hand encounters. Showing the effects that these facts actually are feared in the black male in America. Taylor, Keeanga-Yamahtta. From #BlackLivesMatter to Black liberation. Chicago, IL: Haymarket , 2016. Print. Within #BLM to Black Liberation Dr.Taylor received her Ph.D, African American Studies at Northwestern University. She is currently an assistant professor at Princeton University in the Department of African American Studies. She was once the Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Department of African American Studies at the University of Illinois. Northwestern University Presidential Fellowship, the Ford Foundation, and the Lannan Foundation all these foundations helped support Dr.Taylor in her findings and research. In 2016 Cultural Freedom Award for an Especially Notable Book for her book #BlackLivesMatter to Black She is also a very active speaker on the current issues of race in the black culture. This book is vital to my argument because it contains the newer pressing issues in todays society. Black Lives Matter is one of the new movements in the black culture. This covers the begins of where it all started and where current issues stand. This book also includes the incarnation rates data and black unemployment.