Milien 1 Miwolf Milien Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 15 February 2017 The Hidden Side of FIFA It is hard to forget the memorable 2014 FIFA World Cup which took place in Brazil as it will probably go down among one of the most shocking tournament in sports history with the host losing 1-7 to Germany. According to Sporteology, is one of the top entertainment industry around the world and no doubt the most famous sport organization on the (Sports Top 10 List), because of the practice of soccer all around the world. As a result, the FIFA World Cups are one of the most watched events every four years, which makes them a big part of the human culture. The tournament is known for having positive feedbacks, because it brings so much joy in the heart of many fans who have the opportunity to see their country compete for the most prestigious trophy in soccer history. However, the FIFA World Cups contain a dark side that is unknown by most of its followers. The biggest controversy up to date is the fact that FIFA exploits migrant workers to build expensive stadiums for the 2022 World Cup which will take place in Qatar. Two organizations who have big concerns over this subject are FIFA itself and Amnesty International, who looks to end abuses of human rights around the world. While FIFA wants to build expensive infrastructures while making the biggest profit possible, Amnesty international wants the exploitations to end. These factors tend to ignore morale human rights in order to make the World Cup a reality. Because both hope to contribute to a better future in their own ways: FIFA through entertainment and Amnesty International through helping those suffering, a possible suitable Milien 2 compromise is that FIFA only organizes the World Cups in countries who are already economically and physically ready for a global tournament. FIFA is the top entertainment industry in the world, which seeks to bring happiness to heart of fans all over the globe. According to Mao-Chou Hsu, sports events has become a big part of recreational (13). When the amount of happiness that it brings to our society is taken in consideration, the organization really seems to be a gift given to us by mother nature. The personal history that it gave to most people on the planet is just indescribable. According to FIFA, its mission statement is to improve the game of football constantly and promote it globally in the light of its unifying, educational, cultural and humanitarian values, particularly through youth and development (About FIFA). This shows that the organization uses the impact of soccer around the world to better many different important areas in society. It also looks to the world through its inspiring tournaments and to build a better future through the power of the (About FIFA). This means that the events organized by the corporation are made with the goal to impact the world through unity. Over a study, it was concluded that tournament provides both economic benefits and an excellent stage for cultural (Hsu 14), and later reconfirmed that World Cup provides economic and cultural development, international visibility and cultural diplomacy, and boosts every aspect of tourism. The value and significance of organizing this event are (Hsu 17). Therefore, it can be seen why is it that FIFA is willing to take any actions necessary to make its mission a reality. The tournaments do bring a lot to society which helps it improve However, the actions taken to achieve this mission affects a particular group of people. Amnesty International is an organization that strives to help the people suffering through many different ways. Nowadays, the abuse of laborers is a severe problem as many groups and Milien 3 individuals are mistreated on a daily basis all across the globe. Unfortunately, many who are abused do not have a big enough voice to speak for themselves. They might speak out but not heard. Because of these factors, many organizations have been created to defend those people. Amnesty International is among the biggest ones in the world. According to Amnesty International, its mission statement is contribute in building world in which every person enjoys all of the human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and other internationally recognized human rights (Our Mission). This shows that they fight for equality while making sure that no one is taking advantage of but live a good life. Amnesty International people from all over the world to fight for human rights using research, action and (Our Mission). This means that the organization also looks to bring people together by making them fight together for those in needs. Consequently, it can be said that the organization values human rights and equality. According to Azadeh Erfani, order to host in 2022, Qatar will rely on the labor of approximately one million foreign laborers to build the stadiums and infrastructure necessary to hold the World (623). The country will need to put many foreign laborers to work because of factors like low wages. It is also said that bulk of economy rests on the shoulders of foreign construction (Erfani 623). Foreign laborers are taken advantage of by being exploited in many cases. Amnesty International stands against it and look to do their best to fight against it. Even if the organization is fighting against actions, the two parties possess an important similarity. Although FIFA and Amnesty International do not stand together, they possess a common ground in their core purpose. At the end of the day, both organizations want to contribute to a better future. The only difference is that FIFA wants to do it through soccer while Amnesty International plans to do it by helping those in needs. They both value the happiness and interaction Milien 4 of people around the globe. The organizations want to unite people all of the planet and make the world a more pleasurable place to live in. Because of this similarity, it can be possible for both parties to understand and support the points of the other. Through their common ground, it is definitely possible for this two organizations to stop fighting against each other and resolve the problem while finding a middle ground. Although some tension exists between the two, FIFA and Amnesty International can still maintain their vision by following a possible compromise which will benefits both sides. The main problem which exists between FIFA and Amnesty International are the high cost of the 2022 FIFA World Cup and the exploitation of workers to construct infrastructures. Amnesty International wants FIFA to quit organizing such expensive tournaments because they end up exploiting migrant workers. In recent years, many people attend the World Cups because of the luxurious stadiums constructed. Amnesty International cannot expect the full termination of exploitations of workers, because for many, working in the preparation of the tournament is the only job available to them so it will most likely continue to occur behind the scenes. With no surprise, there is a numerous number of compromises possible. One is for FIFA to only organize the World Cups in countries who are already economically and physically ready for a global tournament. According to Andrew Spalding, hosted its two mega sporting events in the midst of a vigorous global anti- corruption (71). Because of the movement, there were no issues regarding the events and the minimal amount of corruptions prevented laborers from being exploited. The preparation of the World Cup will still cost a lot of money but it will be a lot less. The tournaments should be organized in first tiers countries like Russia and the United States of America because they can host them with no important issues. These type of countries already possess the infrastructures needed to organize a global event. By needing to build less infrastructures, less workers will be Milien 5 needed, which will result to a huge decrease of their physical exploitations of laborers. Because of less innovated stadiums being build, FIFA will probably lose the high number of attendance they are known to attract which will lower their profit but at least they will lean more in the direction of their core mission. An issue that has been circulating around the world lately is the exploitations of workers by FIFA in the preparation of the 2022 World Cup. FIFA and Amnesty International are two of the biggest stakeholders regarding this issue. While FIFA want to build luxurious infrastructures to attract supporters to come attend the World Cup, Amnesty International want a termination of the exploitations of workers to happen. They are both looking to contribute to a better future in their own ways. FIFA is doing it by bringing people together through the game of soccer while Amnesty International achieve its goal by helping those in needs. A possible compromise is for FIFA to only organize the World Cups in countries who are already economically and physically ready for a global tournament in order to decrease the need of building new, expensive and innovated infrastructures. This will definitely reduce the exploitations of laborers by a huge margin. With this compromise in place, both organizations will be able to make their mission a reality with no big issues. Milien 6 Milien 7 Works Cited Mao-Chou Hsu. Benefits of 2014 FIFA World Cup in University Physical Education Sports, 2014, pp. 13-19. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=0a23270b-6928-47ff-b3f4- 77668f1546c7%40sessionmgr120&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=edsarl.15603822.201503.201504230029.201504230029.13.19&db=edsarl. Accessed 27 January 2017 Andrew Spalding. events as sites of International law, society, and governance: The 2014 Brazilian World Cup: International Responses to corruption and money laundering: From the 2014 World Cup to the 2016 Olympics: role in the global anti- corruption Southwestern Journal of International Law, vol. 21, 2014, pp.71. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=0a23270b-6928-47ff-b3f4- 77668f1546c7%40sessionmgr120&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=edslexABEAB6D0&db=edslex. Accessed 27 January 2017 Azadeh Erfani. away responsibility: role in response to migrant worker abuses in 2022 World The Jeffrey S. Moorad Sports Law Journal, vol.22, 2015, pp. 623. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=7&sid=0a23270b-6928-47ff-1 b3f477668f1546c7%40sessionmgr120&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU3# AN=edsgcl.427531829&db=edsgao. Accessed 27 January 2017 FIFA, http://www.fifa.com/about-fifa/. Accessed 27 January 2017 Amnesty International, http://www.amnestyusa.org/about-us/our-mission. Accessed 27 January 2017 Milien 8 Sports Top 10 Sporteology, http://sporteology.com/top-10-popular-sports-world/. Accessed 15 February 2017