Lankford 1 Caroline Lankford Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Parents Against Bad Books in School (PABBIS) vs. the Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) The issue of whether or not controversial reading material should be used in the classroom is hotly debated in America. On one hand, many parents feel that some books containing explicit or vulgar material are unsuitable for young children. An example of a group of parents that fits this description is called Parents Against Bad Books in Schools, or PABBIS. On the other hand, organizations such as the Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) assert that more books are necessary to initiate conversation about complex topics and promote independent thought. Although PABBIS and FTRF may differ on what they consider acceptable classroom reading material, conflict can be avoided through the use of permission slips. At the beginning of each school year, parents will receive a list compiled by the teacher containing all the books that will be read as part of the class. This is an effective solution since it allows teachers to continue using books they want to use, while also providing parents the opportunity to be given a chance to sign, agree, and give consent to them. The first stakeholder in this issue, Parents Against Bad Books in Schools, supports book censorship in schools. The official Parents Against Bad Books in Schools website explains that their organization was created after a district in Virginia released a recommended and assigned reading list for schools that contained objectionable material. A group of local parents banded together to design a website dedicated to advocating better, more appropriate curriculum choices Lankford 2 and providing parents with information on the explicit books that are often presented into the classroom setting and Challenged Books in PABBIS does this in part by publishing paragraphs from various books that contain graphic sexual scenes, violence, profanity, vulgarity, etc and Challenged Books in By doing this, parents are able to read the controversial parts of each book and judge for themselves if they approve of the messages that could potentially be presented to their children. The major concern from PABBIS is that they do not wish for the values and morals taught in the home setting to be undermined in the classroom. Books come into play because the controversy in books is viewed as a tool through which teachers are able to do just that. By supporting book censorship, parents are able to have more control over preventing this scenario. On the other side of the same coin, the Freedom to Read Foundation is an example of a stakeholder who opposes book censorship in schools. Founded in 1969 by members of the American Library Association, the Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) is a non-profit anti- censorship organization dedicated to protecting rights to use controversial books in the classroom. major platform rests on the principle that any type of book censorship violates First Amendment right that guarantees freedom of speech and expression. As stated on their website, they aim to legal precedent for the freedom to read on behalf of all One of the most noteworthy ways in which FTRF advocates what they call  is through the sponsorship and organization of the annual Banned Books Week to Read The objective of Banned Books Week is to draw attention to both persecuted authors of banned and challenged books, as well as to the books themselves to Read FTRF believes that it is up to the American people to decide what ideas they do or do not wish to embrace and that no organization should be Lankford 3 allowed to inhibit the availability of any such written ideas. These principles clearly clash with that of PABBIS. The task at hand, therefore, is finding the middle ground. Although these stakeholders maintain their differing opinions concerning book censorship in K-12 schools, they can be united in the common desire for children to grow into capable and thoughtful members of society. They both want children to be protected yet intellectually challenged in the best way possible. The solution lays in respectful communication through permission slips. Several education scholars including Mary Cotillo and Glenda Funk address the controversy and offer resolutions that have worked for them in the past; thus effectively allowing them to engage their students in meaningful conversations about touchy subjects without angering parents (12). What they found works best is exactly what was proposed earlier, written permission slips (Cotillo and Funk 19). Both Cortillo and Funk agree that instead of educators looking to those outside the teaching profession for book approval, they should personally parents early in the year about the variety of read-alouds students will hear in (19). Other methods of cooperation have proven to be less effective. For instance, educational activist and author Timothy L. Coggins tells the first-hand story of a failed attempt at compromise between a teacher (Jeffry Newton) and parents (1). This interview presents a clear example of not to Newton made the mistake of taking the issue to court, where lawyers and lobbyist bickered over the span of months, only to conclude that it was not within the jurisdiction of the State to handle (Coggins 2). This instance is confirmation that parent- teacher conflicts concerning book censorship should not be dealt with in courts, but instead, on a one-on-one level between the teacher and concerned parents themselves. When it comes to the difficult topic of book censorship in K-12 schools, PABBIS and Lankford 4 FTRF are divided. PABBIS believes it is their duty to prevent inappropriate literature from being available to their young school-age children while they are not yet old enough to handle some of the mature subject manner. Conversely, FTRD prioritizes beloved right to the freedom of speech, particularly in literature. Both stakeholders, however, share a willingness to challenge and educate children for the betterment of their futures. Given this common ground, a reasonable compromise can be achieved through the use of detailed permission slips to be distributed by teachers to parents prior to any and all books are assigned in classrooms. Staying away from court system red-tape and addressing each concern individually is the key to success for both stakeholders. Lankford 5 Works Cited Coggins, Timothy L. Not In Our School: Anatomy Of A Banned Books Challenge; An Interview With English Teacher Jeffry  Virginia Libraries 46.3 (2000): 20. Biography Reference Bank (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. and Challenged Books in Controversial and Challenged Books in Schools--PABBIS, www.pabbis.com/. Cotillo, Mary, and Funk, Glenda. Do You Need Permission? A Look At How To Approach Introducing Controversial Books Into The  Literacy Today 2 (2015): 18. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. to Read Freedom to Read Foundation, American Library Association, www.ftrf.org/. Linder, Roberta. Exploring Censorship: Using Challenged And Banned Picture Books To Introduce Middle And High School Students To A Controversial  Literacy Today 2 (2015): 36. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.