Gilliam 1 Quartney Gilliam Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Animal Testing in the Cosmetic Industry Society is constantly being introduced to dozens of new beauty products that change how individuals enhance their appearance. To ensure that goods are safe for the public to use, the companies who create these products, such as Coty Inc, test the items on animals such as mice and hamsters. There are several organizations that disapprove of these tests and rule them as animal cruelty like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Organizations such as PETA work to not only unmask companies who discreetly partake in animal testing, but to also put an end to animal experimentation in the industry of cosmetics altogether. Coty expresses their care for customers through portraying an image that encourages diversity and tries to break the standards set for what is beautiful. PETA on the other hand, expresses how passionate they are about animals through bringing awareness to companies that abuse animal rights and how society can work to put an end to it. An ideal solution in which both Coty and PETA could benefit from could be for cosmetic brands to test their products on a material that not only could generate the same responses as testing on animals would, but the material should also prevent any animals from being harmed in the process. Coty Inc is a cosmetic company that strongly believes beauty originates from being diverse and flourishes through this statement being a foundation for Coty and the products they create, the establishment seeks to use their brand to change view on Gilliam 2 to accept everyone has beautiful. Coty works towards this goal of reshaping distorted views on beauty through smaller brands that contain diverse cosmetic goods. However, before these products can be sold to the public, they first go through a series of animal experimentations to observe how they would affect terms of irritation, inflammation, and other potential harmful hazards. Coty Inc has spoken on their examinations involving animals and stated that do not perform, nor do we ever commission any third parties on our behalf to perform, testing of our products or ingredients on Inc. Statement on Animal n.p). Coty does avoid testing animals, they are still responsible for the animal testing that takes place for the creation of their cosmetic goods. The companies that Coty Inc imports these ingredients from conduct their tests on animals because mice, rats and other testing subjects seem ideal due to their genetic structure resembling the anatomy of humans. An article analyzing animal tests states that on top of having a similar anatomy to humans, also share similarities with humans in genetic, developmental, and environmental risk factors for (Ethical and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and Research n.p). By regulating these tests on organisms that not only have a comparable form but also nearly identical reactions to hazardous ingredients, companies are able to ensure that the ingredients will not be harmful when used by humans. Coty Inc is then able to use the ingredients in their products, sell them to their customers and continue working towards their main goal of renovating perspective on beauty. On another note, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) protests industries that participate or promote animals being abused or harmed for the motive of human consumption. PETA expresses their passion for the safety of animals and their rights by hosting Gilliam 3 special occasions, headlining campaigns and others forms of publicity that informs the public of how unethical animal cruelty can be and enlightens them to different ways they can get involved to end animal abuse. Author and Philosopher, Jeremy Bentham, states that PETA protests all forms of animal cruelty because animals have the ability to suffer in the same way and to the same degree that humans do. They feel pain, pleasure, fear, frustration, Why Animal  As an organization that acknowledges how testing can abuse the rights of animals, PETA also cooperates well as science research companies in an attempt to join allies with the organizations to work together and protect the animal privileges. Using a testing method that did not involve animals would be more realistic in the eyes of both scientists and PETA as it has been determined by the European Union that on animal testing, according to several experts, has actually hindered the evaluation of many chemicals and ingredients inside and outside the cosmetics Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal 20) Aside from harming animals by testing cosmetic products on them, brands are often times also harming their consumers who still have reactions to ingredients in products that did not harm the test subjects. With that being said, not only would opting to alternative methods protect animals and their rights, but it could also save the cosmetic industry and ensure that products are more safer than originally anticipated. Although both stakeholders share their passion for protecting the well being of either humans or animals, it is an ongoing conflict because Coty takes part in animal testing to create their cosmetic goods which is morally wrong in the eyes of PETA. While Coty Inc has been working to eliminate the testing of ingredients and products on animals for the last two decades, the brand still takes part in animal cruelty today and that is currently preventing them from Gilliam 4 reaching a solution with PETA. An ideal compromise for the two stakeholders that would benefit both parties would be Coty Inc using ingredients that were tested on faux skin instead of animals in their products. The use of artificial skin to test out ingredients on products is an exemplary solution because it allows for research to be conducted on products that could potentially harm customers without administering the test on humans nor animals. After running a test on artificial skin to see how well the reactions would resemble human skin, it was determined Miles et samples exposed to an irritant chemical showed important signs of alteration to the epidermis, such as marked New Alternative Method for Testing Skin Irritation Using a Human Skin Model: A Pilot use of faux skin in substitution for animals during cosmetic testing is an ongoing process that is still being developed today. Artificial skin testing has also been seen as a more cost effective route to take being that cost $140,000 annually in comparison to 16 billion dollars invested in testing on animals every year. While it may cost less to produce the faux skin, a report by a Motherboard author states that production is complex and involves a great deal of manual work...companies cannot produce more than 2,000 tiny skin pieces a Fake Skin Will End Animal Testing [as Soon as We Can Mass Produce Paul). If both PETA and Coty agree to this compromise and are willing to help fund the research and materials needed to make it happen, not only can both stakeholders benefit, but the artificial skin can be mass produced and put an end to animal testing for good. In summation, faux skin being used to test products on in the cosmetic industry is a favorable compromise because it benefits both stakeholders. PETA will then have one less industry to protest against for partaking in animal cruelty while Coty Inc can continue to Gilliam 5 produce cosmetics that helps society uplift one another while enhancing their unique features. The proposed compromise of using artificial skin would not only be an ethical approach to the experiments that have to be conducted, but it will also be a cheaper route to take than testing and harming animals. With both stakeholders supporting and funding the use of artificial skin testing in the cosmetic industry, the skin will replace the use of animals and provide both Coty and PETA with a compromise that allows both of them to be content while continuing to change the world. Works Cited Gilliam 6 About  for the Ethical Treatment of Animals . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. About Coty  Inc . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Coty Inc. Statement on Animal  Inc . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Why Animal  for the Ethical Treatment of Animals . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Mone, Gregrory. Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal of the ACM. 57.4 (2014): 20. for Computing Machinery Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Miles, Alexandra., et al. New Alternative Method for Testing Skin Irritation Using a Human Skin Model: A Pilot in Vitro. 28.2 (2014): 240-247. B.V. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Ferdowsian, Hope R., and Beck, Nancy, and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and One 6.9 (07 Sep. 2011): 1-4. Web. 27 Jan 2017.