Newcomb ! 1 Celeste Newcomb Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Transgender Bathroom Controversy A transgender person refers to a group of whose gender identity differs from the sex the doctor marked on their birth (Transgender, 1). Transgender bathroom rights have started quite the controversy amongst businesses and states around the country and the question still rings true: Should transgender people be allowed to use whichever bathroom they feel comfortable using? The American Family Association (AFA) believes that allowing these bills to pass and to support businesses that do not discriminate based on gender would then lead to the victimization of women everywhere. They believe that allowing transgender women to use the bathroom would lead to an immense increase in sexual assault cases and video voyeurism (Target, 1). The Texas Association Against Sexual Assault (TAASA) believes that forcing a transgender woman to use a restroom would lead to just as much of a risk for sexual assault if not more than allowing transgender people to use the restroom they feel accept- ed in (Gender, 1). Though the American Family Association (AFA) and the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault (TAASA) both have differing feelings regarding transgender people be- ing allowed to use the bathroom that they feel comfortable in, they can create a compromise by implementing sexual assault education across the country to include women and gender studies. Newcomb ! 2 The AFA is a non-profit organization that was founded by Donald E. Wildmon, pastor of First United Methodist Church in Southaven, Mississippi in 1977. Previously known as the Na- tional Federation for Decency, AFA is one of the largest pro-family organizations in the country (About, 1). Their most recent cause is to boycott Target for allowing transgender people to use whichever bathroom or fitting room they feel comfortable using. AFA believes that allowing transgender women to use the bathroom would give room for grown men to be using the restroom which is their main reason for concern. Sexual assault and video voyeurism are the main scare topics of the AFA. Because of this, they believe that allowing transgender people the right to whichever bathroom they choose would lead to more assault and illegal video taping. They argue their beliefs by giving specific incidents where older men used the excuse of being transgender to film women changing in department stores. AFA concludes in statements that they strongly believe that Target will take a massive shortage in their financial statement due to this controversy and that their only course of action should be to change the dressing room policy or to hire a new CEO. will soon be releasing its second quarter fi- nancial statement, and the news will not be good. Shareholders have every reason to be restive about management risking their investment on a doomed-to-fail social said Bryan Fischer, Host of and member of AFA (Target, 1). The TAASA is an organization committed to ending sexual violence throughout Texas in the form of educating, preventing, and advocating. The association has a strong record of success in educating many communities, youth involvement and outreach, law enforcement involve- ment, legal services, and so much more since founding in 1982 (About TAASA, 1). Since the transgender bathroom controversy, the TAASA has let out a statement on the subject and how the Newcomb ! 3 organization feels thus far. a client is one who in their core is different from the sex checked off on their birth certificate (transgender), or is simply someone whose expression and identity do not conform to what most of society expects (gender non-conforming or GNC), these clients are often not part of the said by Katrina Stewart, member of TAASA. The TAASA wants the safety and respect of all people, regardless of which gender they identify as. They believe that the best way to advocate against sexual assault is to be committed to ending all kinds. They believe that equality starts with men and women being on equal footing and that all genders should be regarded when discussing the importance of preventing assault. TAASA be- lieves that the chances of transgender people being severely harmed by being put into a restroom that does not align with their transitioning is greatly larger than women being assaulted by men that disguise themselves as transgender women. Their goal is to educate their state not only of the harmful effects of sexual assault on cisgender people but to also trans people (Gender, 1). The transgender bathroom controversy has many different sides and fiercely opposing arguments. The AFA and TAASA are just two organizations that disagree on the topic but there are hundreds more that see eye to eye on this subject. A compromise that these two groups could make to better the country and impact the rest of the world would be to promote sex educa- tion classes that include women and gender studies. Many people that know enough about transgender people decide to pass judgement on something they understand instead of truly educating themselves. Sexual education classes should be evolving as quickly as our society is. Implementing women and gender studies would do so much for our culture and our youth in the way that people would be given the knowledge they need to understand one another. Both stake- holders should be able to agree on this because both would be a transition to lowering all sexual Newcomb ! 4 assault cases. Both stakeholders are advocators for ending assault and this compromise would lead towards that. Though the American Family Association (AFA) and the Texas Association Against Sex- ual Assault (TAASA) both have differing feelings regarding transgender people being allowed to use the bathroom that they feel comfortable in, they can create a compromise by implementing sexual assault education across the country to include women and gender studies. In conclusion, our country will not be able to reach a consensus on this for a very long time. The controversy pushes more than just the idea of privacy but of that of religion, morality, equality, and social jus- tice. While all people deserve just and fair treatment, the idea that sexual assault could grow or become more prevalent is terrifying. Both organizations offer plausible reasons for concern but the controversy will never truly be settled unless both come to a resolve. AFA would be giving a women a voice through these sexual education classes and the TAASA would also be making the voices of transgender people heard through the addition of gender studies. Implementing sexual education classes that involve women and gender studies would be a stepping stone to ending this debate and to reaching a resolve. With education, discussion, and peaceful compromise, the AFA and the TAASA and all other differing groups can reach a compromise and better the coun- try. Newcomb ! 5 Works Cited About  American Family Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  Http://taasa.org. N.p., 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Target and the Transgender Video  American Family Association: The Stand. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gender Diversity in the Sexual Assault Movement Katrina  Http://taasa.org. N.p., 19 May 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Transgender  GLAAD. N.p., 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.