Trantina 1 Nicole Trantina Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Universal Healthcare in the United States As she enters the office, her heart is pounding and her body is shaking. The test results came back today. She was called back to talk to the doctor right away and she was hoping for the best. Sitting in the room with her significant other, she looked over to see a tear running down their cheek. She is in shock, cancer. Life now begins to really take a bigger meaning. How is the treatment going to be paid for? Will the children be able to go to college? Will she be able to watch her little girl walk down the aisle at her wedding? Insurance only covers so much of the treatment; will her significant other be able to stay afloat if she passes away? With all these questions, there is one solution to these problems, and that is moving to a country with Universal healthcare. Universal Healthcare is free healthcare in a country. Countries such as Austria, Canada and Germany offer Universal Healthcare. Although the United States health care system is doing what it is supposed to do, Universal Healthcare would be more sufficient for the American people. This paper investigates whether the United States should have Universal Healthcare. The amount of deaths in the United States is large compared to places with Universal Healthcare. According to The National Center for Health Statistics, the number of deaths in the United States in 2014 was 2,626,418 (Center for Disease Control). According to Statistics Canada, the total amount of deaths in Canada for 2014 were 521,019 (Statistics Canada). These statistics show just how much Universal Healthcare has done. The Universal Healthcare system is there as a free healthcare system for people in a specific country. It is used widely in European countries and Canada. Though America seems to have more deaths, some other factors that may Trantina 2 contribute to American death rate being so high are eating less junk food and walking on a regular basis as opposed to using a car to get everywhere. However, the use of free healthcare means treatment for everyone, making the treatment of diseases such as cancer more affordable. Universal Healthcare is more affordable for the government and the people of the country it is offered in, such as Germany. According to The Elders Organization and WHO, out of all healthcare services offered to people in any country without Universal Healthcare, one of those services is unaffordable to at least 400 million people in a country like the United States. This shows just how unaffordable Non-Universal Healthcare is compared to Universal Healthcare because everything in a Universal Healthcare system is free to the people of a country like Germany (WHO). Looking at the statistics from The Elders organization and the Work Bank, more than 100 million people are going broke because of how much their health services are costing them and their families (The Elders Organization). Some may say that insurance is there to cover most of the medical expenses, however some may not be able to afford insurance and even with the insurance help, there is still money that must be paid that some people do not have at their fingertips. Universal Healthcare would allow the economy to be boosted and would allow more jobs to be brought into United States. Universal Healthcare would also help to cut costs because it is free. With the implementing of a Universal Health care system, taxes could have the possibility of going up if money is not taken out of an area such as the funding for military. With Universal Healthcare, the economy will be boosted. With an increase in taxes, free healthcare services are implemented, and that means more people are likely able to afford things like food and housing because they would not have to worry about paying for their medical needs anymore. According to Expathealth, Universal Healthcare increases the life expectancy by at least one year and that Trantina 3 could increase the GDP per capita by as much as 4 percent (Expathealth). With a higher life expectancy in a country, it means more people will be working which boosts the economy. The statistics from Expathealth also confirmed that labor can go up from 20 to 45 percent once Universal Healthcare is implemented because there are less health problems and less work missed (Expathealth). Universal Healthcare can also create more government jobs which will help to improve the economy. Free healthcare being implemented does not necessarily mean it is completely With the implement of Universal Healthcare, it would cause an increase in taxes. According to Health Affairs, health care would be less than a healthcare system (Health Affairs). Publicly financed would be insurance based and people based, while tax financed would be Universal Healthcare standards, which means healthcare. With this being said, having the Universal Healthcare could cause poverty because people may not be able to afford the increase in taxes. Some healthcare would not be free such as homeopathic medicine, which some people prefer more than pharmaceuticals, which would mean those people would not only be paying for the healthcare in their taxes, but they will be paying for their own healing. Implementing Universal Healthcare would mean allowing every person to have the same rights to healthcare. This would mean that someone who is considered wealthy and someone who would be below the poverty line would be getting the exact same type of care from their doctors. According to WHO, quality health service can only be reached if the Universal Healthcare starts slow, otherwise it is not going to be adequate or have any quality causing Universal Healthcare to not do its task the way that the healthcare system in the United States is doing now (WHO). Universal Healthcare would then cause more money to be lost since if the quality of healthcare deteriorates. Trantina 4 With all the pros and cons being said, there is a solution to the problem that is healthcare. With all the different classes of people based off of financial status, there should be different classifications in the Universal Healthcare guidelines. With people who are considered high class and wealthy, the tax should be higher, but they should be allowed more when it comes to healthcare. Middle class should have the second highest tax and be allowed the same as someone wealthy, but there is more of a wait for them. The low class should be taxed less, but offered the basics and things for diseases such as cancers. They would be offered everything the same, but the wait would be different due to the fact that they are paying less in taxes. This would still make everything free, but it would allow wait times to be different by the amount you can pay towards the taxes. The government would still be getting the money they would need, but the healthcare would be easier to get to for people in need. With the implementing of Universal Healthcare, there are going to be pros and cons and some may not see eye to eye, however there is always a solution to those problems. Although the United States health care system is doing what it is supposed to do, many do not have the money to get the proper treatment, like they would in places that offer Universal Healthcare, therefore the United States should offer Universal Healthcare. Universal Healthcare is paid for through taxes and each financial class should pay a certain amount of tax depending on what they can afford. Waiting time may be extended for lower class, but everyone will have equal benefits within the system of healthcare. With the implementation of this, doctors can work with all and have the same quality practice that they had prior to Universal Healthcare, making the healthcare system more affordable, and helping give jobs and treatment to those in need. Trantina 5 Works Cited Barua, Bacchus. Waiting Your Turn: Wait Times for Health Care in Canada, 2015  Fraser Institute. N.p., 8 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cariker, Bill. How Universal Healthcare benefits the  The Guide to Expathealth. N.p., 22 Oct. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Deaths, estimates, by province and  Government of Canada, Statistics Canada. N.p., Dec. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Deaths and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Questions and Answers on Universal Health  WHO. World Health Organization, Spring 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Universal Health Coverage  The Elders. N.p., Fall 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Woolhandler, Steffie. Steffie  Paying For National Health Insurance-And Not Getting It. N.p., 01 July 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.