Gruman 1 Taylor Gruman Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Medical Marijuana What do you think when you hear the word The answer to that question can vary from to and anything in between. Marijuana has been considered an illegal drug since the 1930s, but that law has been challenged in recent years as marijuana studies continue to increase. As time and studies continue, more people seem to be open to the idea of legalizing marijuana, but others still feel as if the dangers out way the benefits. Two active groups within this controversial situation are the Americans for Safe Access (ASA) group and Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM). These two groups have very different, and justifiable, stances on how medical marijuana should be handled. ASA is determined to safe and legal access to cannabis (marijuana) for therapeutic use and (SafeAccessNow). The goal for CALM is to ensure that the laws against the use, cultivation, and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or (CALMusa). Both groups are very passionate about the topic and have very different stances on the situation but the overall goal for both groups is to help others and keep people safe. Since both organizations share the same overall goal, it is possible for them to come up with a compromise in which they both are able to agree. A solution to benefit both groups could be that patients who require medical marijuana treatment can only consume/inhale cannabis in the presence of a doctor, in a controlled and stable environment. Gruman 2 The first organization, Americans for Safe Access, was founded for the purpose of promoting and helping to support the idea of marijuana as a medical substance(SafeAccess). The organization was founded by Steph Sherer and has active members across the entire country (SafeAccess). ASA has accomplished many things since the start of the organizations. Just within this past year, they helped to create new medicinal marijuana programs in Pennsylvania and Ohio, improve the dispensary situations in Virginia, and assisted in the voter initiatives for legalization in many states (SafeAccess). In an article written by Representative Dina Titus titled Puff, Law: The changing Legislative Environment of Medical she supports the idea of medical marijuana and encourages scientists to continue studying it. She states, in regard to legalization policies, aid in the treatment of patients with cancer, epilepsy, and other conditions as well as help veterans cope with mental and physical wounds of (56, Titus). She makes it clear several times throughout the article that medical marijuana is beneficial in many ways. For example, it helps veterans cope with PTSD as well as helps cancer patients deal with the after effects of radiation, including nausea. CALM is another organization that focuses on medical marijuana but this group believes that the laws should not be changed. The organization that is made up of citizens from all around the country. Their main focus is in California and Ohio but they encourage everyone to donate and join the cause. The group is dedicated to preventing any change to the current laws that prevent the legalization of marijuana. solely based upon preventing the dangers that can accompany the legalization of cannabis for any purpose (CALMusa). This organization partners with several other organizations who try to spread marijuana awareness across the country. Some of these organizations include, Parents Opposed to Pot and Smart Approaches to Marijuana. CALM believes that legalizing marijuana is a major risk and studies seem to support this idea. A Gruman 3 studied conducted by Magdalena Cerda, Melanie Wall, Katherine Keyes, Sandro Galea, and Deborah Hasin claims that marijuana uses for medical purposes have significantly higher rates of marijuana use and of marijuana abuse and (22). According to data like this, states that have legalized marijuana have more problems with citizens getting addicted and abusing the substance. Facts like this are the reason why this group exists. They believe that marijuana is a dangerous substance and legalizing it will only put more people at risk for substance abuse. While it may seem as if the two organizations are very different, they actually have a lot in common. They stand on opposite sides of the topic, but they have the same goal overall; keep the citizens safe. ASA wants to protect those that are suffering from major medical problems and they feel that marijuana may be what is best for them. They view marijuana as having a positive impact on the livelihood of many people who are currently suffering. CALM wants to protect citizens from the possibility of substance abuse as well as an increase in violence that may come with the legalization of cannabis. They want to protect the citizens from the harm that accompanies drugs. Both sides have justifiable views but a compromise is possible when both organizations have a shared overall goal and seem to be passionate about the topic at hand. In previous compromises have been discussed but they never seemed to work out as planned. In June of 1991, a government program that provided extremely sick citizens with marijuana, was shut down due to controversy. The government was supplying citizens who were terminally ill, with cannabis substances as a way to help them cope but people became alarmed when the applications for this program began to grow. More people were trying to join the program and people started to get concerned that marijuana was going to become overwhelming. Due to this concern, the program was cancelled (Isikoff). Gruman 4 A feasible compromise would be to set forth a law in which people who require medical marijuana treatment can only consume/inhale marijuana in a controlled situation with a doctor present at all times. The best way to carry this law out would be to set up controlled rooms in hospitals and specialized buildings where patients can go to receive treatments and requiring them to stay within the controlled area for a specified amount of time. Substances would not be allowed to leave the area to help with the prevention of substance abuse among citizens and those who are not prescribed to the cannabis. For any patient that needs repeated doses of the substance, a nurse or professional would be assigned to supervise the patient. This compromise would help both organizations achieve their goals. ASA would be pleased because medical patients would have access to the substance but it would achieve goal of preventing substance abuse from citizens. In the past the two groups were unable to determine a solution due to the complications that come with medical marijuana. As of right now, states that have legalized the substance are helping medical patients but laws are not strict enough to protect citizens from substance abuse so CALM did not approve of the distribution situation. While there is no exact proof that this compromise will work exactly as it is expected, studies suggest that states that have legalized marijuana have not experienced an increase in crime due to the installation of marijuana businesses. (Kepple and Freisthler, 523-530). This studies helps to promote the proposed compromise because not only will crime rate go down based on this study, but due to the regulation standards, it will help to make sure that marijuana does not get distributed to those that may be at risk of abusing it. Essentially, both organization are accomplishing their goals by keeping people safe but still helping those who are suffering with diseases that may cause them to require marijuana treatment. Gruman 5 Medical marijuana may seem like a controversial topic but that mean that a compromise be put in place. CALM and ASA are not the only organizations that are concerned with the current situation but overall, they all share the same goal of keeping citizens as safe as possible. A compromise that helps to distribute marijuana to those who need it most but still takes extra precaution to keep the drug off the street, will help to please both sides on this topic. Terminally ill patients should be given the best opportunity to be comfortable in their situation but the public should also feel safe and unthreatened by any laws that are put forth. Gruman 6 Works Cited for Safe Americans for Safe Access, www.safeaccessnow.org/. Cerda, Magdalena; Wall, Melanie; Keyes, Katherine; Galea, Sando; Hasin, Deborah. marijuana laws in 50 states: investigating the relationship between state legalization of medical marijuana and marijuana use, abuse and Alcohol vol. 120, no. 1-3, 2012, pp.22. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3251168/ Historical Timeline - Medical Marijuana -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://medicalmarijuana.procon.org/view.timeline.php?timelineID=000026#1990- 1999>. Kepple, Nancy, Freisthler, Bridget. the Ecological Association Between Crime and Medical Marijuana Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, Vol. 73, no. 4, 2012, pp. http://www.jsad.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.15288/jsad.2012.73.523 Titus, Representative Dina. PUFF, PASS . . . THAT LAW: THE CHANGING LEGISLATIVE ENVIRONMENT OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA Harvard Journal on Legislation, vol. 53, no.1, 2016, pp.39-58. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=7690cead-daae-484b-8090- 1f8f03c0b7b3%40sessionmgr4006&vid=21&hid=4108 CALM USA, calmusa.org/. Gruman 7