Nielsen 1 Christian Brandon Nielsen William Drugan ENC 1102 30 February 2017 The Meat Industry And The Environment Climate change is quite possibly the most imminent threat mankind faces in the modern age. One major contributor to deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions is the meat industry. It is the goal and job of any corporation to make as much profit as possible, the meat industry is no exception. In spite of this the industry accepts blame for their environmental impacts and has set goals to reduce their emissions. One of the meat main opponents regarding deforestation and emissions is Greenpeace. Greenpeace is an NGO (non-governmental organization) dedicated to creating a greener healthier planet. Unsurprisingly one of missions is to stop deforestation, particularly in the amazon. Greenpeace has expressed a willingness to work with the meat industry and has stated goals and solutions to reduce deforestation and emissions. Despite the fact that Greenpeace and the meat industry do not always see eye to eye a working solution is within the realm of possibility. Over the last several centuries, climate change has become a very real threat to the modern world. Humans have began to truly feel the affects of climate change and therefore study it. Through research it has been found that production of beef and other hoofed animals produces 15% of the total global emissions (Carrington). Not only does the meat industry contribute to global emissions, it is also responsible for the majority of the deforestation Nielsen 2 (Sarma). This deforestation further contributes to climate change in a number of ways. To begin cutting down trees destroys biodiversity and kills oxygen producing plants, in addition the land cleared by deforestation is mostly used for meat production. One well known organization trying to fight deforestation is Greenpeace. The Non-governmental organization, Greenpeace, is an environmentalist group dedicated to improving the world, their mission statement is this will never stop fighting for a greener, healthier world for our oceans, forests, food, climate, and democracy-- No matter what forces stand in our (Greenpeace #1). One of their biggest goals is to stop or slow down deforestation in the amazon, which is primarily caused by the meat industry. Greenpeace themselves have suggested a number of solutions to fighting back against deforestation, while at the same time acknowledging that there are no bullet that can simply fix the problem (Greenpeace #2). The solutions that Greenpeace proposes are also in no way radical or unfair and want the meat industry to work with them on proposed solutions. The Greenpeace webpage for solutions to deforestation made this statement can make an impact by introducing policies that clean up their supply (Greenpeace #2) it is within the best interest to find more efficient ways of production with minimal environmental impact when one takes into consideration that climate change affects us all. Climate change is a serious threat to our modern way of life, deforestation and meat production contribute significantly to climate change and it is imperative that something is done to change the current course. The scientific community is in agreement that meat consumption and deforestation needs to be reduced to meet the goal of not exceeding 2 degrees of warming in the atmosphere (Hedenus 2). It is necessary to make progress towards a solution in the next decade. Nielsen 3 The Meat industry is comprised of a large array of producers but almost all the meat industry shares the same goals. The goal of any business or corporation at their root is to make as much profit as possible. This does not mean that there cannot be other goals in mind but the primary goal of any business is to produce profit. Although the meat industry contributes a great deal to greenhouse gas emissions most producers like Cargill, Tyson, and the National Beef packing corporation admit responsibility for their impact and are working to reduce their impact. The websites of these meat giants have set goals to reduce emissions and act more sustainably but each desire to stop cutting down forests remains in question. If simply told to downsize the meat industry would probably hit back saying that it would cost American jobs, and cause a blow to the economy which is a valid concern. According to the North American Meat Institute the meat industry employs than 482,100 workers were employed in the meat and poultry packing and processing (NAMI) and $864.2 billion annually to the U.S. economy, or roughly 6% of the entire is a massive part of the economy which will play a role in the goal of reducing emissions and deforestation. The environmentally focused mission statement of Cargill is 2000, been working to reduce our direct climate impact. In 2015, we set new targets for 2020 to reduce greenhouse gas intensity, improve energy efficiency and increase renewables as a part of our (Cargill) the goals set by Cargill are exceptional but the question still remains, how much work is actually put into these goals? It is hard to tell but it is obvious some sort of effort is being made. Although the goals of Greenpeace and the meat industry exactly line up, both sides agree that meat production has a toll on the environment and something needs to be done. The Nielsen 4 question to be answered is what solution(s) should be implemented. As mentioned before there is no silver bullet solution that will magically fix the problem. A combination of actions will be required to reduce the meat impact on the environment, but it is important to note that these impacts should also seek to keep Americans employed and to keep the economy intact. Greenpeace has suggested that meat companies police themselves and work to reduce emissions on their own, which fortunately is something already under way. Unfortunately this is not enough. More of effort has to be made to contain the emissions and reduce deforestation. One possible solution that could reduce the environmental impact by the meat industry is moving away from producing beef to producing more chicken, ecologically-inefficient ruminants (e.g. cattle, goats, sheep) and bushmeat with monogastrics (e.g. poultry, (Machovina This could drastically reduce the need for deforestation while maintaining jobs and profits for the meat industry. Chicken requires far less land to produce and creates far less emissions than cattle do. An additional solution would be to move away from factory farming and moving back to a more traditional style of raising livestock. Mono-product factory farming is environmentally taxing and has a negative effect on our health but single family farms are more environmentally friendly and would have a positive impact on human health (Machovina 2). This may cause the meat industry to take a hit and a possible cultural shift if family became viable once again. It is extremely important to weigh risk vs. reward in this kind of scenario. If global emissions cannot be reduced the impact on human life will be incredibly destructive. At times like these it is sometimes necessary to concede selfish desires or even parts of the economy due to the risk of inaction or negligence. The compromises proposed here are the most ideal for both groups like Greenpeace and companies like Cargill. Nielsen 5 Finding compromise between two opponents may be difficult at times but when similarities can be drawn between opponents compromise becomes possible. Although their end goals might be significantly different Greenpeace and the meat industry can both agree deforestation and emissions negatively impact the earth. This gives much room for compromise. Companies like cargill and the National Meat Packing corp. Have already begun to create working solutions for reducing emissions but further solutions must be implemented. Cutting the production of beef and switching to poultry is a viable solution that would satisfy both Environmentalists and the meat industry by reducing emissions and maintaining economic prosperity. It is now the responsibility of the industry, consumers, and activists to make a change to help save the future of mankind. Nielsen 6 Works Cited Carrington, Damian. Eating Less Meat Essential to Curb Climate Change, Says  Guardian . Guardian News and Media, 02 Dec. 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Climate  Change Cargill . Cargill, Incorporated, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Greenpeace  USA . Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Hedenus, Fredrik, Stefan Wirsenius, and Daniel J. A. Johansson. Importance Of Reduced Meat And Dairy Consumption For Meeting Stringent Climate Change  Change 1-2 (2014): . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Https://www.facebook.com/onegreenplanet. Beef Production Is Killing the Amazon Green Planet . N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Machovina, Brian, Kenneth J. Feeley, and William J. Ripple. Biodiversity Conservation: The Key Is Reducing Meat  Of The Total Environment 536.(2015): 419-431. . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Solutions to  USA . Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The United States Meat Industry at a  United States Meat Industry at a Glance . North American Meat Institute, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.