Karabeyoglu 1 Nadir Karabeyoglu Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Minimum Wage: A Compromise Between Workers and Small Business Owners The debate over minimum wage is a current issue that impacts the lives of millions of Americans. Even though the minimum wage varies by state, the minimum set by the U.S. federal government is currently $7.25 per hour. However, there are multiple stakeholders involved in this issue who would like the minimum wage to increase but disagree on whether this apply to big corporations or small businesses or both. Some stakeholders in this debate include politicians, minimum wage workers, unions, policy makers, and business owners. Two organizations that have formed around the minimum wage debate include 15NOW and The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The two stakeholders oppose one another because 15NOW demands doubling the minimum wage for social justice reasons, but NFIB are opposed to raising the federal minimum wage because they believe it would kill jobs. These two organizations should compromise by working together to influence policy makers to increase the federal minimum wage for businesses with less than 500 employees. City council member Kshama Sawant in Seattle founded 15NOW in 2014 (15NOW.org) 15NOW is based on the belief that 1% of the population dominates the economic power and fighting to increase the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour is a way to challenge the unequal wealth distribution in the United States (15NOW.org). A common argument against raising the minimum wage is subsequent job loss. However, research from the Political Economy Research Institute analyzes sales and job growth in the fast-food industry and states, wage Karabeyoglu 2 increases can be implemented repeatedly without generating large-scale employment losses among low-wage (Pollin & Wicks-Lim 737). 15NOW aim to empower working people, activate them into a fighting movement for $15 an hour minimum wage, and want to build a network of activists for labor (15NOW.org.). 15NOW includes a network of social activists who have local chapters throughout the country and advocate for a living wage and want to empower working people by activating them into a fighting movement (15NOW.org). They seek unity with other social justice issues such as LGBT and rights and seek to fight poverty and inequality in America (15NOW.org). 15NOW is endorsed by organizations such as Socialist Alternative, National Organization for Women, and the Massachusetts Teachers Association (15NOW.org). major accomplishment has been to work secure laws requiring $15 an hour for all workers in Seattle, California, New York, and Washington D.C. (CNN.com). However, this will happen gradually and is contingent upon how many employees a business has and will take 3 to 7 years to increase to $15 an hour (CNN.com). 15NOW is amendable to a gradual increase of the minimum wage. NFIB is an organization that is comprised of 325,000 business owners across all 50 states that represent the interests of small businesses to the government (NFIB.com). They work to promote and protect the rights of their members to own, operate, and grow their business and advocate for public policies that promote their success (NFIB.com). Their policy agenda includes taxes, healthcare, and regulatory reform (NFIB.com). NFIB also hosts networking and professional development opportunities for their members. NFIB state that small businesses are disproportionately impacted by federal regulations (NFIB.com). The NFIB is against an increase in minimum wage and state the majority of restaurant workers who earn minimum wage work part-time and are not heads of household and almost half of them are teenagers (NFIB.com). In Karabeyoglu 3 addition, research of labor market growth of small businesses shows minimum wage legislation is to the growth of the small business (Moore 29). As a result, the NFIB represent small business owners who are opposed to an increase in minimum wage. 15NOW and NFIB have not yet come to a resolution largely because they represent different entities. For example, 15NOW represents workers and NFIB represents small business owners. While these two groups are not incompatible, the minimum wage impacts these two groups differently. Social activists with 15NOW are trying to eradicate income inequality whereas NFIB is trying to fight an undue burden on them that results in job loss and price increases. Business owners are concerned with their profit margin and raising wages could impact this and workers are concerned with getting paid fair wages to bring home a living wage for their families. Also, the two organizations operate differently. For example, 15NOW appeal to local governments and focus on individual cities or states to change wages whereas NFIB focuses on advocating for small business owners in the areas of taxes, healthcare, regulations, and labor wages. These two stakeholders are both committed to appealing to the government about the minimum wage but have opposing goals. However, common ground exists between 15NOW and NFIB since both organizations have local chapters that serve their members. For instance, 15NOW has local chapters in 17 states and NFIB are in each of the 50 states and are committed to helping their members locally (15NOW.org). Also, both stakeholders are concerned with the impact that big business has on people and the economy. For instance, 15NOW proposes that big business and large corporations take advantage of minimum wage workers (15NOW.org). NFIB fights for small business rights and states that regulations that come about as a result of big operations harm the small business industry (NFIB.com). Therefore, both stakeholders share the Karabeyoglu 4 belief that large corporations and big business industries negatively impact the minimum wage worker and the small business owner. Building upon this common ground, both organizations could benefit from a compromise. 15NOW and NFIB could compromise by agreeing to collaborate with one another to advocate for the minimum wage worker and the small business owner. Proposing an increase to the minimum wage but excluding small businesses of less than 500 employees from this mandate could do this. 15NOW could compromise by advocating for the patronage of small businesses and lead a boycott on big business, which would help small business owners. NFIB could compromise by advocating for an increase in minimum wage for businesses with more than 500 employees to help the minimum wage worker. This is a viable compromise because both organizations advocate for each causes while making gains to their own causes. In addition, research shows that big corporations can afford to pay their workers more, but an increase in minimum wage harms small businesses. For instance, the fast-food industry has a high concentration of low-wage workers and research of this industry shows the fast-food industry, adjust to a $15 federal minimum wage without generating employment losses (Pollin & Wicks-Lim 720). Big corporations could accommodate an increase in minimum wage which 15NOW advocates for and excludes small businesses from a detrimental impact to their operations. 15NOW and NFIB are two stakeholders that can compromise to increase wages who are employed by large corporations. In conclusion, 15NOW and NFIB are two organizations that are invested in the outcome of the pressure to increase the minimum wage. Even though these two stakeholders oppose one agenda, they do have common ground in that they both believe big corporations negatively impact their interests. By sharing this common ground, 15NOW and NFIB can work Karabeyoglu 5 together to compromise by proposing an increase in minimum wage for businesses that have more than 500 employees. Businesses of this size have the capacity to pay their workers more than the current minimum wage and 15NOW and NFIB can work together to highlight this to the American public. Karabeyoglu 6 Works Cited 15  15 Now. N.p., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. 15NOW.org Deutch, Breaana. Groups Rally Against Minimum Wage The Daily Caller. 5 June 2014. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. http://dailycaller.com/2014/05/06/business-groups-rally-against-minimum-wage-hikes/ Hillary Clinton on income and minimum wage: Reality Check team vets the  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Moore, James S. Increasing the Federal Minimum Wage: An Implications Side-Bar  Mom and   Journal of Collective Negotiations (formerly Journal of Collective Negotiations in the Public Sector) 32.1 (2008): 19-31. Federation of Independent NFIB. N.p., 2017. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. http://www.nfib.com Pollin, Robert, and Jeannette Wicks-Lim. A $15 U.S. Minimum Wage: How The Fast- Food Industry Could Adjust Without Shedding  Journal Of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe Inc.) 50.3 (2016): 716-744. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.