Kish 1 Natalie Kish Andrew de Carion ENC 1102-086 11 February 2017 Naturopathic vs. Clinical Medicine When you visit the doctor, what kind of treatment do you receive? Have you ever realized the vast variety of available treatment methods? It is no surprise that some doctors prefer more natural methods while others would rather utilize the latest advancements in medical technology. Many doctors disagree with the opposing perspective and may not even acknowledge those methods as effective. The American Association of Naturopathic Physicians (AANP) seeks to improve the health of the public through naturopathic medicine. On the other hand, the American Medical Association (AMA) is moving toward advancements in medical technology and believes that these advancements are the superior methods of healing. These two organizations have very different visions as to how medical care should be provided; however, they do share a common goal: the health and well-being of patients nationwide. The AANP and the AMA must work together in creating comprehensive treatments that equally incorporate natural and clinical medicine to improve public health even if they do not completely agree with the treatment components. The American Association of Naturopathic Physicians is an organization comprised of doctors who share the belief that naturopathic medicine is the ideal therapeutic path. Naturopathic medicine can be defined as treatment through the use of therapeutic methods and an emphasis on self-healing. This approach allows naturopathic doctors to take each Kish 2 characteristics and needs into account during the treatment process (Definition of Naturopathic Medicine). This type of medicine includes practices such as nutritional medicine, botanical medicine, and counseling. Patients who seek out this type of treatment are often looking for an alternative to prior treatments they have received that may have been ineffective. Different illnesses treated by naturopathic physicians range from something as simple as hormonal imbalances and chronic pain to respiratory conditions and heart disease (What is a Naturopathic Doctor?). Part of the mission is to increase awareness about this alternative field and have naturopathic medicine be recognized as a legitimate form of medicine by the public. These steps are aimed at the goal of having more physicians employed by the year 2025 (Visions and Goals). The American Medical Association is composed of clinical physicians from a variety of different fields. These doctors employ methods of treatment that the general public is very familiar with such as vaccines, antibiotics, and other types of prescription medications. Clinical physicians treat ailments such as the common cold or sinus infection and severe chronic illnesses such as cancer. In some cases, a specialist physician may need to be consulted for proper treatment. The AMA also funds research and innovation with the hopes of generating the latest advancements in medical technology (Innovation to Improve Health Care). In addition to their efforts on the research front, the AMA concerns themselves with the prevention and treatment of illness. By partnering with various other organizations, the AMA is working to prevent chronic diseases such as heart disease and diabetes. They are also making strides toward the prevention of opioid abuse (Delivering Care). The AMA utilizes their research findings to deliver the best care possible for patients nationwide. Kish 3 While naturopathic doctors are very qualified and treat some of the same ailments as clinical physicians, there is a generalization among the public that more natural treatment methods are not very effective and the doctors providing those treatments are somewhat incompetent. This has caused a divide between the two fields of medicine. However, this generalization holds no merit; many individuals take part in naturopathic treatments without even realizing it. Dietary supplements, such as antacids or multivitamins, count as naturopathic medicine because they fall under nutritional science. It has been observed that more than fifty percent of adults in the United States had taken some form of dietary supplement within thirty days of being asked (Gahche, J et al.). This study, as well as numerous others, has disclosed that multivitamins are the most common form of dietary supplements that are consumed. The generalizations about naturopathic doctors is purely the result of a lack of knowledge on this alternative form of medicine. Another reason, perhaps the most controversial, for the divide between clinical physicians and naturopathic physicians: vaccines. A study conducted by Eizayaga and Waisse demonstrated that over thirty percent of naturopathic physicians that responded to an online questionnaire would never recommend the vaccines influenza, HPV, and rotavirus to any of their patients (183). In the case of influenza, over fifty percent indicated that they would not recommend the vaccine to any of their patients. The vaccination for the influenza virus, more commonly known as the flu, is perhaps the most popular and vital vaccine in the modern age. The reason given for naturopathic physicians not willing to recommend such necessary vaccines to their patients was the possibility of deleterious side effects (Eizayaga and Waisse 184). This controversy has led to a gap between naturopathic and clinical medicine. Kish 4 In order for naturopathic medicine to be recognized as a valid form of healing and for patients to receive the best care possible, the AANP and the AMA must work together to form treatment methods that encompass both types of medicine. Also, the doctors who adhere to the principles of each organization must be just as willing to participate in the compromise. While both categories of doctors do not agree with the methods, they must try and look past these differences in order to come to a balance. In the case of clinical physicians, they would recommend more natural methods in addition to their usual treatments. Alternately, naturopathic physicians would recommend seeking prescription medications and vaccines. In order for the doctors to not feel like they are forcing this change on their patients, they would recommend the alternative treatment if the usual methods do not work. It is reasonable to assume that a clinical physician would not be well versed in naturopathic medicine and vice versa. In order to mend the gap between these two types of medicines conferences would be held to educate doctors on the form of medicine they are not familiar with. Both types of doctors would host meetings to come up with treatments that would include both types of medicine. For example, clinical practices would advertise the sale of naturopathic remedies at their office. At naturopathic clinics, they would offer referrals to clinical physicians if the situation warrants it. Another important aspect of this compromise is the patients. If the change is too rapid, it might drive the patients away. In order to prevent this, doctors must notify patients of the coming change well in advance. Notices would be posted around the office and e-mails sent out to patients notifying them of the coming change. In doing so, it prevents shocking the patients and causing them to change practices. The AANP and the AMA would of course be at the foreground of the compromise. They would be the spokesperson for the doctors who side with each kind of medicine. Each organization would publish an article on their website detailing the Kish 5 integration as well as hold press conferences. Having a well-renowned organization involved would certainly help bring the compromise into effect. This would be a very feasible compromise because it is already happening now. In the study conducted by Graham et al. a questionnaire was sent out to parents of patients at a pediatric otolaryngology clinic. The results revealed that seventy percent of parents had sought some form of naturopathic medicine in the past, and over forty percent were using it at the time of the survey. In addition, most of the parents that utilized naturopathic medicine had a child that suffered from a chronic illness (Graham et al. 722). It has already been validated that when clinical medicine does not prove effective, patients will transition to naturopathic medicine. As shown above, the American Association of Naturopathic Physicians and the American Medical Association have very different opinions on the optimal method of treatment. However, they both share the common goal of the health and well-being of their patients. If the organizations could form a partnership and showcase that naturopathic and clinical medicine could be implemented in unison, it would provide the public with the best health care possible. With combined research, proper education on the matter, and the AANP and the AMA at the forefront, the compromise is sure to hold its own. This partnership could open up a world of possibilities for disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. Kish 6 Works Cited of Naturopathic American Association of Naturopathic Physicians. 2016, www.naturopathic.org/content.asp?contentid=59. Web. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. American Medical Association. 2016, www.ama-assn.org/ delivering-care. Web. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Eizayaga, E. and Waisse, Silvia 2016. do homeopathic doctors think of vaccines? An international online Homeopathy, Vol. 105, No. 2, p. 180-185. ScienceDirect. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Farina, Emily K. et al. Dietary Supplement and Prescription Medication Use Is Prevalent among US Adults with Doctor-Informed Medical Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics No. 11. (2014): 1784-1790. Creative Commons. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Graham, M. Elise, et al. and alternative medicine use among patients presenting to a pediatric otolaryngology International Journal of Pediatric Otorhinolaryngology No. 77. (2013): 721-725. ScienceDirect. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. to Improve American Medical Association. 2016, www.ama- assn.org/ama-initiatives. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. and American Association of Naturopathic Physicians. 2016, www.naturopathic.org/content.asp?contentid=19. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. is a Naturopathic American Association of Naturopathic Physicians. 2016, www.naturopathic.org/content.asp?contentid=60. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017.