Pellissier 1 Olivia Pellissier Erika Staiger ENC 1102 10 February 2017 Deforestation in the Amazon The Amazon Rainforest is the largest forest in the world, while also being home to many species of plants and animals region is home to 10 percent of plant and animal species known on With this large abundance of biodiversity it is clear that there will be some conflict when the forest becomes disrupted. Many organizations, including Greenpeace, are against logging in the Amazon and are working towards a solution to stop deforestation. work with local groups in the Amazon and people like you around the world to tackle the root causes of forest destruction in the The Amazon is very important to the world and the people, no matter which region the people live in. The main reason deforestation occurs in the Amazon is because of the Brazilian government. figures attributed 38 percent of deforestation from 1966-1975 to large-scale cattle (Mongabay). It is simple, the forested lands do not have much value and once the lands are cleared, the pastureland will produce a large amount of revenue from cattle ranching and farming (Mongabay). The Amazon Rainforest has been a popular landmark for money-hungry organizations which is why both Greenpeace and the Brazilian government were at odds with each other about deforestation. However, both groups agree that the rainforest is being destroyed way too quickly and there needs to be some regulations set in place, such as providing better maintenance to pasturelands. By maintaining the pasturelands better, cattle grazers will keep away from disrupting the forested lands. Pellissier 2 Greenpeace is committed to saving the environment in many ways, including stopping deforestation and destruction in the Amazon. the past few years, gained significant ground in getting major companies to move toward forest-friendly business Reasons Stopping Deforestation (Still) It seems as though Greenpeace has made a significant impact and deforestation is completely coming to an end, but unfortunately that is not what is happening. Dangerous threats to the forests have only been increasing over the years Reasons Stopping Deforestation (Still) the past 40 years, the Brazilian Amazon lost more than 18 perfect of its rainforest to illegal According to Greenpeace, there are many ways to solve the deforestation problem in the Amazon and across the world. To begin, there are companies responsible for deforestation in the Amazon and if they have the power to cause damage then they also have the power to prevent damage to These companies have the ability to set limits on their products and promote a cleaner alternative to prevent harmful impacts on the environment. By promoting more sustainable options, such as recycled wood products, Greenpeace hopes to move towards zero deforestation for the future to Another way to solve the issue of deforestation in the Amazon is to stand up to the government. By standing up to the government and informing them about the detrimental effects deforestation has on the environment, there will hopefully be an end to deforestation and conservation laws will be enforced to The importance of saving the Amazon is because deforestation is the leading cause of carbon emissions in the environment and according the Greenpeace, more carbon released into the atmosphere will lead to a warmer Earth which is harmful to all living organisms Greenpeace fights against the ones responsible for disrupting the forests in order to create a more sustainable environment for everyone. Pellissier 3 The Brazilian government, just like any other government around the world, has a large voice in what happens around the country. The problem with deforestation in the Amazon is due to the increase in government incentives like infrastructure spending and producing commodities such as beef and soy (Mongabay). The Amazon is being stripped away due to new roads being built and areas for cattle to be produced in order to supply for the economy. The Brazilain government was said to be the organization most responsible for deforestation among the Amazon (Balakrishnan). Cattle ranching accounts for 70 percent of deforestation in the Amazon and is the leading cause of destruction to the forest (Mongabay). With such a high demand for meat, there needs to be wide ranges of land to raise the cattle and the Amazon has the perfect thriving source of vegetation (Mongabay). A report mentioned that the Brazilian government faced charges relating to illegal logging of the Amazon due to rising food demands and rising prices (Balakrishnan). More land was needed to be cleared in order to produce more crops and raise more cattle. campaigners blamed the global spike in food prices for pushing soy farmers and cattle ranchers to clear more land for crops and (Balakrishnan). Even though the Brazilian government is the reason for land grazing in the Amazon, they have been cracking down on deforestation in order to help the environment (Mongabay). The most reasonable compromise for both Greenpeace and the Brazilian government in order for food production to still occur in the economy and deforestation to decrease, would be to offer better care for pasturelands (Yang). By providing better land management to the pasturelands, the government will no longer need the Amazon as a source of land to raise cattle. land management could double productivity of pasturelands compared to conventional practices, thereby reducing the pressure to cut down more (Yang). Better land Pellissier 4 management includes planting healthier grass more frequently and changing the soil in order to unlock more nutrients to make the lands a more suitable place to raise cattle (Yang). The Amazon is home to 10 percent of the species of plants and animals on Earth due to its flourished source of land With Brazil being the largest supplier of beef in the world, there needs to be areas of land that can easily support the raising of cattle (Yang). By implementing this new strategy to take better care of the pasturelands, the cattle will be able to thrive just as well as they would in the Amazon without having to cause destruction to the forest. Deforestation across the Amazon has been a contentious debate for decades, but by introducing the compromise of providing better care for pasturelands, both stakeholders will benefit. This compromise will improve the environment by protecting the Amazon from increased carbon emissions from deforestation. Cattle ranching will still be successful in Brazil and the economy will still prosper without losing product. Pellissier 5 Works Cited Amazon  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/forests/amazon-rainforest/> Balakrishnan, Angela. Brazilian Government Faces Criminal Charges over Amazon  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 30 Sept. 2008. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2008/sep/30/forests.brazil> Mongabay. Amazon  Mongabay.com. N.p., 23 Jan. 2016. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Solutions to  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/forests/solutions-to-deforestation/> Yang, Sarah Media Relations April 28, 2014July 9, 2015, and Sarah Yang. Study Shows How Brazilian Cattle Ranching Policies Can Reduce  Berkeley News. N.p., 09 July 2015. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <http://news.berkeley.edu/2014/04/28/brazil-cattle-ranching-deforestation/> 6 Reasons Stopping Deforestation (Still)  Greenpeace USA. N.p., 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/6-reasons-stopping-deforestation-still-matters/> Pellissier 6