Nguyen 1 Nhi Ha Phuong Nguyen Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 February 12, 2017 Alternatives for Animal Testing In the research field, there are a variety of procedures used to perform different tests. Due to the abundance of methods, some people will prefer one technique more than the others. While some organizations believe that animal testing is essential for research, others consider this act as unnecessary. Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine (PCRM) and Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR) conflict with each other, since these organizations want to achieve different goals. PCRM promotes a vegan lifestyle and prevents the use of animals for testing. On the other hand, FBR believes that research and animal testing are essential to finding cures for diseases and life-altering illnesses in people and (Biomedical Research). Both organizations may not share the same beliefs, but they all care about the well-being of humans. While PCRM and FBR have different points of view on animal testing, these organizations can work together to develop alternatives in order to resolve the contention and save thousands of human and animal lives. The primary goal of PCRM is to educate people about animal testing and prevent the use of animals in research. According to PCRM, animals subjected to painful procedures or toxic (Frequently Asked Questions About Animal Experimentation Issues). Since the animal subjects are exposed to a lot of noxious chemicals in various laboratory techniques, it may be extremely hard for animals to survive. Moreover, the repeated painful procedures may damage the mental health of the animal subjects by causing them stress each time these methods Nguyen 2 are performed. According to Balcombe et al in the article routines cause animal changes in physiologic parameters correlated with stress pressure. . . were associated with all. . . procedures in multiple (42). Many people argue that animals should not be used for testing due to the side effects of laboratory routines. Some scientists also state that it is unnecessary to use animals for research, since there are significant differences between animals and humans. According to PETA, experiments on animals are not relevant to human health, they do not contribute meaningfully to medical advances for curing (Animal Testing Is Bad Science: Point/Counterpoint). Based on the differences between humans and animals, many scientists believe it is not safe to use animals for testing medicine. According to Pippin from the article Failure of Animal Tests of COX-2 animal test is potentially dangerous to evaluate drugs for humans (3). Therefore, PCRM does not support animal testing procedure. Unlike PCRM, FBR believes it is necessary to use animals for testing. This organization argues that animal research can help find treatment to serious diseases, resulting in saving the lives of many people. According to FBR, testing is essential for understanding the safety and proper dosages of new medicines and (Biomedical Research). Without the use of animals, it may be challenging for scientists to know how certain diseases and medicines potentially affect humans. According to Garattini and Giuliano in the article testing is still the best way to find new treatments for studies have led to the production of drugs that have affected the epidemiology of human pathology, contributing to prolonging (3). Scientists successfully found treatments to a wide array of diseases because of animal testing in their research. Furthermore, the living conditions of animal subjects should not be a concern, because well-treated animals will provide more accurate and reliable results. According Nguyen 3 to FBR, for lab animals are more extensive than those for human research (Animal Testing Regulations). PCRM and FBR have not come to a resolution yet because FBR sees no alternative method for researching a complete living organism. In contrast, PCRM states that it is cruel and inhumane to experiment on animals. In addition, PCRM believes that the vast difference in animal and human lives often yields inaccurate results. As a result of the ongoing disagreement between the two organizations, PCRM and FBR have not worked together to develop alternatives to animal testing and cannot come up with a solution. While PCRM and FBR have different beliefs, both organizations want to develop new drugs or treatment to save lives. Both organizations believe that through research, it is possible to study and find treatment to serious disorders. Without the help of animals, scientists are still able to study and track the progress of some diseases such as or cancer (About the Physicians Clinical Research Department). On the other hand, some scientists use animal testing to understand and learn more about the side effects of new medicines (Biomedical Research). It is clear that PCRM and FBR use different methods when doing research, however, these organizations share a common ground. Both PCRM and FBR want to study disorders and find new treatment to save human lives. Since PCRM and FBR share a common ground, it is possible that both organizations can potentially work together to develop alternatives such as computer simulation to prevent animal testing in research. These organizations want to save more people by developing new treatments. In spite of concerns that animal testing will kill the animal subjects, FBR sees that it will be difficult to study and understand how a disease works without the help of animals. Therefore, computer simulation method is a mutual beneficial solution. Developing computer Nguyen 4 simulation to prevent the use of animal in research is feasible because scientists have worked on this project for years. According to Arora et al in the article of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of teams around the world are working on a which is designed to predict drug metabolism and metabolite interaction with any given (1). Moreover, computer simulation may also reduce the time of testing in laboratory. According to Arora et al, can simulate experiments in silico (on computer) in minutes that could take months or years to do in the lab or (2). This method can actually save time and animal lives. Developing computer simulation to prevent animal testing is a workable compromise because PCRM and FBR benefit from this solution. Both organizations will be able to study diseases and find new treatment without the help of animals. If these organizations succeed in developing the program, animals will not be need for research anymore. This outcome favors the goal of PCRM since the aim of this organization is to prevent the use of animal in research. FBR also benefits from this compromise because computer simulation saves time and is a potential alternative to animal testing. According to Arora et al, computer simulation can provide the that animal models will never be able to (1). All the benefits that each group will receive from the computer simulation will make this compromise viable. While computer simulation seems to bring many benefits to both PCRM and FBR, this program is still developing. In the meantime, other alternatives such as cell culture or donated human tissues to study certain diseases, such as can be used (Alternatives to Animal Testing). Animals testing will still be helpful to study and find treatment for diseases when needed. Ultimately, while PCRM and FBR disagree on animal testing in research and use Nguyen 5 different methods to achieve research goals, they share a common ground. Both organizations want to save lives and care about the well-being of humans. By working together to develop a computer simulation, it is possible that animals will no longer be needed in research. This compromise is practical, since each group will receive benefits. In the meantime, while the program is still developing, both organizations can utilize other alternatives such as cell culture and donated human tissues. Due to the limitation of current alternatives, animal testing will still be very helpful when doing research. Nguyen 6 Works Cited About the Physicians Clinical Research  Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine. The Physicians Committee, 15 July 2015. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Animal Testing Is Bad Science:  PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals- used-for-experimentation/animal-testing-bad-science. Accessed 11 February 2017. Testing  Foundation for Biomedical Research, fbresearch.org/animal- care/animal-testing-regulations. Accessed 11 February 2017. Alternatives to Animal  Cruelty Free International. www.crueltyfreeinternational.org/why-we-do-it/alternatives-animal-testing. Accessed 11 February 2017. Arora, T., A. K. Mehta, V. Joshi, K. D. Mehta, N. Rathor, P. K. Mediratta, and K. K. Sharma. Substitute of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of  Indian Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences 73.1 (2011): 1-6. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Balcombe, Jonathan P., Neal D. Barnade, and Chad Sandusky. Laboratory Routines Cause Animal  43.6 (2004): 42-51. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Biomedical  Foundation for Biomedical Research, fbresearch.org/biomedical- research. Accessed 11 February 2017. Frequently Asked Questions About Animal Experimentation  The Physicians Committee, 13 July 2015, www.pcrm.org/research/animaltestalt/animaltesting/faqs- animal-experimentation-issues. Accessed 11 February 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Animal Testing Is Still the Best Way to Find New Treatments for  European Journal of Internal Medicine. 1 Dec. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Nguyen 7 Pippin, John J. The Failure of Animal Tests of COX-2  The Need for Revision of Pre-Market Testing. 17 Feb. 2005. Web. 11 Feb. 20