Bearor 1 Elizabeth Bearor ENC 1102.22 Adam Phillips 26 February 2017 Opting Out of Standardized Tests: Your Options At one point or another each and everyone of us has taken a standardized test in our schooling days. Weather it was the FCAT, SAT or ACT we all have experienced the high amount of stress that comes along with it. State mandated standardized tests like the FCAT begin annually from a young age. These tests can cause a high amount of stress because of the high stakes of them. An organization named sets out to reduce and improve the quality of these tests. They realize the flaws within all standardized tests and attempt to release as much information as they can to parents of students. With this negative information pertaining to standardized tests parents are encouraged to pull their kids out of these tests also commonly referred to as FairTest promotes opting out by using advertisements on their website, and through the use of the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, they can educate parents on the issues of standardized testing. Using ethos FairTest establishes credibility in both image 1 and 2 by giving the reader a website (www.fairtest.org) to visit for more information on the images. In image 1 FairTest presents some of the issues having to do with standardized tests and a description of how they affect students on each. This establishes Bearor 2 credibility because parents can use this information to further their research on standardized tests that they may not have thought of before. Image 1 also presents a solution to all the listed problems allowing the reader to be able to make a change when they read this advertisement. In the middle of the first image main organizations goals are presented making the image more credable. Image 2 not only presents credibility by giving the FairTest website to allow the reader to further research but also gives the reader 8 ways to fight against standardized testing. Some of these 8 options are common ways that one may use to fight against something that is state or federally mandated. The options that the reader may not have thought of can present more credibility for the advertisement. Image 2 does not present any outlandish or unrealistic ideas for the fight against standardized testing making them credible. Not only through the use of ethos but, also pathos, parents of students can evaluate both image 1 and 2. Image 1 appeals to pathos by making parents angry about how poorly their students are being treated during standardized tests. Some students, and according to Dylan Wiliams, around 10% are not strong test takers, leading to an inaccurate score (Wiliams 108). This can create a major issue with stress among these students. These main points are presented in the first image by FairTest. In image 1 all of the main negative points are in red, drawing the attention to them. The solution presented in image 1 is in a blue circle in the middle letting the reader see that there is a way to fight against the standardized tests their kids are taking. This can lead them Bearor 3 to viewing image 2 and can give them hope that they can make a difference against their schooling experience. The points in image 2 are in a softer blue color making them more appealing to the eye. The scantron test in the background can evoke emotions for the parents that have taken standardized tests and can remind them of the stress they endured taking them. Not only did both these images evoke emotion but they also may have taught the reader something new about standardized test they may have not known before. Image 1 appeals to logos, logic or reason, by presenting all the ways standardized tests can harm students that parents may not have previously known about. Parents may have thought that their kids were overreacting about the stress they were under during the time of standardized testing but this image might change their mind. The parents of students also may not have know that standardized tests were at all harmful and thought that they were helpful. The circle in the middle of image 1 presents ways that standardized tests could be improved, but yet implemented. This can lead the reader to look into more ways they can improve testing quality. This research could very well lead them to image 2. Image 2 appeals to logos by giving the reader all the ways that they can fight against standardized tests that they may not have thought of before. Parents may have been against standardized tests but still made their children take them because they thought there was nothing they could do. After seeing image 2 parents may take action against standardized testing at a local level or to a state level that they may not have done before. They also may discuss these issues with others that also had no idea the repercussions of standardized tests on their children, continuing the cycle. The most important part of all advertisements is for them to be relevant to the person evaluating them. Both images may not necessarily be relevant to people who have school Bearor 4 age children or if the reader in school themselves. But, everyone can fight against the unfairness of standardized tests at anytime, as image 2 promotes. In image 2 the appeal to kairos, or timeliness is evident. A person at any time can talk to friends about testing unfairness to get the message out or write a letter to their local or state representative, as stated in image 2. FairTest also gives ways parents can help their children during the times standardized tests are given. One option image 2 gives is that parents can take their kids out of these tests every year so they have to experience unnecessary unfairness and stress. Image 1 also appeals to kairos by giving the reader other testing options in all caps, promoting urgency. There are also a lot of negative points in all red making the reader focus on them, possibly making them want to make a change. Many of the facts presented can upset parents making them want to protect their kids against the unfairness of standardized tests. Standardized tests are a big deal for students every year. Many young kids experience immense stress during these times which can lead to inaccurate scores. FairTest sets out to change the quality of standardized tests for all. This is evident in both image 1 and 2 presented by FairTest by the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. First, FairTest is a credible organization that sets out to make standardized tests more fair and holding teachers accountable through other methods. The facts presented in image 1 may make parents feel angry that their kids are being so mistreated by schools and state legislators, presenting an appeal to pathos. This could very well make them want to act now against the unfairness, appealing to kairos. Facts in both image 1 and 2 appeal to logos by presenting very logical facts against standardized tests and for ways to fight against these tests. Overall standardized testing can be greatly improved and very much should be if we want accurate, measurable, scores. Bearor 5 Works Cited Ways To Fight High-Stakes Testing FairTest.com, 22 Jan. 2013, http://www.fairtest.org/factsheets?page=1 Wrong With Standardized Tests FairTest.com, 12 Dec. 2012, http://www.fairtest.org/factsheets?page=1 Wiliam, Dylan. Standardized Testing And School  Psychologist 45.2 (2010): 107-122. Search Premier . Web. 12 Feb. 2017.