Cardoso, 1 Juliana Rocha Cardoso Professor Erika ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Should fossil fuel companies make the switch to renewable energy? In recent years, the United States of America has been affected by climate change that is happening around the world, such as global warming. The increase in temperature is cause by a natural phenomenon, but it is accelerated by human actions by burning fossil fuels like gasoline, coal and diesel in car, thermoelectric and industries are generating carbon dioxide (CO2), one of the most dangerous gases, causing the Greenhouse effect. Knowing the great importance of atmosphere to life on the planet, it can be imagines what changes in its composition can lead to life on Earth. There are several corporations trying to combat the effects of global warming caused mainly by oil companies. The Environmental Protection Agency also known as EPA, is one of the main stakeholders in this cause and it has been trying to implement solutions and present ideas to oil companies such as Exxon Mobil. Oil companies are one of the biggest contributors to increasing global temperatures. Both, EPA and Exxon Mobil agrees that a greater emphasis on cleaner, alternative sources of energy in the need to delay the upward incline of global temperatures, but on the other hand, turning to renewable energies and natural gas is more expensive and less profitable for the big oil companies. Though Exxon Mobil is opposed to implementing measures to slow global warming and the EPA is for such measures, a compromise could potentially be reached by emphasizing the use of cleaner energy still being economically conscious. Cardoso, 2 The Environmental Protection Agency has been fighting against global warming. EPA has been taking several common-sense steps to address the challenge of climate change. EPA has been fighting to reduce the greenhouse has emission and it is promoting the idea of a clean energy economy. EPA is working on partnering up with the Private Sector and expanding the common-sense regulatory initiatives. According to the EPA website, this partnership reduced over 345 million metric tons of greenhouse gases, equivalent to the emission from 81 million vehicles. As Walter Russell Mead and Jamie Horgan argue in their article, most of the electricity that is used in day-to-day life comes from petroleum, coal, natural gas and uranium, which, besides being non-renewable energy sources, they cause serious environmental impacts to nature, contributing to the aggravation of environmental problems, such as global warming and destruction of the ozone layer, for example (Russell and Horgan). According to EPA, global warming has already had a variety of effects and also that global warming is a reality, and if nothing is done, it will have catastrophic consequences not only for the human specie but also for the biodiversity and ecosystem. That is why EPA works to pressure governments and businesses to cut greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible. Exxon Mobil is the largest international oil and gas company. The company has been accused of lying about its action and promoting climate misinformation. Exxon Mobil has opposed regulation about the stopping of global warming. In their official website is endorsed how they are for taking actions to reduce greenhouse gas emission in its operations, helping consumers reduce their emissions, supporting research that leads to technology breakthrough and participating in constructive dialogue on policy options (Exxon Mobil). It has been argued over the years that Exxon Mobil has been lying and omitting its true actions towards global warming. The environmentalist Bill McKibben states, Exxon organize the most consequential lie Cardoso, 3 in human and also the Hillary Clinton, the democratic presidential candidate said, There is a lot of evidence that they (Exxon) misled Exxon Mobil was threated to be sued over climate change cover-up by the environmental advocacy group Conservation Law Foundation. The Conservation Law Foundation (CLF) has been fighting over 50 years to find lasting solutions to environmental challenges. It is also argued that not only ExxonMobil but other big oil companies knew about global warming 40 years ago and they have been trying to deceive the public about the realities of climate change. According Shannon Hall Exxon was aware of climate change, as early as 1977, 11 years before it became a public issue (Hall). A new investigation shows that the oil and gas company knew and understood the science of climate change and spent millions of dollars to promote misinformation. Those facts bring up a big question, if of all that can be true. A trusted American company plans to deceive the public? According to the National Public Radio (NPR) website, the leaders of ExxonMobil and other oil companies want to maximize profit. This is not surprising, given that this is what any company wants to do. The more profitable a company, the more valuable it is and the more assets it has. This is the so-called bottom line, which, put simply, is the balance sheet of the company: The more it makes, the more its shareholders make (Marcelo Gleiser). A company cannot be blamed for doing what it is supposed to do. Exxon Mobil claims to be reducing the emissions of greenhouse gas and EPA is entirely in favor of it. They both agree that a strategy needs to be created to respond the climate change. The cost and benefit needs to be weighted before effective climate change measures can be reached. It is said on the Exxon Mobil website that they are entirely committed to sharing ideas about climate change in a deeper level and engaging in a dialogue with governments and the Cardoso, 4 public (Exxon Mobil). The EPA also encourages methods to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. On the basis of this common ground, a compromise could be created to satisfy both the EPA and Exxon Mobil. Both stakeholders could likely agree upon a ten-year goal to switch over from oil to natural gas as energy. Exxon Mobil thinks it is affordable to use natural gas as a resource and EPA thinks it is better than using oil. Exxon Mobil and EPA believe that the transition to natural gas will be affordable and efficient (Exxon Mobil). Also, the emission of CO2 from natural gas is a lot lower, which would be agreeable to both, EPA and Exxon Mobil. Though the interests of these two stakeholders vary significantly, common ground can still be found. The main interest of the EPA is to protect the environment and fight against global warming, while the overall goal of Exxon Mobil is to increase profits and productivity. Still, both stakeholders believe that something must be done to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To satisfy both sides, a ten-year goal to switch over from oil to natural gas as energy resource could be implemented. Exxon Mobil could still produce profits and climate change would be slowed significantly, addressing the desires of both EPA and Exxon Mobil. Cardoso, 5 Work Cited Dlouhy, Jennifer A. For Oil Drillers, Obama Methane Rule Is Worse Than  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 12 May 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-05-12/for-oil-drillers-obama-methane- rule-is-worse-than-proposed>. Jones, Enesta. EPA Releases First-Ever Standards to Cut Methane Emissions from the Oil and Gas  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 12 May 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-releases-first-ever-standards-cut-methane- emissions-oil-and-gas-sector>. Mead, Walter Russell, and Jamie Horgan. Can Big Oil Go  The American Interest. Identity Crisis, 01 June 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.the-american- interest.com/2015/06/01/can-big-oil-go-green/>. Steffy, Loren. Alternative Energy And Big Oil: Poor Returns Versus  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 28 June 2013. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.forbes.com/sites/lorensteffy/2013/06/28/alternative-energy-and-big-oil- poor-returns-versus-lies/>. Fighting the Clean Power Plan and EPA Action on Climate  Union of Concerned Scientists. UCSUSA, 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ucsusa.org/global-warming/fight-misinformation/whos-fighting-clean- power-plan-and-epa-action-climate#.WIEi-rYrJPM>. Cardoso, 6 Learn more about  ExxonMobil. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://corporate.exxonmobil.com/>. Gleiser, Marcelo. ExxonMobil Vs. The  NPR. NPR, 30 Nov. 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/sections/13.7/2016/11/30/503825417/exxonmobil-vs-the-world>.