Rataj 1 Richard Rataj Professor Erika Staiger English 1102 January 28, 2017 Environmental Protection and the Potential for Exploitation With the rise of globalization, greater competition has arisen, and developing nations cannot keep up, leading to exploitation. Recently, many trade organizations such as the World Trade Organization, or WTO, have been criticized for their lack of acceptance and awareness of the environmental problems, as seen during the 1999 Seattle protests(Burton). The WTO websites states that it sees its function is to ensure that trade flows as smoothly, predictably and freely as (WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION). Alternatively, a leading supporter in the protection of the environment is the Greenpeace Organization, who have heavily criticized the WTO for favoring the exploitation of developing nations. Greenpeace advocates for greater protection of the environment across the globe as a non-governmental organization. The increase in globalization and globalized trade is leading to corporate power and unsustainable use of resources (What exactly is global trade?). As a country grows and develops, exploitation becomes prevalent. A dispute between if environmental or economic growth is more important becomes pressing, yet both Greenpeace and the WTO want to see an increase in the power status of all peoples and nations. Trade helps an economy to grow, but it leads to the destruction of the environment, which may potentially become irreversible. If a nation cannot grow a sustainable economy, they become susceptible to exploitation from outside sources. The WTO can incentivize the use of renewable resources in developing countries when Rataj 2 producing goods, so long as it is sustainable. This may not lead to a global change in the production of energy, but helps create a starting block to develop the process of more sustainable practices, and can help an economy grow to limit to potential of exploitation. Trade organizations tend to favor the furthering development of trade through classic capitalism, where a completive market exists to ensure the best products for the best prices. In many developing and underdeveloped nations, industrialization needs to become more prevalent to help drive their completive place in a global arena. The WTO does not see themselves as an environmental protection agency, meaning that they should not have a say in the environmental regulations that take place globally. The structure is based on a number of fundamental norms, of which reciprocity and non-discrimination are the most important(Falkner) helping to limit exploitation and provide an even ground for all nations. Jose Olsen, the former President of Costa Rica, argues that a need for more dialogue between developing and developed nations. countries need a rule-based multilateral system. Some argue that they probably need it more than the developed countries because they are much which can help to create the even ground, and stop exploitation and corruption taking hold(Olsen). It can be argued that by allowing these nations to go through the developing process, albeit in a non-environmentally friendly way, like the United States and many European nations did, these nations can reach a status and reach high enough growth that they can contribute to the protection and cleanup of the environment (Falkner). By imposing environmental restrictions on developing nations, they cannot grow out of the developing stage, being stuck forever, leading to further exploitation by developed nations. The WTO looks to reduce this cycle of exploitation. Developed nations have stronger diplomatic ties, meaning which leads to the development of trade deals between developed nations, excluding developing nations. Rataj 3 Humanities pressure on the environment is at an all-time high, and without action permanent damage may arise. It is impossible to predict what this may mean for society as it exists today, and many do not want to gamble with fate. Deborah James, a Director of International Programs of Center for Economic and Policy Research sees the development of these trade organizations to further exploitation. As human population grows, the need for resources across the globe becomes prevalent, and organizations such as the WTO exists to make sure these resources are traded fairly for all. However, tariffs in natural resources would dramatically increase their because of the fact that now they are encouraged to be traded with any form of checks and balances(James). Greenpeace urges for these organizations and corporations to look at the damage being done to the environment, and realize that they can and should have a say in helping save the global community from potential disaster. By continuing to invest in trade organizations that disregard the environment, irreversible damages may be done(James). Unsustainable practices lead to growth only for those corporations at the top, and the global biodiversity is decreasing due to deforestation and poaching, both consequences of the incentivizing of a global completive market. Greenpeace put out a paper discussing a specific example of this exploitation, specifically in terms of overfishing. In the competitive market profit margins as a result of intense competition in turn increase the economic incentives to engage in illegal fishing as a way to provide a better return on leading to the exploitation of developed nations over developing nations(Exporting Exploitation). Due to the advent of trading organizations allowing for an increase in free trade, developing nations open themselves up to exploitation in order to make quick money, and do not invest the money back into the nation to help it grow. They destroy the environment in unsustainable ways, and rather Rataj 4 than becoming more competitive and limiting exploitation, they open themselves up to exploitation to gain profits. Hopefully, a sustainable global economy can arise for all nations without any one nation exploited others or any one nation to fall to being exploited. Sustainable practices can lead to being the most competitive over time for any nation, however many countries are currently in a position so far behind others that without the ability to participate in global trade, they may never reach the point of having their own sustainable and stable economy. Resources shown to be obtained sustainably should be incentivized with a free market by implementing policies that reduce tariffs on these goods. However, certain developed nations should be limited in the amount that they can buy from these developed nations. Opening these discussions between developed and developing nations can help reach this compromise that allows these developing nations to grow sustainably, while still helping to stop exploitation from occurring and keeping the environment in a state of constant improvement. International trade is a multi-faceted issue branching into many different fields. The global society is beginning to see the destruction of the environment that is occurring, and organizations such as Greenpeace are looking to stop this destruction. All nations are looking to gain power, but currently developed nations hold most of the power. This allows them to use developing nations desire to grow to exploit them and their resources for their own gain, destroying the environment in the process. Trade organizations, such as the WTO look to stop this exploitation and create a free and fair trade market for all. Both the WTO and Greenpeace want to see all nations grow and gain power, reaching the developed status, and both want to limit the exploitation done by those at the top of the power chain. The WTO sees free trade as the most efficient and beneficial way for all nations to do this, while Greenpeace wants to see the Rataj 5 environment stay in pristine condition. By encouraging sustainable practices, these developing nations can grow and avoid exploitation, and the destruction of the environment can be limited if not negated. Rataj 6 Works Cited Burton, Lynsi. WTO riots in Seattle: 15 years  WTO riots in Seattle: 15 years ago. Seattlepi, 29 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Exporting Exploitation How retired EU fishing vessels are devastating West African fish stocks and undermining the rights of local people. Greenpeace, 2 Dec. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/eu- unit/en/Publications/2013/Exporting-Exploitation/>. Falkner, Robert, and Nico Jaspers. Environmental Protection, International Trade and the  Environmental Protection, International Trade and the (2012): n. pag. The Ashgate Research Companion to International Trade Policy. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <https://static1.squarespace.com/static/538a0f32e4b0e9ab915750a1/t/538db556e4b038f0 df>. James, Deborah. Free Trade and the  Free Trade and the Environment. Global Exchange, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.globalexchange.org/resources/wto/environment>. Olsen, Jose, Jose Salazar-Xirinachs, and Monica Araya.  Trade and environment at the World Trade Organization: The need for a constructive dialogue (2000): 155-82. United Nations University. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://archive.unu.edu/news/wto/ch08.pdf>. What exactly is global  Greenpeace.org. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/international/PageFiles/24427/Globaltrade.pdf>. Rataj 7 WORLD TRADE  World Trade Organization - Home page. The World Trade Organization, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.