Dhanashree 1 Dhanashree Rawalgaonkar Ms. Erika Staiger ENC-Composition II 1/29/2017 GMOs- Genetically Modified Organisms Genetically modified organisms are hybrids produced by mixing DNA or genetic material of two or more species artificially with the use of biotechnology. On one hand, agricultural industries like Monsanto are commercializing GMOs and creating a monopoly in the agricultural sector. On the other hand, nonprofit organizations like Organic Consumers Association (OCA) are protesting against GMOs due to over commercialization and safety concerns. OCA and Monsanto, both want to bring development in the agricultural industry and produce good, healthy food; thus, both stakeholders can compromise to resolve their issues. Monsanto can reduce the amount of GMOs it produces annually, help organic farmers farm organically, and reduce the extensive patenting of GMOs. The OCA can support their cause by helping organic farmers thrive or conducting research on different ways of using traditional farming methods to maximize the yield instead of completely banning GMOs. Monsanto, company known for producing GMOs, believes that genetically modified food is as sustainable as food grown using traditional methods. Established in 1901, the company has been at the forefront for genetically modifying plants and animals in the agricultural sector for traits like better insect resistance, water resistance, higher yields for conserving and improving soil fertility. Monsanto has received much criticism by researchers, organic farmers and consumers regarding safety concerns and health effects of its GMOs but the company has rejected any criticisms. Monsanto does not label its products as genetically modified since the Dhanashree 2 company believes that genetically modified food is as healthy as traditionally grown food. According to Monsanto, and crops with GM traits have been tested more than any other no credible evidence of harm to humans or (Monsanto) The company states that GMOs give better yields to farmers and reduces dependence on natural resources and fossil fuels. Monsanto cites a 25 year long research project by the European Commission (Institution of European Union) which concluded that GMOs do not pose any risks to people or environment. Monsanto provides more evidence regarding the safety of their GMOs by citing a literature review done in 2012 by multigenerational animal feeding companies which concluded that genetically modified and traditionally grown potatoes, soy, rice, corn and triticale have equivalent nutritional value and are completely safe to consume. Organic Consumers Association (OCA) believes in organic farming, fair trade in the agro industry (not corporate driven monopoly) and environmental sustainability; it strongly protests against genetic engineering of food and inorganic methods of farming. Formed in 1998, the organization is involved in various fields like food safety, health, and environmental sustainability. OCA has more than two million online and on ground members that include many businesses and reputable corporations in the organic food industry. OCA has a self-explanatory slogan: Campaigning for health, justice, sustainability, peace, and democracy. The organization has launched campaigns such as cook organic not the plant, safe guard organic standards, organic transitions campaign, and Millions against Monsanto; OCA is campaigning for a ban on GMOs and genetic engineering in any sector of agriculture. According to OCA, Bt. Cotton seeds (hybrid cotton variety) introduced in India were a poorer quality giving smaller yields than the native varieties; this lead many farmers to face losses and bankruptcy. OCA is also protesting against BGH synthetic steroid (BGH synthetic steroid) used in cows for higher milk production. Dhanashree 3 According to OCA, BGH steroid is attributed to infections and other cow diseases; this attribution is supported by Marie Monique Robin, the winner of the 2009 Rachel Carson Prize for the book Le Monde Selon Monsanto. Robin describes a study on cows injected with the bovine hormone which concluded that BGH led to significant reproductive problems in cows (Robin 96). Monsanto and Organic Consumers Association work for a common goal of maximizing the produce healthy food through sustainable farming. The stakeholders do have a common ground but only differ in their techniques and strategies. Monsanto believes that with growing population and increasing demand for food supply, the agricultural industry has to adapt to modern technology. According to Monsanto, genetic engineering can help converse fossil fuels, natural resources, and non-renewable resources. The goal is to make agriculture sustainable in the future with the use of modern technology. Although OCA has different ideals about genetic engineering and supports organic farming, the organization also looks forward to the goal of sustainable agriculture. OCA believes in working towards its goals by adhering to traditional methods of agriculture. Monsanto and OCA can compromise by following the guidelines set forth by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding labeling of products and appealing the FDA for regulation of GMO products. FDA allows manufacturers to specify that their products are not genetically modified but mandate Monsanto or any other GMO companies to label their products. According to guidelines, should use labeling claims that state that a food product (or its ingredients, as appropriate) was not developed using bioengineering, genetic engineering, or modern biotechnology such as the claims included for Industry: Voluntary Labeling Indicating Whether Foods Have or Have Not Been Derived from Dhanashree 4 Genetically Engineered Plants). One possible compromise between the OCA and Monsanto can be that Monsanto could start labeling its products as being genetically modified. This compromise is supported by Pifer who has been an attorney with the U.S. Department of Office of General Counsel. According to Pifer, national study conducted by the New York Times estimated that between 90 and 96 percent of the general public supported the identification of foods containing genetically modified (20). Labeling products as genetically modified would give the consumers a choice between organic and genetically modified food which would ease the tension between the company and OCA. OCA can take a step behind and stop campaigning for the ban of GMOs; the organization can appeal FDA for regulating the amounts of GMOs marketed in the agro industry. FDA can regulate the amounts of GMOs in the industry by requiring the company to market only certain number of GMOs annually; FDA can set up an evaluation team for executing the decision. Regulating the amounts of GMOs marketed would let Monsanto still produce GMOs but also satisfy OCA and the consumers to some extent. Genetically modifying genes and introducing new unknown genes into the ecosystem can disrupt the balance in nature and lead to dire consequences; however, the agricultural industry has to adapt to modern technology due to increasing demand for food supplies because of increasing population. Genetic engineering comes with its own pros and cons. In order to establish their common goal of maximizing the produce of healthy and safe food, both stakeholders can take a step behind and compromise with each other by limiting the use of genetic engineering but also promoting organic farming. Dhanashree 5 Works Cited www.fda.gov/Food/GuidanceRegulation/GuidanceDocumentsRegulatoryInformation/LabelingN u trition/ucm059098.htm. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. https://www.organicconsumers.org/campaigns/millions-against-monsanto/articles. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. https://www.organicconsumers.org/about-oca. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Pifer, Ross H. Mandatory Labeling Laws: What Do Recent State Enactments Portend For The Future Of  Penn State Law Review 118.4 (2014): 789. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 Robin, Marie-Monique. The World According To Monsanto: Pollution, Corruption, And The Control Of Our Food Supply. [Electronic n.p.: New York: The New Press, 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017