Artemyeva 1 Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Euthanasia For Terminally Ill Patients Today, we live in the world of advanced medicine and many techniques of curing ill persons, however, there are patients that carry some illnesses, which yet have no cure today. Those illnesses involve diseases such as cancer, and other diseases that cause unbearable pain for its carriers. As a consequence of terrible pain that does not let patients continue living normally, many of terminally sick patients are willing to end their lives with help of a physician. To be more specific, lethal injection is given to a patient who is in agony and willing to die in order to escape from unbearable pain. According to Tinna Smets, back to 1980s, Netherlands was the first country to offer a possible solution for such patients. According to Soumya Karlamangla, regarding United States of America, euthanasia has been illegal for the most of the times; however, assisted suicide is now legal in some states, such as Colorado, Oregon, Washington, California, Vermont and Montana. In 1996, Oregon became the first state to acquire the practice. Today this topic causes a lot of tension between different groups who has diverse points of view about euthanasia. There are two organizations that are at odds; one of them is a non profit organization called Euthanasia Research & Guidance Organization (ERGO), whose core belief is euthanasia and assisted suicide are all appropriate life endings depending on the individual medical and ethical What is ). However, there is an organization that holds a different point of view, which is Physicians for Compassionate Care (PCC), whose primary goal is to promote compassionate care for severely ill patients without Artemyeva 2 sanctioning or assisting their suicide (PCC). Both organizations concerned about a well being of a patient and preventing a patient from severe pain but in different ways and with different tools. However, there might be a possible solution that could be suitable for ERGO and PCC organizations, which is palliative care (Broeckaert 13). ERGO is one of the stakeholders, which represent incurable ill patients, who are willing to end their lives and die with dignity. According to ERGO, at the end of their lives should not be forced against their wishes to endure prolonged suffering that cannot be relieved adequately. Without the choice of legal, doctor-provided voluntary assisted dying, some take drastic action to relieve that What is ). Here the author is trying to say that euthanasia is a better way for patients to die in peace and without pain. Moreover, euthanasia being legalized will help patients not to commit suicide What is ). There was a research conducted by Ezekiel J. Emanuel, which was aimed on collecting data about experiences and attitudes of oncology patients. The author of researched interviewed around 700 people in total, 155 of which were oncology patients. One of the findings was that around two thirds of patients found assisted suicide and euthanasia acceptable but only for patients who undergoing constant pain (Emanuel 76). In addition, there was also another research that has ben conducted by Hilde Buiting, who examined around 160 files of reported assisted suicide cases that have been approved by review committee. The study was mainly focused on what makes the patient choose to die and what kind of symptoms they are undergoing. One of the results was that around 23% of patients had repeatedly requested an approval for assisted suicide due to the fact that they were experiencing unremitting pain (Hilde 23). According to the research, the arguments of some of the patients were that they had constant pain, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, Artemyeva 3 diarrhea, sense of confusion and fear. One of the arguments of why patients did not wish to continue living is that because their life had lost all the quality and they were feeling as they were putting burden on their family. In other words, terminally ill patients did not wish to continue living mostly because of the pain they were experiencing, and the burden on their families. On the other hand, the opponent of the previously mentioned organization, which is PCC believe that the patient-doctor trusting relationship is the most important asset of physicians and it is for protection of patients. The PCC belief that all life is inheritably valuable, moreover, they also think that role is to heal the illness and provide the comfort for the dying of In October 2016, Dr. Kenneth Stevens and Dr. William Toffler published a letter in JAMA (international peer-reviewed general medical journal) about failure in Oregon to track data regarding assisted suicide abuses of According to Kenneth, Oregon Health Authority Annual Reports show that in the past seven years, doctors were not present for 89% of those dying from assisted suicide, so there is not information regarding the complications that occur at that time among the majority of of They believe that even though the rate is unknown, there are still abuse and complications regarding euthanasia. According to the British Medical Journal, doctors are also against euthanasia because of the accepted code of medical ethics, which is called Hippocratic oath. They strongly believe that even in a very serious case such as terminally ill patient, goal is to help the patient and provide necessary treatment, and not to end life. As stated in Hippocratic Oath: will neither give a deadly drug to anybody who asked for it, nor will I make a suggestion to this This suggests that if a doctor will be Artemyeva 4 helping a patient with euthanasia, she or he will directly violate the accepted code of ethics of medicine. The members of PCC believe that assisted suicide changes role of a doctor from a healer to executioner, which is why they are against euthanasia of The common ground that both stakeholders share is that both ERGO and PCC organizations are at interest of preventing patient from suffering. Nonetheless, there could be a potential solution that would benefit both doctors who sworn Hippocratic Oath (PCC) and ERGO (hopelessly terminally ill patients with constant pain wishing to end their lives). According to World Health Organization (WHO) Expert Committee, there is an alternative to euthanasia, which is palliative care. The purpose of palliative care is to ease the physical and psychological pain of loneliness of the patient. The WHO concluded, ...with the development of modern methods of palliative care, legalization of euthanasia is unnecessary. Now that a practical alternative to death in pain exists, there should be concentrated efforts to implement programs of palliative care, rather than yielding to pressure for legal  (Broeckaert 13). Here the members of the WHO organization suggest that if there is an alternative such as palliative care, why consider euthanasia? R. Lamerton concluded in of the Dying Priority that palliative care would relief most of the symptoms of the dying and will provide with psychological help as well. According to WHO, palliative care will enhance quality of life and offer a support system to help the family cope during the illness WHO Definition of Palliative ). Moreover, palliative care would also exempt doctors from violating the medical ethics. As stated above, palliative care is a possible solution to the conflict between patients with no hope and doctors who are faithful to their oath. Artemyeva 5 Euthanasia Research & Guidance Organization (ERGO) and Physicians for Compassionate Care (PCC) are at odds when it comes to assisted suicide because both organizations have different views about assisted suicide. ERGO believe that ill patients should not be forced to suffer from incurable pain and can end their lives with the help of physician. However, PCC believe that assisted suicide is against ethics and it changes the role of a doctor as a saver to killer. Nevertheless, both organizations that are at odds share one goal, which is helping a terminally ill patient to relief the symptoms and prevent the patient from suffering. Therefore, there is a compromise that satisfies both organizations, which is palliative care; it helps patient to release the symptoms and it does not hasten death. Artemyeva 6 Work Cited Broeckaert, Bert, and Rien Janssens. Palliative Care and  Ethical Perspectives 9.2 (2002): 156-75. Web. Buiting, Hilde, Johannes Van Delden, Bregje Onwuteaka-Philpsen, Judith Rietjens, Mette Rurup, Donald Van Tol, Joseph Gevers, Paul Van Der Maas, and Agnes Van Der Heide. Reporting of euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide in the Netherlands: descriptive  BMC Medical Ethics. BioMed Central, Oct. & nov. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ezekiel J. Emanuel MD. Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted  Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide Oncology JAMA The JAMA Network. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rietjens, Judith A. C., Paul J. Van Der Maas, Bregje D. Onwuteaka-Philipsen, Johannes J. M. Van Delden, and Agnes Van Der Heide. Two Decades of Research on Euthanasia from the Netherlands. What Have We Learnt and What Questions  Journal of Bioethical Inquiry. Springer Netherlands, Sept. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smets, Tinne, et al. The Medical Practice Of Euthanasia In Belgium And The Netherlands: Legal Notification, Control And Evaluation  Health Policy 90.(2009): 181-187. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Artemyeva 7 Alternatives to  Alternatives to Euthanasia The Life Resources Charitable Trust. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mission of  Physicians for Compassionate Care Education Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Palliative Doctors Are Against  BMJ: British Medical Journal 1993: 267. JSTOR Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What is  What is ERGO? N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. WHO Definition of Palliative  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.