Ragsdale 1 Carson Ragsdale Comp II Ms. Lay February 26, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft America is truly a melting pot of many different nations and cultures; which is one of the many things that makes this country unique. Without immigration, this country would not be where it is today and would not be as successful as it is today. Like many things, there is a right and a wrong way to do things, and unfortunately people have been immigrating into America the wrong way for a long time now. Instead of going through the normal legal process, immigrants try to sneak through the border undetected. FAIR, the Federation for American Immigrant Reform, aims to solve this problem. FAIR has distributed advertisements to make people aware of this problem and to help to fix it. These images show how FAIR wants to help the country by helping more and more people come into this country legally. The Federation for American Immigrant Reform is a main stakeholder in the process of solving the illegal immigration problem in America. FAIR states in their mission statement, all that we do, our goal is to educate and increase public awareness of immigration issues, present solutions, hold our leaders accountable for answers, and ensure the voice is (Home Federation for American Immigration Reform). The goal of FAIR is to look out for the best interest of the American people while respecting the human rights and dignity of other people and Ragsdale 2 without discriminating against any races or religions. Immigration is a controversial topic in culture, therefore it is important to be sensitive to the feelings of others and to not be too harsh in decisions of this magnitude. With this in mind, FAIR has promised to help with finding solutions to help the problems caused by uncontrolled immigration such as national security, unemployment and health care (FAIR). FAIR is continuously working towards creating a nation with secure borders and a steady flow of immigrants coming into the United States through the correct and legal manner. Through this hard work, the United States will cut down the crime rates, unemployment rates and decrease taxes, which will in turn aid drastically in getting the country back on track. The Federation for American Immigrant Reform uses a logo that has multiple aspects of rhetorical strategies. The logo mainly appeals to the feelings and logic of the viewer, which would be the rhetorical strategies of pathos and ethos. The image appeals to logos because of the outline of the United States in the background of the image. This outline could be significant to the reader because of the subtle showing of how America has distinct boundaries. The logo could be showing how America should keep its boundaries closed off to those who are unwilling to come into the country through the legal process. Next to the outline of America in the logo, there are a group of people standing together. These people appeal to pathos through the sense of togetherness and pride in that unity. This group of people could resemble Americans and be appealing to the patriotic feeling that comes with being an American. This feeling could be because FAIR wants to look out for the best interests of Americans and the best interests of immigrants that are looking to become legal Americans. Overall, the FAIR logo has Ragsdale 3 multiple rhetorical strategies that help to convey a message or feeling subliminally through viewing the image. The second image is an advertisement that takes the same position that the FAIR logo takes. The advertisement is pro-immigration through the legal system and against illegal immigration. This image appeals to multiple rhetorical strategies including ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. This image appeals to ethos mainly because of the included source where the statistic was found. The image contains the name Immigration Policy Center which is a non-biased government run organization which shows that the statistic is credible. The image also appeals to logos because of the statistic in 6 workers in the U.S. is an This shows that immigrants are able to help the economy and employment rate when they come in legally. This is a powerful statistic because it shows how helpful immigrants are to this country. Pathos is used in this image because the outline of the people in the image are supposed to represent the people that surround an American every day. Therefore, this graphic becomes very relatable when one thinks of all the people they interact with on a daily basis. Finally, kairos is used as a rhetorical appeal because at the bottom of the image, there is a footnote that says Reasons to Pass Immigration Reform in Although the time is a bit outdated, the problem of illegal immigration is still relevant today. Because there is a year on the advertisement, it shows that there is a sense of timeliness to this issue. These two images relate to the mission of FAIR because they both support the claims that an immigrant reform would help solve the problem of illegal immigration. The logo of FAIR shows what FAIR thinks that America should be like while the advertisement shows what America actually looks like in the labor force. On record, Ragsdale 4 there were 11.1 illegal immigrants in the US at the time of that advertisement and 8 million were in the US workforce (Krogstead, Manual, Passal, et. al). The problem here is what FAIR has been trying to fix, too many undocumented or unauthorized immigrants in the workforce and in the country can cause significant damage to the US economy. Dr. Michael McDonald an Assistant Finance Professor at Fairfield University describes the effects of illegal immigrants on the economy, economic impact of illegal immigration in the U.S. is costly and impacts the financial security of the legal residents. This impact plays out in a number of ways. Illegal Immigration Reduces Those unregulated workers are often underpaid, which keeps wages lower in a particular occupation and (McDonald). Instances like the one illustrated by Dr. McDonald is the purpose of the images put out by FAIR and other organizations, to make people aware of the effects that illegal and undocumented immigrants have on Americans. Overall, the Federation for American Immigration Reform is an organization that is trying to make a difference in the United States. Their mission is to protect the best interest while keeping the doors open for new Americans to come into the country every single day. These two images reflect that mission of FAIR through the rhetorical strategies used to convey certain messages and feelings. The subject of legal and illegal immigration is a touchy and sensitive subject in times. However, the Federation for American Immigration Reform does a good job of protecting the dignity and human rights of those who enter the country illegally. America is a country that thrives on immigrants; without immigrants America would not be the country that it is today. However, too much of anything is a bad thing, and when immigrants break the Ragsdale 5 law and come in to the country illegally, problems are caused. FAIR is working hard to create an immigrant reform that makes it easier for immigrants to come into the country legally. Ragsdale 6 Works Cited Home Federation for American Immigration  Home Federation for American Immigration Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Krogstad, Jens Manuel, Jeffrey S. Passel, and Cohn. 5 Facts about Illegal Immigration in the  Pew Research Center. N.p., 03 Nov. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. McDonald, Michael. 10 Ways Illegal Immigration Affects You  10 Ways Illegal Immigration Affects You Financially (2015): n. pag. Web.