Life 1 Cameron Life English Comp II 003 Dennis 29 January 2017 Paper 2 Intermediate Draft This image represents Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP). This is an organization that seeks to combat the amount of opioid abuse related deaths (PROP, 1). PROP seeks to do this by promoting cautious, responsible, and safer prescribing practices (PROP,1). According to Physician Eric Lambert in the Academic Journal Profession Safety, A Mayo Clinic study showed that one in four people who took progressed to a long term prescription (Lambert,57). PROP seeks to be certain that these prescriptions of the potent opioids are necessary and responsible. Without proper precautions and awareness utilized in these prescriptions, it can lead quickly to opioid abuse. This is shown by the 220,000 people who died in opioid-related overdoses from 1999-2013 (PROP, 5-6). With figures such as this one, many physicians have become cognizant of the growing problem with our current system of prescribing opioids and thus PROP was formed. This organization is quickly growing and Life 2 accepts healthcare professionals as well as concerned citizens to their cause (PROP, 2). The ethos of this image is both prominent and subtle. One of the most recognizable sources of ethos in this image are the white coats of the doctors. They are a universal representation of those who have achieved one of the highest designations in the medical profession. Also they bring with them the reputation of the doctors that wear them. Qualities such as intellect, integrity, and responsibility come to the mind of the viewer. This is exactly the reaction that PROP wants to evoke with the image. The professionalism of the medical field helps to validate that mission of PROP. Another source of ethos is the Caduceus behind logo. The Caduceus has been the iconic symbol of the medical field for centuries. It gives a sense of establishment and tradition. This also cashes in on the impressive reputation of the doctoral profession and makes PROP seem more official and prominent. Also in the corner of the image is a hyperlink to contact the organization, showing that they are serious about community outreach and spreading awareness. The pathos of this image is powerful but not too obvious or the The white background of the image is a subtle way to provide powerful pathos. It creates an atmosphere of Life 3 cleanliness and purity that welcome the viewer of the image. This connects to the feeling many people feel when they are in hospitals. This color is used to tie into the fact that PROP was created by physicians who were genuinely concerned at the growing number of the opioid- related deaths. Also the placement of the doctors in the photo serve to play off of the emotion of safety we have around doctors. They are tasked with helping and healing the ills of the people, and that resonates with the viewer. The logos of this image is by far the clearest of the categories in this image. Two doctors are pictured together, conversing and working within their journals. This is a clear presentation of teamwork between skilled medical professionals. They are working hard with no distractions, a much more determined atmosphere than college students half-studying at the library. This is representative of the single-mindedness of PROP. They are operating without distraction or bias, only seeking to lower the fatalities caused by opioid abuse. Also the stating of their short and direct mission statement presents the viewer with their platform without diving into too much detail or pulling attention away from the image. It is placed off center to provide context for the image and amplify its tone and message. Also its acronym is explained by the text in the image furthering the logical understanding of the image and the organization. There is no apparent Kairos in this image, as it does not represent a specific moment in time. This next image represents the Pain Care Forum. The PCF is a self-described, of diverse organizations with a stake in improving pain (Corsini, 3). The PCF are committed to helping to improve pain care in hopes of abated the that exists in the U.S. (Corsini, 7). This basically means that the PCF mainly works as a lobbyist and advocacy group for fewer restrictions and increased availability of opioids. They have a reduced web Life 4 presence (the only mentions of their platform are on their some of their websites). This is believed to be because they are focusing their resources on activism and more focused endeavors such as their Pain campaign (Corsini, 27). They support the increased distribution of opioids because they are aware of how many Americans rely on opioids for pain management. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, Americans account for 99% of hydrocodone and 81% of oxycodone consumerism (Volkow, 2). The ethos this image is not aggressive in its presentation, but is it is still very apparent. The main example of ethos in this image is the iconic orange pill bottle. This is a very controversial symbol. It is known for providing lifesaving medicines but sometimes also causing life changing addictions. Almost all opioid pills come in bottles such as these. This shows that the PCF is aware of the dangers of the opioid use but also the large amount of benefit that can come as a result of them. People suffering from chronic forms of pain can use opioids out of the familiar orange bottle and function at their jobs needed to support their families. The pathos of this image is relatable to us all. Most of Americans have been injured or know someone who has been. The feeling of helplessness and pain is one that is extremely relatable. Therefore, when we see the knee lit up in red, we are immediately aware of that this is Life 5 an indication of pain or an injury. Having a serious injury can affect our jobs, relationships, and just our lives in general. Through the use of opioids in the case of extreme cases, we can ameliorate the situation, just as it is shown in the image. Millions of Americans have taken opioids and this helps implant a sense of sympathy in the viewer of the image (PROP, 2). The logos of this image is demonstrative of reasoning for fewer restrictions on opioids. In the image someone experiences an injury/severe pain in their knee evidenced by the red coloration. They take opioids to abate the pain and help their body function. This is representative of the cases where people take opioids responsibly, with no evidence of abuse whatsoever. There is no apparent Kairos in this image, as it does not represent a specific moment in time. These two images provide an invaluable amount of context and expression when it comes to their respective stakeholders. Through the use of the powerful elements of ethos, pathos, and logos, the images are able to communicate important information to the viewer and overall can generate more interest in the topic. This serves to bring more diverse opinions into the discussion and can aid in furthering progress in the field. The two images selected without a doubt represent the two stakeholders and portray valid elements of their platforms. Images have a natural ability to convey what is sometimes lost in words, and that is why they are important in an issue as complex as opioid abuse. Life 6 Works Cited Corsini, Evelyn. The Pain Care Forum and Pain Awareness Month An Interview with Mayssa Sultan, MPA,  PainEDU.org. Inflexxion, Inc., n/a. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Lambert, Eric, and Joseph Semkiu. Opioid  Professional Safety 61.10 (2016): 57-59. Web. N/a. About Physicians for Responsible Opioid  PROP Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing. Steve Rummler Hope Foundation, n.d. Web. 21 Jan.2017. Volkow, Nora . Addiction to Opioids: Heroin and Prescription Drug Abuse. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Web.