Katherine Peterson Peterson 1 Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Right to Die (Assisted Euthanasia) Since the late the topic of physician assisted euthanasia began to rise because people have access to die differently nowadays compared to our years ago (ERGO). Euthanasia is defined as the painless killing of a patient suffering from an incurable and painful disease or in an irreversible coma (Merriam - Webster). Euthanasia can be passive or active. Passive euthanasia refers to the retraction of life sustaining equipment and treatment and active euthanasia involves drug administration. By implementing laws on euthanasia and or assisted suicide, it will medical aid in dying and will ensure fewer people suffering at the end of their life (Compassion and Choices). These laws could potentially end suffering as a whole and let people die with dignity. Compassion and Choices is a nonprofit organization that is dedicated to improving care and expanding choice at the end of life. They work with Congress, communities, legislatures, and courts to empower people with tools and information like free consultation programs, they advance policies that allow people to make informed decisions about healthcare, and they authorize and implement medical aid in dying to end unendurable suffering. (Compassion and Choices). Through campaigning, advocacy programs, and the use of colorful symbolic ad campaigns, Compassion and Choices is able to advance their mission in the implementation of assisted suicide and or euthanasia laws. Image one conveys the main slogan of Compassion and Choices. The first thing that draws the eye to the image is the fragile hand. The hand looks aged and fragile and Peterson 2 there appears to be a hospital tag on the wrist. The image of the fragile hand is using pathos, which is the appeal to emotion (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). The fragile hand is placed on this campaign ad to make the viewer feel sorrow and sympathy for the patient who is suffering because they do not have the choice to end their life. To the left of the hand is the stakeholders name: Compassion and Choices. By putting their logo on this campaign ad, they are using the rhetorical device ethos, which is the appeal to credibility (Hoffman, et al, 27). This organization is well established and has succeeded in creating many support programs and has been an aid in the legalization of medical aid to dying. They are also one of the top-rated non-profit organization as stated by Charity Watch and Great Non profits. The image also appeals to logos, which is the appeal to logic using evidence and reasons (Hoffman, et al, 32 57). The phrase choice at the end of makes it sound logical that everyone who chooses to us euthanasia and or assisted euthanasia want their choice to be protected from judgement or scrutiny. At the end of life, the choice whether or not they want to end their life, and the fourteenth amendment, which is the right to privacy, protects the freedom of choice. Lastly, the image portrays Kairos, which is an appeal to timeliness (Hoffman, et al, 41). On this ad, is the phrase: many Compassion and Choices wants the viewer to feel a sense of timeliness and urgency and take action and help those who are suffering not suffer anymore. The phrase is also bold and is in white, which helps the phrase stand out on the dark background. The colors in Image 1 are used to evoke a reaction from the viewer, whether it is personal preferences or cultural backgrounds (Smashing Magazine). These colors will bring attention to the mission of Compassion and Choices, which is to implement and legalize euthanasia and or assisted suicide. The color blue, specifically dark blue, is in the cool spectrum and is associated with sadness, calmness, and strength. (Friedman, Lennartz, and Chapman). The background of Peterson 3 the image is dark blue and it symbolizes the blanket that is covering the suffering person. The dark blue creates a sense of sadness because the person able to end their life, but it also establishes a sense of strength for the person who is pushing through the constant pain while waiting for euthanasia and assisted suicide to become legal. The color white on the letters helps create a contrast against the dark blue, which allows for the phrases to stand out to the viewer. Although the color scheme is not very elaborate, the use of dark blue and white create a metaphorical meaning on the suffering people are facing because euthanasia and assisted suicide legalized. Image two attracts the older audience who are suffering because they are senile. This ad could also attract those who are suffering from a debilitating illness or are in a coma because they are also affect by euthanasia and assisted suicide not being legal. The first thing that attracts the viewers eye is the phrase, Me LIBERTY At My This phrase uses the appeal of logos because everyone should have the liberty or freedom to choose how they want to end their live due to suffering. The phrase also uses Kairos because the only way legislature can give anybody liberty at their death is to legalize euthanasia and assisted. The sooner legalization occurs, the sooner people can end their suffering. The logo on the poster on the right appeals to ethos because the elderly woman holding it is supporting Compassion and Choices and she could possibly be a candidate in need of euthanasia and assisted suicide. The campaign ad is also an actual picture that was taken during a peaceful protest in support of euthanasia and assisted suicide. Lastly, the depiction of the elderly woman appeals to pathos because she looks frail and distraught and it makes the viewer feel sadness and sorry for the current state she was in when the picture was taken. The color green is a down to earth color and represents new beginnings and growth (Friedman, Lennartz, and Chapman). Peterson 4 The colors in image two are used to affect each viewer differently and to evoke different feelings (Smashing Magazine). These colors will further help the mission of Compassion and Choices and aid them in getting euthanasia and assisted suicide legalized. The color green is a down to earth color and represents new beginnings and growth (Friedman, Lennartz, and Chapman. The phrase, me LIBERTY At My is in the color green because when euthanasia and assisted suicide become legalized, it will give the once suffering person a new beginning where they are at peace and not in pain anymore. The green lettering is also on a completely white background and it makes the phrase stand out more to the reader. The background of the image is very bright because of the sun and it lightens up the tone of the picture despite the reasoning behind what the picture holds. Although there is one primary color, the color that was used creates a positive metaphor for what could happen in the future one euthanasia and assisted suicide is legalized. As a whole, each image focuses on taking action towards legalizing euthanasia and assisted suicide. Both images use effective color schemes like dark blue, green, and white to evoke a reaction out of the viewer the supports the mission of Compassion and Choices. They both contain visual rhetoric which reflects positive human impulses to communicate (Hoffman, et al, 334). The visual rhetoric was used to get people to talk positively about euthanasia and assisted suicide in the hopes that it will push legislature to legalize it. With more ad campaigns being created by this organization, the hope is to make a big enough impact on legislature so they will legalize euthanasia and assisted suicide. Compassion and Choices hope that one day they can end suffering and pain by giving the people the choice in their death. Word Count: 1,300 Peterson 5 Work Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. <https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers-part-1-the- meaning-of-color/>. Compassion &  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. <https://www.compassionandchoices.org/>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Peterson 6 Image One Peterson 7 Image 2