Choto Segovia 1 The Bitter Taste of Chocolate: Child Labor I. Introduction. A. Nestle Cocoa Plan have posted two images that show its work with children in cocoa farms in Ivory Coast to end child labor in the cocoa fields. a. The Nestle Cocoa Plan have been working to end child labor in the cocoa farms since 2009. They want to give children the opportunity of a better quality of life by giving them access to education and providing a childhood free of child labor. According to Jose Lopez, Nestle Executive Vice President for Operations, use of child labor in our cocoa supply chain goes against everything we stand b. The two images show the two faces of a good childhood, education and games. Nestle intention with this images is to show how effective its intervention in the cocoa communities have been, with the program of building schools near the cocoa community and training farmers to avoid child labor, Nestle have given the children a better quality of life. II. Body Paragraph A. The protagonists in each image are the children, because they are the proof that the efforts of Nestle are taking placed. B. The children are placed in the center in both images. In the first image the girl is wearing bright colors and it attract the attention to see her motivated in her learning, In the second image the children have big smiles, and the colorful object in the image is the red ball. The motivation and happiness that each child show produces in the viewers hope and empathy to them, it is a good use of pathos because let the viewers feel an emotional connection with them by associating these images with their ideal of a good childhood. In the first images the girls is studying in one of the schools that Nestle has built, and in the second one the boys are playing in the cocoa field. Nestle is using logos because the viewers make the deduce that Nestle is providing a safe environment for these children. Nestle have spent 2.1 million dollars in building schools in rural communities (Nestle). The appeal of logos is clear here because providing this information will make the audience more likely to continue supporting the cause because they know how the funding is used. C. Besides the children, the images have graph that support the claims of Nestle about the progress they have accomplished. Choto Segovia 2 A. The data and graphs in the left side of each images is the specific way in that Nestle address all its progress in fighting against child labor. B. All the data that is shown in the both images are supported by the Nestle Cocoa Plan Website. Nestle is a credible source because it had been working directly with the children in the cocoa communities. This allow Nestle to use ethos in their images by showing reliable statistics about its accomplishments against child labor. The International Cocoa Initiative estimates that 2 out of 10 children are suffering child labor (IPEC). Through ethos, Nestle is providing the viewers with context and it is letting know how big the issue is. Furthermore, Nestle back up all the information that it gives by providing their website where everything is explained in more detail. Both images have the Nestle Cocoa Plan logo in the upper corner, this means that the images are directly from a trustworthy company. C. Both images are complement each other and see childhood from two different perspectives, Nestle use them to convince the readers that they are doing real changes in the cocoa farms, and these points to my conclusion to discuss how good these images are for Nestle and what they can do to give a more effective massage. III. Conclusion A. The strategy of Nestle with these two images is effective, because it shows how the funding has been use and that have had a big impact in the children lives. They are giving access to education to the children and are providing a safe environment for them in the cocoa communities. B. It is a call for action to keep buying its products because one part of the profit will be use to continue with the Nestle Cocoa Plan work. D. The message of keeping donating will be more effective is they let the viewers know what percentage of the profit is use to help these children. Choto Segovia 3 Appendix Image 1. Image 2. Choto Segovia 4 Works Cited. International Programmed on the Elimination of Child Labor (IPEC) Child Labor in Cocoa Web. 23 Feb.2017. Nestle Cocoa Plan Web. 24 Feb. 2017. http://www.nestlecocoaplan.com/ Brian. Bitter  Fortune 173.3 (2016): 54-73. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.