Sandra Estrada Adam Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Love Yourself Through the history of human beings, the position of women in the world has been changing, while the society is evolving and accepting the equality between men and women. Many years ago, women were considered an object; women were expected to be at home, taking care of the family, the house, and the kids. Although women started to integrate, and serving in public positions, they were never considered completely equal to men. Organizations and foundations such as Natural Organization for Women is starting to support women in need. As it is mentioned on its website, focuses on a broad range of rights issues, including economic justice, pay equity, racial discrimination, health and body image, women with disabilities, reproductive rights and justice, family law, marriage and family formation rights of same-sex couples, representation of women in the media, and global feminist the 2). This organization tries to empower women to believe in themselves and to love their bodies the way they are rather than feel inferior to men. This feminist and international organization is promoting their organization and ideas by using advertising campaigns that use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos and logos. Every organization has a specific strategy to communicate with their audience and to make a change in the society. Everything that an organization does, has a specific purpose related to their motto or their main statement. Every campaign that Natural Organization for Women publishes is trying to make an impact in else life, usually they publish campaigns and articles to empower women to love themselves or to help women believe that they are equal to men. Last year Natural Organization for Women Association, decided to publish a campaign to empower women, to make them believe what important they are, and to make them feel everyday more beautiful of what they already are. As it was mentioned by an Ethiopian campaign of empowering women to archive gender equality can be defined as a social process that helps people gain control over their own (Bayeh 37). Sometimes people forget their real value in the society and start to feel useless and that is exactly what the Natural Organization for Women is trying to avoid. The international feminist organization decided to publish two different images, using different rhetorical appeals to have a better impact on the society. The first image, is a colorful campaign that evokes to love our body. Presented in a black background with twelve different shapes of women in bright colors. The campaign uses different women, with many different physical characteristics. It shows women with long hair and short hair, even a bold woman. Women from different religions, sizes and even handicap ladies. There is a woman on a wheel chair, a woman with a prosthetic leg and one of those does not have an arm. But all those women are in the same campaign, because they can love their body even though they are different and they have different physical appearances, different stories and different backgrounds. The second image, has the same purpose of empowering women, but it is represented in a different way. The pink background makes everything prettier and brighter, according to the stereotypes it is a girl color, calling to feminist and women empowerment. This campaign compares women with flowers, mentioning that are like flowers. Each one is different, but they are all (Scott). One of the rhetorical appeals that the Natural Organization for Women Association used in this campaign is ethos. is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee, et all, 27). On the first image, ethos is used showing different women, every one has a specific background and a specific story behind that body shape. However, even if each one is different it is not an excuse for not loving their body and being proud of what they are, specially being proud of being a woman. Showing different body shapes can also be analyzed as different examples of lives and experiences. This image empowers the motto and the main statement of the Natural Organization for Women foundation. The second image makes a comparison between women and flowers. If every flower can be beautiful, women can be so too. Every flower is different than the other, and women are different than the other too. The text that the image has explains the idea and name of the campaign mentioning as well the name of the foundation giving more credibility to the poster. The second rhetorical appeal that is used by Natural Organization for Women in the Your Body is pathos, which is an appeal to emotions. In the first image, pathos is used with the image of different women. This makes a huge influence in the emotions of the target of the campaign. Showing women with all kinds of physical appearance gives a wider impact in the society. It makes more women feel identified with the poster after seeing a figure that can be similar of their own. In the second poster, the pink color can be analyzed as a symbol that makes everything prettier. The flowers decorate the ad, showing happiness and respect for women, making a greater impact in the emotions of the receiver. The third rhetorical appeal that is being used in the paper is logos, is an appeal to (Lane, et all, 32). In the first image, logos is used through the twelves shapes of bodies. Each woman represents a specific person and a specific live story. Every physical condition is a different use of logos; every woman should love her own body even if each one has a different physical condition. Lastly, the second image, uses logos as a logical comparison between women and flowers. Everyone thinks flowers are beautiful so everyone should think that women are beautiful too. Every woman should believe that she is beautiful in its own unique way, the same as flowers are. The Natural Organization for Women is a feminist and international organization that tries to help every woman, not only making them feel important in the society and as important as men, but also making them feel beautiful and empowering them to feel proud of themselves. The organization developed a campaign called Your showing different posters that used rhetorical appeals as strategies to make them more successful. The campaign used mainly ethos, pathos and logos, to give a greater appreciation of the poster and the idea of loving your body. Works cited Bayeh, Endalcachew. The Role of Empowering Women and Achieving Gender Equality to the Sustainable Development of  Pacific Science Review B: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 2, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 37-42. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.psrb.2016.09.013. Hayford, Annabelle. Love Your Body. Digital Image. National Organization for Women. 2016. Web 23 February 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Scott, Jennifer. Bodies are Like Flowers. Digital Image. National Organization for Women. 2016. Web 23 February 2017 The NOW  National Organization for Women. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.