Thiha 1 Min Thiha Dori Davis ENC 1102: 048 28/1/2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric of a ESRB rating system ESRB, Entertainment Software Rating Board, is a non-profit self-regulatory body that assigns ratings for video games and they are assigned based on their different kind. They are trying to give attention to the parents that their system is useful to protect their children by making them unable to play video games. ESRB was created by the Entertainment Software Association after consulting a wide range of researches on other rating systems and researches specifically made for parents. Today, consumers play games on their different devices on different platforms. According to ESRB philosophy, parents wanted to place equal importance on guidance about interactive elements as they do about the specific content in a game (ESRB/Philosophy). It is hope that ESRB will successfully able to influence the parents to finally trust their safety by using the ESRB system. As the goal was to gain the parents trust, two images are used to define the system process and their progress. The first image represents that ESRB is showing how they became well known in community since creation. It represents about the awareness and the usage of ESRB ratings between 1999 and 2016. The goal of the image is simply to show more parents who know nothing about their system and let them know that it is safe to trust their system by showing this research program. According to the survey conducted by Henry J. Kaiser, parents said that among all entertainment rating system, ESRB is the most useful, Thiha 2 with 91% finding useful, 58% to very useful and 33% to somewhat useful (Henry J. Kaiser, June/ Parents, children and media, 2007). The second image is about how ESRB is trying to stop the people who are below their restricted age purchasing the game which are not suitable for them. The survey was based on the percentage of underage purchases stopped between the years of 2000 and 2013. The source of the information was the Federal Trade Commission Mystery Shopper Audits. One of the most recent survey in this image was that 87% of individual under age 17 were turned away when they are trying to purchase Mature-rated or R rated games (ESRB/ FTC mystery shops). Both images have one focus and it is about showing that they are desperately trying to say the community to give them a shot by proving them in different ways. ESRB system is based on age appropriateness and parents can use it to determine that their children can play the game or not. The goal of ESRB is to gain parents trust about their rating system with the guidance that enables the parents to make an informative decision about the suitability of the video games and apps for their children. The system works with a three-part rating system including age-appropriateness and other systems such as Content Descriptors and Interactive elements. As these three systems are combined, it becomes a system that is widely used by game publishers, trustable by parents, supported by the retailers and considered as the best entertainment rating system in the United State. ESRB was established in 1994 by the Entertainment Software Association (ESA) (ESRB/About). The reason they are called the best rating system relies on the two images, first is based on their parental awareness and use after the system was introduced at the end of 19 th century and the second image is how the system is trying to prevent underage-people from purchasing video games that are restricted for underage people. Thiha 3 The first picture was conducted as a consumer research by Hart Research. and ESRB wanted to make a survey for parents to measure awareness and use of the ESRB system. Their target audience was the parents. The image is related to ethos because ESRB created this survey so this information can be considered as credible and trusted. Also, it has detailed information researched from year to year which another ethos can be found in this image. For pathos, it can motivate the audience to trust their system by looking at their progress. Parents can feel safe when they trust and use the ESRB system. They conduct this research to make a better world for people when playing games and the system is trying to be their guidance to let them have a suitable game for them to play and this information can be also considered related to logos. As for Kairos, they made the research within the range of time so it can be also taken as related. As for the second picture, the target audience is the underage people. The goal of the image is to show that ESRB has stopped a considerably amount of people who are too young to play mature video games and ESRB was able to stop them from purchasing. It is related to ethos because the image was sourced by the Federal Trade Commission which is done by the Entertainment Software rating board for video games. Therefore, this information is trusted and credible. However, it is impossible to find pathos since it was a research information about prevent under- age people purchasing mature video games. As for the logos, it was made for the purpose of gaining parents trust and improving ESRB goal of age appropriateness so it can be considered relatable. For the Kairos, it is also related because the progress was made from the range of time. Thiha 4 First Image ( https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx ) Second Image ( https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx ) Thiha 5 Work Cited  Entertainment Software Rating Board, About ESRB http://www.esrb.org/about/ Accessed Sat 25 Jan 2017  Entertainment Software Rating Board, ESRB survey: Parental Awareness and use https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx Accessed Sat. 25 Jan 2017  Entertainment Software Rating Board, FTC Mystery Shopper Adults https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx Accessed Sat. 25 Jan 2017  Entertainment Software Rating Board, Resource and Tips for Parents Accessed Sat 25 Jan 2017