Bastis 1 Courtney Bastis Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102.006 26 February 2017 Taking Care of History Putting a needs and guidelines for what they want in regards to their healthcare is the backbone for the National Association of Hospice and Home Care (NAHC). The main goal of the NAHC is to . . bestow proper and affordable health care for the elderly and disabled individuals nationwide . . regardless of their position in their state of life (Garcia). The NAHCs mission statement stands for . . Americans described as being on the of . while advocating for citizens to receive the best top of the line care (Dragolis). With these advertisements the organization is able to reach out to the audience, and let them know that they are welcomed into a warm and caring community of Hospice Centers. The objective of using rhetorical appeals within these depicted images is to develop a sentimental connection with the audience. Utilizing ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, Hospice organizations and facilities, such as the NAHC, are able to embed these rhetorical appeals within their advertisements to prove to the audience that they care for their loved ones while being watched over in a Hospice Center. Depicted with a red banner, first image on the left, and titled Taking Care of Families , the NAHC applies ethos; the method of portraying credible evidence to the audience in order to persuade them into choosing that Hospice Center within their advertisement. The main key points of ethos that are demonstrated in the photo is providing a credible phone number and address. By providing a physical location within their advertisement, the organization wishes to Bastis 2 illustrate that they have an established headquarters rather than being a possibly shady group on the internet. The audience could view them as being more credible since the facility included their address on the image. Including their website address also tells the audience a lot about the organization. Seeing that the domain ends with a the audience views that as a credible source of information where families can research the facility knowing that it is a legitimate site. Both address, website and phone number give the audience the chance to go to or call the center with any follow up questions they have regarding Hospice Care. main goal of using ethos in this image is to make the viewers know that this is an established settlement and that if an individual has a question that they are more than welcomed to call the line, visit their website or go to the address provided. Along with ethos, the NAHC also uses pathos within the first image to the left to make an emotional and psychological connection with the audience using colors, phrases, and still images. The colors used within the image allows for the audience to have an emotional feeling prior reading anything on the advertisement. The use of the red on the banner and logo makes the audience feel warm and welcomed into the image and Hospice Center. Red splashes also imply passion, desire, and love on the image and what the organization has to offer to their family and loved one. The faded greenish grey tone portrays the life in the home. Representing energy, harmony, and safety, it lets the audience feel safe about enrolling their loved ones into the Hospice Care Center. The faded aspect of the green also shows that even though life in the Hospice Homes may be aged it mean that the individuals within it live a dulled life. It allows for an open ended interpretation by the audience, letting them have a creative idea of what types of experiences that their loved one could have within this certain facility. Not only do the Bastis 3 colors make the audience feel welcomed, but so do the phrasings that the advertisement includes. The in the line can, lets the audience feel included and involved with the Hospice facility that they are enrolling their loved one into. Admitting a loved one into a home and feeling like there is nothing more to do tends to make a family or individual feel helpless at times. The use of the word truly brings the family out from the dark and more involved with their loved care plan. Not only do color and words contribute to an emotional connection, but so does the still image embedded in the advertisement. A female employee and an elderly female patient are photographed together, cheek to cheek. Both appear to be laughing and show a strong bond and trust between the two. This can be portrayed to the audience as a warm and sentimental connection between worker and patient. This gives the audience a strong feeling that if they enroll their loved one into this Hospice Care Center they will experience this type of bond with employees and possibly other Hospice patients. Working alongside with ethos and pathos, the NAHC utilizes logos, the appeal to logic and reasoning based off of providing information, by including their services on the first image on the left. Though this image lacks a legitimate seal of approval, the organization offers many services that are provided under their roof. From personal care to meal preparation to companionship, it would be logical to send a loved one to this Hospice Center if they were in need of those certain services that this facility offers. Also in contrast to the opposite image, this advertisement gives the audience a list of their provided services. By providing what type of services that this business offers it makes choosing a Hospice more simplified because they are upfront with what type of work they provide. Another logic that becomes apparent in the image is the saying Care Providers Trust You can, This saying is similar to a seal Bastis 4 of approval in a sense, because to the audience it shows that if Health Care providers trust this facility, then why the families trust them? Though it is not as credible, it acts as a bandwagon effect of trusting this business. With what is being provided within the advertisement it would be logical for the audience to enroll their loved one into this Hospice Center if they are looking for these provided services. Depicted with a blue color theme, first image on the right, and titled Home Senior Care , the NAHC also applies ethos; the method of portraying credible evidence to persuade the audience into choosing this specific Nursing Home. The key components of ethos in this image are the ethics and their credibility. The ethics are based on promoting dignity, respect, and compassion which shows the audience that the Nursing Home is extremely serious about how their patient care is provided amongst their business. Alongside with ethics, the company also has the National Quality Seal of Approval from The Joint Commission. This acknowledgement of approval lets the audience know that this business is not a fraud, but a legitimate company that is passionate about personal care, respite care, and companionship. Increasing the credibility alongside with the seal of approval, the NAHC also includes the website link. The domain of the website ends with a which lets the audience knows that it is a credible site that has a primary focus on affordable senior home care. The website gives the audience the ability to do their own personal research on the organization to see if the company would be well suited and credible for their loved one and also if it is in good correlation with the families financial budget. Along with the website, the company also provides a telephone number that is toll free. This allows for the audience to ask for more Bastis 5 information or go over any follow up questions that they have in regards to the information that they have been provided with. Along with ethos, the NAHC interweaves pathos within the first advertisement to the right to make and emotional and psychological connection with the audience by using colors, phrasing, and still images. The colors within the image allow for the audience to experience a various amount of emotions. The faded blue tone in the heading and color of the words represents loyalty, trust, and responsibility that can also be found in this particular Nursing Home. In the eyes of the audience, the color blue puts a calming feeling over the viewers as they look at the advertisement. It promotes reliability, peace, and tranquility within a Hospice Care Care, and allows families to feel less stressed about the process of choosing and enrolling a loved one into a home. To the audience, the color blue allows for a calm state of mind for the patient and anyone else enrolling in Hospice. Color scheme wise, blue is also found in the color of clothing that is worn by both employee and patient. An employee wearing blue radiates a calm and caring vibe towards the patient and family, showing that the lady in the picture will always be by or near the side and will be ready whenever they are needed. The worker provides a calming feeling when working with a patient, along with a calm atmosphere when dealing with the family. The elderly woman wearing blue represents the calm and serenity that is found in this particular Nursing Home. She represents the epitome of what all patients enrolled in Hospice will look like when they chose this company. Along with color, the phrasing in this certain advertisement also allows for a targeted emotional connection towards the audience. The phrase in the heading of the image Care. lets the audience and families feel more included with the health care of their loved one. Especially italicising the word gives Bastis 6 family and patients a feeling of some type of power in choosing what type of care they want and what is the best choice regarding their financial situation. Working alongside with ethos and pathos, the NAHC utilizes logos, the appeal to logic and reasoning based off of credible sources, by including a stamp of approval from another company first image on the right. The goal of using logos within this advertisement is to make the audience think logistically about how this Nursing Home in particular is the right choice and best fit for their loved ones. Towards the bottom of the advertisement the business includes the locations where they serve, so logically if a family is located in one of those areas it would be the best fit for them commuting wise. Contrarily, it also limits the number of patients and families that the company could help. Aside that the organization emphasises family and patient intervention by including Care. in the headline. To an audience, if a family wants to be more involved with their loved ones health care then logically they should consider this business as an option. Along with targeted phrasing, the stamp of National Quality Approval from the Joint Commission speaks a lot from a logos standpoint. The approval represents hard work and quality tested care that has been approved by a company. If a company says that this Hospice Home is approved then the audience should at least consider choosing this particular business. Both advertisements depicted below share and overlap many similarities regarding kairos, appealing to timeliness in order to achieve a response from the audience about enrolling in each organization. These two images depict a contrast in age and how the different between ages reflect upon the audience. It shows that the women depicted in the photographs show some type of physical contact which also represents a strong connection and bond between caregiver Bastis 7 and patient. In the eyes of the audience, this is the type of bond that families want to see within this type of community. Since a family is enrolling their loved one in a home, there will be times where the family may or may not be able to come visit. It makes the family feel better knowing that there will be someone there to talk and bond with, in place of the family. Using the appeal of kairos, the NAHC reassures families that their loved ones will not be alone if they are enrolled in a Hospice Home Care Center. The NAHC utilizes different rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, within both advertisements that have the literary ability to build up various connections amongst the targeted audience and viewers. The work of ethos within both imagines demonstrates the credibility of each company by embedding some type of address, phone number or website within the advertisements. The use of pathos is to create a connection with the audience on an emotional level by interweaving colors, phrases, and still images throughout the organizations advertisement. The subtle hints of logos is to strike at the common sense by stating that if both of these advertisements are from credible sources then the audience should highly consider enrolling their loved ones in one of the businesses. The use of kairos between both images are identical, yet it speaks to the reader without them having to completely analyze the advertisement, using the contrast of age between worker and patient lets the audience feel safe about Hospice Care Centers. The NAHC uses both of these advertisements to tell the audience that Hospice Care Centers do not only offer top of the line care, but are also compassionate, caring, and respectful towards any of their patients that are under their roof. These rhetorical appeals that are embedded within these images are how stakeholder organizations, such as the NAHC, appeal to an audience, families, and future patients. Bastis 8 1. 2. Works Cited 2. Chuck, Philip, and Natalie Fernandez. Home Senior Association of Home Care Organization . National Association of Home Care. 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Dragolis, Danielle. Medical, Health Care, and Home Care Digest : Vol 14, No 9. Readers Digest. 20 Oct. 2016. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Garcia, Pedro. Association for Home Care & Hospice . http://www.nahc.org/about/mission-statement/. 1. Lerry, James. Mifflin Harcourt . Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 9 Apr. 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.