Haynes1 Yohance Haynes Professor Phillips Composition 1102 26 February 2017 The Department of Human nutrition has many different objectives that is goes after. Their main goal is to provide safe sufficient and nutritious foods to supply to the American people. They are centerpiece for Michelle campaign to bring up a healthier generation of (USDA, 2017). Moving forward in healthier and more nutritious foods is the goal. Their goal not only affects children, but all areas such as fast food menus and restaurant choices. Helping pass acts like the Hunger free Kids Act, help solidify this stakeholders stance in the fight for a healthy society. Presented with the stakeholder are two photos from the website that embodies the goals they chase. Image A displays a healthy foods challenge that invites the reader to partake in the movement. Also providing examples of what to do to complete the healthy challenge. The stakeholder used this image to effectively display kairos, pathos and ethos within the picture. Accompanying Image A is Image B that contains a food wheel along with a plate full of nutritious alternatives. Using this image the stakeholder shows ethos, pathos, and other appeals. These images well define the goals and missions of The Department of Human Nutrition. Studying the images more closely you will find the rhetorical appeals, visual rhetoric of the eyes intriguing photos and the over all uses of the images. Both of these pictures include some strong health conscious messages that encourages the stakeholders goals very well. They include a couple Rhetorical appeals in each one. Yet some are Haynes2 more present in one picture than the other. In image A, the picture is pretty colorful and has words printed all over the piece. This image contains one appeal that the other picture does not have implemented in it. That appeal is called Kairos. This picture has a lot to do with time, they want an immediate response. Comments on the website like up today and invite others to participate with (USDA, 2017). The image and comments like this calls for a 3 week challenge of a healthy food diet. Most likely ruling out any fast food products because they are not apart of the diet. And to keep the reader on track in those 3 weeks, the picture provides a set of healthy things to do and eat. But on the other hand you have ethos and pathos that is prevalent in both Image A and Image B. Here is Image B showing the appeal ethos by providing a credible source of Giving the picture more authority in encouraging people to eat better. Ethos is also shown in image A using #MyplateChallenge as a source of authenticity. Presenting the reader with alternatives and healthy foods embodiestheir goals of getting more nutritious foods to the people. And also their stance against the fast food companies and their unhealthy menus. The last appeal observed in the images was pathos. Image A appeals to emotion by implementing My Plate New into the picture. This recall and play on words of New attacks the sympathy for the holiday. Image B also uses pathos by making the meal on the picture as appetising as possible. Appealing to the readers love for good looking foods. Also associated with the pictures are visual rhetorics that play a big role in the development of the pictures and goals of the company. Both images are beautifully made, with vibrant colors to get the attention. They are designed to grab attention and be eye candy for the person observing the image. Image A has lights, bright colors and a centered challenge Haynes3 plan that draws the audience in. While Image B has a food plate with various colors that engage the senses. They also share a purpose and message that gets across to the onlooker. The images of fruits and showings of charts and wheels show the goals the stakeholder wants to get across. The healthier eating and nutritious foods that the stakeholder talks about are clear to see from these pictures. The visual aspects of the images make them a great asset to the company. The designs are flawless and provide validity to the claims. The pictures were used for even greater purposes than seen on the surface. There are specific reason the stakeholder used the images they did to get their message out. Image A displays a the efforts to put a fire under the butts of the reader to eat healthy. Gives them a challenge to eat the suggested nutritious foods. Also adding New years and 3 weeks to show the importance of time. They do not want you to waste time in eating better. Or even comments like are still three weeks remaining in the Challenge and it too late to (USDA, 2017). a now or never mindset that the company is trying to put in the head. Image B on the other hand has a more subtle approach. It provides the reader with healthy options and shows how good it looks while leaving it to them to choose. No pushing for time, just the availability of healthy options. Image A also has a guide to help the onlooker move toward a more healthy lifestyle. Both pictures have their ways of coaxing the reader to eat better. But they also have different ways of doing so. This combination of two different styles is very effective in capturing two types of groups. The Department of Human Nutrition is using these pictures in a very effective way. In addition, both images provide references back to the healthy website. They give the reader a channel to an even wider range of healthy eating. Even with the Haynes4 differences in the pictures, they both have a common goal of drawing in the reader for more information. There was a lot of information that was acquired by analyzing the two images. Analyzing them both showed the intricate designs of the pictures to catch the eye, or indulge their senses. The colors and the way they were structured brought the audience in for a closer look. Once the look was established, the rhetorical appeals started to appear from the pictures framework. They used many of the appeals to get more validation and attention from the reader. Like a crunching of time, or an attack on emotion and wants. These appeals helped the stakeholder establish their goal into the mind more. The pictures were very well made and used to insert certain feelings or urges inside of the reader. All of which had to do with eating better and more nutritious foods. The rhetorical appeals combined with the visual rhetoric created two great images that were used to put forth the goal of more nutritious foods everywhere. Haynes5 Works Cited Food and Nutrition  and Nutrition USDA . USDA, n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017 What Nutritional Items Will Be on the Menu This School Year in Miami-Dade Department of Food and Nutrition . Dade Schools, 2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Department of Nutrition and Food  and Food Studies - NYU Steinhardt . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017