Kevin Ip ENC 1102-002 2/26/2017 Cartoons Supporting Embryonic Stem Cell Researchers Embryonic stem cell researchers believe that embryonic stem cells have the potential to cure many different degenerative diseases, which could help thousands of suffering people. Their goal is to cure degenerative diseases, such as diabetes, cancer, and cardiovascular disease by replacing or rebuilding damaged cells. Embryos contain unspecialized cells that are pluripotent. These stem cells have the ability to transform into any type of cell in the body and become specialized. Embryonic stem cell research is a delicate and controversial topic, which is constantly being debated between both sides. Most embryonic stem cells used for embryonic stem cell research are derived from embryos that have been donated from in vitro fertilization with informed consent from the donors (American Law Register). There are strict laws regarding the creation of embryos for the purpose of research. Cartoons are used to gain support and understanding for embryonic stem cell research. Different rhetorical appeals are used to persuade people and show them a different perspective. Pathos is used to grab the attention of the audience in each image. The first image appeals to emotion and the second image uses irony to create humor to express a goal or idea. The second rhetorical appeal used is logos, which uses logic to appeal to the audience. Lastly, Kairos is used to create a sense of urgency in order to show the importance of finding a cure for degenerative diseases. Each of the images are against the beliefs of the Catholic Church concerning embryonic stem cell research. Although each of the cartoons send different messages to the viewer, they share the common goal of supporting and advancing stem cell research in order to find cures for degenerative diseases. https://derobiology.wikispaces.com/Bioethics+of+Stem+Cell+Research The cartoon created by John Cox and Allen Forkum depicts President George W. view on embryonic stem cell research. He believed that using embryos for research was unethical. He has the same belief as the Catholic Church, which believes that embryos have the right to life as well and are just as important as humans. On June 7 th , 2001 President George W. Bush prohibited the federal funding of research that used embryonic stem cell lines derived after August 9, 2001 (Research America). Cox and Forkum use pathos to evoke emotion and grab our attention. In the image, there is a young boy in a wheel chair with cell written on the back of it who is looking at the sign in front of the tree house. The man in the tree house is holding a test tube, looking down at the boy saying some life stages are more sacred than The man is supposed to represent Bush, who is basically telling the boy that the life stage is more important than that of the Usually kids play in tree houses, not adults. This speaks to our emotions by making us feel sympathetic for the little boy. Since he is in a wheel chair he cannot play in the tree house, unless if he was cured. When we see the poor boy, it makes us question which stage of life is more important than the other. The of life can also represent IVF embryo banks where they store embryos and do not use them for research. If more people would donate embryos to research instead of discarding them, then it would help embryonic stem researchers find a cure for Billy, who is stuck in a wheel chair. Kairos is another rhetorical appeal used in the image, which creates a sense of urgency. The little boy needs a cure as soon as possible because time is going by and he will not be a child for much longer. Every child deserves a childhood and poor Billy will not be able to enjoy his childhood like any other child if researchers do not find a cure for him. Saying that an embryo is more important than the child is not fair, since most embryos from in vitro fertilization do not get used anyways. The third rhetorical appeal used in the image is logos. Logic is used in this cartoon to make the viewer understand the message created by the artists. Those who are against embryonic stem cell research will find that this cartoon is not logical since it does not agree with their standpoint, but those who are for it will find it logical. Supporters of embryonic stem cell research would agree that a young boy in a wheel is more important than a small cell, which is what the image is depicting. The second image is a cartoon created by Rob Rogers. The image depicts a large man who appears to be a preacher. He is telling the people at the church to . . pray for the sinners who engage in the work of stem-cell There are three people praying for the Lord to help stem cell researchers find a cure for different degenerative diseases, such as and cancer. Rogers uses pathos to show the irony of the Catholic church in regards to embryonic stem cell research. The image appeals to our sense of humor by using irony. The priest is calling stem cell researchers sinners, yet the people are praying that they will find a cure for their diseases. How can people condemn embryonic stem cell researchers when they are trying to help? The Catholics are going against their own beliefs by praying for them to help. The cartoonist is trying to show that even though Catholics say that they are against stem cell research, they are also for it at the same time. Rogers uses logos as well to explain his point. People who are for stem cell research will agree that the image is logical. They would say that embryonic stem cell researchers are not sinners since they are trying to save pre-existing lives. Many embryos from IVF are usually discarded anyways, so they might as well be used for the greater good. Kairos is another rhetorical appeal used in the cartoon, where the people are praying for cures. Degenerative diseases only get worse over time so they need cures to be found as soon as possible, creating a sense of urgency. Both cartoons share a common view on embryonic stem cell research in which they both support embryonic stem cell researchers in their efforts to find cures for the numerous degenerative diseases present in our society today. The use of pathos, logos, and Kairos is very common in political cartoons as well as advertisements. The use of political cartoons in favor of embryonic stem cell research can help sway the opinions of those who disagree by appealing to either emotions, humor, logic, etc. using rhetorical appeals. The main goal of embryonic stem cell researchers is to use embryonic stems from donated embryos to find cures for degenerative diseases. The first image shows the impact embryonic stem cells have on young children who are struggling with degenerative diseases and the second image shows the irony of the Catholic belief regarding stem cell research. The two images support embryonic stem cell researchers by expressing their ideas in different ways. Image #1 Image #2 Works cited Cox, John, and Allen Forkum. Cox & Forkum: Culture  Cox & Forkum: Culture Club. Cox and Forkum, 26 May 2005. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Rogers, Rob. Index of  Index of /cartoons/2005/images. N.p., 2005. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Timeline of Major Events in Stem Cell Research  Research!America. N.p., 30 Dec. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. United States District Court. District of Minnesota. The United States v.  The American Law Register (1852-1891) 20.7 (1872): 424. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.