Elliott 1 Taryn Elliott ENC 1102 Bennington 26 February 2017 The Future of Trade I. Intro: Nearly every aspect of daily life for people is related to trade. From technology, to apparel, to food, international trade has transformed into an integral role in the life of the billions of people in this world. As trade has increased internationally, many stakeholders have voiced concerns about the impact of international trade on workers and consumers. Fair Trade USA, a stakeholder founded on the principles of fair trade, focuses on protecting workers and laborers from unfair wages and unsafe work environments (Fair Trade USA). This non-profit main goal is to influence and persuade people around the world to use fair trade practices that protect the producers. A. Thesis: Fair Trade USA utilizes the similarities and differences between Figure 1 and Figure 2 in order to encourage the viewer to support fair wages and work environments for workers and farmers, which in turn encourages the adaption of fair trade. II. Topic Sentence: One difference between the two images is Fair Trade illustration of an infographic and statistics in Figure 2, which use an appeal to the reason and rationality of the audience to promote the purpose. Elliott 2 A. farmers, for instance, must enroll their children in school. This ensures that they are gaining an education, but also not working in the (Go Green) III. Topic Sentence: Unlike figure 2, which uses an infographic and statistics to encourage the use of fair trade, the realistic photograph depicted in figure 1 appropriately insinuates the current use of coffee as a familiar and widely used product. A. The average person consumes about 1.6 cups of coffee a day (E-Imports) IV. Topic Sentence: A. Figure 1 and Figure 2 both use different visual aspects to effectively promote the mission and purpose of Fair Trade USA. However, the images are similar in that each one allures to the empathy of the viewer as a way encouraging the practice of fair trade principles by using components that are especially sensitive to audiences. V. Conclusion: The organization Fair Trade main goal is to encourage the use of fair trade products and principles in daily life. The mission is to ensure that workers, farmers, and laborers are treated and paid fairly for their work. The images created by Fair Trade USA use several types of methods to get the message of the organization to the public, and effect the viewers who see them. Figure 1 and Figure 2 use very different and similar means to effectively persuade the audience to adapt the codes of Fair Trade USA. Elliott 3 Figure 1 Figure 2 Elliott 4 Works Cited Coffee  E-Imports - Coffee Business Startup Solutions. E-Imports, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Trade Fair Trade USA. Fair Trade USA, 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Harvey, Shannon. Fair Trade: History, Purpose, and Why You Should Support  Green Plus. Gogreen, 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.