Hnin 1 Myat Noe Hnin Dori Davis ENC 1102 048 26 th February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric of FBI with the internet privacy Nowadays technology is influenced along with internet all over the world. Ever since the advancement of the internet, most people have reduced the protection of their personal data. Some of them are threatening other private information. For this paper, FBI which stands for Federal Bureau of Investigation will be used as the stakeholder. FBI is one of the biggest government organizations which protects national security and privacy safety concerns to the citizens and their communities, places of business and most of all, their privacy information. However, they have one option, an option that infiltrate other information whom they do not trust and try to help them out by identifying the suspect. They are helping the country by revealing the information by hacking them back so if they ignore them, they would have the upper advantage and try to attack other people. However, a question remains and it is FBI really protecting personal information or using personal information for their By looking at FBI cases, most of them always include famous cases and criminals, counterterrorism and civil rights. Everything they have done is through infiltrate personal information to protect their people (FBI/About). In this project, there have two images to analyze for expressing FBI goal more clearly. Both of those images are coming from official FBI programs called Biometric Center of Excellence (BCOE) and Safe Online Surfing (FBI-SOS) and they are related with FBI internet privacy system to prevent from hackers. The goal of first image is to prove that FBI is creating a Hnin 2 program through internet privacy to protect people. The program is called Biometric Center of Excellence and it is accessed through modalities such as Facial Recognition, Palm Print, Iris Scan, Voice Recognition, Fingerprint, DNA, and Emerging Biometrics. That program needs to take people identity for using criminal investigations and enhancing national security. The goal of second image is The FBI Safe Online Surfing program which is designed to educate about the dangers of internet privacy especially for the children in grade 3 to 8. That program emphasizes the important of cyber safety topics such as safe guarding of personal information, smart surfing habits and password security. Both of these image focuses on one main audience and it is the people. The first image (FBI) is created by. U.S Government Facial Recognition Legal Series. It says that FBI has the right to access personal information through their biogenetic profiles. The reason of known BCOE information is that summary of BCOE is included in the picture. This image is related to ethos since it was credited by BCOE/FBI.GOV and it can be considered credible. Then by looking at the picture, there have small seven modalities that shows how to identify people identity through technologies. Considering what FBI is trying to do, it makes most of the audience uncomfortable, terrified, and even furious. These emotions are possible for audience because of their doing. This is related to pathos because it can give the audience many emotions. FBI is trying to make a program which is making the possibility for them to access private information through their bio gene. This is also one of their ways of protecting people from terrorism and to drag out the suspected victim through this program. This is also related to logos because this is part of the ways of fights against terrorism. In this picture, there has no Kairos because it is one of the future envisions that FBI is currently trying to Hnin 3 create. Therefore, it has not been created yet so Kairos be found in this image and there has only some information and icons which show how to process for the future. The second image is considered ethos, because it was made by the FBI organization and the image contains a FBI cyber logos so it can be considered credible and trusted information. For the pathos, the image has children friendly images so it is made suitable for them and children can find it easy to use since it is made in different sessions and children will want to use them as the images are cartoon friendly. Therefore, it can be considered related to pathos. For the logos, the FBI created this sever not only to educate parents but also it is made for the children to learn about internet privacy. They can also learn how the internet privacy is important to them by using this program. Because if these information, this image can also consider as logos. The second image has no information about the time that it was created so it is impossible to find the information about how it is related to Kairos. To conclude, both images mainly targets on the safety of internet privacy. When comparing, the first image explains about taking the suspected private information and investigating for information in order to protect people. The second image is about education people including parents and children so that they will know better about how the privacy is important to their lives and they believe that it will further decrease the change of the theft of internet privacy in the future. Hnin 4 First Image Second Image (https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/cyber ) Hnin 5 Work Cited the Biometric Center of Biometric Center of Excellence. N.p. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 What we Investigate. N.p. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Halpern, M. the FBI: Expectations of Privacy: Balancing Liberty, Security, and Public FBI Audio. April 7, 2016, Web. 26 Feb 2017. Hoven, V. and Information The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, 2016, https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/it-privacy/ . Accessed 26 Feb 2017. & FBI about. N.p. Web. 26 Feb 2017.