Korosec 1 Ross Korosec Ms. Lay ENC 1102 2/26/17 Should college athletes get paid Determining whether or not College athletes should get paid or not widely revolves around the idea that the level of play they are in, is considered to be amateurism. The meaning behind this is to insure that a University can maintain an academic environment in order to accumulate an education. The Players Union believes this to be an invalid reason as to why the every day student athletes do not get paid for their services. In the pictures provided we can see that the work load that is being put on to the student athletes in the long run is not worth the scholarships given out. Universities are able to monopolize college sports and this is what Players Unions are trying to fight. In some cases, schools are able to make millions of the doing of these college athletes who see not one cent of the revenue generated. These students are essentially being exploited and are expected to just turn over and except that fact. Student athletes are forced to do tedious tasks while universities benefit immensely with little to no collateral in return. In the pictures provided we can derive that the Players union is trying to use pathos in order to appeal to peoples emotion about this whole ordeal. In the first picture, we can put together that the NCAA is putting a lot of strain onto the backs of college athletes. But the question is why are they doing it? the thing student unions are trying to stress. These College athletes are being put through hell while the people who do essentially nothing but oversee everything are able to profit immensely. NCAA prohibits college athletes from earning money based on their status as amateurs. Coaches can do Korosec 2 commercials and nobody questions their integrity or sense of fair play. For athletes, a no no, one that could jeopardize their eligibility and ultimately cause them to be banned from further collegiate competition.(Greenlee, Knowing this we can derive that the picture is trying to show Logos. The universities are able to monopolize the sports industries in college. Even with student athletes being deemed as armatures coaches are able to profit from their own players. Greenlee who fights for student unions and wrote this article relates his thoughts which hits the points of logos by saying in sports, it seems that everybody gets paid except the athlete. a raw deal. The players provide the labor that produces winning teams, which in turn, generates heightened fan interest. As a result, football stadiums and basketball arenas are filled to capacity, translating into fatter operating budgets for the athletic College athletes have a choice of whether or not they would like to attend schools to play sports. If these students who are upset with the compensation of their duties all decide that schoolwork is more important and left, Universities would be devastated without the profits. This is a valid argument for this picture due to the fact that one of the athletes says. feel too In response to why he is doing this. Yes, some athletes receive scholarships but for the most part thee impact it has on grades can impede his ability to have a solid career after sports. This picture relates to pathos by triggering the emotion of viewers to realize that the life of a college athlete is not all sun and candy. The picture almost provides a sense of which that the NCAA is a dictatorship. Similar pictures have been taken of dictators. Obviously, this is an absurd analyzation of NCAA but to an extent the treatment that is received is very similar. Work is pushed out of these people in return they are given just enough. Logically speaking, the education that is recived is not a form of collateral. year, the payouts for football teams playing in bowl games ranged from $750,000 to $13 million.(Greenlee, That is a large sum of money that can impact a Korosec 3 university immensely, but once again the people who earned that receive essentially zero percent of it. In the second picture Logos is an obvious theme that comes to mind. Someone who has nothing to do with the success of the boats movement and ability to stay afloat is receiving befits while the labor being put in is going unnoticed. Greenlee goes onto say that Last fall, the NCAA cut a new deal with CBS for TV rights fees to air exclusive broadcasts all NCAA basketball tournament games. That contract is worth $6.2 billion and has been extended to the year 2013, free enterprise, the stuff that made America what it is. But still a big problem with this scenario -- the athletes are systematically barred from getting into the cash flow cycle. Smith who is a sociologist at Wake Forrest goes onto say that research is showing that the value of the sport scholarship is insufficient for all of the needs. A good place to start is to make the sport scholarship a full scholarship. From there, as several well placed individuals have been saying of late, re-evaluate the total student-athlete relationship to the colleges and universities they attend. The system put in place under Byers needs this re-evaluation to move forward and toward fairness for everyone involved (Smith, Pathos is thrown into this picture as well due to the fact that the NCAA is again throwing in the athletes face the revenue that they make, but provide no reasoning. Like the picture says have the right to make the University gobs of In conclusion The Players union objective is to create a sense of equity for the student athlete. They are striving to make changes to the modern day rule book of the NCAA. Under the current rules student athletes fall under the categories of amateurs. This impedes them from making revenue but again something that is asked by the Players Union. Is this right? The answer that the student union is trying to push across is that it is not right. Especially when Korosec 4 universities are profiting immensely off the duties of players. Much so that coaches are becoming millionaires, Universities are growing as a whole, but nothing is changing for the student athletes. What is trying to be pushed across is that with everything changing because of the revenue NCAA is able to create, Why is the compensation for student athletes not? Student athletes should be able to profit from the revenue they create. The Players union is firm on this belief. The pictures that have been provided can hit points of Pathos, Logos, Kairos and Ethos. The players union is able to use pathos to describe that what has been happening needs to change as stressed by the Players Union. The players are keeping the boat afloat, and dragging the NCAA on their back. Kairos is able to stress that the time is now, How much longer can these athletes just pull all the weight. The only way NCAA could start to pull their weight is if a form of revenue was made out to the earners of it. Korosec 5 Pictures https://www.bing.com/images/search?view=detailV2&ccid=SQksedOD&id=ACB01F31DB37A83C56ABE4 1865384D2E793AB455&q=should+college+athletes+should+be+paid&simid=608003736526654686&sel ectedIndex=29&ajaxhist=0 https://www.bing.com/images/search?view=detailV2&ccid=bPHLC%2fbu&id=4074CBB2C40041D671FEF B21B0F60144E95B4A6C&q=why+college+athletes+should+be+paid&simid=608055430751322260&selec tedIndex=10&ajaxhist=0 Korosec 6 Works Cited Cooper, Kenneth J. Should College Athletes Be Paid to Play? Michigan State Law Professors Robert and Amy Mccormick Say Division I College Athletes Qualify as under Federal Labor  Diverse Issues in Higher Education, no. 10, 2011, p. 12. Smith, Earl. Should College Athletes Be Paid to Play? (June 23, 2011  Diverse Issues in Higher Education, no. 15, 2011, p. 3. GREENLEE, CRAIG T. College Athletes Deserve some  Black Issues in Higher Education, no. 5,