Jadian Harlow Mr. Spencer Bennington ENC 1102.008 26 February 2017 Advocating for Childhood Cancer Research Funding Using Visual Rhetoric I. Introduction A. Cancer Research Fund is a nonprofit organization that advocates for improved funding for childhood cancer research and its mission is to in lifesaving, leading-edge research in the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and cure of childhood It was founded in 1981, and has been supporting the research of the University of Minnesota since 13-year-old Katie Hageboeck decided to donate the money she had been saving for a bike to its research so children that came after her would not have to suffer as much as she did through her battle with leukemia. B. Figure 1. is produced by a restaurant partnering with Cancer Research Fund, while Figure 2. Is produced by the Cancer Center. C. Thesis: While both images intend to show the audience the importance of childhood cancer research, Figure 1. relies heavily on ethos and logos to depict the helpfulness of childhood cancer research, whereas Figure 2. illustrates the need for more research by emphasizing pathos and kairos within the image. Figure 2. emphasizes the importance of the Cancer Research mission more effectively through the lighting and background, the child in the picture, and the use of text within the image. II. Background and Lighting A. Figure 1. i. use of background (outside) ii. use of lighting (draws attention to the child) iii. use of logos within this (implies the child is healthy enough to be outside and interacting with the world) B. Figure 2. i. use of background (in a hospital with many medical equipment) ii. use of lighting (draws attention to the child) iii. use of logos within the image (implies the child is very sick and needs treatment options) III. The Child A. Figure 1. i. pathos is used (the child is happy, has a healthy weight, has all his hair) ii. logos is used to show how the child benefits from childhood research funding B. Figure 2. i. pathos is used (the child is very sick and lethargic, is a baby (pacifier), is losing his hair) ii. logos is used to show the need for more childhood cancer research to help the child shown in this picture iii. kairos is used to show the urgency of the need for more research IV. Text Usage A. Figure 1. i. utilizes ethos (small text explains who the picture is of and why it is relevant to the mission of the organization) ii. utilizes logos (the addition of the logo, motto, and website indicates credibility, and including the logo of another organization endorsing the Cancer Research Fund gives even more credibility) B. Figure 2. i. utilizes ethos (the addition of the logo, motto, and website indicates credibility) ii. utilizes kairos (the text at the top of the image calls for spreading awareness quickly) V. Conclusion Figure 1. Figure 2. Works Cited Cancer Research  Cancer Research Fund, 2017, www.childrenscancer.org/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, editors. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. University of South Florida, 2016. MyReviewers, myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. September CRAVE Cares Partner: Cancer Research  Daily CRAVE-ings, www.craveamerica.com/sept-crave-cares/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017.