Cherilus 1 Christina Cherilus February 15, 2017 ENC 1102 Ms. Maria Theodosiou The Death Penalty Compromise Last year, approximately 20 prisoners were executed, the year before 28 prisoners met their fate, this is only a few of the total one thousand four-hundred and forty-five people in the US whom have lost their lives due to executions since 1976 (DPF). Capital punishment is a very controversial subject today due to being very sensitive and divided. Many organizations believe capital punishment to be a very inhumane and an old practice that needs to be removed. The Rights Watch organization is a non-profit organization made to defend the rights of people worldwide, they also pressure those with power to respect rights and secure justice. They believe that the death penalty is a violation of a rights and fight constantly to get it to be abolished. rights watch) On the same topic others feel that capital punishment is a way to bring justice to the sinister and heinous acts done by a certain few. The state of Florida is one of the many states in the US where the death penalty is still in practice. Many representatives in the state such as Ed Koch and Rick Scott believes the death penalty to be a form of justice. Although these two may not agree completely there is one common belief shared by them. They both strive for the rights of a subject. The Humans rights watch believes in the rights while representatives of the State of Florida believes the rights. While the HRW wants their subjects to be represented and given the rights to decide, while Koch and Scott wants their victims to receive justice in one form or another. The prisoner on death row should be given an Cherilus 2 alternate. The prisoner on death row should be given the choice of the death penalty or solitary confinement. This allows the subject to pay for their heinous act and both stakeholders get a fair part of what they worked for. Americas Humans Rights Watch organization was founded in 1981 during the civil war (History HRW). Focusing on rights globally, the HRW classifies themselves as a nonprofit organization consisting of about 400 rights professionals. They are guided by international rights and humanitarian law and respect for the respect for the dignity of each human being (About HRW). Similar to Kouroutakis, the HRW believes that killing someone is murder whether it is done by a person, or officer of the law therefore the capital punishment of an offender fits the crime of murder (Kouroutakis 43). Making this the issue with the State of Florida where capital punishment is still active. The State of Florida, like many others have continued the practice of the death penalty. Various representatives such as Rick Scott have reasons about why, former Mayor Ed Koch claimed that the death penalty And that by failing to execute murderers, he says, we a lessened regard for the value of the (Ed Koch). Governor Rick Scott even signed a new death penalty law on March 7th 2016 that resume the death sentences of 10 inmates in Florida. Others also believes that the death penalty reduces the amount of killing due to fear and therefore should be kept. (Anckar 15). Just like rights groups contends that need the death penalty because evil (Barry 2.) Cherilus 3 Although both stakeholders have a very controversial issue which they see different resolutions to, with a bit of effort and financial benefits, a compromise can be created. The HMW want the death penalty gone and they want the people or public to have their rights in or out of jail. They feel as if the prisoners do not get the respect and rights they deserve as human beings. The representatives of Florida or Scott and Koch feel as if the death penalty is necessary because it is a form of justice and it keeps the crime level lower than it would have been if it were to be abolish. They both have their own perspectives to the topic but they share an equal liking for the rights of the spoken subjects. Whether it is the prisoner or the families of the victims, both stakeholders believe that they deserve their rights to justice. Now to the compromise, to please both parties while making sure that they are both being represented. An explicit example will be given with several outcomes to demonstrate the way in which the compromise will work. Beginning with real life example of murder cases, with or without found killers, the compromise will be explained systematically. It is not often that a murderer gets trialed with the death penalty, it is rather popular with serial killers however. When a murderer or serial killer is tried with the death penalty, he or she should be given an alternative. Since the law requires 10 of 12 jurors to agree on the recommendation of the death penalty, they could agree on the alternative just as well. Making the solidarity confinement consequence attached to the death penalty, meaning as long as the subject receives the death penalty,they will also receive the alternative. Depending on the crime at hand the alternative may differ slightly according to the jurors. Solitary confinement will always be the alternative however the sentence may differ in length depending on the crime. If a prisoner is charged with capital punishment for the murder of a person, to devise an alternative sentence, the case must be Cherilus 4 reviewed and classified. Depending on how the murder occurred, meaning if the victim was tortured, raped or mutilated the sentence will be longer than if the victim was not. If there were multiple victims, the sentence will be longer with respect to each victim. If there were children the sentence would also lengthen. The way that this would be settled is if the immediate families of the victims got to help decide how long should the sentence last. A set length would be given but it could also be altered by the immediate family of the victim(s). For example, the Black Dahlia has been one of the biggest mystery murderers in the United States. Elizabeth murderer was never found and brought to justice. Yet the murder was very brutal, leaving her body almost unrecognizable. If the killer was to be found, due to the brutal torture of body it would be likely that he or she could be given life or the death penalty. If trialed for the death penalty, in point of view, the rights are being taken away. Therefore, the killer would be given a sentence of solitary confinement by the jurors in favor. If the alternative seem to please the immediate family, they will have the power to extend the sentence but never reduce it. If there are more than one victim the time will lengthen accordingly and each immediate family of the murdered victims will have the power to extend the sentence to a certain limit. These sentences will begin with 10 years of solitary confinement to life depending on the crimes and cases. It may come across as a ridiculous alternate to many yet in fact it may be classified as worse than death itself. Humans are social creatures, staying alone for a long period will slowly but surely lead the subject to an unstable mind and shattered humanity (Williams 1). The way that solitary confinement benefits the family is that they get to see the murderer pay the price of their human nature if not their minds for the irreplaceable life of the victims themselves. HRW cannot go against this compromise because the killer is given the choice. They are not forced or manipulated into Cherilus 5 picking, they will be explained what to expect when put into solitary confinement. They will be kept separate from every other prisoner, will not allowed to talk to any others found in the same state however they will receive monthly checkups to make sure that they are still mentally aware. Representatives of Florida will not go against this compromise because, it is a way to bring justice to the families and at the same time they will be saving money from the possible executions and could use it to benefit another region of the prisons. This can also benefit the state and the prisoner by reducing the chance of executing innocents. It has occurred in many cases where the subject whom was executed or sent behind bars was actually a victim. However, if we think some innocent people have been executed, that by itself is not a sufficient reason to abolish the death (Stichter 141). Once again showing the need for an alternative. This may not be a permanent resolution to the issues residing between HRW and the many representatives of the state of Florida however it is suitable to last a long time. Making sure both parties are well represented. In the end, the rights watch wants the prisoner to keep his or her human rights by being able to make their own decision, the representatives in the state of Florida wants justice to be passed and wants the victims to be well represented. The compromise will intertwine both sides by giving the subject the decision to which sentence he or she prefers between the death penalty or an appropriate solitary confinement sentence to make sure that justice is being pass while his or her rights are being respected. Cherilus 6 Work Cited Page Anckar, Carsten. Countries Choose the Death Brown Journal of World Affairs 21.1 (2014): 7-25. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web.26 Jan.2017. Anckar is a professor of political science at Abo Akademi University, he has written many books on the topic of politics and religion. This source is the one be using to back up the State of Florida. I able to find a good source from the State itself explaining why the death penalty part of it was. I was able to find this general article that explains why countries chooses capital punishment which could largely relate to why a state would choose it also. This source is going to help me explain The State of reason for still keeping capital punishment while mane other states did not. Barry, Peter1, pbbarry@svsu.edu. Capital Punishment as A Response To  Criminal Law & Philosophy 9.2 (2015): 245-264. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Taught at Saginaw Valley State University, University Center USA This article was chosen as another source to back the State of Florida and its position towards the death penalty. This helped me emphasize with that stakeholder Kouroutakis, Antonios1. Why Abolish the Death Penalty? Arguments from Madisonian Cherilus 7  Amicus Journal 29 (2012): 43-46. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The author taught at Worcester College, University of Oxford, has a doctorate degree in ethics, law and politics, he also has written many book with subjects relating to politics For the Humans Rights Watch, this article is going to be their dictionary. This article seems to be going in a psychological and biological viewpoint to capital punishment. It seems to be justifying with the fact that the capital punishment is inhumane which is very relatable to what the HRW says. This source will just be another help for me to help my reader understand another side to my topic. It will help me show what the rights movement are fighting for. Stichter, Matt1, mstichter@wsu.edu. The Structure Of Death Penalty  Res Publica (13564765) 20.2 (2014): 129-143. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stichter is an associate professor of Philosophy at Washington State University. He has a PHD in philosophy, has a lot of publications on the subject and has research interest regarding the topic of law. This article was chosen due to the amount of facts it had on my subject. It helped me build a compromise and make alternative plans on how it should work. Williams, Brie A. Older Prisoners and The Physical Health Effects Of Solitary  Cherilus 8 American Journal Of Public Health 106.12 (2016): 2126-2127. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Williams is a professor at the UCSF school of medicine. She has a Masters in Medicine she also is the founding director of the university of California criminal justice and health consortium. This article was chosen to help me back up my compromise and show hoe it will work for the parties involved.