I. Introduction Vaccinations have been around for quite some time now. They continue to change and progress in order to assure children and their families are protected for harmful disease. With old vaccines changing and new being introduced to the public many people are not as well versed in the subject as they should be. Most see vaccines as a good thing, that ultimately benefits those who use them. However, many are unaware of the potential dangers that comes with the use of vaccinations. In addition to that, many know what rights they have when it comes to the regulations regarding administration of vaccine to school age children. The National Vaccine Information goal is to keep families up to date on all information regarding vaccines. Through their websites and various campaigns images have been used to spread their message for parents. The NVIC images provided serve different purposes, one on vaccination rights the other the potential dangers of vaccinations, but by using similar techniques both messages are able to reach their intended audience equally well. II. Body Paragraph 1 First Image A. Pathos a. Minimal plain colors evoke seriousness of the message b. Statue of liberty gives symbolizes freedom and liberty, this goes with the wording Health. Your Family. Your (This is what differentiates this image from the second one) c. Mother and baby evokes familial feelings d. The periods at the end of each phrase show that the message is important Second Image non-profit National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC.org) is conducting an educational billboard campaign in Arizona, Illinois, Oregon, Washington and Texas to encourage well informed vaccine decision-making. The NVIC billboard features a photo of a mother and child and asks Know the risks and followed by the NVIC.org website address (Business B. Pathos a. Minimal plain colors evoke seriousness of the message b. Large font shows that the message is important c. The picture of the mother and baby paired with the words and makes the audience unsettled because who would want to harm a child C. Compare how the use of pathos is used similarly in each image a. The fonts b. Mother and baby c. Plain colors III. Body Paragraph 2 First Image A. Ethos a. Spells what NVIC stands for b. Gives website i. carry risks that can be greater for some individuals and vaccination does not guarantee you get the disease. This is true for pertussis, influenza and mumps vaccines, for said NVIC co- founder and president Barbara Loe Fisher (Kindred Media and By going to their website able to see what information the NVIC has about the issue c. Has distinguished logo to identify organization, to claim their ad/image Second Image B. Ethos a. Gives website b. Has distinguished logo to identify organization, to claim their ad/image C. Compare how the use of ethos is used similarly in each image a. Website b. Logo IV. Body Paragraph 3 First Image A. Logos a. Choice. Your Makes the audience think why they should look into vaccinations to help their family Second Image B. Logos a. Straight forward about there being risks so logically a person would want to know what they are, and look further into the topic C. Compare how the use of logos is used similarly in each image a. Both pique the audiences interest into look further into the topic matter to see that: i. National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and to defending the informed consent ethic in medicine V. Body Paragraph 4 A. The images serve different purposes, but get the point across equally i. support the availability of all preventive health care options, including vaccines, and the right of consumers to make educated, voluntary health care choices a. They both heavily rely on pathos b. Slightly use logos and ethos c. rely on kairos Conclusion The National Vaccine Information Center is an organization goal is to spread awareness of the possible risks regarding vaccination, and the rights parents have for vaccinating school aged children. Though the two images share two different messages, the way they get the message across is very similar. Ultimately, both images communicate their goals equally well by focusing on the emotional appeal child vaccinations, but by also establishing their credibility in the matter. Work Cited Billboard Campaign for Vaccine Education  Kindred Media. N.p., 04 Dec. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NVIC Launches National Billboard Vaccine Education  Business Wire. N.p., 13 Mar. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. First image Second image