Stone 1 Jacob Stone Instructor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Stakeholders in Nuclear Energy The idea of powering the entire United States with a fuel that creates a potential one million times more energy than fossil fuel has intrigued scientists and the government for decades (Ward). The pro-nuclear scientists and the US Government will continue to be at war with each other when it comes to switching to nuclear energy to power cities. If pro-nuclear scientists can promise cheaper building structures for secure facilities and minimize human error the government may consider switching energy sources. The government will constantly be wanting to save money, appeal to the population, and power the nation. While pro-nuclear scientists are in need of money in order to research for a cleaner energy source than fossil fuels. There are many pros and cons for nuclear energy that the EPA has to keep track of when it comes to nuclear energy. The EPA must keep track of both pros and cons in order to build a solid case on whether or not nuclear energy should be used. One of the major problems is the radioactive waste that is a byproduct of nuclear plants. The depleted uranium waste has to be carefully watched for close to ten thousand years and cons of nuclear The EPA is referring to the fact that humans cannot simply bury the radioactive waste and hope it goes away. The toxic waste is going to be a burden on humans for thousands of years because of half-life. Half-life is the given number of years it takes for half of a certain material to decay. The material plutonium-239 has a half-life of 24000 years, meaning it will take hundreds of thousands of years to fully decay and no longer be a problem Backgrounder on Stone 2 Radioactive Pro-nuclear scientists claim that the radioactive waste is negligible when compared to the carbon-dioxide waste the current fuels release. Researcher Maehlum claims nuclear power plants emit negligible amounts, if any, carbon dioxide into the (Maehlum). Less carbon dioxide in the atmosphere means less deaths due to air polution. Of course the government would want its people to have clean air, but at what cost? The required care of nuclear waste for thousands of years does not sound appealing from a financial stand point. This idea is a big turn off to the government. The government is going to have to pay to protect and secure the nuclear waste from the environment, population, and even terrorist attacks. Clean and Safe Energy Coalition claims that energy is safe and but only through government regulations, continuous training by the industry, and enhanced security (EPA). In theory nuclear energy is safe, but only if the government regulates plants and meets the constant yearly requirements of training employees. This would be a nationwide requirement costing billions of dollars. In order to fund this program taxes would rise, creating disgruntled constituents. A Swiss study produced results stating that pollution is responsible for three million deaths a (EPA). The government is in a tough spot because they must decide whether or not to act and go for a safer alternative. Pro-nuclear scientists have been pushing the agenda that in the long run, nuclear energy will end up saving money and be a renewable fuel source. The safety of the environment plays a big factor in the nuclear energy debate. Both stakeholders would agree that the environment should be a very high concern and any damage to it should be minimized. Should any nuclear meltdown occur, the land surrounding that area will be effected for thousands of years. According to researcher Ward, large nuclear meltdowns in history released radioactive waste that had lasting negative impacts on the Stone 3 environment and surrounding (Ward). With an ever growing population, the last thing the government wants is the removal of life sustaining land. The negative effects will impact things on the lower end of the food chain and make its way up to humans. Animals that come in contact with radioactive material have high chances of developing cancer (EPA). However, with advanced techniques, it is estimated that 2 out of 3 meltdowns would result in no deaths. According to researcher Cohen, there would have to be 25 meltdowns every year to equal the deaths from fossil fuel burning (EPA). This however does not take into account the possibility of destroying land for future generations. Pro-nuclear scientists urge the government to spend extra money to protect the environment. Nuclear power plants are extremely dangerous if war were to ever break out. These power plants are highly favorable target areas for terrorist attacks because if a meltdown were to ever be trigged, millions could be effected and have to evacuate. This is a situation any government would want to avoid, and they know for certain they cannot keep every facility 100% safe. The radioactive waste can still be used as a nuclear weapon because the waste is still hazardous. (Nuclear proliferation is the rapid spread of nuclear weapons) This means that with an increase of nuclear facilities there will be an increase in nuclear waste for the government to monitor and cons of nuclear The government does not want to put its citizens at risk, and scientists currently have no true advice to offer in this situation. What worries many people is the inability to 100% secure every facility. There will always be a source of human error that produces accidents. According to Scientific American, Associated Press investigation in March revealed 24 cases from December 2009 to September 2010 in which plant operators did not report equipment (THE EDITORS). This situation is very scary to the population. For example, the 24 cases where meltdowns could Stone 4 have occurred due to human failure is exactly what the government wants to avoid. These 24 cases occurred in only one year of operation and before nuclear power plants have opened nationwide. Scientific American also claims regulations are not being enforced which would have to change if nuclear energy were to be introduced nationally. (THE EDITORS). Nuclear facility operators will have to gain the trust of the population back in the coming years if the United States were to ever see a mass change to nuclear energy. Although scientists have tried harnessing nuclear energy for decades, the government is just not ready to give up current energy sources nationwide. They would have to spend billions of dollars to create facilities that are secure from the environmental hazards like what happened in Fukushima, Japan in 2011 and from terrorist attacks. Money would be spent on the containment of radioactive waste because the waste can still pollute the environment for thousands of years. Pro-nuclear scientists will have to create a better argument for nuclear energy if they want the government to even consider switching. With the United States being trillions of dollars in debt, the chances of switching are very minimal as at present. Stone 5 Works Cited Pros and cons of nuclear  Time for Change. Time for Change, 11 Jan. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maehlum, Mathias A. Nuclear Energy Pros and  Energy Informative. N.p., 3 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. EPA. Is Nuclear Power Safe for Humans and the  Pro Con. N.p., 24 Apr. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. THE EDITORS. Coming Clean about Nuclear  Scientific American. N.p., 1 June 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ward, David. Nuclear  Student Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Backgrounder on Radioactive Waste  United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. N.p., 3 Apr. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.