Daffner 1 Marcus Daffner Composition II Professor Spring 2017 Over the past few years immigration has been an incredibly controversial topic, with so many different groups with varying opinions, the solution to the problem is ultimately unclear. An example of a stakeholder taking part in this struggle is the Fair Immigration Reform Movement ( FIRM). According to their website, FIRM is a national coalition of grassroots organizations fighting for immigrant rights at the local, state and federal level (FIRM). The coalition has fought diligently for a more open border within the United States. Established in 2000, the Fair Immigration Reform ultimate goal has been creating unanimous voice of all grassroots organizations campaigning for the reform of current border and immigration policies and fighting for civil rights to ultimately improve the living conditions of people of color and low income. The coalition believes that by providing citizenship to undocumented immigrants who are currently active members in their communities and are contributing to society will ultimately benefit the economy. The group strives to address and get others to understand why an immigrant may be inclined to flee their homeland to enter the United States illegally. FIRM strongly believes that the separation of families is unnecessary and immoral, the group strongly advocates for keeping families together regardless of borders. FIRM also advocates for the demilitarization of border security forces, according to their website at least 39 people have died in an encounter with border security ( FIRM). FIRM believes that the current treatment of immigrants in detention is inhumane. In detention awaiting the decision of whether they will be deported or not, an immigrant faces discrimination, the lack of a Daffner 2 government appointed lawyer/attorney to represent them, and they are often held at a detention center in an outlying area far away from relatives who could help them ( FIRM). Finally, FIRM wants the people of the United States to fully recognize and understand that immigrants are humans too. FIRM wants everyone to understand that immigrants are more than just workers and that they play an intricate role in our society, without them life would be very different in America. Below is a political cartoon that displays an interpretation of the current Immigration Policy. At your first glance of figure one you can get a pretty good understanding of what is going on. Essentially Donald Trump and the Republican Party are firing the Statue of Liberty and her message. The image could be interpreted as Donald Trump and the Republican party Daffner 3 essentially throwing out the values of which the border/immigration policy was founded on, which can be seen on the Statue of tablet that reads Give me your tired, your If we delve deeper into the Ethos, Pathos, and Logos of this image we will be able to see a deeper and more elaborate meaning. The Ethos or credibility of the image lies within the two characters portrayed. When viewing the mysterious figure in a suit behind the desk we can assume that he can be interpreted as just the republican party based on the republican logo on the desk. If you read the text coming from the republican that reads we can instantly recognize this as the catchphrase of Donald Trump, also if you look at the mannerism of the hand you can recognize it as signature hand movement. An example of Logos could be the Statue of Liberty, it represents immigration on the east coast of the United States. The Statue of tablet says me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden . This signifies that the United States of America essentially would allow and even welcome any person seeking refuge, a new start, or for any reason would be accepted with open arms into the United States. Thus Donald Trump or the Republican Party firing the Statue of Liberty means that the United States is throwing out its immigration policies. In the first image there are a number of examples of Pathos or emotion, for example the size and posture of both the Statue of Liberty and Donald Trump. In real life the Statue of Liberty is a giant statue that would normally tower over not only just a man but even buildings and to see how the Statue of Liberty is significantly smaller than Donald Trump, and she is slouched in her chair, almost cowering in the presence of Trump. On the other hand Trump is pictured to be large and siting incredibly straight and tall at his desk, this Daffner 4 could be representing the power he has recently acquired or this could represent his ultra-inflated ego. If you were to look at the corner where the Statue of Liberty sits you can clearly see a darkness creeping about from underneath her. This could represent the negative feelings toward the way Trump has been dealing with the immigration policies. The light shining from the Statue of torch still provides light to the picture, this can be interpreted as the artist still believing that there is hope for the country and that even in times of strife and oppression there will alway be glimmer of hope to keep trying. Another example of a stakeholder participating in the ever evolving issue of immigration would be the Federation for American Immigration Reform ( FAIR). According to their website, Federation for American Immigration Reform is a non-profit, non-partisan organization of concerned individuals who believe that our immigration laws must be reformed to better serve the needs of current and future (FAIR). FAIR seeks to educate the public about the current and pressing issues that surround the controversial topic of immigration, create their own solutions and present them to the public, and ensure that the voice of the public is heard by our leaders ( FAIR). ultimate goal is to limit immigration to a manageable number within the ballpark of about 300,000 immigrants per year, which would give time for the U.S. to adjust accordingly to population growth. Below is an image that represents the ideals of FAIR. Daffner 5 In Figure 2 is an image of a man holding up a sign that reads My family did it right everyone else can From the sign we can assume that the man himself is an immigrant. Based on the image itself we can infer that this man is at protest of some sort against illegal immigration. The Ethos of the image is that the man comes from an immigrant family.An example of Logos would be the decision this family made. We can assume that the man and his family were faced with a choice when they decided that they wanted to migrate to the US, they could illegally enter the US like many other people do but they made the conscious to enter the US legally to avoid the later consequences that many illegal immigrants are facing today like deportation. Another example could be why the man is there protesting at all. The man and his family has chosen to legally enter the US on their own terms. Being immigrants they probably experience some form of discrimination from citizens because immigrants who choose to enter the US illegal create a bad image for people who legally enter the US like this man and his family. An example of pathos in this picture could be the face. He seems fed up with the topic of immigration being controversial at all. This man has chosen to do the right and legal Daffner 6 way of entering the US but others skipped the entire process and entered the US without any immediate consequence. The man may be asking himself why did I have to go through a lengthy and frustrating process while others do not. How come others come into the US illegally and then are protected by others. The point may be why are allowed to break the rules and there be no consequence, why everyone just follow the rules like he did. After viewing both images that represent two completely different sides of the controversial topic of immigration, the weight of both sides can be seen clearly. Each side only wants what is best for the United States and people. In figure 1 we can see the how some people may be viewing the change and ideals of the current US administration as very wrong and hurtful to the country, while in figure 2 we can see how some people view that people should be held accountable for their actions and follow the law. While both sides fight for what they think is the right way of solving the issue there is no clear right and wrong that is for the average citizen to decide. Daffner 7 Works Cited Change Takes  Immigration Reform Movement . Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Home Federation for American Immigration  Federation for American Immigration Reform . Web. 26 Feb. 2017.