Kissoon 1 Jeremy Kissoon Bob Botkin ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Shark Fin Soup: Should it Continue? The consumption of Shark Fin Soup has been going on for generations, as it plays an integral role in the Chinese culture. However, a major problem arises in which the ecosystems are at risk of collapsing. As a result, two opposing sides emerge, the fishermen who perform Shark finning for a living and the environmentalists that wish to preserve the sharks. This paper will investigate the issue associated with Shark finning around the world. Shark finning is the process in which fishermen fish for sharks and when they catch them, they cut off the fins from the carcass for ease of transport and storage, leaving the rest of the shark in the ocean, bleeding to death or at risk of being eaten by other aquatic life (Jefferies 257). This practice is done due to the fact that shark fins make up a major component in Shark Fin Soup. This soup is considered a luxury to the Chinese middle class because it is considered to be both very delicious and prestigious in the Chinese culture (Jefferies 257). As a result, the fishermen who harvest these sharks could make a lot of profit. According to Cameron Jefferies in his Legislative Note: An Emerging Pacific Initiative to Ban Shark Finning and Limit the Consumption of Shark Fin Soup the Case for Canadian Participation, profitability of the shark fin trade is estimated to be between $400 500 million USD a (258). To add, a bowl of Shark Fin Soup could cost as much as $100 USD and the fins could be sold for as much as $1000 USD (Green 706). Therefore, these fishermen would not be willing to give up their Kissoon 2 livelihoods since they could make a decent living from Shark finning and they believe that they should be able to continue this practice. On the other side of the argument, the environmentalists are angered when it comes to Shark finning. They argue that sharks are on the top of the food chain which makes them an apex predator in the ocean. If they were to go extinct, then the ecosystems would be thrown out of balance, so these groups of people are trying to pass laws that limit or completely ban the practice of fishing for shark fins. According to author Crystal Green, an advocate against shark finning, in her article, An International SOS (Save Our Sharks): How The International Legal Framework Should Be Used To Save Our Sharks, over 100 million sharks are killed each year due to shark finning. Green also mentions that shark finning makes up the number one cause of death of sharks. Other factors such as pollution, habitat destruction, and sport fishing do contribute to the dwindling size of the shark population but not as drastically as finning (705). She also goes into detail of how the marine ecosystem is affected by providing an example in which certain rays (a type of fish that are considered prey for sharks) roam the bottom of the ocean and feast on the seagrass beds that are present. These seagrass beds also contain other aquatic life such as shellfish .Without the help of sharks to keep these rays from consuming the grass, the habitats of other organisms are at risk (705). This shows how the ecosystem can be altered if shark finning continues to persist. With the population of sharks decreasing at a rapid rate, many regions are starting to limit or ban Shark finning. In Cameron Jefferies Sharks and the Culinary Clash of Culture and Conservation: Why are we not considering the Health Consequences of Shark Consumption?, areas such as Hawaii have banned the possession, sale and trade of shark fins. Other states like California, Oregon, and Washington State have followed suit and placed similar bans. Even Kissoon 3 countries such as Guam have begun to ban the practice of finning for sharks (35). Other laws include the Shark Finning Prohibition Act of 2000 signed into law by President Bill Clinton. This law, also known as the SFPA, prohibits anyone from engaging in shark finning, and possessing shark fins in their boats without the bodies of the sharks (Green 711). By bringing these laws into play, the governments of many regions are starting to show care towards the endangerment of sharks and are limiting the availability of shark finning around the world. These laws may be good news to many, but to others, they may be viewed as negative. For example, California was hit with a court case by the Chinatown Neighborhood Association. They were suing the state because they claimed the ban on shark fin sales discriminates against people of Chinese origin for whom the fins are a cultural and it was seen as unconstitutional. In the end, the CNA lost the case because the Supreme Court did not believe that California was trying to discriminate against anyone (Green 714-715). This proves that laws that prohibit shark finning may go against the beliefs of others and legal action will be pursued. Politics aside, research shows that Shark fins may cause negative effects on the human body. Sharks do have beneficial factors in them that aid in treatments that deal with anemia, cold extremities, diabetes, fatigue, hypertension and tuberculosis (Jefferies 35). However, since toxins enter the food chain at lower levels (smaller fish, Shrimp, and Plankton) and become more concentrated as one goes up the food chain, sharks, unfortunately, have been found to be contaminated with heavy metals such as methylmercury (Jefferies 36). This particular metal has been linked to studies unearthing problems involving both fetal development, in which the fetus can be harmed, as well as male infertility (Jefferies 36). Kissoon 4 With every problem, a compromise could be made. Fishermen do not want to give up finning and environmentalists want to preserve these shark species from going extinct. In order to reach an agreement, highly concentrated shark regions should not permanently ban shark finning, because that would have a significant and negative impact on many who are currently employed. Instead, they should limit or place boundaries where these fishermen are allowed to fish. For example, any coastal state in the United States has control over the fishing that goes on within a 200 mile radius. By having this control, they are able to limit the amount of shark finning that goes on, and the fishermen are able to carry on with their jobs (Green 708). Other boundaries should be reserved for breeding grounds for these sharks so that they have a chance to revitalize and repopulate. Also, sharks could be worth just as much in the water as they are on restaurant menus. It is found that shark ecotourism currently generates more than $314 million USD worldwide and is expected to grow to $780 million USD in the next 20 years according to David McGuire in Fighting to Save the Top Predators (17). All in all, Sharks seem to bring about an international fear because of hit movies like Jaws that portray these creatures as cold-blooded killers (Green 702). As a result, many people, especially children possess negative attitudes towards sharks and lack the knowledge to understand the role these sharks play in the ecosystem (Tsoi 13). Therefore, they would have no stake in whether or not shark finning continues. However, soon the shark population will diminish and the future of the oceans along with all its life will begin to waiver unless changes are made. Kissoon 5 Works Cited Green, Crystal. An International SOS (Save Our Sharks): How The International Legal Framework Should Be Used To Save Our  Pace International Law Review 2 (2015): 701. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jefferies, Cameron. Legislative Note: An Emerging Pacific Initiative To Ban Shark Finning And Limit The Consumption Of Shark Fin Soup The Case For Canadian  Journal Of Environmental Law & Practice (11817534) 22.3 (2011): 255- 265. Environment Index. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jefferies, Cameron. Sharks And The Culinary Clash Of Culture And Conservation: Why Are We Not Considering The Health Consequences Of Shark  Health Law Review 3 (2012): 35. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McGuire, David. Fighting To Save The Top  Earth Island Journal 28.4 (2014): 16-17. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tsoi, Kwok Ho, et al. Shark Conservation: An Educational Approach Based On Knowledge And Perceptions Toward  Plos ONE 11.9 (2016): 1-17. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.