Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 1 Vaccinations Given to Children Cristina V. Shawver U30946798 University of South Florida Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 2 Vaccinations Given to Children The fear of contracting autism spectrum disorder from vaccines has become a legitimate fear that has stopped many parents from allowing their children to be vaccinated. Both the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Vaccine Information Center have a stance on this issue. The mission of the CDC is to ensure American health and safety by fighting disease and illness (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 2014). The NVIC strives to keep the public informed of the controversy of vaccinations and oversees research about those vaccinations (National Vaccine Information Center While both organizations ultimately seek the safety of Americans, both have an opposing view of whether vaccinations truly cause autism. The CDC has come out with many scientific studies which have stated that vaccines do not cause autism (CDC, 2015) while the NVIC supports continuing research of vaccines due to the many cases against them (NVIC). Due to this fear of vaccines being directly linked to autism by many Americans, both the CDC and NVIC should compromise by cooperating with one another and properly informing the public of the pros and cons of vaccinating or not vaccinating their children. As stated before, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention aims to fight disease and secure the health of American citizens. To accomplish this task, the CDC responds by discovering cures to illnesses, conducting numerous research experiments, and providing the results of those research studies to the public (CDC, 2014). After the completion of many different studies, the CDC has developed a conclusion that vaccines do not cause autism spectrum disorder. According to the Institute of Medicine, a recent study tested a series of vaccines on both adults and children and found that the vaccines were not unsafe (CDC, 2015). Also tested, was an ingredient in vaccines that is used to prevent contamination called thimerosal Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 3 (CDC, 2015). Thimerosal was found to have no direct relationship with the onset of ASD and this same study has been conducted nine different times by the CDC (CDC, 2015). Another study that analyzed five cases of vaccinations found, evidence for the link between vaccination and the subsequent risk of developing autism or autistic spectrum (Taylor Swerdfeger Eslick, 2014). The conclusion states that they have not done extensive new research and believe that the ASD cannot be caused by the administration of vaccinations on children. On the other hand, the National Vaccination Information Center holds opposing beliefs. The NVIC is a nonprofit organization that was founded in 1982 and exists to advocate for protecting individuals from injuries and deaths by vaccines (NVIC). They also provide counseling for parents of children who have encountered vaccine complications such as illness, injury, or death (NVIC). The NVIC holds the belief that autism has a high possibility of being caused by vaccines due to the reports of children getting an onset of autism post vaccination. This conclusion is largely supported by the parents who have witnessed vaccine complications first handedly with their own children. Since these reports have become a concern of many people, the NVIC campaigns and informs the public to keep them from potential risk. Specifically, in 2008, the NVIC began a campaign against forced vaccinations in the U.S (NVIC). Also, they have recently started forums on the internet where concerned individuals can gain more information on vaccinations and share their specific experiences with vaccines. Between the forums, campaigns, and websites, it is clear that the NVIC leans strongly toward vaccines being a cause of ASD. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Vaccination Information Center are separate organizations that do not collaborate. They do not do research together, and often times the NVIC compares their research to the and vice versa. Most Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 4 often, the two organizations have opposing views. The CDC has come to conclusions that the there is no possibility of contracting ASD from vaccines (CDC, 2015). The NVIC opposes by saying that they do, and that vaccinations cannot be forced upon patients (NVIC). Although the CDC and the NVIC hold different positions on the debate of whether or not vaccines cause ASD, the two do share some common beliefs. From each organizations mission statements, both strive for the greatest possible health of the American people. The opposition between the two comes in to play when comparing research and first hand accounts. The CDC has abundant research that supports the side in which vaccinations cannot cause autism. Conversely, the NVIC has received numerous testimonies of parents reporting that a vaccination injured their child in some way. Since both stakeholders aim for health and safety of Americans, both should come to a compromise that supports their goals. In order for both organizations to reach a compromise, they must both have an open mind. First, both the CDC and NVIC should neither fully deny nor accept the possibility of vaccines causing autism. Second, each organization should create a list of pros and cons of vaccinating and not vaccinating, and share it with the public. By setting up these lists, parents will be more informed of benefits and risks, and will be able to make a decision for their own children. For example, a benefit of vaccination is that a child is saved from many potential diseases that could harm him or her. According to professionals who lobby for immunizations, they that vaccines have saved millions of (Epstein 2015) An example of a con of vaccinating, children can naturally fight most diseases and so giving them these vaccines can only cause serious side effects but may be the trigger for a lot of the health problems and learning disabilities we see in children today, such as autism, diabetes, and (Epstein 2015) In the end, this compromise will benefit the public the most because Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 5 they will feel more safe about their choice rather than have fears about what decision they should make. Also, both stakeholders will be honoring their mission statements by ensuring that the public is informed of risks and benefits of vaccinating children. The issue of distrust of vaccinations has been an issue concerning Americans recently as stories of ASD in children are speculated to be linked to them. Autism spectrum disorder is a serious disorder that no parent wants their child to receive, especially through means of vaccination. The compromise between both the NVIC and the CDC will alleviate the fears of Americans and ensure that the public is well informed about vaccines. Also, if these lists are created by both organizations separately, it would make for a credible source of information for the general public. As long as this input from both to fruition, Americans will be able to trust their own decisions and practices more readily than before. Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 6 References Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mission, Role and Pledge. (2014, April 14). Retrieved January 28, 2017 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism. (2015, November 23). Retrieved January 26, 2017 Epstein, V. (2015, August 12). Immunization Debate: Do You Say Yes to Vaccines? Retrieved February 10, 2017 National Vaccine Information Center. How We Inform the Public - About Us - NVIC. (n.d.). Retrieved January 28, 2017 Taylor, L. E., Swerdfeger, A. L., & Eslick, G. D., (2014). Vaccines Are Not Associated With Autism: An Evidence-Based Meta-Analysis Of Case-Control And Cohort Studies. Retrieved January 28, 2017