Sample Outline for Project 2 (ENC 1102) I. Introduction A. Mars One a. Context, Mars One is a group planning on going and colonizing mars and currently have a heavy focus on teaching people about their goals. b. History, A lot of the plans set for mars one colonizing are planned for 10 years from now so they currently are putting a heavy focus on informing the public on plans. B. Thesis, Mars one has put emphasis in their pictures with informing the public by using interesting images and claims in them to gain attention to the articles that they are correlated with. (I want a full sentence or two here that establishes a relationship between your two images, and makes an arguable claim about them. Remember, a thesis should not simply state that your images employ ethos, pathos, logos, and/or kairos to persuade the viewer.) C. Thesis 2, Mars one uses these images as attention grabbers to their articles which both are attempting to inform you to the future of space travel and exploration. II. Body paragraph one: a. Mars one in the first image uses an image that looks majestic to draw the viewer in with intrigue about the topic of mars and exploring which then the reader will read the information related to the image b. Emotional appeal i. Discuss the feelings the image is portraying ii. Fog, the sun put in the center, and the direction the expeditionist is headed c. Of these two images this is the stronger of the two of drawing in attention. III. Body paragraph two: a. Mars one uses a line of text that peaks into curiosity along with an image that was created to simulate an example of us landing a lander on mars. b. Use of logos and ethos i. Ethos by the credibility of the person that is being interviewed, and logos to appeal to those that are interested in the topic c. There is usage of different rhetorical appeals in this image than the other but there is use of most of the major appeals by mars one. IV. Conclusion A. Is there anything you can say after the analysis that would have been difficult to say before the analysis? a. No nothing too heavily that to mention that it was focused on the image but the image is directing interest to an article for each B. Are there any recommendations you are making here that must come at the end? For example, perhaps critiquing the images and you write your recommendations for how they could be better employed here? a. The lack of Kairos is expected due to the nature of the topic as information is available but there is no urgency to anything due to the time frame that the expeditions will be. C. Perhaps you end with a discussion about where these images might be employed in the future. Some images might work well as protest posters, social media memes, billboards, etc. This could be a nice space to look toward project 3 and how to best incorporate visual media on a website or video. a. These images be easily reused but can be used as examples that can inspire and direct the creation of further images with similar purposes. V. Works Cited A. Please include a full works cited page to demonstrate your knowledge of MLA or APA formatting. a. Mars One, www.mars-one.com/. b. Mars One Community Platform, community.mars- one.com/blog. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. B. Also include your images in the appropriate style of Appendix. For help with this, check the style guides on Myreviewers, The Writing Commons, or OWL Purdue. Appendix Figure 1 Figure 2