Shpilchevskiy 1 Vladimir Shpilchevskiy Karen Hanson ENC 1102 25 February 2017 AAP for Immunization American Academy of Pediatrics(AAP) is professional organization consisting of 66000 pediatricians that promote physical, mental and social health and well-being for children, adolescents, and young adults. They do research on different topics, have their own charity funds and distribute news and knowledge concerning health. One of the problems that they are particularly focused is children immunization. They actively participate in several immunization campaigns such as National Influenza Vaccination Week, Preteen Vaccine Campaign AAP highlights the importance of immunization, trying to make sure that parents, caregivers and healthcare providers understand that immunization can help children to stay safe against 14 vaccine-preventable diseases, such as measles, influenza and others. To achieve their goal, AAP uses two pieces of visual rhetoric that successfully show immunization as an easy procedure that helps a child be healthy and happy, and also not successfully warns about the danger of vaccine-preventable diseases. AAP uses images to present immunization as an easy way to keep children safe from diseases, measles in particular. For example, on picture A we can see a cartoon, showing the conversation of two children. One of them is trying to find a way to protect himself from measles by wearing a suit, moving to the moon etc. Another child always answers that he can just get vaccinated. According to Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre appealing to pathos means appealing to emotion, which will help audience to engage in 37). In this case humor Shpilchevskiy 2 helps audience to understand the how simple it is to protect child by vaccination. Ivy and Bean are the characters of this cartoon and they were created intentionally. In this particular image they serve as prototypes of real children, which should create an association with the own children for the audience to become more personally engaged in the issue, knowing that measles can become a trouble for their children. Moreover, there is a phrase below the pictures spread easily and can cause serious which is added to make people cautious (maybe even scared) about this illness, to make them understand that it is dangerous and should be treated effectively. The image is quite colorful and not without a reason. The most important phrases that contain the message of the whole image are usually red, or put in red speech bubbles, like the phrase so it contrasts with white or blue background. The contrast is used to focus audience attention on the most important phrases which contain the message. The usage of simple language, for example is used to make image closer to reality and, therefore, to the audience, which is also an example of pathos. In the bottom of the image A we can see the logos of organizations such as Unicef, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, AAP itself etc. These are professional health organizations with a goal of protecting people from different diseases, measles included. This image is their attempt to persuade people in importance of vaccination, which appeals to ethos, because this organizations have long history and can be trusted. According to Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre, Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and In my opinion, authors should have shown more statistics for the argument to become stronger, but audience can still easily identify the claim and the reason Shpilchevskiy 3 spread easily and can cause serious so this argument is clear and makes sense, which applies to Logos. The 2 Image warns us about Measles, providing us with some basic information about this disease, like for who it is especially dangerous. We can also see a group of children standing in a line at the bottom of the image. It should be noted that these children are of different races and gender. This is done to create a feeling of personal involvement within the audience of all races and skin color, because they can associate one of these children with their own. The images of this kids are supposed to make people more involved and interested with the issue so it appears to pathos. Authors are also trying to make people more aware of measles by adding short but memorable slogans Just a Little can be dangerous, especially for babies and young so parents will look more closely for any sign of measles, knowing that their child might be in danger, which also appeals to pathos. There are no logos or references on the image to understand where it came and if it can be trusted, but this image was taken from American Academy of Pediatrics Facebook page and it is actively used in immunization campaign in which AAP participates, and that fact can appeal to ethos, because AAP is credible and respected organization. American Academy of Pediatrics actively promotes vaccination among young people, distributing information about vaccination opportunities and danger of vaccine-prevented diseases. They use both images for this purposes. Image one is successfully used to make people understand that vaccination is an easy and safe way for children to stay healthy from such a dangerous disease as measles. This image contains humor and funny kid characters creating emotional connection with the audience, then there is a call to get vaccinated that should persuade people to do so, Shpilchevskiy 4 and finally a list of famous professional health organizations and funds, which should convince people that information is credible. All these elements make Image 1 quite effective. Image 2 makes an attempt to warn people about the danger of one of the vaccine-prevented diseases called measles, but this image is not as successful as Image 1, because although it appeals to emotion showing children of different races and gender, it does not contains any other emotional cliffhanger, any call to action is also absent as well as any logo of credible organization. That is why Image 2 is not a good example for AAP for convincing people to vaccinate. American Academy of Pediatrics effectively moves towards its ultimate goal - reducing the number of children who get such vaccine-prevented diseases as measles, diphtheria, influenza, rubella and others. Both images highlights the importance of immunization and the danger of the diseases. Hopefully, in the future, AAP reaches its goal, because they have already distribute plenty of information by taking part in immunization creating the list of 15 disease and providing their recommendations about Preventable Diseases and organizing posts, tweets, creating videos and using other type of media to spread information about the Social Media Shpilchevskiy 5 Works Cited Gayle Lee, McKee, and Megan Mclntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. American Academy of Pediatrics. https://www.aap.org/en-us/advocacy-and-policy/aap-health-initiatives/immunizat ion/Pages/campaigns.aspx. Accessed 26 th February 2017 Social Media American Academy of Pediatrics. https://www.aap.org/en-us/advocacy-and-policy/aap-health-initiatives/immunizat ion/Pages/Immunization-Social-Media-Toolkit.aspx. Accessed 26 th February 2017 Lane, McKee, and Megan Mclntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. Prevented Diseases and American academy of Pediatrics. https://www.aap.org/en-us/advocacy-and-policy/aap-health-initiatives/immunizat ion/Pages/vaccine-preventable-diseases-and-policy.aspx. Accessed 26 th February 2017 Shpilchevskiy 6 Image 1 Shpilchevskiy 7 Image 2