Katheryn Iuliucci ENC 1102 Professor Lay 26 February 2017 The Use of Rhetorical Appeals to Stop Hunting A passion motivates a person to fight for their cause, and fuels their fire to defend what they love. Perhaps one of the most passionate causes recurring time and time again, unwavering of the time period, is the discussion about animal rights. As technology and education about animals has improved, the efforts made by people to protect animals and their rights has significantly increased. A pivotal moment for those passionate about animal rights was the introduction of The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, more commonly referenced as PETA. Ever since March 1980, PETA has fought relentlessly to defend the rights of animals. The organization faces a variety of issues regarding animals, ranging from unethical experimentation to the abuse of circus animals. One of the arguments PETA takes a firm stand in is the opposition of any form of hunting or fishing. This stakeholder works to persuade the public about the wrongs of hunting in the form of protests and advertisements. PETA utilizes rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, and logos through their printed advertisements to convince their viewers that hunting is wrong. The stakeholder applies pathos in the advertisements to make the viewer feel emotions, ranging from excitement to fear. Pathos allows the audience to connect to the argument by feeling an emotion (Hoffman 35). In the first image, pathos provides the viewer with a sense of excitement. This advertisement features a color scheme of predominantly neutral colors, and a pop of bright red. This red unites the cursive font and the red lipstick the woman is wearing. The red is used to provide emphasis and a sense of urgency to the topic, but not fear. The red catches the attention but does not scare them or indicate death. Instead, it boldly provides a seemingly compromise. This proposed compromise is to use guns for sport without killing animals. Instead of taking pleasure in the death of animals, gun users can feel content and morally sound by using guns in other ways. The other ways gun users could still enjoy their hobby is through target practice. The viewer receives all of this information by seeing how a champion pistol shooter supports movement. The compromise is portrayed as because the bold red color is paired with a friendly smile, as well as a bubbly font. The viewer associates the image with emotions of optimism and eagerness because of the application of pathos. However, the second image conveys other emotions. The red in the second image is used in a very different way than the red in the first image. The pop of color in this advertisement is a much darker, crimson shade, representing blood. The red font says and matches the blood on the tips of the elk horns. This appeals to pathos by striking fear in the viewer. PETA created this ad to have viewers link the concept of hell with blood. One must note that the blood is not coming out of the animal, but is just on the horns of the elk. This suggests that the elk did the damage, not the hunter. Unlike the previous advertisement, the font is not friendly and bubbly. Instead, the font is very formal and unwelcoming. The overall feel of the ad is intimidating, and leaves the viewer with a sense of uneasiness, and unanswered questions. Both ads utilize the rhetorical appeal of pathos to have the audience link an emotion to the image they are viewing. PETA applies ethos in the advertisement to convince the reader that their advertisement is reliable and credible. The first image uses ethos by appearing very credible. The advertisement features a celebrity, and includes her picture and her name. The ad showcases a champion pistol shooter, which especially peaks the interest of those familiar with the culture of the shooting world (a majority of which are hunters). By showing that a successful and renowned gun user backs principles, the stakeholder utilizes the rhetorical appeal of ethos in their ad. By including the name directly on the poster, PETA provides the viewer with a source as a starting base for research. This credibility may persuade the audience to further look into the image, and ultimately agree with the stakeholder. Less noticeable but certainly just as powerful, ethos plays a role in the marketing of the second image as well. Although there is no specific reference to any famous person or statistics in the advertisement, it stems from a real historical event. This advertisement was inspired from a real-life hunting accident. The accident occurred when a hunter carrying an elk carcass on his ATV lost control. Upon driving a steep hill, the front end of the ATV came up, and Heeter was impaled by the elk horn when the vehicle rolled (KOIN Staff). The second ad appeals to ethos by its credible inspiration of a real-life news event. Both advertisements appeal to ethos in different ways, whether through credible people, or credible events. The organization applies logos in the advertisement in order to bring the awareness to things that may not have previously considered before. Logos provides a sense of clear reasoning behind the arguments (Hoffman 30). The first image provides somewhat of a play on words, followed by an image for clarification. The ad hones in on the double meaning of the word The ad provides a logical connection between shooting with a gun, and shooting pictures. This creative word play gives a lighter connotation to a subject that could easily become very dark and depressing. However, not all viewers may automatically recognize the wittiness of the wording. Clarifying by way of a visual representation of the wording, the ad appeals to logos. The second image appeals to logos by giving an ultimatum. They threaten the viewer by attempting to form a simple, logical connection that if hunters harm animals, animals will harm the hunter. The stakeholder applies pathos, ethos, and logos through their printed advertisements to convince their viewers to stop hunting. PETA taps into each emotions, reasoning, and logic. By taking a wholesome approach to persuading their viewers in many different lights, PETA successfully impacts their viewers. This stakeholder is known for their excellent persuasion skills and rhetorical appeals which influence their audience. Pictures really do speak one thousand words. These two advertisements alone share multiple ideas. advertisements inform their viewers about the repercussions of hunting, alternatives to killing animals, optimistic ways to look at sport shooting, and how hunting can be perceived as unethical. Appendix Works Cited Anti-hunting PETA ad. goHunt, gohunt-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/media/Anti-hunting-Peta- ad.jpg. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, editor. Rhetoric Matters. PDF ed., U of South Florida, 2016. KOIN Staff. Hunter Rescued After Being Impaled by Elk Horn During ATV  KOIN6, 7 Nov. 2016, nbc4i.com/2016/11/07/hunter-rescued-after-being-impaled-by-elk-horn- during-atv-crash/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Matthies, Chrissy. Payback Is Hell. PETA, 16 Sept. 2013, Accessed 25 Feb. 2017.