Chen, 1 Mengshan Chen Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 23 February 2017 Help to Cure PTSD Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, also named PTSD, is a mental health issue that some people develop after experiencing a life-threatening event, such as possible death, serious injury, or sexual violence. Since PTSD usually occurs in soldiers who come back from the war, the US department of Veterans Affairs website has a sub-area named PTSD: National Center for PTSD, which can help the public understand PTSD scientifically and promote improved treatment of PTSD for veterans. The organization believes that PTSD is curable. Also, veterans who are suffering from PTSD are encouraged to ask for help through this website. Therefore, the organization of PTSD: National Center for PTSD designs several pictures as an advertisement to help PTSD sufferers overcome the disorder together. The PTSD: National Center for PTSD, which is a sub-area of the website of US Department of Veterans Affairs. It is a government organization which uses research, education, and training that can help stricken veterans to defeat PTSD or others trauma scientifically. Also, the public can understand PTSD through this website. The PTSD: National Center for PTSD was built in 1989. the foremost leader on PTSD and others trauma in this world. The National Center for PTSD has six goals and objectives. The government wants the public understanding PTSD scientifically and supporting the global war on terrorism. Also, the government will offer PTSD education for researchers and clinicians. Furthermore, the government will promote improved Chen, 2 treatment of PTSD. In addition, the government will manage veterans and advance their emergency medical response capability (PTSD, National Center for). There are two sections on the website. The first one is the public section, which is created for veterans, their families and friends and the general public. It can allow family and friends to know the disorder, then they can help the sufferer overcome it. Another one is a professional section, where psychologists and other helpers of PTSD sufferers can visit this section for searching useful materials (PTSD, National Center for). In addition, this website offers a lot of other resources which can help to overcome or understand PTSD. The first image shows that six faces who are suffering from PTSD, they share their experiences about overcoming PTSD. The audiences of this image are PTSD sufferers. The purpose of this image is helping people to understand PTSD scientifically and allow sufferers accept the symptoms of PTSD. It likes an advertisement which encourages sufferers to go to this website, then reading those stories which about overcoming and curing PTSD. At the same time, it will allow sufferers to be hopeful since most of the veterans who share their experiences are cured at last. There are four rhetorical strategies of the image. For the ethos, there are two words on the image which are which is a sub-area of the PTSD: National Center for PTSD and including many stories about PTSD. The most important thing is that those veterans made several videos about themselves to answer questions such as I knew I had or treatment helps Therefore, credible. For the pathos, the expression on those six faces is determined but gaunt. However, all of them were soldiers who fought for their country. Therefore, it allows the public sympathize and understand PTSD sufferers and making PTSD sufferers to be confidence because possible to be treated. Thus, they will be hopeful about their lives. The logos of the first image is those six Chen, 3 faces. It tells audiences that there are many PTSD sufferers on the world so you are not alone. Also, those veterans who suffer from PTSD are living well. Therefore, PTSD sufferers should be upbeat and enjoy their lives. The image allows audiences to read stories about veterans through the website immediately, which is Kairos. Therefore, the public and sufferers can understand PTSD and get more information about PTSD (PTSD, National Center for). The color used in the image 1 is full of variety. Would rather think it is colorful than accept the color of each part of the picture is different. Also, the races of those veterans counter to the color of their clothes. There are only two Mexican and both wear warm color shirts, which are generally energizing, passionate, and (Chapman). The others are white people, all of them wear cool color shirts, which is calming, relaxing, and somewhat (Chapman). The distribution of colors for the whole picture is reasonable. The second image shows two hands and one hand holds another one, which allows audiences to feel warm and hopeful. The audiences of the image 2 are PTSD sufferers, too. This one makes audiences know that there are many people want to help them to overcome the disorder. It shows that PTSD sufferers are not lonely and helpless. There are only after on the second image, which just shows the purpose of the picture. However, this picture is found on the website named PTSD: National Center for PTSD, so credible. For the pathos, there is two hands and one holds another one. very easy to understand that the taken hand need help and another hand offers help and warm. The audiences can feel hopeful because there are many people will help PTSD sufferers. For the logos of the second image, it tells audiences that PTSD sufferers should not give up. There are still many people want to help sufferers if they need help and ask for help. About the Kairos, those two hand means if an audience is one of PTSD sufferers, so the audience should ask for help now and getting help immediately (TOPIC: Who I am). Chen, 4 The color used in the image 2 is monotonous. White used in the image shows a soft background and bring a clean feeling to the audience. White is with the health care industry, especially with doctors, nurses and dentists. White is associated with goodness, and angels are often depicted in (Chapman). Thus, this image allows the audience to feel that PTSD is curable. In conclusion, those two images express the purpose of helping PTSD sufferers understand and overcome the disorder. Also, the organization of PTSD: National Center for PTSD will offer help if sufferers need it. Therefore, even suffering from PTSD, sufferers should understand and ask for help on their own initiative. (WC: 1059) Chen, 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Smashing Magazine. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. PTSD, National Center for. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD: National Center for PTSD Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. TOPIC: Who I  National Center for PTSD. N.p., 07 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chen, 6