Khoo 1 Win Sheng Khoo Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 29 January 2017 Why is Music Important in Our Education? Nowadays, people are living in a world compacted by advanced technology. Because of this fact, most people think that mathematics and science are more important to our daily life. Because of this, our education will not be well-rounded with the absence of music courses. Music programs are mostly the first choice to be dropped off among the schools in America when cutting funds is needed. According to Jill Hambek, few years ago, Chicago Public Schools dealt a blow to arts education when it laid off over 1,000 teachers as a result of its recent decision to close over 50 (para. 4). This showed that most people see art or music education often as minor contributor of knowledge in learning. Due to the declination of economy in America happened not long ago, Common Core State Standards (CCSS) has lowered down the prior standard of music programs due to saving the funds for those courses that they think are important like mathematics and English language (Metla para. 4). On the other hand, National Foundation for Youth Music (NFYM) has a different point of view compared with CCSS as NFYM encourages young folks to emerge themselves into music. They aim to give full support and opportunities for young people to learn music We para. 2). Music programs existed in the education field for a reason but due to different perspectives from stakeholder like CCSS who sees only the good of math and English language and stakeholder like NFYM who focuses on benefits of music in education. Education system in America has to give up on one side to emphasize and strengthen the other one. It is important for them to seek Khoo 2 for each other and find their common ground. Notice that both stakeholders have a common ground which is to provide the best outcome for our next generation, but in their own way. Both stakeholders can compromise with each other to create a tremendous effect called Effect as it is able to improve our cognitive skills and stimulate our brain in a positive aspect. Mattar claimed music of Mozart is powerful as he stated children grow, their social, cognitive and physical skills can be enhanced by their relationship with (370). The great compromise can be created as music helps to improve the brain. Therefore, it could improve the learning process for courses like mathematics and English language. This is why Effect provides such room for both stakeholders to seek for compromise as they seem to have common ground for a better education. The primary goal of Common Core State Standard is to make sure students gained enough knowledge before graduating from high school the para. 1). CCSS believes their standards are able to provide students a strong formed knowledge based on mathematics and language which gets them ready for college and career. In order to maintain the quality of the standards, they refer to the international models and take the suggestion from professional and experts in the field of education, and even parents and students into account. the para. 3). With such states of process to ensure that the outcome reaches satisfaction. Many schools in the United States have accepted the standards as their standards. According to Andrew Porter, he stated Common Core standards are somewhat more focused in (114). This clearly tells us that art programs like music has not always been valued in education. Additionally, Porter wrote to those who wish CCSS to be the representative of the United States education will be disappointed as he stated because of Core standards are more focused than current state standards and only for Khoo 3 mathematics, not for English Language Art and Reading (115). Other than this, Porter benchmarked the mathematics achievement levels by using the data provided by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In a result of the three countries, Finland, Japan and Singapore have greater level of achievement in mathematics on the eight-grade than the United States. As his studies found out that the three listed countries are much more focusing on the cognitive demand category (113). Porter has also provided a table for the definitions of different level of cognitive demand as he stated for which are: Use numbers to count, order, or denote, do computational procedures or algorithms, follow procedures/instructions, make measurements, do computations, solve equations formulas, routine word problems, organize or display data, read or produce graphs and tables, execute geometric constructions. (109) One more thing to mention about Common Core Standards as the scholar, Porter claimed in his book Core as he stated the reason of those top-achieving countries do better in mathematics is because of of the three countries puts as much as 1% of its content emphasis on non-routine whereas Common Core puts 4.5% of its content emphasis (114). From here, we can see it clearly that even though CCSS puts efforts in order to emphasize in the core course mathematics. They are still not doing as good as the other countries that have better level of achievement in mathematics. Placing this to an end, rather than just emphasizing the importance of mathematics. Music is also an important field that we should put attention into it. Khoo 4 The creation of National Foundation for Youth Music (NFYM) is to spread the life of music into specifically children and young one as they believe music is able to improve the quality of their creativity and social skills National Foundation for Youth para. 1). NFYM aims to change the life of children and young folks that have difficulties in life due to any issues with the power of music. Additionally, a steady amounts of Youth Music projects, about 350 projects are actively ongoing every year around England We para. 1-4). To emphasize in how important is music education, scholar Karl Glenn, which was also the president of the Music Educators National Conference, claimed music holds the key to the door of inflation of economy in America and students will never gain a well-rounded education and achieve the real value of education for the future without taking music and arts into account (1). Training brain with doing exercises is commonly known for creating certain logical knowledge but music can increase our creativity and to extend our external knowledge. According to Glenn, he claimed music or art education as improve their achievement and citizenship in school, to make them knowledgeable about the diverse cultural heritage of this nation, and to prepare them for the creative work force of the (2). Considering the combination result from CCSS and NFYM with the mixture of music and mathematics, here is where Effect comes in. Comparing the two stakeholders mentioned in this paper, notice that both of them share the same goal which is just purely to educate our next generation and to make sure the knowledge passed to the students with the help of their designed system is enough for students for future use. For CCSS, they believe that mathematics and English language are important for the future development (Metla para. 6). While, NFYM aims to help all of the youths with tough experience to go through their lives with music as it stated develop vital skills they Khoo 5 need, get support to be able to face the world, and take control of their own para. 2). It is obvious that both stakeholders have common ground which is to make sure the next generation is well-prepared for their future. In another words, the common ground of these two stakeholders is to pass our next generation knowledges for their use in the future. But, one is mathematics and English language based while the other is music based. To integrate both musical and non-musical education, Effect could be the outcome of compromise of both stakeholders to strengthen the connection between them and emphasis in education of knowledge prepare for the future. Effect is the best way to compromise each other ideas. Effect is known as listening to music can stimulate our brain and develop our brain but in condition, which one needs to have musical experienced. It is best to learn music since young age. Music is during the critical period for brain (Mattar 370). Because of the value of time which is young age in this case. Thus, we need to grab the chance and emphasize music as one of the core course in schools. Balance education is important for all of us, we need to develop students not only mathematically but also their creativity. According to Jehan Matter, music stimulate right-brain functioning, associated with (375). Surprisingly, listening to music can help students in learning and increase their cognitive skills. Matter cited a sentence from Campbell, as he stated that listening to music can also higher-order thinking, and create a positive, relaxed, receptive state of mind that is ideal for (375). Moreover, introduce music as one of the core course has no harm to either of the stakeholders but improve both quality outcomes. In order to achieve this result, NYFM can start to saving the funds through their projects as mentioned before. They could earn money by starting charity funds from the performance and selling their music made by the youths. With the funding, they Khoo 6 are able to buy musical instruments. Therefore, students will be taught to play musical instruments as Rauscher suggested children provided with instrumental instruction score significantly higher on tasks measuring spatial-temporal cognition, hand-eye coordination, and (234). With the help of musical training such as instrumental learning, students are able to expose into classical music with the need of musical training. As Effect has the ability to improve cognitive and communication skills. Moreover, music supports the learning environment that make children or young people to learn in a better condition (Matter, 374). In another word, placing music as one of the core course has no harm to both sides but enhance both outcomes. In conclusion, both stakeholders have their own way to make sure students received their best in whatever way with their own designated system. But, putting both ideas together can form an even better environment and mental support for students to learn. Allowing students to learn musical instruments since young age improve their brain development as this aligned with the idea of the stakeholder NFYM. The significant improvement of development in brain boosts up the process of learning, says mathematics as CCSS focused on. At the end, both stakeholders do not need to give up on each other to achieve their primary goals which is also an win-win situation. Khoo 7 Work Cited Cerbasi, Jennifer. How important is music education in  Fox News, 28 Mar. 2012, www.foxnews.com/health/2012/03/28/how-important-is-music-education-in- schools.html. Accessed 30 Jan 2017. Glenn, Karl. The Many Benefits Of Music Education - Now and in the  NASSP Bulletin, vol. 76, no. 544, 1992, pp. 1-4, journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1177/019263659207654402. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Hambek, Jill. Arts programs in schools often in danger of being  The Washington Times, 14 Mar. 2016, www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/mar/14/arts-programs-in-schools- often-in-danger-of-being-/. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Jehan, Mattar. The effect of music on child development in a Jordanina  Project Innovation, vol. 133, no. 3, 2013, pp. 370-376, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=1ff017bb-9b46- 4c07-9e1e-c2d6350e0c16@sessionmgr120&vid=2&hid=120. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Metla, Valeriya. School Art Programs: Should They Be  Law Street (TM), 25 July 2016, lawstreetmedia.com/issues/education/cutting-art-programs-schools-solution-part- problem/ Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Youth Music, www.youthmusic.org.uk/impact. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Porter, Andrew, Jennnifer McMaken, Jun Hwang, and Rui Yang. Common Core Standards: The New U.S. Intended  Educational Reseacher, vol. 40, no. 3, 2011, pp. 103- 116, journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.3102/0013189X11405038. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Rauscher, Frances H. and Hinton, Sean C. Mozart Effect: Music Listening is Not Music Khoo 8 Educational Psychologist, vol. 41, no. 4, 2006, pp. 233-238, alliance.la.asu.edu/temporary/students/katie/MultipleIntelligenceMozart.pdf. Accessed 8 Feb. 2009. the Common Core State Standards Initiative, www.corestandards.org/read- the-standards/. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. National Foundation for Youth British Council, 9 July. 2014, music.britishcouncil.org/resources/education-organisations/initiatives/the-national- foundation-for-youth-music. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. We Youth Music, https://www.youthmusic.org.uk/what-we-do. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017.