Sanson 1 Jacqueline Sanson Erika Staiger Composition II 29 January 2017 The Treatment of Market Animals in the United States Market animals are animals used by humans for profits. They provide us with many products we use on a daily basis including eggs, wool, and meat. Many people may imagine open fields when they think of how these animals are raised but the industry has become increasingly industrialized leading to factory farming (ASPCA). The quality of life these animals have has swayed public opinion against current farming practices. One group that strongly opposes the use of market animals is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA. The organization fights for animal rights and promotes veganism as a solution to the market animal debate. This solution would not work for the United States Department of Agriculture or the USDA, which regulates farming practices, including the use of market animals. Although these two groups have vastly different views on the topic, there may be a compromise. These two organizations both believe that animal welfare is important. A compromise can be created by making stricter animal welfare laws when it comes to the use of market animals. Specifically, the animal welfare act should be amended to include farm animals. The first stakeholder involved in this issue is the USDA and its position for the use of market animals. The USDA regulates agriculture within the country, including animal production. Animal production plays an important part of the United States economy and it is noted by the USDA that products account for over half of the value of U.S. agricultural products, often exceeding $100 billion per Completely getting rid of market animals in the Sanson 2 United States would lead to a large economic dip. Along with the drastic economic change, it would also create a dietary problem in America. Animal products, specifically meat, are common sources of protein and for many people important to their diet. It has been noted by researchers that even small amounts of meat added to a plant based diet can create large improvement on human health (van Ryssen 230). Market animals are important part of many lives and getting rid of them completely may lead to many difficult changes. These issues back up the desire to continue the use market animals. On the other hand, PETA believes that the use of market animals is morally wrong and should be completely eradicated. PETA is an animal rights group and feels that we consider doing something [to that would interfere with their needs, we are morally obligated to take them into According to PETA the use of market animals for personal gain is immoral. These animals in question are often subjected to disease and deformities associated with farming, along with confined spaces that can be as extreme as inhibiting the ability to walk around. When it is all said and done animal production raises and kills 9 billion animals a year (Rossi and Garner 493). Overall, the welfare of market animals is often over looked for efficiency in food production (ASPCA). The conditions that market animals are subjected to is a motivating factors for opposition. A compromise could be made that sits in-between their two beliefs. Currently, America has rather loose legislation on animal care, with farm animals having very little protection (ASPCA). The animal welfare act, which came into law in 1966, covers warm-blooded animals like dogs and cats but excludes farm animals. An amendment should be made in which farm animals are including under the animal welfare act. Within the amendment, proper housing, enrichment, nutrition, and other specific husbandry practices for each species should be clearly Sanson 3 stated to ensure no unnecessary suffering continues. Along with this adjustment the government could subsidize higher welfare farming. This would give farmers and farming corporations an incentive to treat their animals better (Cowen 4). Although far from idea of veganism and a large change in farming practices for the USDA, it is a step towards middle ground for the two organizations. Animal production has long been practiced and it is an important part of American culture. It does not look like it will be completely eradicated, at least not soon. That being said it does not seem to be free from pressure to change. Public opinion on market animal care has become negative with documentaries like Food Inc. showing the down side of animal production. In a recent survey 77% of consumers said they cared about the welfare of farm animals and many even stated they would pay more for humanely raised animals (Animal Welfare Institute). The USDA and PETA may have opposing views but in the future, pressure for better welfare for market animals may lead the USDA to compromise with PETA. Sanson 4 Work cited Animal Care & Food  USDA ERS - Animal Care & Food Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. < https://www.ers.usda.gov/topics/animal-products/ >. Animals Used for  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/>. Animal Welfare  USDA APHIS Animal Welfare Act. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. ormation> Consumer Perceptions of Farm Animal  Animal Welfare Institute . N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. <https://awionline.org/sites/default/files/uploads/documents/fa- Cowen, Tyler. Market Failure For The Treatment Of  Society 2 (2006): 39. Academic OneFile. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Farm Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.aspca.org/animal- cruelty/farm-animal-welfare>. Rossi, John and Garner, Samual. Industrial Farm Animal Production: A Comprehensive Moral  Journal Of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 27.3 (2014): 479-522. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. van Ryssen, J. B. J. A Balanced Perspective On Animal Production, From Environment To Human  South African Journal Of Animal Science 43.3 (2013): 229-231. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Sanson 5