Zimmerman 1 Matthew Zimmerman de Carion ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Opioid Abuse in the United States When people think of health epidemics the common response is to think of a uncontrollable plague caused by some unknown virus. Another type of epidemic, however, is one that is caused completely by humans and these are especially deadly as only way to stop them are for different people to come together to identify and fix the problem. Currently there is a major human caused health epidemic, opioid abuse in the form of prescription painkillers. The extended use of opioids can create what is known as a physical dependence. This dependence can create which is when a person may experience medical issues as a result of not having the drug in their system (Opioid Basics). This characteristic of the drug combined with misinformation spread about there safety and their effectiveness led to rise of the epidemic. Even though the Center for Disease control and prevention (CDC) has found these correlations and condemned the practices of large pharmaceutical companies such as TEVA Pharmaceuticals (Teva), who also recognize the issue, they refuse to make any real substantial changes. As the organization responsible for public health the CDC feels like they have an obligation to do everything they can to prevent the spread of this epidemic while Teva needs to make a profit, for a resolution to occur Teva needs to understand how their industry contributed Zimmerman 2 to the problem and the CDC must realize that Teva is a business that needs to make substantial profit, if the two come to these realizations then they can begin to negotiate rules that can protect patients and keep the company profitable. Profitability is an aspect that the CDC, the primary United States government agency concerned with the health threats, does not give much thought into. One of their core pledges is the benefits to society above the benefits to our (Mission, Role, and Pledge). This allows the CDC to handle its findings in an objective way, placing the health of people above the amount of money people will make off a product. Some may believe that the CDC is not purely objective as the people in control may have some connection to politics but all of their recommendations are based on openly available peer reviewed scientific data (Mission, Role, and Pledge). One piece of data that is very interesting is that 1999 the amount of opioids sold in the U.S. has almost quadrupled but the rate at which people are seeing doctors about pain has not significantly (Opioid Basics). This shows that the only thing changing about opioids is how easy it is for a patient to get them prescribed. It was not until very recently that this information began to make a significant impact. Through this research they heavily influenced the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery act passed in 2016 which began to limit prescriptions. It proposed that at risk people be mandated to only be able to get their prescription filled in one place and that pharmacists had the ability to use partial fills where they can deny filling a full prescription. (Traynor, 1292). This act is highly reflective of the how the CDC views the solutions for the problems. Although progress was made, these steps are only the beginning of what the CDC ultimately wants which is drug companies actively reducing their role in the sale of the drugs. The pharmaceutical industry spends an enormous amount of money Zimmerman 3 promoting their drugs to doctors. Teva Pharmaceuticals alone has spent approximately 26.1 million dollars since 2015 on direct meetings with doctors who they want to promte their product too (Data.cms.gov/teva). The extreme persistence of companies like Teva putting pressure on doctors to prescribe their drug is something the CDC wants eliminated, this would reduce the rate at which the drugs are prescribed, especially in scenarios where a less potent form of a drug could be used. The CDC has shown that long term effectiveness of opioids is not fully understood and in some long term chronic pain scenarios they are now the go to drug, despite the risks (Prescription Opioids). These environments are where addiction is most likely and the CDC wants patients as well as doctors to better understand the consequences of using the powerful drug in the wrong situations. Reducing the amount prescribed in these instances would be a major victory for the CDC. The primary goal of reducing the number of prescribed painkillers is the exact opposite of what pharmaceutical companies like Teva want. They are very open about their goals of a patient first mindset but at their core they are a business. Teva needs to make a large amount of money in order to stay in business because it costs a great deal of money to develop a drug and to be profitable they must recoup the costs of its development. If they have no sales, they are stuck with the entire cost of the research with no chance to make the money back (Nuijten 36). The potential for losses associated with failed drugs may be the reason that the companies push the products that work so extensively. One of best ways to make money is by putting a large portion of investment money into low cost generic painkillers as they claim to be the number one developer in the world (About.). On its website Teva says it produces billion tablets and this number which is very large, may be necessary for them (About). Zimmerman 4 Although making such an extraordinary number may have an impact on the amount of abuse that is found today, without making a large profit they be able to create new products that could have a profound effect on life. One of these products is a tablet that releases the drug in a slower way, which prevents immediate gratification when the drug is taken, potentially stemming abuse (Responsibility Highlights). This step is positive and they feel this is the best effort they can make toward the opioid epidemic but they still feel responsible because they cannot control when doctors prescribe in excess to single patients. The CDC as well as Teva have one main goal in common and that is the public health. Both can easily agree on this but they have yet to come to any form of resolution. Teva and other pharmaceutical companies do not feel like they are directly responsible and do not want to risk losing money by cutting sales. A potential solution for the two stakeholders that could be beneficial would be one where the CDC could get the Food and Drug Association to reclassify painkillers as over the counter drugs, meaning that all painkillers would require a prescription. (Creech par 34). Doing this will prevent people who already have a prescription from buying more than what they can take. As a result companies who would be affected by the regulation change would be allowed to charge more for the drug. The change in cost can help negate the losses the companies may experience, the losses will also be in the short term, long term all the companies will have the regulations so competition in the market may not change radically. Also the CDC could potentially offer some form of subsidy for companies that actively try to help the problem of finding a longer term solution for the addictive nature of the painkillers. This compromise is very possible if the CDC can provide subsidies and if regulations are passed by the FDA and accepted by Teva and other drug companies. Zimmerman 5 Whenever two parties try to find common ground there will always be difficulties, because someone will always feel shortchanged. On the issue of opioid abuse the CDC and Teva pharmaceuticals disagree in many ways. For compromise to be successful the two must attempt to see the issue from the others perspectives. Doing so will allow each to be more open minded into how they could reach a proposed compromise. Each would need to be willing to give something up in order to get something else. The CDC would need to accept the aspects of business and realize they can not put a regulation in place for every aspect of the drug development done by the pharmaceutical industry. Teva must then see how the CDC holds them responsible for the epidemic and find new ways to make money that does not involve flooding the market with more painkillers, increasing the rate of opioid addiction. No progres will be made unless steps like this are taken, and as the rate of addiction goes up more effort from both parties needs to be given to prevent it from getting worse. Zimmerman 6 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. for Disease Control and Prevention , 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Opioid Basics , 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Role, and Pledge . 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prescription Opioids . 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Company Profile - Open Payments Data -  OpenPaymentsData.CMS.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Creech, Increasing Access To Naloxone: Administrative Solutions To The Opioid Overdose Administrative Law Review Vol. 68, No. 3, 2016. pp 517-550. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Nuijten, Mark The Potential Impact of Current and Future Pharmaceutical Policy Changes on Cash Flows for Innovative Medicines Journal of Private Equity. Vol. 18, No. 1, 2014 Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Teva Pharmaceutical Industries  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries  N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 29 Jan. 2017. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Responsibility Highlights. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 29 Jan. 2017. Zimmerman 7 Traynor, Kate. New federal law aims to stem opioid American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy. Vol. 73, No.17, 2016. one source.