Palacios 1 Daniel Palacios Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 Sec. 075 15 February 2016 Illegal Immigration America started off as a nation built by immigrants and is known for its pledge for acceptance and freedom. Having that in mind should America continue to uphold its promise to accept people from all walks of life including those who have found the need to flee their country illegally? In an attempt to answer this question two rather polar groups have formed: Pro- immigration groups such as the National Immigration Forum which is an advocacy group whose aim is to help immigrants and make them feel welcomed upon their arrival to the United States; on the other end of the spectrum are the anti-immigration groups such as the Federation for American Immigration Reform whose intent is to ban all illegal immigration into the United States. Despite the differences between the National Immigration Forum and the Federation for American Immigration Reform, they can come together to address immigration reforms by completely redesigning the immigration system. The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) was established in 1979 by John Tanton. It is a non-profit organization with over 1.3 million members from different backgrounds and ethnicities. Tanton believes that the American people are losing resources and power to immigrants. He also states that America should continue to remain a majority white population. This organization believes that the United States has reached their saturation point and that accepting more immigrants will just cause every social aspect to go downhill (FAIR). FAIR wants to reduce the overall immigration number from over 1 million immigrants a year to about 300,000 Palacios 2 immigrants a year (FAIR). president, Dan Stein, believes that immigrants are part of where only the best remain (immigrants) and they will take the best jobs and ultimately diminish the white majority (Pigott). Interestingly enough, When President Donald Trump took office recently, he appointed Julie Kirchner, who was formerly executive director for almost ten years, as chief of staff at U.S Customs and Border Protection (Pigott). This just shows how extremist groups have a direct connection to the federal government and will ultimately manage to influence decisions to fit their objectives and beliefs (Pigott). On the other hand, the National Immigration Forum is an advocacy group founded in 1982 based in Washington D.C. It focuses on the rights and values of immigrants in the United States. It is one of the most important immigration policy organizations and has been very involved in every major legislative event and policy debate involving immigration since it started (National Immigration Forum). Ali Noorani has been the Executive Director of the organization since 2008. Noorani is of Pakistani descent and a graduate of the University of California. Noorani is a crucial part of this organization that not only helps new immigrants feel welcome, treats them fairly and respects the rights of all, but also spreads knowledge and awareness on immigration policy and the importance of immigrants in the United States by speaking regularly at immigration conferences and colleges all over the United States (National Immigration Forum). They are in charge of a project called where they recognize there is an immigration problem, but the immigration laws are outdated and with rapidly changing demographics the laws are not going to help (National Immigration Forum). They have a five-point agenda that not only creates a new immigration system but also includes the positive impact immigration is going to bring to the United States in the next forty years (National Immigration Forum). In a recent survey taken by illegal Hispanic immigrants, the results showed that although there were mixed results of Palacios 3 whether they were being treated fairly at the workplace, 80% of the illegal immigrants taking the survey agreed that they wanted to stay here in the United States (Melo 615). The article also gave insight to the immigration reform proposals that were being discussed currently including longer temporary visas and fines of up to $1000 for illegal immigrants (Melo 606). The National Immigration Forum recognizes that the immigration system must be reformed since this is not the same country compared to when the immigration system was put in place; with their 5-point agenda, they are also taking into account the illegal immigrants in the country right now and adapting a new system that not only benefits them, but also newcomers. While these two organizations have a clear disagreement on immigration reforms, there are common goals shared between the two. Both organizations have a common interest in having a better America in one way or another. The Federation for American Immigration Reform wants to deport all immigrants so that the U.S can flourish again while the National Immigration Forum wants to help and support all immigrants so they can get jobs and help the economy. While there have been efforts by the two stakeholders to change immigration laws, these two organizations would not exist if the conflict had already been solved. By completely redesigning the immigration system to be less a less strict, more simple and shorter process to obtain residency and later citizenship the conflict would be solved. With this compromise, the two organizations would be satisfied since there would be significantly less immigrants coming into the United States illegally while the newcomers would feel welcome and would help the U.S population in one way or another. Currently, the process to become a legal alien in the United States is both extensive and expensive. For instance, there is a waiting period of about ten years in order to obtain a visa number, after the number becomes available, it is a very expensive and long process to legally be able to move to the United States. Palacios 4 By changing the process to be a more simple, direct and affordable process, there would be a significant decrease in illegal immigration. To do this, the immigration system should resemble the European Union immigration system where each member state is run separately but they all follow the same legal basis and have the same immigration objectives In the United States, it should be state-based instead of it being a federal office. Having immigration offices by state, states with low immigration numbers would have more people coming in and immigration would not be as concentrated in the U.S border with Mexico or in Florida. Having the immigration system be state-based would also cut down the application process wait time significantly and it would also create more jobs since there would be more people working in each state as compared to one federal office receiving all the applications at the same time. The federal government can also reinforce the border patrol units since the immigration budget would be based on the state. The immigration process is easier; thus, less people would have to come illegally and the people that do try to come illegally could be severely punished. Another reason why immigration is so popular in the Unites States is because of the better opportunities young students have by going to good universities. By having special four to six year visas for students who want to come in for academic opportunities would also help. This would prepare students to have high- paying jobs in their country of origin and would decrease the number of immigrants taking the high-paying jobs in the United States. To conclude, there are two clear stakeholders in this issue, organizations such as the National Immigration Forum who are pro-immigration advocacy group who try and make illegal immigrants feel welcomed in the United States. The other stakeholders in this issue are anti- immigration groups who essentially want to end immigration altogether, organizations like the Federation for American Immigration Reform. The common ground which can settle this discord Palacios 5 would be to change the system and not have a federal immigration office but rather state offices with a set number of visas for petitioners changing the immigration experience completely. Palacios 6 Works Cited About FAIR Federation For American Immigration . Fairus.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This is the for one of my stakeholders. It includes the history, mission statement, and objectives about the organization. Its main focus is in changing the immigration system to only allow 300,000 immigrants and to only allow self-sustaining immigrants. They believe that this country should still be ruled by the white majority and not by the immigrants coming in every year. Immigration Policy EU Fact Sheets European . Europarl.europa.eu. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. This is a fact sheet about the different objectives, achievements and immigration policies from the European Union. It contains the system the European Union enforces in all the members states. There have been changes to the policy regarding different problems countries have had. It contributes to my papers because it brings to the table how another part of the world has already a similar system in place and it works beautifully. In this case, the immigration system would not be based in the members states (countries) but rather it would be divided into the different states in the United States. This fact sheet is provided by the European Parliament. Melo, G., G. Colson, and O. A. Ramirez. Hispanic American Opinions Toward Immigration And Immigration Policy Reform . Applied Economic Perspectives and Policy 36.4 (2014): 604-622. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This Journal Article gives statistical data about the opinions from Hispanic people that reside illegally in the United States. This peer reviewed article was published in Applied Palacios 7 Economic Perspectives & Policy that is published by Oxford University. The author, Grace Melo, is a graduate research assistant in the department of agricultural and applied economics of the University of Georgia. This ties in to my paper because it supports the National Immigration Forum by taking into account the opinions of illegal immigrants and explaining the importance of creating a new immigration system. National Immigration Forum Practical Solutions For Immigrants And . Immigrationforum.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This is a forum that advocates for the value of immigrants and immigration in America. It is based in Washington D.C. This is the official website of the organization which includes the mission statement and goals of the organization. The Forum focuses on four main priorities: immigration reform and workforce needs, integration and citizenship, borders and interior enforcement, and state and local immigration developments. Piggott, Stephen. Former Executive Director Of Anti-Immigrant Hate Group FAIR Joins Trump . Southern Poverty Law Center. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Stephen Piggott is a Senior Research Analyst with the Southern Poverty Law Center. He received his B.A in political science with minors in Islamic and Irish Studies from DePaul University. He is an expert on various forms of right-wing extremism like the organized anti-immigrant and anti-Muslimism movements. This is important for my paper because with the new administration appointing her as Chief of Staff at U.S Customs and Border Protection it is going to be more difficult to make more changes favoring a compromise. This will cause a more direct relationship between the White House and Border Patrol and will likely cause more radical changes.