Elkadi 1 Carina Elkadi ENC 1102-060 Kristen Rouisse February 26, 2017 Shocked into Awareness Child sexual abuse is an issue that is not often addressed or publicized. Children are innocent and vulnerable, and often their lack of life experience blurs the lines between right and wrong what is okay and what is not. This allows pedophiles to harm children again and again with no fear of retribution. According to the National Center for Victims of Crime, 1 in 5 girls and 1 in 20 boys is a victim of child sexual abuse, and 20% of adult females and 5-10% of adult males recall a childhood sexual assault or sexual abuse incident (Victims of Crime).The fact is children are not aware enough to report incidents at the time, but often realize that they have been abused later on in life. However, sexual abuse does not remain in the past it continues to affect its victims later on in life. A child who is the victim of prolonged sexual abuse usually develops low self-esteem, a feeling of worthlessness and an abnormal or distorted view of sex. The child may become withdrawn and mistrustful of adults, and can become suicidal (Victims of Crime). This is why organizations like Innocence in Danger take an initiative to make parents and guardians more aware of the threats their children may be exposed to. It uses disturbing advertisements placed on simple backdrops to shock parents and guardians into awareness, pushing them to play a stronger role in the safety of all children. In the first image, attention is immediately drawn to the shocking face of the boy in the center of the image. He has a hand raised to his hair in distress, and his face is overtaken but not one, but three screaming mouths. The pathos, or appeal to emotion, in this image is in the alarm it raises inside its viewers (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). The boy appears to be Elkadi 2 standing alone in a dull kitchen with no one to protect him. He seems to have experienced something that has left him screaming on the inside. This instantly sparks the protective instincts in its viewers. These images often circulate on social media and sometimes billboards in busy cities. They catch the attention of parents and the internet and leave them to wonder just what their children are up to. The appeal to logos, or logic, informs viewers of where to direct their curiosity and instincts to protect (Hoffman, et al, 24-25). The only sentence in the image, written in straight, bold script, asks you know what your kids are watching on the internet right The words appeal to Kairos, or urgency, by telling parents that they need to act as soon as possible (Hoffman, et al, 24-25). Children, when left to their own devices (pun intended), can often stumble upon explicit or age-sensitive material. It is scientifically proven that viewing inappropriate material has damaging psychological effects on children. unfamiliar looking bodies engaging in acts that a child cannot comprehend is a confusing and frightening experience for a child or (Prevent Child Abuse). Not only does suggestive material scare children, but they may even attempt to act it out with their peers. Small text, written at the bottom of the image, encourages the audiences to visit the organization website to learn how to keep their children safe from such material. Finally at the bottom right corner, the last place viewers look, the organization has placed its logo to build its credibility, or ethos (Hoffman, et al, 20). The second image also uses alarm to shock parents and guardians into action. The backdrop is a simple grey background, and the pastel pink color of the pants create an air of good taste and sophistication. The iPhone in the seemingly young pants lead viewers to assume that she comes from at least a middle or upper class family. The image causes its viewers to believe that there is nothing wrong, but as they continue to take in the image, they will see that Elkadi 3 there appears to be a ghost hand in the back pocket when there should be nothing but the outline of her phone. This hand, combined with the surrounding dull colors, create the pathos in this image. After the initial shock that the hand leaves, viewers have a growing sense of curiosity as to why it is in this pocket, followed by outrage at her being inappropriately grabbed, and then the urge to protect her. This alarm in itself is an appeal to Kairos. The logos in the image, which lies in the small caption in the corner, explains to viewers what exactly is going on the hand is that of a child predator who has found access to this little girl through her own cellphone. in five U.S. teenagers who regularly log on to the Internet says they have received an unwanted sexual solicitation via the Web. Solicitations were defined as requests to engage in sexual activities or sexual talk, or to give out personal sexual information (only 25% of those told a (PureSight). Innocence in Danger once again places its ethos in the lower right corner, where it is noticeable but not distracting. Both images use dull backgrounds, meant only to set a mood and not take away from the focus of the image the children. The main color in these background is gray, which can often be considered moody or depressing (Chapman). It is mean to magnify the helplessness and magnify the urge to aid and protect them. Though child predators are a problem that humanity has been combatting since the beginning of time, organizations like Innocence in Danger have been shocking parents, guardians, and other adults into awareness image by image. Its alarming images draw attention to the silent plight of abused children that so often cannot speak for themselves, encouraging adults to take an initiative in protecting the children in their lives. (wc: 991) Elkadi 4 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 09 Oct. 2016 Child Sexual Abuse  Child Sexual Abuse Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://victimsofcrime.org/media/reporting-on-child-sexual-abuse/child-sexual-abuse- statistics>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Online Predators -  PureSight. PureSight, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.puresight.com/Pedophiles/Online-Predators/online-predators-statistics.html>. Elkadi 5 Elkadi 6