Agudelo 1 Maria Agudelo Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 February 12, 2017 The Ethical and Moral Controversy of Euthanasia. Currently, euthanasia is considered a criminal offense in all but six states. The topic of killing a patient who is suffering from an incurable disease that is causing them distress also known as has been extremely controversial the past few years. As of today, there are no federal laws prohibiting the practice of euthanasia in the United States. Per the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, euthanasia is defined as act or practice of killing or permitting the death of hopelessly sick or injured individuals in relatively painless way for reasons for The Death with Dignity National Center and the Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund are two organizations who are fighting for a common goal which is to provide terminally ill patients with comfort; whether that is by providing them with the means to die by giving them euthanasia or attempting to provide these patients with a comfortable remainder of their lives. To reach a common goal, both organizations must compromise some of their personal beliefs and attempt to work together. The first organization is the Death with Dignity National Center. The Death with Dignity National Center is a nonprofit organization that expands the freedom of all qualified terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions, including how they die Us: Death with Dignity National This organization was founded in 1993 with the goal to define an effective policy, such as the Oregon Death with Dignity Act (ODDA) and to defend it against Agudelo 2 legal challenges, both in state and federal court Death with Dignity National The ODDA has allowed terminally ill patients from the state of Oregon to make their own end- of-life decisions since it was first established back in 1994 (Norton and Miller). According to Norton and Miller, ending your own life by using euthanasia is not a simple process because it takes into consideration several different factors. A few of these factors include but are not limited to the values, their family and friends, as well as weighing the options; in this case the options would be to end their life, or if offered to continue to undergo treatment for their illness. The hospice social workers are another factor considered in this process, as they would be the ones aiding the patient to end their life. The Death with Dignity National Center has focused on expanding throughout the country to get the Death with Dignity Acts passed in each individual state. Since 2004, they have accomplished the policy reform in states such as Washington and Vermont. The Death with Dignity National Center has been fighting since 1993 for rights. On the other hand, there are organizations such as the Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund who focus on advancing the civil and human rights of people with disabilities. Their mission is just world where all people, with and without disabilities, live full and independent lives free of Us: The Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund has been advocating against euthanasia and assisted suicide since the early They believe that the legalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide are big mistakes, because it is influenced by other factors such as the health care and the government Suicide Laws: Although they believe that the wishes of the patient should be fulfilled as much as possible, this wish is a danger to society, because of its multiple harmful consequences Suicide Laws: According to RB Miller, Agudelo 3 when someone with is diagnosed with disability or a terminal illness their whole life changes, which means that their mental state will be affected as well. Therefore, it is difficult to determine if they are capable of making autonomous decisions when it comes to ending their life. He states that ill patients who desire death are depressed. A study demonstrated that out of all terminally ill patients who desire death, 24 percent of them had clinical (Miller). After closely reviewing both organizations, it is clear that they have a goal in common and that is to protect the rights and dignity of people with disabilities and terminal illnesses. It is proposed that both organizations come to a compromise that benefits both of them as well as all the Americans with terminal illnesses and disabilities. Per Stefan Eriksson and colleagues, euthanasia and assisted suicide might be against the best interests. is something that must be respected, but claiming autonomy when it comes to euthanasia or physician assisted suicide is something that can only be determined on a case by case (Eriksson). Since both interests lie in the rights, a proposed compromise would be to create a task force of psychiatrists, and judges. This task force would reunite and create a series of guidelines which include circumstances under which euthanasia could be a possibility for the patient. The guidelines created by the task force would then be approved by the government and enforced in all the states. If the patient disagrees with the guidelines and insists on being able to use euthanasia to end his or her life, then the patient would have the right to petition the court and make a case. This solution has all the potential to work if both organizations agree to follow all the terms. If the guidelines are clearly described then there would be diseases and illnesses in which the patients suffer severely that would allow euthanasia, but others in which the illness does not cause any physical or mental distress on the Agudelo 4 patient where it would not be allowed. The prohibition of euthanasia is something that appears to provide no greater solution, because if a patient is truly determined to end their life they will travel to other states or even countries where it is legalized (Smith). However, others such as Michael Kekewich and colleagues state that the legalization of euthanasia could potentially lead to abuse in situations where it is not needed nor recommended. Building upon finding this common ground between these organizations, could potentially lead the way for other organizations who have common interests but are fighting for different causes to come together. At the end of the day, both organizations care about the rights, and their quality of life; therefore, it is important for them to look past other issues and think about the patient and their mental and physical state. By legalizing euthanasia with the guidelines proposed, it would prevent the abuse of this method, but as well allow those who truly believe they need it to utilize it. Agudelo 5 Work Cited Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund. N.p., 08 Feb. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Suicide Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Eriksson, Stefan. Helgesson, Gert. Juth, Niklas, and Manne. Arguments Against Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: A Medicine, Health Care And Philosophy 2 (2013): 225. SwePub. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Kekewich, Michael, Foreman, Thomas, and Joshua T. Landry. Considerations In The Regulation Of Euthanasia And Physician-Assisted Death In Health Policy 119.11 (2015): 1490-1498. PsychINFO. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Miller, RB. Suicide And Euthanasia: Arguments For And Against Practice, Legalization And Journal Of Pharmaceutical Care In Pain 7 Symptom Control 3.3/4 (1995): 11-41. CINAHL Complete. Web 25 Jan. 2017. Agudelo 6 Norton, Elizabeth M., and Miller, Pamela J. Their Terms Of Living And Dying Might Be: Hospice Social Workers Discuss Death With Dignity Journal Of Social Work In End-Of-Life & Palliative Care 8.13 (2012): 249-264. CINAHL. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Smith, Stephen W. Realism About End Of Life: The Current Prohibition And The Euthanasia American Journal Of Law & Medicine 33.1 (2007): 55-95. Academic Search Complete. Web. 27. Jan. 2017.