Huang 1 Jiayi Huang Kristen Rouisse 02/25/2017 Greenpeace The industrialization has taken its toll on the world that causes many environmental issues, such as, global warming, overhunting, natural resource depletion, deforestation and so on. This problem vastly impacts not only human themselves, but also the species and lives in the world. Since the environment supports every life form of on the earth, the lack of any natural commodities can affect the environment situation and that may let the death of living organisms as well, it is necessary for more people in the world to realize and aware that the planet is facing challenging and take actions. Greenpeace is the largest independent, non- government/non-profit campaigning environmental organization that was founded in 1971, the organization is keen on exposing global environmental problems and are essential to a green and better future((Greenpeace). For instance, Greenpeace has been making effort in protecting the ancient forest and ocean, creating a toxic-free future, and campaigning for sustainable agriculture and so on(Greenpeace). A total of 55 countries with 2.8 million supports worldwide is supporting Greenpeace to help the organization persuade more people around the world to raise their awareness about the negative attributes of the environment (Greenpeace). Through using of symbols, images, advertisement, and video, effectively generate more common aspirations from the public in order to achieve a better result to the world. The two pictures present by Greenpeace outline what the organization wants public get attention on. There are a lot of rhetorical strategies are used to communicate the message that affected the individual in the world. The first image exposes the problem of global warming. To convince readers about the seriousness of global warming, the pathos, ethos, and logos are used. Huang 2 In the picture, Greenpeace tries to focus on grabbing attention by appealing it to their emotion. To do that, Greenpeace shows the image of a polar bear is melting away, the reluctant emotion gives readers a sense of sorrow, compassion, and self-accusation. Besides that, the dark background color in contrast to the white polar bear and appeal to the audiences that innocent and overwhelmed animal is going to dead, which not only gives a sad mood or uncomfortable feeling to the readers but also gets viewers awareness about polar bears are going to extinct because of global warming. When the colors and the contents of the image combined together, it creates an atmosphere that turns feeling and mood to convince them to feel sympathy toward the polar bear in the image. Most important, the careful selection of words away the picture, the means that something happening right now (Kairos). The global warming is the environment issue is happening and that gives readers sense of nervousness and the right moment they should take the response to protect the polar bears as it is not late(logos). Moreover, in order to motivate and convince readers to take action in this matter, the credibility of ethos is also very vital. In this picture, the name of the organization and the website are under the polar bear to show that the picture has been examined by the Greenpeace organization and that is officiated by their organization and that is can be trusted. Therefore, the picture can be used to convince people to protect our environment. The next picture also includes the rhetorical strategies to relay the message to the public. The Kairos has used to shows a big contrast between the current situation and the past. The left- side of the picture shows the current situation that is a lot of boats to catch fishes by the marked red spots and fishermen are extensively and unscrupulous fishing marine organisms with a very big fish net. Not only fishes are catches, but also marine species such as turtles and shark. The absurd action and the unlimited desire causes serious pollution and less marine species lives in Huang 3 the ocean. In contrary to the right side, the rational fishing and fewer boats would not affect the marine environment and lives in the ocean. Moreover, there are a lot of details in the image that should be taken into account, such as, the fishing net size, rust color of fishing boat, the variety of marine species in the ocean, the number and size of fishing boats, the length of fishing line and the color. Those details not only give readers sense of compassion and sympathy to the lives(Pathos) but also symbolize the changing from the past to now and it is very clear that the situation becomes harsher and riskier in the future if people do not realize the problem (Logos). Apart from that, the simple phrase BOATS MORE in the picture might sound simple, but it is definitely powerful because it directly shows the message and logic of the picture, and also gives readers the idea of the seriousness of this environmental issue. In the bottom of the image, the name of the organization Greenpeace (Ethos) that gives authentication and credibility to the picture, meaning it is worthy and can be trusted. By comparing this two image, both images use colors to get attention. In the first image, the dark black background color shows the message of the death of the polar bear. Similarly, the contrast colors between the left and right side show the difference that shows the environmental problem of overfished marine organisms. However, the second picture is more effective than the first picture because it brings more useful and detailed message to the public. For instance, the contrast of the left and right sides image will give audience visually big difference and make people think about the reasons that cause the difference from the past to current. Not only the increasing number of fishing boats, and bigger fishing net, but also the background colors of the marine, fewer species and the rust boats shows the critical problem and endless desire. Unlike the first image, although the melting polar bear shows the problem of global warming, the lack of presented message in the picture. The logic behind the second image Huang 4 is more powerful and it will convince more people to take action and response to the environment. In conclusion, those two images that officiated by Greenpeace shared the main goal of protecting the environment. The first picture addresses the problem of global warming that of Arctic animals is suffering, so they used dark background color theme and graphic design of an unhappiness polar bear to make audiences feel compassion for the polar bear, while the second picture was taken in a different way through contrasting to encourage people to join Greenpeace to protect the environment. Even though both images are in different style, they both play a big role to convince people from the world to take action and response or join Greenpeace to expose and protect the environment. Although much of public awareness has been brought out, there are still a lot should be done. Therefore, more organizations should join and take actions to protect the environment. Huang 5 Works Cited Greenpeace  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Marat, Jean Paul. Melting  Pinterest. N.p., 22 Nov. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. E, T. G W D. C H A N G  Pinterest. N.p., 24 Mar. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Rinkesh. 15 Current Environmental Problems That Our World is  Conserve Energy Future. N.p., 24 Dec. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.