Mahmood,1 Ahmed Mahmood Kristina Rouisse Composition 2 25 February 2017 The Brady Campaign America has had many problems with gun control other nation has had more mass shootings in the past 15 years than the U.S. There are also more guns per capita in the U.S. than in any other guns per 100 (The Hub). There are people dying from guns every day in America. There are more guns in the united states than there is people. There has been 11 million guns made in the U.S. in 2013, which is double the number of firearms that were made and produced back in 2010. The Brady Campaign is an organization that works towards creating a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by 2025. This organizations works towards having the least amount of deaths from gun use. To do so, The Brady Campaign has unique approaches: a policy focus to Finish the  so that life-saving Brady background checks are applied to all gun sales; (2) to Stop Gun  the 5 percent of gun dealers that supply 90 percent of all crime guns; and (3) to lead a new national conversation and change social norms around the real dangers of guns in the home, to prevent the homicides, suicides, and unintentional shootings that happen every day as a (The Brady Campaign). The Brady Campaign has successfully shown people how crimes can be committed from gun violence and managed to decrease the number of gun deaths. Image 1 is a picture of a man holding a gun towards the audience. The Brady logo in the right bottom corner shows ethos and credibility. The logo is in white and the whole background is black which makes the logo visible in the image. The Brady Mahmood,2 Campaign is a famous organization in America. Their logo has the stars and stripes from the American flag which shows that it is am American Campaign. The statement money or his provides Kairos in the image. The statement tells the viewers to choose between ending the life or just giving him the money. It makes you think about morality and what is the right thing to do. There is a statistic in the image which says in three people survive armed which shows logos in this picture. The image is shocking and it makes the viewers feel a certain emotion which is evil because the background is mostly black. The picture also has a back ground of a city which shows that gun violence happens in cities. The colour of the writings and are both in red and are capitalized so that the viewers can have a certain emotion towards the life a blood which shows pathos. This image would make the audience think twice before shooting someone that wants to rob them because it shows that losing your money is better than the man losing his life. Image 2 has the same Brady Campaign logo. The logo is placed in a different place though, it is on the bottom left corner and there is also the website in the bottom right corner. The logo and the website both show the ethos in the image, the logo is larger in this image which makes it easy to see. The background of the image is black just like the first image and the logo is white which makes the logo visible. The statement rape can last thirty seconds but a murder lasts is the Kairos. This statement shows how a murder is worse than a rape. The logos of this image is the statistic rape can last thirty which is also a faulty generalization because this is not the case for all rape crimes. The image has a woman that looks devastated after she has killed someone which shows emotions and establishes pathos. The woman is holding her head in guilt and regret for what she has done. This can be relatable for women that have been harassed. The image tells us how a murder is forever and you will feel this guilt and regret forever just like the woman in the Mahmood,3 picture. The words rape, thirty seconds, forever, and guns are all in red which makes the audience focus on these words and feel something which also establishes pathos. The image shows that guns are not the answer and there is also a statement in the bottom right that says are not the In both pictures, the background colour is black. The colour black is associated with power, elegance, formality, death, evil and mystery (color wheel). It also gives an aggressive colour scheme. The deaths are happening from guns which makes the colour black a good colour for the background. There are some words in the statements that stand out more because they are capitalized and put in red colour. Red is the colour of blood and highly visible which is effective in this advertisement because it made some of the words more visible than other words. Both images are simple and they both have statements that explain their message. After reading the statements for both images you can understand the purpose for them. They are similar because they both use pathos in giving the viewer a certain emotion. Also, both images use pathos by making some of the words in the statements in the colour red which makes these words stand out and more visible for the audience. Both images show the organizations logo clearly which quickly establishes ethos. Again, there is Kairos shown in both pictures in the statements that are in the images. The images show the audience that guns are not the answer and they have usefully shown that. Word Count: 965 Mahmood,4 Works Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. By Greg Rienzi / Published Feb 8, 2017. Guns in America: Facts, Figures, and an Up-close Look at the Gun Reform  The Hub. N.p., 12 Oct. 2016. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Mahmood,5