Bakst 1 Adam Bakst ENC 1102 Professor: de Carion Intermediate draft: Project 1 Gun Control v. Gun Right: a stakeholders essay As the United States of America starts a new presidential term, the gun debate is again at its forefront. With new mass shootings happening more frequently, and people feeling added safety pressures, the discussion has launched itself centerstage. While pro-gun lobbyist groups like the National Rifle Association (NRA) continue to push their agenda of gun rights harder, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV) pursues to do the exact opposite. However, if the country plans to move forward, and most importantly plans to stay safe, a concession needs to be made. A common solution often proposed is extensive legislation, including background checks, and with some compromise, this can be accomplished. Since 1871, The National Rifle Association (NRA) has claimed its primary goal is to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (About: NRA). Accompanied with youth programs, shooting ranges, magazines, legislative teams, and hunter education programs it becomes clear why the NRA credits itself as being major political force and as foremost defender of Second Amendment (About: NRA). The NRA has always stood by its stance that guns offer protection. Burke Bindbeutal evaluates just one example of how people use their second amendment rights in his essay Tranquility: The Goals of Home saying, use in home as a legal haven, as part of an analysis of the of protected true spirit of home protection is that the esteem exchanged Bakst 2 between the private and public the genesis of our civil (Bindbeutal 4) It is these rights the NRA bases itself upon, the fundamental American right to bear arms. And, with that stance has fought to lobby congressmen and women to stop legislation blocking the path way to gun access and ownership. A significantly newer organization, started in 1974, is the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV). It aims to do the precise opposite of The National Rifle Association with its mission statement being: seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy (About: CSGV). The CSGV works with many different members including organizations, child welfare advocates, public health professionals, and social justice doing this allows them to a wide variety of grassroots constituencies who share our vision of (About: CSGV). Not only this, but also the CSGV deliberately calls out the intense power of the NRA claiming: politicians, intimidated by the political power of the National Rifle Association, have refused to act in the wake of tragedy after (About: CSGV). This organization simply wants safety for all people and they believe that more gun regulation will help U.S. citizens live innocuously. This can move beyond just what activist want too. Many people who have used weapons for defense see the danger in owning weapons as well. For example, in Matthew Bowden and Angelica work Veterans on Civilian Gun there is a shocking conclusion. When it came to people who have utilized these weapons and have been active in their operation, most agreed to endorse strict policies on criminal and mental background checks (Bowden, Chang 1). Coinciding with the CSGV these veterans want safer guidelines, and principles in the owning of guns they feel that passing legislation on stricter gun laws is the right way to help this nation become safer. Bakst 3 Although fundamentally different from their core, these two organizations do shared a common ground: Both the National Rifle Association and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence care deeply about the protection and safety of the American people. These two organizations are not just indifferent, but polar opposites of each other. Having such drastic differences on this issue may give it the appearance of zero compromise, but if one examines hard enough, a clear link between their ideas and their values emerge; safety is key to both. Whether it be through education like the NRA imposes or through legislative means like the CSGV issues, both want Americans to feel secure and protected. Now, for a negotiation to come to head, there must be compromises made on both sides. For the NRA, the organization wants essentially no blockage in legislation, but doing this would not change the state of violence America faces in the hands of gun violence. With the CSGV, the group wants to pass so much legislation that it becomes counterproductive to their very cause. In a study by Gary Kleck, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellows Gun Control Violent we can see where the data lies. The results show that hard gun controlling laws produce no negative direct effect on total (gun plus nongun) violence rate- total homicide, total robbery, and total aggravated assault. Indeed, if the statistical results are taken at face value, some laws appear to increase violence (Kleck, Kovandzic, and Bellows 489) Clearly, this is not what either of the groups, or any citizens want. So, if the CSGV continues to push tons of bills, it will have a reserve effect to what they want. However, there were major exceptions. Licenses to gun possessions and also bans on alcoholics in the purchases of guns seemingly reduced the homicide and robbery rates (Kleck, Kovandzic, and Bellows 507). Also, lesser evidence indicates the gun bans by criminals and by those mentally ill could reduce assault rates and specific bans on criminals could reduce robbery rates. So, even though the NRA does not want any ;legislation to block gun purchases, if bills that that Bakst 4 stopped alcoholics, criminals and the mentally ill from purchasing guns, then society could have a safer environment. Adam Soloperto ends his article Standard of Review For Gun Right: The Second Amendment Question Hot as a Two-Dollar by saying call for a greater Congressional response to gun violence must be loud enough to drown out the whispers of the NRA lobby. pragmatist would advocate for the will of the those in favor of stricter gun laws are better served by buying a (Soloperto 205). This cannot be the standard for the congressional procedure. These pieces indicate that America needs a compromise on this issue. This will take both stakeholders budging on their stances. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence needs to regulate what bills they are trying to pass, and the National Rifle association needs to let up the reigns on important issues. Specifically, a gun law that was rejected in 2016 was the National Criminal Instant Background Check System (NICS). Fearing this would trample on gun rights, the NRA lobbied against it (Carney 1). This would be a good law to compromise on as it is minimal to affecting the second amendment and is not an excessive gun reform. The senate should reopen the floor for this bill. In conclusion, the gun rights versus gun control topic can be very heated. With two sides thinking they can offer the best ideas on safety, the whole discussion can become very messy. However, if both sides can let in compromise, see each points and evidence, and reopen the floor for such bills as the NICS, both sides would benefit as well as the American people. Bakst 5 Work Cited: Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, csgv.org/about-us/. Appelbaum, Paul, M.D., author. Does The Second Amendment Protect The Gun Rights Of Persons With Mental  Psychiatric Services 1 (2017): 3. PsychiatryOnline. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Bindbeutel, Burke. Domestic Tranquility: The Goals Of Home  Southern Illinois University Law Journal 39.1 (2014): 1-21. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Bowen, Matthew, and Chang, Angelica. Combat Veterans On Civilian Gun  Society 53.4 (2016): 398-407. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Carney, Jordain. Senate Rejects Gun Control Background Check  TheHill. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Kleck, Gary, Kovandzic, Tomislav and Bellows, Jon. Does Gun Control Reduce Violent  Criminal Justice Review (Sage Publications) 41.4 (2016): 488-513. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017. NRA  NRA About the NRA. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Soloperto, Adam P.1. A Standard Of Review For Gun Rights: The Second Amendment Question Hot As A Two-Dollar  Seton Hall Law Review 47.1 (2016): 225-265. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017.