Laura Guilarte-Debras Dennis ENC 1102 27 February 2017 In 2006, there were six men that took a drug known as (TGN1412) in a clinical trial at Northwick Park Hospital in London. The drug caused the men to have serious life threatening and disastrous side effect in less than two hours after taking the drug, the side effects included organ failure as well as brain swelling. That same drug was previously tested and given to monkeys at a 500 fold higher dose. The monkeys unlike the humans showed no ill effects and the drug was therefore considered safe enough to proceed to human trials. Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania is an organization that is against animal testing. The organization uses rhetorical appeals to persuade the opinion in the use of animals for animal testing. The organization that is against animal testing, Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania, uses a photo with text and a graphic image to persuade the audience that every animal deserves the right to not be tested on because it is cruel and inhumane. An organization that is in favor of animal testing, Pre-Test, presents a photo with text to persuade the audience that animal testing is necessary. The Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania photo presents powerful pathos, or appeal to emotion in its image. The image has a light gloomy background that makes the black bold letters stand out to the audience. The attention of the audience immediately goes to the image of the woman that has half of her face burned by procedures that get done to animal for cosmetic purposes. Then there is also the black text that says HURT A and the bold red text that says ANIMAL The two statements as well as blisters, ulcers, blindness, create a feeling of desperation and the audience may feel curious as why animals go through that. After looking at the image of the woman with half a normal face and the other half all bruised and burned while on the corner there is a dog paw and i is putting mascara on the woman the reader discovers that animals go through all of that pain for cosmetic purposes. The discovery creates a sympathetic feeling for the audience. The image draws the image in the side of the face that is burned and bruise, we would never want humans to go through that pain, yet we have animals we have animals going through it as if they are not living themselves. The burned and bruised face of the woman adds to the strong sympathetic emotion that the photo establishes. The Pro-Test organization establishes strong pathos throughout their in favor to animal testing image. Unlike the image against animal testing, this image is a protest which brings direct attention to the signs the people are holding. The signs have statements such as BE ALIVE WITHOUT ANIMAL and UP FOR the first statement can leave the audience wondering, is he saying that as a general statement or is he saying that because he had a disease and the medication that cured him was processed through animal testing? It certainly leaves the audience wondering. There are many people at this protest which shows the readers that no matter what the reason behind the signs are, people feel very strongly devoted to keeping animal testing around. Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania establishes logos, or the appeal to logic. The image of the woman burned and bruised by procedures that are typically done to animals when they are tested on, shows that animals actually do experience pain, their flesh is not thicker than ours. Through the red statement ANIMAL Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania is emphasizing that animal testing is cruel and inhumane. According to Peta.org statistics and facts column a total of 3.02 animals are used in experiments and a total of 78,294 animals are exposed to pain near, at, or above the pain tolerance threshold of unanesthetized conscious the statistic shows that many of the animals used for experimental testing do experience pain and most of the time have to be put to death after because they cannot perform the same way they use to. The Pro-Test organization establishes logos through the elements of their image. The image of people protesting, holding signs with statements such as I BE ALIVE WITHOUT ANIMAL shows that results that have derived from animal testing have changed the lives of many people. The Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania establishes logos in the bottom right corner of their image where their campaigns website is on it as well as their logo. The logo consists of a rabbit and under it it says Tested On By including a logo, Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania establishes credit for being world-wide and professionals. With the world-wide credit as well as professional credit, Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania creates credibility for the information provided in the image. Pro-Test organization establishes ethos, or appeal to logic by adding their campaigns website under the banner that says BE ALIVE WITHOUT ANIMAL Having the campaigns website on the bottom of their protest signs shows the audience that they are more than just a group of people protesting. They have more to say, they have an organization and a website in which you can go and look for yourself at what they have to say. By including the campaigns website on the image it establishes credit for being professional and that creates credibility for the information provided in the image. The Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania and Pro-Test organization are active around the world persuading the opinion on animal testing. They both used pathos, logos, and ethos on their image to persuade the opinion or animal testing. Although there are two completely different opinions on animal testing, Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania and Pro-Test should work together on making sure that the results provided by animal testing are accurate and are not going to potentially harm humans as well as making sure to only do animal testing when it is completely necessary and other alternatives do not work. Works Cited Page Experiments on Animals:  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Have You Considered a Club for All  Fundraising 25.2 (2017): 6. Web. N.p., n.d. Web.