Elizabeth Melachrinoudis Melachrinoudis 1 ENC 1102 Bob Botkin 2 February 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Chemotherapy fails ninety seven percent of the time it is prescribed; the only reason that it is prescribed is because doctors make money from it. drugs are the only classification of drugs that the doctor gets a direct cut (Gidden, 1) There is no reason that a physician should be prescribing a drug with so many proven harmful side effects that has such a small chance of success. Alternative, natural cancer treatments are visibly more effective than chemotherapy is in regards to cancer, yet still millions of people are prescribed chemotherapy each year with the false pretense that it will kill their cancer. Chemotherapy should no longer be used as a treatment for cancer as the only consistent positive outcome is how much profit the doctor is making from the treatment. This paper will go into further detail as to why chemotherapy should no longer be used and why natural alternatives should be researched instead. Chemotherapy is an invasive and toxic treatment that allegedly eliminates cancer cells. Unfortunately, though, its vicious chemistry is not able to distinguish between the cancerous cell and a healthy cell or any surrounding healthy tissue. While chemotherapy can in fact kill the cancer, it does so by killing everything else along with the cancer. Continual chemotherapy treatment kills the entire body, not just the cancer. The immune system is hit exceptionally hard by chemotherapy and often does not recover enough to defend the body from even common illnesses. This destruction of the immune system can turn small infections into deadly infections, which can then lead to death. Sixty seven percent of patients who die during cancer treatment die from infections that arose as a direct result of the immune system failing because of the aggressive and toxic nature of chemotherapeutic drugs. Melachrinoudis 2 According to the American Cancer Society, cells tend to grow fast, and chemo drugs kill fast-growing cells. But because these drugs travel throughout the body, they can affect normal, healthy cells that are fast-growing, (Unknown, 1). This compromising of healthy, noncancerous causes crippling side effects in nearly eighty percent of cancer patients that are administered the chemotherapeutic drugs. Every patient experiences the side effects differently, however the American Cancer Society lists the most commonly faced as nausea and vomiting, hair loss, anemia, fertility problems, and easy bruising. Chemotherapy also commonly causes changes in weight, mood, skin and nail color, and appetite. Patients are told that these side effects be weighed against the need to kill the cancer For terminal cancer patients they are given the option of surrendering to the cancer or spending their last days bald and nauseous with an empty promise of remission. Additionally, the use of chemotherapy drugs with patients suffering from terminal or final stage cancers significantly worsens their quality of life while providing no overall survival benefits, according to a study published in JAMA Oncology (Synder, 5). Having such a small percentage of effectiveness combined with horrible side effects, these tough and destructive drugs are not worth the risks. The visible negative side effects of chemotherapeutic drugs have prompted the research into alternative methods of treatment for cancer. The treatments mostly regard changes made to the diet or consumptions of specific vitamins and minerals. Dr. Max Gerson is the German-born American medical doctor who is crediting with the development of one of the most effective natural cancer treatments. His treatment, coined focuses of the consumption of raw juices and organic, plant based foods. According to the Gerson Institute, Gerson Therapy naturally reactivates your magnificent ability to heal itself with no damaging side effects. This powerful, natural treatment boosts the own immune system to heal Melachrinoudis 3 In 1952, Dr. Johanna Budwig discovered that many of the usual processed fats and hydrogenated oils were destroying the membranes of cells, which caused cells to become toxic and diseased. When processed fats and oils are replaced with unsaturated or saturated fatty acids, the cells will rebuild and are left rejuvenated. Budwig found that consuming a combination of cottage cheese, flaxseeds, and flaxseed oil produced the best results. Multiple studies continue to support the theory that high levels of heart healthy, fat-soluble vitamins and minerals are key to keeping your body free of cancer. More recently, there has been considerable progress regarding the role that fat-soluble vitamin D3 plays in cancer prevention. In one study, published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, after just one year of intense vitamin D3-added supplementation, the risk of developing cancerous cells was decreased by seventy-seven percent. The use of alternative methods provides a more cost effective treatment for cancer while also leaving the patients feeling healthier. In America today, more money is spent to treat cancer than to treat any other disease by far, according to NBC News over one hundred billion dollars was spent on cancer drugs in 2014. Obviously, plenty of people are getting rich from a drug that does not have a track record of effectiveness. Chemotherapy is only effective three percent of the time that it is prescribed. With such bad results, why is it being prescribed as the number one cancer treatment? According to the research of Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner, Oncologists are some of the highest paid doctors, their average income is increasing faster than any other specialist in the medical field, and more than half their income comes from selling and administering . Their business model is extremely different from other doctors because chemotherapy drugs are not available to be bought at a local pharmacy. Oncologists buy chemotherapeutic drugs direct at wholesale prices, they then mark them up to ridiculous prices and bill the insurance companies. Melachrinoudis 4 Only in the cancer business do doctors make a profit in this manner, making cancer unique from other treatments. Doctors insist that chemotherapy is the best method in saving a cancer life because it is the only method that allows them to make such a profit. This business model presents a huge conflict of interest. Oncologists sell patients the drugs, and then on top of that charge them to administer the drugs, and they are the only type of doctors that can do that. After researching the harmful effects of chemotherapy and seeing the positive effects of natural treatments it seems that the use of chemotherapy should be discontinued. Chemotherapeutic drugs only benefit the doctors that are prescribing them. This method of treatment is using desperate patients to make a profit. It is a vile industry that takes advantage of millions each year. Chemotherapy must be discontinued in order for cancer to potentially be cured. However, this outcome is not likely because the discontinuation of chemotherapy would mean a major reduction in pay for oncologists. Doctors could be saving lives by prescribing holistic treatments instead of chemotherapy. Because alternative methods do not provide nearly as much profit for the oncologist they will never be recommended. If the funds that are put into the pockets were put into researching alternative methods the cure to cancer would be much more obtainable. Until that happens, cancer patients will continued to be poisoned by those they are trusting to help them and oncologists will continue to make money off of the dying. Melachrinoudis 5 Works Cited Axe, Josh. Natural Cancer Treatments Hidden Dr. Axe, 6 Jan. 2017, draxe.com/10-natural-cancer-treatments-hidden-cures/. Kase, Aaron. Chemotherapy Fails 97% Of The Time, Why Do Doctors Recommend Reset.me, 17 June 2015, reset.me/story/if-chemotherapy-fails-97-of-the-time-why- do-doctors-recommend-it/. Ransom, Steven. by Doctoring Fraught with Risks and Side Tutor, 20 Dec. 2016, www.cancertutor.com/deathbydoctoring4/. Schmidt, Dena. Cancer Survival Rate for Chemotherapy Is Health 365, 3 Apr. 2016, www.naturalhealth365.com/chemotherapy-cancer-patients-1796.html. Snyder, Michael. as a Business Model: $100 Billion Spent on Chemotherapy Drugs Last Sott.net, 5 May 2015, www.sott.net/article/296163-Cancer-as-abusiness- model-100-billion-spent-on-chemotherapy-drugs-last-year. Unknown, Side American Cancer Society, www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/treatment- types/chemotherapy/chemotherapy-side-effects.html.