Hoggins 1 1 Ronnie Hoggins Professor TJ Roberts ENC 1130 February 26, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate The new trend among athletes is the consumption of energy drinks. Athletes, who train for long hours of the day, search for a source of energy that will allow them to keep going. As a supplement to coffee, energy drink contain caffeine that is used to give the athlete an boost that enables them to perform at their best for longer. However, recent studies performed by doctors have shown that energy drinks, especially combined with strenuous physical activity, have negative effects on health. Increasing evidence has been found that athletes who drink energy drinks suffer from various health problems that impact their training and performance. Because of this, American Medical Association warns against the consumption of energy drinks while an athlete is performing. Image 1 upholds the argument of the doctors and the American Medical Association stating that energy drinks are harmful. Image 2 represents Monster Energy as a stakeholder, and presents a counter argument, showing that energy drinks can make you stronger. Both images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to convince the viewer of their respective arguments. The American Medical Association believes that energy drinks are harmful to youth, and especially to athletes, because of their ingredients. Image 1 depicts these beliefs through the use of ethos, pathos, and logos. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal to ethics and credibility. This image presents the ethical appeal through the text. It states that there is a Hoggins 2 2 to energy reminding the viewer of the image that energy drinks are not healthy. Additionally, this image is credible because it comes from the American Medical Association website, and lists specific doctors names in the image. By having such a credible source and because a study done by doctors, the viewer is more likely to take the message seriously. Pathos is the appeal to emotion. This appeal is used to trigger a feeling in the viewer that will help convince them to support a specific argument. In this image, the person conveys a confused facial expression. The mans facial expression makes the reader second guess their views on energy drinks, leading them to question whether or not they are healthy. In this image, the facial expression is the form of pathos, which raises doubt from the viewer. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic and reason. The image uses this device through the written text. The text tells exactly the negative effects of energy drinks, making the reader feel that the most healthy option would be to stop drinking them. Monsters Energy presents a counter argument to the views of doctors in the American Medical Association. main purpose is to satisfy needs for superior quality and great tasting, healthy, natural and functional beverages, while also giving them the boost they need throughout their day. Image 2 upholds this belief by presenting an image that advertises for energy drinks, while implementing ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to uphold their argument. In this image, ethos is seen in the form of the logo, which is located in the bottom left corner of the image. This logo reminds the view of the energy drink company that the picture is advertising for, and also reminds that it comes from a credible source. The image also uses the rhetorical appeal pathos, by picturing a tiger as a symbol of power and energy. This strategy makes the Hoggins 3 3 audience feel the energy drink will give them power. If an athlete were to see this, think that drinking the Monster Energy drink would improve their athletic ability. Logos, or the appeal to logic, is used in this image through the obvious statement that by drinking the energy drink, the athlete will have the strength of a tiger. Additionally, the green and black colors let the viewer of the image forget the brands name. Finally, kairos, the appeal to timeliness is used to strengthen this images argument that it is trying to convey to its viewers. The text makes the audience feels a sense of urgency to drink a Monster energy drink to improve performance. To conclude, increasing evidence has been found that athletes who drink energy drinks suffer from various health problems that impact their training and performance. Both images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to convince the viewer of their respective arguments. Both stakeholders have their different viewpoints on how they believe the consumer should view energy drinks and the things the product does to the body. The American Medical Association believes that energy drinks are harmful to youth, and especially to athletes, because of their ingredients. While on the other hand, Monsters Energy presents a counter argument to the views of doctors in the American Medical Association. Hoggins 4 4 Image 1 Image 2 Hoggins 5 5 Works Cited : Monster  Pinterest. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Downside of Sports and Energy  Dimensions of Dental Hygiene. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Reid, Sandra D., Jonathan Ramsarran, Rachel Brathwaite, Sarika Lyman, Ariane Baker, C. Cornish, Stefan Ganga, Zahrid Mohammed, Avinash T. Sookdeo, and Cathrine K. Thapelo. Energy drink usage among university students in a Caribbean country: Patterns of use and adverse  Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health 5.2 (2015): 103-16. Web. Monster Energy Mission  UNLEASH THE BEAST. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.