Cardoso 1 Juliana Rocha Cardoso ENC 1102 Professor Erika Staiger February 16, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Rhetorical Analyze of Images Several lines of evidence indicate changes in the weather, oceans and ecosystems. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has been fighting against the effects of climate change for years. It is argued by EPA that the greenhouse gas emission is a threat for the human race. EPA has created and developed procedures to compare the impacts of the emission of different gases (EPA). Most of the causes of global warming have been caused by human discharges of greenhouse gases. Mainly caused by the excessive burning of fossil fuels and rapid deforestation across the world. The EPA argues that the magnitude of the revolution will depend on how much, and how quickly it can be reduced greenhouse gas emission. Each one of the images presented brings an important message by EPA. Both of them show how global warming is affecting the planet. One image shows numbers, presentation the percentage of the different gases that are being emitted, appealing to Ethos and the other image an oil company emitting gases and polluting the environment, and next to it a river completely polluted, with no life, appealing to Pathos and Logos. It also includes Kairos by emerging a sense of urgency. EPA is promoting a clean energy economy and the pictures show how human activities are contributing to greenhouse gas emission and warm the planet. Greenhouse gas emissions are one of the largest contributors to rising global temperatures. The pictures address the idea that a greater Cardoso 2 emphasis on cleaner, alternative sources of energy is the need of the hour to retard the upward incline of global temperatures through the use of logos, pathos, ethos and logos. Pathos emerges a feeling of sympathy, affecting emotions. The first image appeals to pathos by showing numbers and trying to convince and persuade people of how alarming is the global warming situation and how those numbers needs to be reduced drastically. It is presented how an oil company no only produces one type of polluting gas but several types. The second image appeals to pathos showing an oil company emitting all of those gases and next to the company there is a river completely polluted, incapable of having life in it. Both pictures are appealing to pathos in its own ways, but both of them tries to reach for some kind of sympathy with the public. The rhetorical appeal Ethos is the credibility of the images. In both of the pictures there is the EPA logo inserted. EPA is known worldwide and they have been fighting against global warming for a long time. They conduct several researches to try and find ways to end with the global warming. Consequently, EPA is a credible source for the images and their logo actually means something once you know the history behind the organization. The logo should give the audience the ability of trust in those numbers being presented and the polluted river next to an oil company emitting pollution. The presence of the EPA logo appeals to ethos and allows the audience to trust the images and the organization behind it. As well as the audience has the opportunity to know where the images are coming from and more research about the organization can be done for further information. Logos is the rhetorical appeal of logic and persuades the audience by reason. Logos is needed to be able to persuade the audience, without logic is hard to present a solid and credible argument. The first image is the one that appeals to logos the most. It shows solid numbers by Cardoso 3 the EPA organization. It is to the point and easy to understand their message. The second image also appeals to logos in a different way, the logic is that the oil company is emitting greenhouse gasses, this way polluting the ecosystem, consequently polluting the river making it impossible to have any kind of life in it. The images also appeal to Kairos, which refers to timeliness. The first image creates a sense of urgency in a sense that those numbers provided by EPA need to be reduced immediately in order to save the world. The second image also creates a sense of urgency by using the appealing to emotion (pathos). When the audience sees the polluted river it is understood that something needs to be done right now in order to save the environment and also the human life. Global warming is a very alarming topic and has involved several stakeholders. EPA is one of the main stakeholders trying to find ways to reduce the intensification of greenhouse has emission, which is affecting the entire planet. Greenhouse gases occur practically in all human activities and sectors of the economy (EPA). EPA is one of the main responsible for systematizing and disseminating studies related to global warming. The effects of global warming are diverse and may be related to the atmosphere, hydrosphere and also to the biosphere. The environment must be preserved to the maximum, especially with the reduction of pollution and deforestation. After all, the climate is not the only one affected by the effects of global warming. Both images are using all of the rhetorical appeals implemented by EPA to try and persuade the audience that a change is extremely necessary in order to preserve the environment and all of the living things on planet earth. Cardoso 4 Work Cited Global  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.epa.gov/>.