Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette Composition I 19-02-2017 Solar energy Introduction Solar energy comes to be a very important source of energy not only for human beings but for the planet as well. Energy or electricity is very valuable for our life, if we have energy we be able to survive in this planet. We do have plenty sources of energy in the planet, however these energy sources that come from nonrenewable resources are not the best from humans and the environment. Over the past years electrical plants that produce the energy by burning fossil fuels have been creating a huge wave of pollution damaging everything with life. The pollution has been so extreme that it has caused huge consequences like global warming, acid rain, animal extinctions and diseases. In contrast, solar energy is not only a renewable energy source but also a clean one. Imagine having everyone in the world living from clean energy and taking advantage of a huge source like the sun, our life would be completely different and our world would be completely cleaner. There have been some efforts to switch the pattern to clean energy, however for some reasons it been completely restored yet around the world. With this research I am conducting I will evaluate and analyze how has solar energy changed our living facilities and impacted the environment? Bibliographic entries Leif. Capturing the Sun for Energy Ambio, vol. 41, 2012, pp. This source is based on a very complete overview on the importance of capturing the sun for energy production. It discusses the potential that solar energy has in the world, the principles to how produce it and the challenges that if faces. The source also identifies the energy needs of the present and future generations of humankind in order to live in the planet. It also shows how we have been increasing the population and increasing the demand for energy as well. Over the last forty years there have been investments in the energy sector and there will be more investments in the future as well. This source connects with the research question of the project because it talks about the way solar energy would be the energy of the future and the impact it can make around the world. It states that we must take advantage of the sun as only one hour of radiation is enough to cover with the annual energy demand from the whole world. It mentions that all other energies are damaging the environment and that there been a completely change on this system because it is a multitrillion dollar industry. This source is really credible because it comes from Jstor which is an associated library of USF. Also, all the information on it is cited and showed with evidence. Lewis, Nathan S. Cost-Effective Solar Energy Science, vol. 315, no. 5813, 2007, pp. This source focuses specifically on solar energy and how we can achieve an efficient cost and way to use it. It mentions that global solar energy market was about $10 billion a year and growing at about 30% rate. This means that there is an effort to stablish this system that will benefit everyone in the world. It also talks that there has been some challenges with it because fossil fuel energy is way cheaper to operate and process making it a cost competitor for electrical power generation. This article was written in 2007 which the reality of it might have varied with all the technological advances seen at this time. This source connects to the research question because it supports the idea that solar energy is making an impact in the world towards developing a better living style and consuming a less polluted energy at a lower cost. It talks about finding the solution to energy problems and solar energy being one of these solutions. It covers the mechanisms to develop a powerful and deep system that can solve our needs, eliminating old and dull traditions. This source is also credible as it comes from the library Jstor and was written by the author Nathan S. Lewis. Siler-Evans, Kyle, et al. Variations in the Health, Environmental, and Climate Benefits of Wind and Solar Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 110, no. 29, 2013, pp. This source makes an emphasis on the variations in the health, environmental and climate benefits combining solar energy and wind energy. This article shows different studies on how solar energy and wind energy make a strong beneficial impact depending on the regional locations of the US states. The benefits come from conventional generators and therefore reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other elements. Also benefits from displacing C02 emissions and health, environmental from SO2, NOX and This source connects directly to the research questions because it highlights the benefits of having green type energy. It strongly impacts the environment, health and society because it reduces the emissions of greenhouse gases that other energy methods produce. This article was written in 2013 and was written by Siler-Evan. I found this article from a strong valuable library called Jstor which operates with a connection with USF. By taking all the important details and information of this article I believe I can make a good point in relation with my resource questions. Barber, James. Solar Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, vol. 365, no. 1853, 2007, pp. This source is based on the biological terms of solar energy. It mentions energy content of sunlight falling on our planet well exceeds our There is enough energy produced by sunlight to replenish the entire demand of energy in the world. This article also covers the importance of the sun as a mechanism of energy and how it is the main source of energy for the environment. than 3 billion years ago biology developed the capacity to efficiently capture solar energy and use it to power the synthesis of organic Solar energy has been present in the earth forever, it is the reason we breathe oxygen as plants use this energy to release it. However we use solar energy directly to our daily structures. This source connects to the research question because it makes it clear that sunlight has been a really important factor for life in the planet since the creation of it. It has created fossil fuels but as these are being burned at a higher rate than they can be produced, while transmitting pollutants to the atmosphere it will be better to use solar energy from now on. The sun is the biggest producer of energy in the galaxy and we yet come with an efficient and technological way to take advantage of it. This source comes from Jstor and was written in 2007 for this reason it is trustable. Mackay, Michael E. Why Solar Energy is  Solar Energy: An Introduction. : Oxford University Press, 2015-06-01. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2015-08-20. 19 Feb. 2017. This source is very complete, addressing a general background and information specified on solar energy. This article is more like a book having chapters of many different topics of solar energy including the importance of it. It mentions that fuel resources will last on the order of 100 to 300 years; yet, burning them generates human made carbon dioxide (CO2) and is responsible for changes in the Earth, such as global warming and Arctic ice loss. The source shows data demonstrating the rapid increase of CO2 over the last years and information supplied by the National Audubon Society. This source connects to the research question because it shows with data and graphics the importance that it makes to the environment to develop solar energy. It also mentions the challenges of developing this kind of energy as well as cost effective devices. This for sure will be the energy of the future and the planet will be benefited from it. This book or resource was written by Michael E. Mackay and was published to Oxford Scholarship online on 2015, making it a very trustable source. Ellison, Katherine. Power: The Future Looks Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, vol. 4, no. 8, 2006, pp. This source points out two opinions on the solar energy topic. It mentions that we should use more solar energy and that it will be the energy of the future. However, it also shows with evidence that some people think that solar energy has some challenges to be devolved to its fullest potential. One of these challenges might be that the technology is not well advanced, it is commercially not viable and that solar panels take up much space on the roof of the houses. In contrast, it shows than there are not technological limitations and that in 10 years solar energy will be commercially competing with other energy sources. In fact, we will need it to overcome the pollution issues. The source connects with the resource questions because demonstrate the way solar energy will be impacting the environment as well as our living facilities, like the economy and civil structures. With solar energy growing at the rate mentioned on the article it will be the energy of the future with no doubts. This source is very valuable as it was found on Jstor a library that works in connection with USF. It was written by the author Katherine Ellison and she proves every point of it with evidence quoting every single idea that was made by professionals of the industry.