Saleh 1 Miriam Saleh 24 February 2017 ENC1102 T.J Murray Project 2 Intermediate Draft One day, Maybelline will be the only legally sold makeup-company in America. For the sake of all American women, the government should eradicate all other makeup companies from being sold nationally. It was recently found that Maybelline has the cleanest products nationally. According to Dr. Wickman, mascara had the lowest amount of bacteria out of the twelve other leading competitors (Microbial contamination associated with mascara use 591). His three-month long study also found that test subject was not affiliated with any ocular trauma, itching or irritation. Maybelline has a high level of cleanliness due to their staffing efforts. They hire people specifically for the task of making sure all products are biodegradable (Sizing the Clean Economy 21). such a relief for American women to know their makeup is safe! Saleh 2 Maybelline New York Honors Women Who Empower Through Education concluded that Maybelline partners with PEOPLE to find ten girls to qualify for career advancement. Every four months, this program teaches these young women more about business so they can develop lucrative careers in business. After the program the girls are free to go into whatever field of entrepreneurship themselves! NOW is the era of women empowerment. As of the last couple of years, females nationally have spoken up about their rights. Maybelline has chimed into this recent movement. According to Catherine Phillips, Maybelline is heavily involved in this partnership by donating profits towards cancer research and patients (Images, femininity and cancer: an analysis of an international patient education programme 69). They did this so families who are currently drowning in debt from medical bills have less of a burden. Maybelline wanted to bring financial hope to these women to remind them exactly how each life is valuable. made partnerships, as seen below, with cancer Saleh 3 awareness programs to not only help those in need but for preventative purposes. We need more companies like Maybelline in the US to model this type of compassion for the American people. Not just in makeup, but other industries as well. Saleh 4 Work cited Pack, Latricia D., et al. Contamination Associated with Mascara Optometry - Journal of the American Optometric Association 79.10 (2008): 593. Web. Phillips, C. Femininity and Cancer: An Analysis of an International Patient Education Health: 13.1 (2009): Web. York, Maybelline New. New York Honors Women Who Empower Through Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Muro, Mark, and Jonathan Rothwell. the Clean Brookings.edu, The Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.