Student 1 Student ENC 1101 Ms. Paquette Intermediate Draft January 29, 2017 Obesity: Control your weight, Control your health Obesity is a growing epidemic in America affecting over 35% of U.S adults and 17% of children and teenagers in the United States. According to the American Medical Association (AMA), three criterion are used to define an individual as An impairment of the normal function of the human body, visual signs and symptoms and harm to oneself. In world the media, food markets, and new technology make it the cultural norm to eat excessive amounts of food not solely for nourishment, but also for pleasure. Some people may not view obesity in itself as a disease but more of a precursor to other diseases such as Anorexia, Bulimia, and overeating or However, this is not the case as obesity can lead to problems with a daily activities, even if that person claims that obesity does not affect their life whatsoever. The obesity epidemic is killing hundreds of thousands of Americans each year and it should be able to be easily prevented by following simple measures. With my research I am hoping to find simple ways to help the increased population suffering from obesity to be saved and freed from this dangerous condition. Student 2 is the second leading cause of preventable death with over 300,000 U.S citizens a year being victimized by this The fact that it is the second leading cause of death in the United States should be enough call for concern within the society. The fact that it is a preventable death means it is very important to spread awareness into how to prevent the condition from occurring. The ability to maintain a healthy diet is very important to keeping oneself at a healthy medium as well and mainiting a and daily exercise routine. People should know that exercise is a very important factor that can drastically improves a health. This source was published by the CDC in 2011, one of the few major operating organizations of the Department of Health and Human Services. The CDC is responsible for promoting healthy ideals, protecting from the U.S from disease, and improving overall health of U.S citizens. The publication applies precisely to my research topic due to the myriad of facts that are backed up by citations from reputable sources such as other U.S health organizations and doctors that specialize in obesity. This source was published in 2011 making it more applicable to modern society as compared to sources published prior to 2010 in which the obesity epidemic was not as prevalent as it is today. Obesity is a very rapidly growing problem, as well as a threat, to the health and safety of citizens of the United States. Several life threatening diseases are derived from obesity such as heart disease, hypertension, stroke, cancer, diabetes, mellitus, gallbladder disease, dyslipidemia, Student 3 osteoarthritis, gout and sleep apnoea. This makes obesity even more hazardous to oneself since it comes along with other very serious diseases. On another note, the social implications that obesity can cause is prejudice; because of this, obese individuals may not want to seek medical assistance due to the social backlash that they believe it may cause. This source was published by The World Health Organization (WHO) in 2000 which may make the source be considered a bit outdated. This does not necessarily mean that the information in the publication is irrelevant to modern times, but it is useful for comparison to how obesity was perceived then to how it is perceived now. Physical exercise is another crucial role in maintaining a healthy body. There are a variety of options and programs that the community which can encourage U.S citizens to get active. The General has published a program resource guide that provides information about several health benefits of walking and how programs such as Mall Walking can help people become more active. This is very important for people to know and see how preventable obesity really is and for others to see that there is still hope to end obesity within themselves. The source was published in 2013 by the U.S Surgeon General, The operational head of the U.S Public Health Service Commissioned Corps (PHSCC). The main job of the Surgeon General is Student 4 protect public health and affairs pertaining to health hazards. This source is very important to my research on obesity because of the credibility of its publisher. Ever since the middle ages, when obesity was considered gluttonous, the negative connotation towards obesity was carried on to modern times. If obese people succumbed to an hour of exercise a day, although it may not be as easy as it sounds, the condition can be greatly improved or even cured. A healthy body is very important to have and should be maintained with a healthy diet and healthy exercise to prevent obesity from occurring. This source claims that obesity is a stigmatized disease that adversely affects the quality of life for the afflicted individuals. It is published by the International Journal of Obesity, a website that lists several facts and statistical data about obesity in America. Student 5 Works Cited Obesity: Halting the Epidemic by Making Health Easier, At a Glance  , Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 26 May 2011. Web. 29 January 2017. Obesity: Preventing and Managing the Global  , World Health Organization (WHO), 2000. Overweight and Obesity: Health  Surgeon General, www.surgeongeneral.com, Nov. 19, 2013 Web. 02 February 2017. G.A. Bray, Obesity Is a Chronic, Relapsing Neurochemical  Journal of Obesity , 2004 Print.