Leguizamon 1 Sebastian Leguizamon Adam Phillip ENC1102-022 25 February 2017 Quest for Liberty and Justice for All The words Liberty and Justice for uttered by millions of Americans everyday represents the foundation of the ideals by which our nation was founded upon, the idea that Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness can be achieved by all who live within the borders of this nation. However, MALDEF, an organization created to protect the rights of immigrants, specifically Latino immigrants, believes that there are immigrants in this nation who are not getting the treatment that those powerful words promise. Through the use of several rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, and pathos, MALDEF is able to persuade and inform the audience about what they stand for and how they intent to achieve their goals. MALDEF was founded in 1968. A time in which civil rights were at the forefront of American politics. It was established to promote social change and equality for Latino immigrants. Sometimes called law firm of the Latino (para 1) their strategy is to take a legal approach to achieve their goals. MALDEF strives to bring the issues facing the Latino community to mainstream of American political and socio-economic (MALDEF para 2). Also, referred to as of the most influential Hispanic advocacy groups in the United they have had their influence in several important legal cases. But none have been bigger than the 2006 U.S. Supreme court case of Plyer v. Doe. With the help of lawyers, the Supreme Court ruled to strike down on a Texas law that made parents of Leguizamon 2 undocumented children pay for public education. This victory ensured that the doors of schools all throughout the nation would remain open to all children regardless of their status in this country. Ethos refers to the credibility or trustworthiness of the speaker. In the first image, MALDEF uses a quote from the pledge of allegiance. JUSTICE FOR The adding of this quote may not seem like a huge deal but in reality, it shows their seriousness to their cause of protecting the rights of all who seek their help. All the while showing respect to the very values that this country was founded upon. And considering they mainly work as a law firm of sorts, the fact that they abide and respect the law of the land attracts immigrants who may not be very knowledgeable about their rights in this country. The second image is an advertisement put out by MALDEF stating that they have announced and endorsements on California ballot (image 2) If they wanted to build up their credibility to their target audience, this is the way to do so. With the announcement of their members running for positions on the ballot for California and their endorsements, once again show that they are serious about achieving their goal. They do not just preach about change but they actually go out and make change. Not only do they establish themselves as a credibly enough organization that their endorsements should be acknowledged by people, but they are serious contenders to get someone from their organization elected into office in the largest and most powerful state in the nation. Pathos refers to the feelings that are evoked by the images. The first shows a visual of the MALDEF logo surrounded by hands of people. These hands are from people of different races, uniting around the MALDEF logo. If the hands were all one color the image would send a different message. But since they are from different races, it clearly states that anyone from any Leguizamon 3 race or background can rally around MALDEF and the values that they stand for. This makes the audience feel a certain unity and that MALDEF is fighting for a cause that anyone could get behind. Unlike other organizations who try to be divisive and hateful in their rhetoric, MALDEF shows that they want the complete opposite from that with that image. Pathos is used in the second image by the fact that they portray themselves as a credible organization. Since they are advocating and asserting themselves as an organization that is serious about achieving their goals by appointing people to the ballot of an elected positing, they create a sense of trust amongst their audience. With so many uncertainties in the process of legalization for many illegal immigrants, it gives a sense of relieve that there is a credible organization out there that not only is willing to fight for their rights but can win and are serious about what they do. Logos refers to the logical appeal of the images. The first image builds its logic by combining the quote from the Pledge of Allegiance, and the image of the hands surrounding their logo. It is only logical the support, or at least respect an organization that advocates and fights for the unity and fair treatment of people regardless of legal status or background (Image of hands surrounding logo), and that follows and respects the basic values set forth by our founding fathers (Quote from the Pledge). The second image implements logos by arguing once again that it is only logical to take them seriously since they are a respected organization. By showing that they are serious contenders in the state of California ballot for an elected office, they build credibility thus making the choice of supporting them a logical one. The idea that all men are created equal shows the values by which this nation was built on. An idea that promotes unity, equality, and the fair treatment of all who live within the borders of this nation. According to MALDEF however, the immigrant portion of the population faces injustices that go against the values that our founding fathers had intended for all of us. Leguizamon 4 MALDEF is an organization founded in 1968 with the intentions of putting the grievances and injustices that immigrants, legal or not, face every single day. With a concentration in the Latino community, they have become a voice for many people who would usually not have one. Since their conception they have prided themselves with fighting for the immigrants in the court room and have built a reputation of winning. In their advertisements found on their website, MALDEF uses rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and logos to convey their message and show people that they are a serious, and caring organization. Leguizamon 5 Works cited Discover the Networks. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mission  MALDEF: Mission Statement. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Leguizamon 6