Rahman 1 Saif Rahman Bob Botkin ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Limiting refugees and immigrants in United States America is considered to be the most generous nation to welcome refugees, who are naturally or unnaturally displaced from their own country. After the Syrian crisis, people had questioned the concept of America being the most welcoming nation for asylum seekers. America had the best record to resettle refugees in their country but after the Arab spring, the situation started to change drastically. There has been a massive decline in the intake of refugees. At the end end of August 2014, due to the political turmoil in Syria, The United Nations estimates that 6.5 million people were displaced. Most of the refugees fled to their neighboring countries to escape their inevitable death. The neighboring countries like Turkey, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and Jordan welcomed the most refugees in that order. The United Nation High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) estimated that Germany took over 600,000 refugees since the Syrian crisis. It is estimated that Turkey took 2.7 million refuges which dwarfs the amount of refugees taken in United states. United states took only about 16,000 people, which is significantly less than their neighboring country Canada, which took more than 60,000 refugees (Krugstan 4). American first priority is the safety of their citizens. National security, economic development, and effective immigration are the fundamental policies of a successful country (Ferraro 17). Due to the political turmoil in the Middle East, many terrorist activities have increased, which allowed for the formation of terrorist group known as ISIS. America is concerned about the fact that members of this extremist group may enter through the process of resettling refugees. America was known to be the land of freedom and opportunity, where every race and people of different faith coexist Rahman 2 peacefully. Refugees and immigrants who are fleeing from their life must be given an opportunity because it is the most moral thing to do as we all are human beings. Although there are risks involved with allowing refuges and immigrants to reside in another country, the humanitarian cause outweighs these risks. Numerous studies over decades have proven that one simple, but yet prevailing truths about the affiliation connecting to immigration and crime: native born are more likely to commit serious crimes than immigrants. Research has proven that high rates of immigration are correlated with lower rates of violent crimes and property crimes, therefore strict immigration policies are ineffective in lowering the crime rate. A research was conducted between 1990 and 2013 that highlighted that the foreign-born portion of the U.S. population grew from 7.9 percent to 13.1 percent and the number of unauthorized immigrants drastically increased from 3.5 million to 11.2 million. During that time period, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) showed that the violent crime deteriorated 48 percent. Property crime fell 41 percent during the same period. There is further research which indicates that an immigrant in general commits less crime than the native born citizen. Walter Ewing Ph.D. conducted research based on the data provided by the American Community Survey (ACS). The data provided by the professor concluded that nearly 1.6 percent of the immigrant males age 18-39 are jailed, in compared to 3.3 percent of the native-born. Accepting immigrants and refugees are also economically beneficial. Professor Alexander Betts, Director of the Refugee Studies Centre at Oxford University, discusses the benefits that the host country receives when they let refugees and immigrants enter in his recent journal. Alexander Betts indicates that it is a common misconception that refugees are a liability to host countries. This misconception creates a lot of misunderstanding between the citizen of the host country and the refugees. It often distorts the actual reality and statistics about this matter. arguments are often Rahman 3 advanced without recourse to evidence. Indeed, few economists have worked on refugees and forced migration, and governments do not have disaggregated immigration data that can show the economic impact of hosting In 2014 study, it was discovered that due to the presence of refugee, the local economy significantly rose. The economy was boosted because of the additional purchasing power, the creation of employment, and the provision of human capital. Refugees are not a burden in society, they benefit the society by engaging in production, consumption, exchange, and development of new businesses. Research indicates that whether refugees are a burden or a benefit depends on the host policies and also where the refugees are from. When the refugees and immigrants are given opportunity to work, education and financing, they are likely to have a better impact on the society. The immigrants and refugees tend to work more hours with a lower pay. They try their best to integrate themselves into the new society for the benefits of their future generation. It is already tough for them to leave their beloved home country where they grew up in their own culture and people. They had to leave all of their possessions in order to have a better future. Migrating to a different country is extremely difficult. They sometimes do not even get basic human needs like water, nutrition, and shelter. It would be extremely hard for them to be denied an entry to another country. The first priority of a country is to protect itself from various threats. The key reason for denying entry to the country is for safety precaution. After 9/11, America has heavily invested time and money on border controls. There have been events related to terror attacks which puts tremendous pressure on the border controls now than ever before. Another disadvantage is that the government has to pay for the background checks, interviews, and processing citizenship which places a burden for U.S taxpayers. When new immigrants move to a city where the job market is saturated, they are not able to find any Rahman 4 means to support themselves and they may have to relay on the Federal Social Service (Ashley D, Rose 2015). Language barrier is another problem the new immigrants and refugees might have to face. The U.S government has not been so active on the Syrian crisis because they predict that some members of the extremist group can enter the country. It will jeopardise the safety of the nation. In order to compromise, we must seek out the common grounds first. The government should allow more refugees and immigrants to enter the country. The government must find more efficient ways to background check people who are coming in, because safety of the nation is the first priority. It is not only a great humanitarian cause, but it will also help boost the economy. The government of U.S along with the UNHCR should find a more productive way to integrate the immigrants and refugees to the society. The UNHCR should also do a background check on the refugees so that they will not be a possible treat in the near future. The U.N and the U.S.A should provide education to those who are the children of refugees and immigrants, so that they can function in the new country. America is known to be the land of immigrants, people from all around the world with different ethnicities come here to seek a better life. America is where all the cultures come together with peace and harmony, this is one of the important characteristic of America. The benefits of having different immigrants and refugees residing in this country is far more beneficial, but the government should also increase its boarder control for the safety of its citizen. Rahman 5 Works cited Ferraro, Nicholas J. The U.S. Senate Immigration Reform Bill and the Need for Amendments before  University of La Verne Law Review, vol. 36, 2014, p. 17. Hong, Gihoon. Examining the U.S. Labor Market Performance of Immigrant Workers in the Presence of Network  Journal of Labor Research, vol. 36, no. 1, 2015, pp. 9-26 Hunt, Jennifer. Immigrants the Most Skilled US Computer and Engineering Journal of Labour Economics, vol. 33, 2015, pp. 30-77. Matsongou, Elizabeth. are an Economic Benefit, Not a Burden, in World finance.http://www.worldfinance.com/infrastructure-investment/government-policy/refugees- are-an-economic-benefit-not-burden-to-europe. Accessed 29 January 2017. Rissing, Ben A., and Castella, EMILIO J. Testing Attestations: U.S. Unemployment and Immigrant Work  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 69, 2016, p. 1081. Ross, Ashley D., and Stella M. Rouse. Economic Uncertainty, Job Threat, and the Resiliency of the Millennial Attitudes toward  Social Science Quarterly (Wiley- Blackwell), vol. 96, no. 5, 2015, pp. 1363-79.