Gutierrez 1 Ana Gutierrez Dr. Davis ENC 1102 2/23/2017 A New Hope for Conceiving Starting a family can be a special milestone in a life. Unfortunately, there are couples who struggle with infertility, and the idea of having a baby is seen as an unreachable dream. However, Srushti Fertility has developed reproductive technology, making these dreams into a reality. An organization based in India, Srushti Fertility Research Centre specializes in providing safe fertility treatments for couples who are not able to conceive. Srushti Centre has been recognized as a highly successful and professional fertility institute, with over fifty-five different nationalities traveling for these treatments. Additionally, they have been highly successful with in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatments, which Srushti Fertility Centre claims to specialize in. To advertise their fertility treatments, they have created propaganda with a variety of rhetorical appeals. Overall, these images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to raise awareness of their successful fertility procedures. In these images, elements of ethos are effectively displayed. According to Allyson book, Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and the use of ethos establishes moral principles of the (Hoffman). However, in this case, the main purpose of ethos in these images is to display credibility. For instance, the awards on the first image, display a sense of trustworthiness. These awards remind their audience that this specific Gutierrez 2 institution has on the (Hoffman). Additionally, one of the rewards states that in 2015 they were Top Rated IVF representing success with this treatment. In vitro fertilization is an internationally well-known fertility procedure. In this procedure, fertilization occurs by eggs, retrieving a sperm sample, and then manually combining an egg and sperm in a laboratory (American Pregnancy Association). Additionally, in both images, words such as and indicates that this institution is one of the top institution in the fertility field. These words appeal to the audience since it creates a sense of professionalism and proficiency. As mentioned in logos is the appeal to logic and it is important in consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman). It is important for propaganda to include an element of logos since it to your (Hoffman). The first image does not include any elements of logos, however the second image appeals to logos. In the second image, it states that Srushti Fertility Research Centre has been an institution since 1992. According to their website, this institute has been couples fulfil their dreams to become (Srushti Fertility Research Centre) for over twenty-two years. For twenty-two years, this prestigious institution has brought over babies into the (Srushti Fertility Research Centre), underlining the leading reputation they have in the city of Chennai, as well as ranking highly among other fertility institutions across the globe. Additionally, this image states that year over 2,500 of their patients will be smiling emphasizing the large number of patients whose results have been successful and are patiently waiting until their due date. This number figure creates a statement to their targeted audience, that there are couples who struggle with infertility and found methods Gutierrez 3 to overcome their condition. Also, providing the audience specific numbers gives sense of how they are a renowned fertility institution worldwide. In both images, there are elements that appeal to the rhetorical element of pathos. Stated by Hoffman, pathos appeals to emotions and helps the audience connect with the message. The rhetorical appeal of pathos is most often and be quite (Hoffman). For instance, in the first image, a picture of a very sleepy newborn baby is displayed. Whereas in the second image, it includes a picture of a smiling baby. This appeals to the audience that these young, adorable, and innocent babies could be theirs if they attempt any of Srushti successful fertility treatments. It also makes their targeted audience feel they want a baby, or they need a baby. Additionally, using babies in these images aids in guiding the audience to the textual elements. In other words, catch the attention, leading them to analyze the image and the information it contains. Also, in the second image, there is a picture of a smiling fertility expert at Srushti Centre. This indicates that Srushti Fertility Centre consists of professional, compassionate, and kind staff members. Although the first image does not include elements of kairos, the second image does provide an appeal. Kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman). Specific elements are used, sentences such as to conceive? time to make it making the audience feel a sense of urgency to contact the research center and schedule an appointment. Creating this sense of urgency might cause the targeted audience realize how little time they have, since the treatment turn out to be less successful once the women becomes older (Srushti Fertility Research Centre). Therefore, kairos appeals to couples who have been trying to Gutierrez 4 conceive, therefore being exposed to this element of urgency, it results in these couples making a quick and final life changing decision. In vitro fertilization is the fertility method used in order for parents to conceive a Although the targeted audience is for couples and/or women who are infertile, it can also target couples who need a child with specific genetic information to save their living sick child. Srushti Fertility Research Centre is a strong advocate for fertility treatments, and will provide results to couples and parents without regarding the true intention of conceiving a child. Overall, the rhetorical appeals used in these images create a sense of hope for future parents and current parents. Gutierrez 5 Works Cited Srushti Fertility Centre &  Srushti Fertility Centre, Chennai - Best IVF Clinic in India. Srushti, 2017. Web. In Vitro Fertilization (IVF): Side Effects and  American Pregnancy Association. American Pregnancy Association, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Gutierrez 6 http://www.motherababy.com/images/provide4.jpg https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/9c/b1/79/9cb179722aa6ead0f8c11206893ff046.jpg Image 2 Image 1