Mathers 1 Seamus Mathers Adam Carter ENC.1102 25 February 2017 Rhetorical Analysis of PETA Pro-Vegetarian and Pro-Vegan Ads At the center of everyday living lies one constant aspect, food. People often have a variety of foods for their meals, however some people decide to leave meats or even all animal products out of their daily consumptions. These people are vegetarians or vegans for of a variety of reasons. Some do it for health reasons while others do it because they do not wish for animals to suffer for their meal. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is constantly campaigning for the end of what they consider to be the abuse of animals. This includes, but is not limited to, the use of animals for furs, food, testing or entertainment For PETA, being a vegetarian or a vegan is one of the best ways to save the lives of animals and to make a statement about the abuse of animals for the use of food To spread this message, PETA has created many controversial advertisement campaigns that endorse vegetarianism and veganism. Their purpose for these controversial ads is because the controversy generates media and they often rely on free advertisement through media coverage to spread their message does PETA use controversial Of the two images being analyzed, the first image is of a seventy-seven- year-old, vegan, bodybuilder posing nude and promoting a vegan diet and the second image is a billboard that has an image of an overweight cartoon woman in a bikini in front of a beach with text that says the These two ads use the appeals of logos, pathos, ethos and Mathers 2 kairos to spread message about vegetarianism in two ways: the first is respectful whereas the second is inflammatory. Logos is the use of logic and data in an image. The first image invokes logos in saying that eating vegan helps to prevent various diseases and health issues. The claim of this argument is that eating a vegan diet will make you healthier and the reason for this is that the diet lowers your risk of having health issues like heart disease or diabetes. What this argument is also implying is that a vegan diet is better than any other diet due to these benefits that you may not get from the other diet. The second ad uses logos in implying that following a vegetarian diet will result in weight loss. The second images purpose is more inflammatory than persuasive so it makes sense that there is less logic in the argument. The use of logos in these ads increase the strength of the arguments contained within. Pathos is the appeal to emotions in an image. In these advertisements pathos, is invoked in many ways to create a bigger impact on the audience to draw in a larger spread of people. The first image has many appeals to the emotions. First, the image features an old man who is also a bodybuilder. This makes a person think about age and possibly makes them anxious about their health since the man is advanced in years and likely in better shape than them. It could also make a person feel more motivated to make a change about their health for the same reasons. The man being nude could also make people feel uncomfortable and more likely to remember the advertisement. The pose the man is in is contemplative. This combined with the word in large font on a focal point in the image also makes a person feel more contemplative about their health. The color gray is also used in advertising to make a person feel a sense of calm and composure Color This could be used in this ad to show a Mathers 3 sense of calm certainty, further making the viewer feel more comfortable with the message of the ad. In the second image the image of an overweight woman is meant to mock or ridicule those who are overweight or make them feel self-conscious. This is magnified by portraying the woman in a bikini at the beach, a very revealing piece of clothing in a very public place. Those who are overweight may associate this with ridicule and feel upset or angry. The text also has a mocking tone. the associates overweight people with the derogatory term of This is further meant to prod people and get them upset. The following text, the continues the metaphor of relating overweight people with whales with a play on words. This portion of the image is a good example of an ad hominem argument. It attacks a person rather than, in this case, a diet that vegetarian. This ad is attacking those who follow their specific bounds for a diet. These two images use pathos in very different ways. One uses it in a suggestive manner while the other uses it in an inflammatory manner. These images also employ ethos, an appeal to authority or credibility. The first image contains a vegan septuagenarian who is also a bodybuilder. Since this man is in such good shape at such an advanced age, the image is saying that a vegan diet must work since its worked for him. It also contains the PETA logo, this shows that the message is backed by an established organization. The quote in the image could be from a reputable source and makes the viewer feel like the information is more reliable. The second image only has the PETA logo to draw upon for credibility. The first ad uses ethos much more to its advantage than the second one. Finally, there is the rhetorical appeal of kairos, an appeal to timeliness. In the first image, the use of an old man implies an urgency of time marching forward. Since the man is old Mathers 4 it could make the viewer feel that there is more of a pressure to consider the message of the ad. The command of in the ad also appeals to the urgency of the ad due to it being an imperative command. The ad lists out several illnesses and this could make a person feel more urgent in considering the message since if they follow the advice of the advertisement those illnesses could happen to them. The second ad was more of an appeal to the times currently. This ad was meant to create outrage and to get PETA into the news and it used the feelings of the people in a timely manner. In fact, the ad was complained about to the point of the city requesting that PETA take it down (Goldstein). The uses of kairos in these images were effective in achieving goals for each ad. These ads forward purpose in their own way. As stated before, purpose is to end the suffering of animals, primarily in the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories and the entertainment industry Each of these ads are focused on the food industry as it asks the viewers to convert to a vegan or vegetarian diet. The first image achieves goals by convincing people that being a vegan is advantageous for their health. The second purpose, however, was primarily to draw attention to PETA and get news coverage while also attempting to get people to become vegetarians. advertisements can be considered inappropriate or crude, but they are successful in getting the organization attention. It is always a individual choice as to what they eat, but PETA probably stop trying to get people to become vegetarians. all part of what they believe to be true and these two ads show how they believe they can make their goals a reality. Mathers 5 Works Cited PETA, www.peta.org/about-peta/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Color Empowered By Color, www.empower-yourself-with- colorpsychology.com/color-gray.html. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Goldstein, Katherine. New The Billboard Takes Aim At Fat Women The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 26 Aug. 2009, Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. PETA, www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Does PETA Use Controversial PETA, www.peta.org/about-peta/faq/why-does- peta-use-controversial-tactics/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Mathers 6 Image 1 Image 2