Martin 1 Yanmark Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 PETA Putting an end to animal suffrage around the world Animals in every corner of the globe are being mistreated and abused in a variety of ways by humans every day. Some of the ways that animals are mistreated range from dogs being forced to fight in dog fighting rings, farm animals being slaughtered in ways that are not humane, to bulls being killed after the bull fight for the entertainment of the crowd. People may think that they live far away from a lot of these problems but in reality they are in our backyard. In 2008, Florida was tied with California for most dog fighting cases in the U.S. with 204 (OFCL). Florida would rank first in dog beating cases, animal deaths due to drowning, choking along with suffocation, and abandonment of animals (OFCL). Animals in farms are also being killed inhumanly but not much is talked about them because these killing go unseen. However, all animals killed for food in the U.S. are chickens and than nine billion each year. shackled upside down, paralyzed by electrified water and dragged over mechanical throat-cutting blades ... all while conscious. Millions of birds each year miss the blades and drown in tanks of scalding (HSUS). Bull fights are meant to be a spectacle for the crowd but what many of the spectators do not know is all of the suffrage the bull goes through before he is eventually killed. year, approximately 40,000 bulls die in bullfights, an inaccurate term for events in which there is very little competition between a nimble, sword-wielding matador (Spanish for and a confused, maimed, psychologically tormented, and physically Martin 2 debilitated (PETA). People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a nonprofit organization determined to fight any kind of animal cruelty and mistreatment of animals in any way it can. Their aim is to expose all of the cruelty that big organizations and corporations do to animals in order for these corporations to end their cruel treatment of animals. PETA works towards all raising awareness to the animal cruelty that does happen around the world through campaigns against corporations/ organizations and ads to the public. Image 1 is a clear example of one of the ads that PETA uses to connect to the public about the animal cruelty that the clothing industry commits. This image can be found under the clothing section and under the wool tab on website. This image is strategically made to look like that so people that wear wool coats and those that do not understand that behind every wool coat is an animal that died to give you that coat. The first thing that really catches the viewers eye is the dead sheep that the man is holding in his arm to represent the sheep that gave its life so people could wear its wool. This picture appeals to pathos because the dead sheep gave up its life so people could enjoy their wool coat and dead animals make people feel bad. The next thing that catches the eyes is the text that is right under the dead sheep that reads the rest of your wool which is indicating to all of the people that wear wool coats that a part of the wool coat was forgotten when the animal that gave away its coat died. The caption on the picture appeals to logos because it is appealing to the reason of all of the people that are reading and are questioning if killing animals for their coats is wrong. At the bottom of the picture it says Weinhofen of I Killed the Prom Queen for and this statement adds ethos because it states the name of the man holding the sheep along with the name of the organization sponsoring the advertisement. This image is trying to appeal more to the emotional Martin 3 side of the viewer by showing them a dead sheep that has been killed just for its wool coat. This image may be designed for a more mature audience. Image 2 is an example of an ad that PETA would use to try to get more people to back them by using a famous person and their rescued dog in an advertisement. The audience that is being targeted by this advertisement is more of the younger generation who want to help stop animal cruelty because they are more likely to know who Waka Flocka Flame is. This ad is meant to remind people that you cannot be too famous or too popular to do your part to stop animal cruelty even if it is just adopting a pet from an shelter that would have killed that animal. The first thing that the viewer sees is the picture of Waka Flocka holding his dog and this appeal to pathos is because everyone loves a cute dog. The title of the image says Cowards Abuse and just underneath the title t is a caption that says cats and dogs, people are often the biggest These two quotes speak to logos because they both appeal to the reason of the viewer and make the viewer think about how people can be the biggest bullies to cats along with dogs. The appeal to crediabilty or ethos is in the fact that it says the organizations name, PETA,and the name of the person holding the dog, Waka Flocka Flame, towards the bottom of the page. This image has a strong appeal to both logos along with pathos because of the image of the cute dog and all of the things that the viewer is forced to think about while reading the text. In total both of the images represent the effort that PETA is putting forth to put an end to any and all animal cruelty. These images use two different types of ways to convey the message but overall they reach the same effect. Image 1 uses a darker tone by using a picture of a dead sheep to put things into perspective and image 2 takes a more emotional course with a friendly picture of a dog. Also each of these images is targets a different kind of audience with image 1 targeting a older, more mature crowd and image 2 may target a younger demographic. Both of Martin 4 these images are pretty convincing and make people feel like they should get up and do something about the cruelty of animals in the world. With these kinds of graphics and advertisements, the goal is to make the public aware of the cruelty that animals face around the world and that with the help it can be put to an end. The hope of this organization is to encourage the younger and upcoming generation to put a stop to these acts of cruelty against animals. Also these advertisements want humans to be the voice for creatures that do not have. Martin 5 Work Citied Lucy-mae Beers For Daily Mail Australia. Furious at Anti-Cruelty Ad Showing Man Holding up a Blood-Drenched Lamb with the Slogan the Rest of Your Wool Daily Mail Online, Associated Newspapers, 20 Apr. 2015, www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3047244/Farmers-furious-PETA-ad-shows-man- holding-blood-drenched-lamb-slogan-s-rest-wool-coat.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Flocka Flame: Be Their Protector, Not Their PETA, www.peta.org/features/waka-flocka-flame-cowards-abuse-animals/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wool PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-clothing/wool- industry/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. www.ocfl.net/portals/0/library/animals-pets/docs/animalcrueltynationalstatistics. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Martin 6 Martin 7 Martin 8