Quichocho 1 Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography Despite constant efforts at reformation in the American educational system, the United States continues to trail behind many other countries in overall academic success. Governmental acts such as former president George No Child Left Behind and former president Barack Every Student Succeeds place great emphasis on standardized tests in an attempt to measure academic success, yet the United States continues to rank poorly globally. Results for the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) show the United States continuing to fall in ranks in math, reading, and science. With this failure to adequately compete among other nations, the methodology in American education is questioned. By analyzing the United education system in light of other higher-ranking countries, one can identify differences and propose possible alternative methods in different aspects of the education system. Although there has been much debate as to whether the United States should or should not adopt other schooling tactics, one thing is certain: an educational reform in America is much needed. Resolving the issue of poor academic performance in the global community starts with the issue of standardized testing, followed by integrating methodology used in higher ranking countries into the United schools. How can abandoning standardized tests as the primary focus in schools benefit the American educational system? Quichocho 2 Bell, Julie Davis. World Apart: How Are Other Countries Able to Close the Achievement Gap and Produce Such High-Achieving State Legislatures 8 (2016): 8. Academic OneFile. PDF file. 29 Jan. 2017 This article discusses the United academic standing compared to other countries over the past few decades. It addresses methodology used in countries like Finland, South Korea, and Poland. The different methodology includes a call for phenomenal teachers, increasing the involvement of parents, and rigorous curriculum for the students. The article also analyzes how these nations treated educational reforms with great importance because they realized the ripple effect it would have on the economy. Rather than viewing other countries as competition, this article proposes the idea that United States can adapt and learn from certain methods in order to better American education. The information in this article relates to the research question at hand in that it acknowledges the academic excellence of other nations whose focus is not placed on standardized tests, but on the success of the individual students. All the countries discussed in this article utilize standardized tests; however, their reliance and use of the tests are miniscule. The author of this Davis as the Education Program Director in the National Conference of State Legislatures. She integrates quotations of recognized congressmen, and incorporates educational visuals of the United academic progress within the last thirty years. With active involvement in national education, she brings valid proposals for American education. Quichocho 3 Hunt, John W.1. Evolution of Public Education in the US and Finland: Can the Finnish Model Work in the Journal of Philosophy & History of Education 63.1 (2013): 121-136. Education Source. Web. 3 Feb 2017. This article addresses the historical context of the American and Finnish school system over the past few decades. The United has undergone three educational reform movements: the excellence, restructuring, and standards movement. Through these three movements, school system has implemented various changes, yet continually falls in global ranking according to the PISA test. The article also discusses educational history and the initiation of peruskoula, which made education available to all citizens and instituted a high quality teacher force. The keys to Finnish success are also identified in this article. Although the exact Finnish model cannot work in the United States, implementing certain aspects will contribute greatly to success in education system. This source connects to the research question because it studies a specific successful education reform and compares it to that of the United States, while proposing possible methods that may enable America to move toward global academic success. The author of this W. a member of the Educational Leadership Department at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, as well as the graduate program director for Educational Administration. He has also published many articles discussing the current state of education system. Having these credentials, he is able to analyze and hypothesize what will work best in America. Quichocho 4 Phelps, Richard P. One: Standardized Testing Primer. N.p.: n.p., 2007. Education Source. PDF file. 21 Jan. 2017. This first chapter of the book Standardized Testing Primer addresses the topic of standardized testing in American education, along with the qualities of the tests and their primary function. The author identifies what constitutes a standardized tests with systemized explains how these tests are more common than most people realize. Despite common misconception of standardized tests being bias and unfair, they are actually manufactured to diminish the chance of bias and remain as objective as possible. The article also delves into the varying purposes of standardized tests, from comparing a performance to a representative sample to evaluating how well a student can perform a specific task. By asserting what a standardized test is and the arguments it has brought on, this source serves as a foundation to address the benefits of turning away from heavy reliance on them. This article connects with the research question because it discusses the usage and benefits of standardized testing in America, thus enabling this paper to address both the good and bad in standardized testing. This source serves as a foundation as to what standardized tests are. Richard P. author of this an advocate for standardized testing in American education. Being a strong voice in the fight for standardized testing, he has written several other books that discuss the need for and educational benefits of standardized testing. Quichocho 5 Phelps, Richard P. Misconceptions About Large-Scale Educational Defending Standardized Testing. Mahwah, N.J.: Psychology Press, 2005. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 17 Feb. 2017. In this chapter of Defending Standardized Testing, Phelps addresses the five main misconceptions about standardized tests: high-stakes assessments set up students and teachers up for failure, tests are too costly, large-scale educational assessments are full of biased test items, performance standards are set too high, and the general public understand test results. He explains the misconceptions and addresses the reality behind each that many often overlook. By utilizing research to support his answers, Phelps provides clarity for many aspects of standardized testing that are often misunderstood. Although many researchers make claims that standardized testing is the sole cause for failure in American education success, Phelps acknowledges that too much standardized testing can be detrimental, but many other factors play into the degeneration of the American education system and its global ranking. Being that this is the second source from Richard Phelps, it is safe to say that he is a top voice among advocates for standardized testing. This article connects to the research question in that it provides research from the affirmative side of standardized testing. It also serves as a tool to better understanding all that goes into standardized tests, and how they are beneficial. By utilizing this source, the paper can address the usefulness of standardized testing and why they may actually be more necessary than once thought. Quichocho 6 Schliecher, Andreas and Stewart, Vivien. from Educational Leadership 66.2 (2008): 44-51. Academic Search Premier. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. The authors of this article discuss the historic progression of education in a global context. Although the United States started as the leader in education, a majority of other nations have either caught up or surpassed the United States in recent years. The article also addresses four key features that have enabled countries such as Canada, Finland, and Japan to excel. These features include high universal standards, accountability and autonomy, strengthened teacher professionalism, and personalize learning. By integrating these features into the educational system, nations have been able to perform extremely well on the Program for International Student Assessment. Because other nations have been successful using these techniques, the United States can learn much from adapting different methodology. The article relates to the research question because it addresses what high-ranking countries are doing to better their education systems, and proposes possible methodologies that are applicable to the American education system. Andreas of the the Director for Education and Skills at the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). He has also contributed profound research in the field of education. Co-author, Vivien Stewart, is the Vice President for Education of Asia Society and has exchanged expertise with international leaders in education. She was also awarded Harold McGraw Prize for her national contributions to education. Both Schleicher and Stewart are highly-respected individuals in the education world and provide valuable insight as to how the United States can learn from other nations. Quichocho 7 Standardized Tests -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 02 June 2016. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Many pros and cons exist within the argument over standardized testing in the United school system. This website proposes twenty-two pros and cons, all backed by cited sources. For every pro to standardized testing, it also addresses its counter argument. For example, the website proposes one benefit of standardized testing being that to the can help eliminate activities that do not produce academic gain. However, the con to to the is that the No Child Left Behind Act drastically narrowed curriculum, which limits teachers as to what and how they teach. Another statistic the website addresses is that over three-fourths studies conducted on student testing found that the tests had a on the students. However, the con to that claim is that America continues to fall behind in the PISA test. By analyzing the pros and cons, one can see both the positive and negative effects of standardized testing. This website is reliable in that every claim that it makes has research to add to its credibility. This information in this source relates to the research question at hand because it looks at both sides of the argument over standardized testing in America. Having both pros and cons enables the benefits and possible harms standardized testing imposes on American education.