Pierre 1 Ayrillyn Pierre Bob Botkin ENC1102 24 January 2017 The Dakota Access Pipeline This paper will argue that the best compromise for the Standing Rock Sioux protesters and the Energy Transfer Partners in the Dakota Access Pipeline conflict is to complete the pipeline using the present route and install state of the art spill and leak detection systems. The Dakota Access Pipeline Conflict is a heated issue between the Standing rock protesters, which consists mainly of environmental activists and various Native American tribes from the area, and The Energy Transfer Partners, which is the energy corporation building the pipeline. The Protesters are opposed to the construction of the pipeline due to the fact that it would disrupt sacred Native American lands and it could possibly contaminate a vital water supply in the future if it were to leak. The Energy Transfer Partners aim to build the pipeline to improve the method transportation of oil from North Dakota to Illinois. To truly understand the complexity of this issue, one must be presented with the history of it. In the month of December 2014, The Dakota Access pipeline was first proposed to the United states government. Energy Transfer Partners applied to build the pipeline that would cross four states to transport oil safely and more efficiently from North Dakota to Illinois for Americans to use. In March of 2016, Iowa gave the final okay needed to proceed with the construction of the pipeline.(The Associated Press.) In April of 2016 The Standing Rock Sioux, Environmentalists, and a few public figures such as actress Shaylinne Woodly and green party presidential candidate Jill Stien begin to stage a peaceful protest opposing the construction of the Pierre 2 pipeline on the grounds that the location of the pipeline is hazardous to health, and a violation of the rights the Standing Rock Sioux have to the land. Over time the protest grows and as this is happening The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the EPA conduct their necessary investigations to insure that the pipeline will not cause a conflict of safety. Nothing of significant concern is found and these agencies see no reason to deny the continuation of construction. (The Associated Press.) In July of 2016 the pipeline is granted the necessary permits to intersect vital water sources in the states in which it is being built. (The Associated Press.) Shortly after the permits are granted, The Standing Rock Sioux file a class action lawsuit with the Cheyenne River Sioux against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. On August 10 th 2016 The North Dakota authorities begin to make arrests at the protests and the total number of arrests was well over 600. (The Associated Press.) On September 9, 2016 Their motion for a preliminary injunction was denied by the courts but despite judge James E. decision construction was halted near lake Oahe by the Army, the Department of Justice and the Interior Department due to the need for further review. Even with construction temporarily stopped, the protesters remained in their camps. (The Associated Press.) Despite the protest demonstrations intending to remain peaceful, officers were assaulted with rocks and burning logs at a barricaded bridge. Over the course of the next two months the pipeline is environmentally investigated by the Army Corps, is approved through president Donald executive order, and Energy Transfer Partners is directed to continue with construction and complete the pipeline. (The Associated Press.) The Dakota Access Pipeline is a 1,172 mile-long underground pipe system that will run from North Dakota to Illinois. Energy Transfer Partners, the company building the pipeline, ultimately wants to do so in order to increase their profit margins which they claim ultimately create jobs and help the American economy and to create a safer and more environmentally Pierre 3 friendly way to transport crude oil. The Manhattan institute states that pipelines result in fewer spillage incidents and personal injuries than road and  and is less likely to cause spills and accidents than the current system of transporting oil through North Dakota.( Diana Furchtgott- Roth.) The Standing Rock Protesters are in opposition to the Energy Transfer Partners because their interest lies in permanently stopping the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Charger of the Cheyenne Sioux said land is in danger, as well as our identity, but we will not stand in (Rowena.) This quote captures the motivations and ideals of the standing rock protesters. Their opposition is mainly motivated by concern for the safety of The Native American tribe and all the people living downstream from the river who would be affected by contaminated water caused by an oil spill from the pipeline. The pipeline also goes through a sacred burial ground owned by the Standing Rock Sioux and they are trying to preserve their culture and the respect for it. The Standing Rock Sioux and the Energy Transfer Partners are both doing what they believe is right for the country as well as themselves. The Sioux are adamant about protecting the Oahe river which is a water supply for millions(David Archambault II.) of Americans. The energy transfer partners are trying to bolster the economy by creating an easier way to transport oil and creating jobs for Americans with construction. Both of these stakeholders have the best interest at heart, but this disagreement has them getting in each way stopping them from making any true progress. If they keep this common attribute in mind they can see the ultimate true benefit of the compromise this paper presents. The best course of action for these two stakeholders is to finish building this pipeline on its current route and to add top of the line oil-spill detection measures internally and externally, Pierre 4 especially around the water source that the pipeline crosses. This solution merges the benefits the American people will get from the pipeline. It also nullifies both of the stakeholders issues and conflicts. Lastly both stakeholders will have to give a little to make this compromise work. Both preferred outcomes have tremendous benefits to the American people, but this compromise keeps the best benefits of both worlds as part of the solution. In this scenario, the Standing rock protesters will accomplish their ultimate goal of protecting the main water source. The pipeline will still cross the cannonball river in this compromise, but it will pose virtually no threat to the water supply. The added pipeline leak detection systems will notify the appropriate authorities if there ever is a leak, and a cleanup effort will be launched before anyone can be harmed. The Energy Transfer Partners will still be able to provide oil in a way that is safer, environmentally friendly, and more cost effective. Energy Transfer Partners will just have to provide a bit of extra funding for better spill and leak detection systems. In conclusion, the best compromise for the Standing Rock protesters and the Energy Transfer Partners is to finish the pipeline as planned and implement extensive safeguarding procedures. Both sides of this conflict make excellent points when it comes to explaining their reasoning for their current stances. Their differences are what created this conflict but their similarities are what will end it. These two stakeholders are more alike than they think when it comes to the amount of care and concern they have for others. Pierre 5 Works Cited Archambault, David, II. Taking a Stand at Standing  Taking a Stand at Standing Rock. New York Times, 24 Aug. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. By The Associated Press, -. A Timeline Of The Dakota Access Oil  US News Online (2017): Newswires. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Furchtgott-Roth, Diana. Pipelines Are Safest For Transportation of Oil and Manhattan Institute. Manhattan Institute, 24 Aug. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Lindsay, Rowena. Why is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe trying to stop a  The Christian Science Monitor (2016). Web. ProCon. Dakota Access Pipeline: Top 3 Pros and  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 23 Nov. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.