Caleb Scott Jenifer Paquette ENC1101 29 January 2017 Elimination of the penny Too keep or not to keep the penny. The argument over the usefulness of the penny has floated around for far too long. In this paper I aim to answer the question of whether or not U.S. citizens are better of without this coin in circulation. It costs American mints more money to make pennies than worth, 1.7 cents per penny to be precise ( Amy livingston). It take an Economist to realize that America has a problem if spending more money on producing currency than that same currency is worth. The largest problem with removing the lincoln from circulation is the fact that business would abuse the opportunity. If we rounded our prices to the nickel than businesses would skew prices so that they would always round up. As a result of price skewing lower income households that only pay in cash would end up with a sort of tax for paying with cash (New Republic).Should Americans get rid of the penny? How would it impact Americans if they have lincoln jingling in their pockets? 1) .Amy Livingston , Should We get rid of the penny, Moneycrashers,2013 This source relates to the thesis by presenting information related to the abolition of the penny in an organized fashion. It outlines the good and bad impact that the elimination of the penny would have on United States citizens. Livingston explains that there is nothing you can buy with a penny, but you cannot avoid them while paying cash. She continues by stating that most Americans will avoid the coin by searching for a coin jar to drop the heavy nuisance into. She also make the great point that charities rely on them. Think about how often you drop your change into the boxes in front of cash registers, all of that loose change adds up and without it would suffer a huge blow. All of this information comes together to create a great first source with plenty of information to fuel my research. This is a reliable peer reviewed source published by a qualified author. Amy Livingston has experience with the subject and is more than qualified to write about it. The container Is a reliable source featured in numerous news publications including : CNN , The Wall Street Journal, MSNBC, and more. The articles timeliness is fairly recent pulling information from sources written in 2013. There are no broken links present and the web page is well organized and up to date making a seemingly reliable source all around. 2) U.S. Department of treasury,History of the lincoln cent, Treasury.gov ,January 4 2011 My second source history of the Lincoln provides a lot of information regarding the history of the cent and how it came to be the penny we all know today.The original penny was composed primarily of copper,but during world war two the mint was denied the copper required to produce the coin so they had to seek a new material and thus the zinc coated steel penny was born. Then again in 1982 the penny was changed to the cent that we all know today being 97.6% zinc and 2.4 % copper( U.S. Department of treasury). This source is very reliable on account of the fact that written by the representatives of the US Treasury, a source more than qualified to write on the topic. Also its was written in 2011 so not the most recent, but there been many changes to the penny since the article was written so reasonable that they had to update the information. There are no broken links and it is a well maintained government site. Seeing that the purpose is to inform it is a great unbiased source that helps form my paper. 3) New Republic, NonCents, ebscohost.com, August ,8,1994 The third source published by New Republic was written just before the 100 dollar bill that we know today was released. According to the article by the year 2000 the government had printed all new bills because of how easy it was to counterfeit the old bills (New Republic). The reason that this article is included is to show historical context. The controversy on whether or not to eliminate the penny has been brought up many times in the past and has been shot down for one reason or another. The most prominent issue with eliminating the penny is that all transactions would round up to the nickle and that would end up being an indirect tax on the poor(New Republic). This source seems to be reliable based on its well organized updated website. Also the source has plenty of experience writing on the actions that our government has taken in the past as well as keeping up with more current events. While this article was written a while ago the source is still publishing new content on controversial topics. This is a peer reviewed source that supports my claim that the concepts related to eliminating the penny need to be more widely known. Bacharach, Jere L., Thoughts about pennies and other money, Middle East Studies Association Bulletin, July 1 2001 This next source provides a plethora of information on coins in general and how they impact trading. It gives us a cultural historical view on how everything is tied together and even offers different forms of currency.This article gives a rough idea of how our economy would be impacted by the loss of the penny. It gives great examples of how the loss of coinage has impacted past civilizations. Over all the concepts that this article brings to the table are unique and give a great perspective about foreign and historical coinage. This sources reliability can be found in its experience in writing. Jere L. Bacharach is head of Middle East Studies Association of North America and often writes on historical topics. The peer reviewed research article is current and draws information from a variety of other reliable sources in history. On top of all of that the website is well maintained with no broken links making this a full proof source. Raymond E Lombra, Testimony Before the Senate Banking Committee , Americans for Common Cents, June 20 1990 (Given)2009(published on Americans for Common Cents), This is an old testimony given in front of the Senate Banking Committee that outlines possible consequences of the elimination of the penny. In his testimony Lombra states that abolishing the penny would result in a painful These rounding taxes would cost consumers millions and save the government any money at all. If the United States were to stop minting pennies it would just have to make more nickels knocking any potential savings out the door(Lombra). On top of that he states that in a poll 60% of adults surveyed said they would oppose any legislation that eliminated the penny.Lombra does a great job of showing the negative impacts of eliminating the penny. The testimony of Lombra in front of the Senate Banking Committee does an amazing job of giving a possible outcome if the penny is eliminated. The reliability of this peer reviewed source can be found in the fact that its author is professor of economics at Pennsylvania state university. He is also a member of Americans for Common Cents, a body of individuals that presents valid information about coinage. Although this testimony was made several years ago it is often referred back to in current day arguments.This well informed source helps build my paper by giving a possible outcome caused by deleting the penny.