Student 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 2 February 2017 P1 Revised Draft Can Parental involvement impact a Education? In the 20 th century children need to be educated more than ever because they are our future doctors, scholars, government officials, and leaders of America. Children are educated differently and different things influence this education such as demographics area, social or economic status, psychological understanding, culture, and parental involvement. I have chosen to research parental involvement because parents have the biggest impact on life and education. Some studies say that when students have their parents involved in their education they are more likely to graduate high school and move on the college. A study done by Cordry & Wilson give these statistics to support parental involvement in the education. 88% received their diploma, and 97% received a degree (p.57). Another study says that parents who are involved with the education to much sometimes takes away the ability to be self-sufficient later when they attend high school or college (pg.58). The student finds that making decision for themselves becomes stressful without the involvement. Further discussion is required to elaborate on both sides of this argument on the true impact of parental involvement. Cordry, Sheila, and Janell D. Wilson. Parents as First  Education 125.1 (2004): 56-62. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Student 2 In the article as First Cordry, Sheila, and Janell D. Wilson, argues that parental involvement is necessary and can increase a morale, attitudes, and academic achievements (p.57) chances of the child graduating high school and then moving on to college seems to be higher if the parent is involved with the leisure time, homework, communication with teachers and monitoring their sleep habits. Cordry, and Wilson, also gives these statistics to support parental involvement, 88% received their diploma 93% attended a vocational school, 97% received a bachelor degree (p57). Next, when the parent is absent from the academic school life of the child, the child tends to fall way behind their peers causing a twofold effect, one the student needs extra help that the parent should have given to the student. And two the teacher now becomes a co-parent for the student (p.61). Maybe this could be one of the reasons parental involvement is needed. The reason I used the article to support this study is because of the reference that were noted such as the American association, Child Trends Databank, and the US Department of State, and the Authors who is a professor of education at the Jacksonville State college in Alabama and History Teacher Oxford. Middle School. This source help support and give evidence that parental involvement can impact a education. (Word Count:224). Bui, Khanh, and Ryan A. Rush. Parental Involvement in Middle School Predicting College Attendance for First-Generation  Education 4 (2016): 473. Academic OneFile. Web. 4 Feb. 2017 In this article, first generation college students who were first followed from 8 th grade until 8 years after high school to see if they would attend college and how parental involvement helped with the education. The study looked at the correlations between dimensions of Student 3 parental involvement and college attendance. Khanh, and Rush, examined parents who had no college education, some college education, and those with a bachelor degree or higher. They also measured four categories of parental involvement, a) participation in school activities and programs, b) communication with their child about school, c) restrictions at home that support learning, d) educational expectations for their child (p.475). The results of the study show that the first-generation parent, only had an expectation that their child would attend college, because of the economic status of the parent it is hard to get involved with the education, Next, would be the parent who had some college, the expectation increased slightly for the student meaning that the student would attend college and graduate when the parent is involved (p.481-483). Last, the parent who had a bachelor degree or higher, the study showed that educational expectations of the student were greater and so was school participation when the parent was involved and met most of the 4 criteria. I choose this source because of the many References it gave, the U.S Department of Education was one of the references and they can be trusted. This article also support parental involvement and that is how it is connected to my topic (Word Count:246). Malone, Debra. Culture: A Potential Challenge for Parental Involvement in  Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin 82.1 (2015): 14-18. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. In this article educators are having a difficult time fostering parental involvement in the classroom due to cultural differences. Because there is no consensus about what parental involvement includes, and the variety of parental view available can create conflict, especially when cultural differences are brought in play (p.14). When a culture is not considered by teachers the involvement is less likely to happen and Student 4 therefore weaken the ability to learn and contribute at the same rate as their peers. If it is considered there seem to be a positive influence on academic achievement (p.14) Most thinks that no matter what cultural back ground you have, most parents want to be involved in their education whether it is volunteering in the classroom, sitting in on committees that involve helping their student become more successful. I chose this article because of its references, the email addressed used, and its ISSN coed. The article also supports parental involvement in education. (Word Count:188). Wartman, Katherine Lynk, and Marjorie Savage. Parental Involvement in Higher Education: Understanding the Relationship Among Students, Parents, And The  ASHE Higher Education Report 33.6 (2008): 1-123. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 15 Feb. 2017. In this report College/Millennial students seem to have a close relationship with their parents, they talked about many things like finances, health, advice on career planning and education (College Parents of America 2007). The introductory states this has become an issue for some staff and administrators of colleges because it does not reflect their own college experience. Educators seem to think that this level of closeness and involvement of the parent tends to brings conflict with the development as autonomous individual. Students, whose parents were involved during their college years were more actively involved in college activities and satisfied with their college experience, if faculty and staff welcomed the parental involvement it could be an economic increase to their institution, because parents would market their institution for them, instead of seeing parental involvement it as a negative. This study also indicated an Student 5 economic difference in lower and middle income families. The middle-income parents of college/millennial were very close they had the time and funds to invest in the student to help them achieve a degree. Lower income parents wanted the best for their kids as well but the stress and strain of paying bills brought about a different home structure in the student s education, so parental involvement was less than those of the middle-income family. I choose this article because it is peer reviewed with 125 references and its published type are Journal Articles, and it also contains an email address. The article also support how parental involvement can help their student make wise education choices. (Word Count:295). Machen, Sandra M., Janell D. Wilson, and Charles E. Notar. Parental Involvement In The  Journal Of Instructional Psychology 32.1 (2005): 13-16. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 17 Feb. 2017. In this article, the authors states that schools and community need to work together in successful partnership when it comes to the academic success (p.13) Getting parents involved and keeping them involved can improve the health of their schools, improve confidents in students and teacher relationship. The study done by Munoz (2000) states parental involvement at the kindergarten level raised reading scores because parents showed concern for the student academic (p14). The Adunyarittigun (1997) study on reading and parent volunteer relationship showed that fourth and six graders at the beginning of the study were very poor readers, after the study was done Adunyarittigun reports that parents influenced the self- confidence and their desired to read more (p14). Getting involved means taking owner- ship The Nistler and Anglea (2000) focused on how low-income parent could get Student 6 involved. They did a two-year study where they involved the parent from 8:45 to 11:30 a.m. on certain days, the study had four phases. Phase one involved parent and students reading poems aloud in the classroom. Second phase involved reading and singing together. Third phase involved parents and student participating in various literacy and math programs. Last phase involved parent teacher conference. At the end of study, the first year 96.5 of the students had a parent or guardian represented in the classroom; the second year 94.5 had a parent or guardian represented in the classroom. When school offer programs to include parents, they can take ownership (p.13). This benefits schools, teachers, and students and parents. Parental involvement can be very useful to the student. The reason I choose the source is because of the credibility of the Journal that it is published in, The Journal of Instructional Psychology and the references that support the article, and the accession number given. Magdalena, Stan Maria. The Effects Of Parental Influences And School Readiness Of The  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 127.The International Conference PSYCHOLOGY AND THE REALITIES OF THE CONTEMPORARY WORLD - 4th EDITION - PSIWORLD 2013 (2014): 733-737. ScienceDirect. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. School readiness is an important part of a life, they begin to learn how to interact with other students from other cultures, different economic back ground, and social status. Student learn how to pronounce the count from 1-10 getting the basics down. Parental involvement during the first school years of a life is reflected all the way through the academic life. This study aims at analyzing the effects of parental influences within the context of the beginning of the formal schooling and of the academic success of children (p.733). Most students made good grades significantly when parents Student 7 were involved in school actives, they have positive attitudes and behaviors, better school attendance, during the first school year of school. (p734). I choose this source because it supports my topic, and it represents the beginning of the educational life and how parents can influence their education. The source is credible because of the references; the Romanian Society is responsible for peer-review of the article which means that is was look at by scholars in the same field as the authors who wrote the article.