Ridley 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Child Abuse and Its Effect on Mental Health Child abuse is one of the most horrifying forms of torture one can imagine. When people think of child abuse, most people would think of an act that is physical toward the child however, that is not actually the case. Child abuse, or in this case a better term would be childhood maltreatment, considers all aspects of mental abuse. These include sexual abuse, physical abuse, emotional abuse, and witnessing maternal battering. Most of the time, when looking for signs of abuse, most people tend to look for the physical signs and usually consider the psychological effects. These effects also last all throughout life as a lot of research on adults who were maltreated as children suggests. These negative consequences of abuse manifest in various forms such as social anxiety, psychiatric issues, and mental disorders and require heavy treatment to try to resolve. For example, Valerie Edwards did a study where she measured the mental health scores of adults who were maltreated as children. Out of 8,667 people tested, over 34 percent had been abused in more than one category. Her test results also showed that the mental health capacity of the adult was less and less in comparison to the number of different categories of abuse they were exposed to (Edwards, 2). With results like these, one must ask: What are the effects of childhood maltreatment on adult mental health? Ridley 2 Edwards, Valerie. Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences  Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study American Journal of Psychiatry. N.p., 01 Aug. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Valerie Edwards conducted a test of the effects of childhood abuse on the mental health of adults. She tested 8,667 and the results she found from these subjects were astounding. First, over 34 percent of these people experienced more than one major kind of abuse. These forms could be any combination of physical or mental abuse, malnourishment, or witnessing of maternal battering. Edwards found that a normal score on her mental health test was roughly a 78.5 for those who experienced no abuse. This number dropped to 75.5, 72.8, 69.9 for those who experienced one, two, or three different kinds of abuse. These scores mean that children who have experienced childhood maltreatment, whether it is one or more forms, tend to be more mentally unstable as adults. This could lead to any number of mental health problems such as social anxiety and depression with the symptoms being worse in those who were abused in more than one way. This source answers the research question by showing how drastic the results of child abuse are on mental health later in life. The more kinds of maltreatment the child is exposed to, the more their mental health is affected. Edwards, among her colleagues she conducted the experiment with, are all medical doctors or Ph. D holders in the fields of medicine and mental health which shows they have credible knowledge on the subject. Furthermore, this Ridley 3 research article was published in the American Journal of Psychiatry which means it has been peer reviewed and considered credible since it is published in a scientific journal. Horwitz, Allan. The Impact of Childhood Abuse and Neglect on Adult Mental Health: A Prospective  Journal of Health and Social Behavior 42 (2001): 184-201. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The researchers found documented court cases of childhood abuse around 1970 and interviewed these people as adults roughly 20 years later. To control for all possible variables, they compared the results of the interviews of the abused or neglected subjects to that of a control group. The results they found was that the abused or neglected group showed more signs of dysthymia and antisocial personality disorder than that of the control group. The researchers also found that there were more instances of alcohol abuse in woman who were abused than men. However, they also found that after controlling for life event stressors, childhood victimization have the long term negative mental effect that they thought. This mean there were no lasting effects because their research indicated higher rates of depression and social anxiety in those who were abused. This study just shows the need to control for all stressors when doing research on long lasting effects of abuse on mental health. This article answers the research question by stating there were some long lasting mental effects in those who were abused. There were increased rates of depression, social anxiety, and alcohol abuse in woman. This source also provides a bit of a counter argument to the research question in saying that it is hard to measure these effects unless you control for other life stressors. These stressors could be what leads to these mental outcomes over the fact that they Ridley 4 were abused as children in some cases. The credibility of this source is great since it was an article in the Journal of Health and Social Behavior and has been peer reviewed. Also, the authors are all professors at Rutgers University specializing in fields related to the topic. Herrenkohl, Todd. Developmental Impacts of Child Abuse and Neglect Related to Adult Mental Health, Substance Use, and Physical  Journal of Family Violence 28 (2013): 191199. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. This study showed the correlation between childhood maltreatment and its effects on adult mental health. The study group consisted of men in their and used data from a longitudinal study conducted for over 30 years. The researchers used chi-square tests for categorical variables and logistic and linear regressions as the control variable. The results they found consisted of the adults reporting more symptoms of adult depression, anxiety, and other forms of impairment. There was also a high percentage of those who reported life time alcohol problems which also put them at greater risk for substance abuse. This article answers the research question by stating that the long-term effects of the subjects who were abused in this study showed higher rates of depression and anxiety among other side effects. One major outcome of this research was that it showed that those who were abused as children had a higher risk of alcohol abuse. This could lead to serious health risks as well as put them at greater risk for other substance abuse. This is a credible source due to the fact it is published in the Journal of Family Violence and has been peer reviewed. Also, Herrenkohl is a PhD professor at the University of Washington whose work focuses and promotes positive youth development and has funded projects and publications focusing on health. Ridley 5 Norman, Rosana. The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and  The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. PLOS Medicine, 27 Nov. 2012. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. The researchers of this study did a meta-analysis of 124 studies that investigated the relationship of child abuse and its mental health outcomes. They found that there is a correlation between child abuse and mental health issues in older adults. For example, they found data that showed that emotionally abused children had three times the risk of developing depression than non-abused individuals. The data collected from this article also brings up another aspect of mental health issues in sexually abused children. According to the data, sexually abused children are more likely to contract sexually transmitted diseases as well as engage in risky sexual behavior. This article answers the research question by providing more numerical research data to support the correlation between child abuse and mental health issues in adults. This article also touches on another subject which is sexually abused children are more likely to contract STDs as adults and engage in risky sexual behavior. This article shows its credibility by being published on a medical website as well as showing that it was peer reviewed. There are also links for the contributing authors with their credentials and emails. Ridley 6 Molnar, B. E. Child sexual abuse and subsequent psychopathology: results from the National Comorbidity  American Journal of Public Health. U.S. National Library of Medicine, May 2001. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This publication shows a study done to examine the relationship between child sexual abuse and the subsequent psychiatric disorders associated. Those conducting the research used the National Comorbidity Survey to obtain reports of those who were abused or experienced some sort of adversity. They found that 13.5% of women reported child sexual abuse compared to only 2.5% of men. The results were that woman who experienced child sexual abuse showed signs of 14 mood, anxiety, and substance use disorders as compared to only five different types in men. This study shows that women are more likely to be sexually abused as children which also leads to many more mental health issues in these women as adults. This article answers the research question by providing a comparison between men and women who were sexually abused as children. The research shows that women were much more likely to be sexually abused as children when compared to men. This also leads to many more mental health issues as these women grow older as shown by the article. Women showed signs of 14 different mental health issues compared to only five in men. This article is a credible source because it has been cited in other medical works and has been peer reviewed. The author is also a professor at Northeastern University whose work focuses on child maltreatment and violence prevention meaning she is very knowledgeable and credible on the subject. Ridley 7 Wang, Ching-Tung. Estimated Cost of Child Abuse and Neglect in the United Prevent Child Abuse America, Sept. 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on the economic effects of child abuse in America. The article states it is impossible to get an exact number when it comes to the cost of annual child abuse and neglect however, the author could come up with a rough estimate based on several factors. The conservative number the author came up with was about 104 billion dollars in the year of 2007. Wang broke down the costs into primary and secondary costs. Primary would be the immediate care and action taken to help the child that was abused. Secondary would be the long-term costs of any effects the abuse had on the child. Primary costs that were considered in the annual cost of child abuse are outpatient treatment, medical examinations for injuries not serious enough for hospitalization, and hospital bills if the injuries were serious enough to require a hospital. Secondary costs include long term factors such as treatment for drug and alcohol abuse and teen pregnancies where there is a baby that must be taken care of. It is well known, according to Wang, that increased risk of substance abuse and risky sexual behaviors are outcomes of child abuse. This article answers the research question by providing an economic effect of child abuse. Although it is impossible to get an accurate number, Wang was able to take into account many factors and came up with a conservative cost. Per his research, the estimated cost of child abuse in America in 2007 was 104 billion dollars. There are many factors that went into retrieving this number such as primary and secondary costs. Primary costs being those costs that effect the abused directly and secondary being the long term financial effects. This article is credible because the article has been peer reviewed and has a reference page with website links Ridley 8 to credible sources. Also, Wang is a principal researcher at prevent child abuse America which shows he is knowledgeable and credible on the subject.