Daniel Cortez 1 Daniel Cortez ENC 1102 Professor Davis 24 February, 2017 eBay: An Open Market eBay is an online retailer that sells everything commercial across the globe but is associated by its buyers as an auction site used by people to sell unwanted items. Over the years they realized the importance of this and started an on their website. The two images I provided show that the site is more than that, but each does it in their own ways. Both of them refer to women and clothing brands or styles that they wear. The ads provide ethos, logos, pathos and kairos to back up their claims and inform the audience of their selection of goods. The retailer is the champion of the open online marketplace and has defended net neutrality for that reason. Without net neutrality, the idea that ISPs cannot throttle or hinder internet access in anyway, eBay fears that it will hinder their market and other do to the constriction by ISPs (Internet Service Providers). eBay wishes to keep the online marketplace open for everyone and anyone so they can receive the products that they need. An open marketplace is defined as trading situation in which anyone can be involved and prices are not by the Cambridge Dictionary. eBay has been one of the main proponents for keeping the internet as open as possible. They feel so strongly about this idea is they have a website called eBay Main Street and on their goals list as Daniel Cortez 2 They show topics about the marketplace that may limit or violate a rights and provide their stance to protect the customer and other businesses. They also show where these topics affect people and specify how they will help them in their location. One of the problems eBay faces is that most people still see them as an auction store. To help change their image so they can help preserve the open marketplace for them and others. To do this they have started creating ads and other campaigns to show that they are a true marketplace. The two pictures that I chose are trying to catch the eye of the woman that cares about her appearance and the brands associated with it. The first image shows a woman with a phone colored in the eBay brand colors. It reads Chic At A Low and tells the reader it is a good way to and note about vintage accessories. The text itself is bolded on the Chic and also is bright red when most of the other text is grey. This is to emphasize that the price and value are the most important thing eBay can provide to its customers. The woman is dressed in a era outfit with a corded phone and old glasses. The cell phone and glasses are colored in eBay brand colors to show that is where the woman bought them. The glasses themselves are ethos and give her the stereotype of being smart. This could imply to the reader that smart people shop at eBay and that if they were smart they would shop there too. The woman looks intrigued about what she is hearing over the phone. This would make the audience wonder what she is hearing, using pathos. Her eyes are also in the same color as the glasses showing that she can now see that eBay offers everything she wants or needs. The audience for this photo are people looking clothing that is unique and different than what the current fashion trend is. The era clothing notes that she is someone that does not follow the trends of today. Daniel Cortez 3 The second image shows a woman with a different colored clothing. The pose shows all articles of clothing that she could wear including: shoes, leggings, a dress, a coat, and other accessories. This is important in showing that you can buy anything from eBay as well of the variety of styles she is wearing. The pose also looks like she is in a run to go get something, this implies kairos. The audience can infer that she is running to get more clothing on eBay and that there are timed deals. The clothing colors also have the colors that are used in the eBay logo are also present in the clothing and accessories she bought. eBay has the names of several famous clothing brands in the bottom left which gives them ethos, showing that these established brands are confident enough to sell them items on their website. If they did not have these brands then their marketplace may seem weak and customers could search somewhere else. The audience of this photo are people who are looking for the hottest trends with well-known established brands. Her style is different than most, she combines the different styles of the brand listed below to achieve this. Both of the ads provided eBay an opportunity to present their new outlet to its consumers, but did so in different ways. The first picture focused on logos and the second picture focused on ethos. The target audiences are also opposites in terms of style. This allows eBay to attract both types of customers and truly show that it is they are the king of the open market. Having the ability to service any customer for any item is the message they are conveying to the public. Without net neutrality ads like this could be potentially blocked or it could also hinder an internet access to the website to make purchases. This is why eBay fights for having an open market with net neutrality. In the past, something similar occurred with telephone companies when there were no guidelines. A company named Western Union, became a monopoly but buying out its competitors and focused on business clients while pricing potential Daniel Cortez 4 competitors out of specific geographic markets and ignoring social obligations, such as universal stated in Transcending Net Neutrality by Sarah Sheaman. History is known to repeat itself so consumer markets avoid any notion of allowing ISPs to control how the internet flows. The ads relate back to this in their ideas of the open market and the versatility of the internet in providing the customer with anything they wish. If this was hindered then one of the main ideas of the internet would be lost. ToyNews notes that toys on Amazon Marketplace has helped bolster its trade and ease the pressure of the for Gem Gifts. This means that all the retailers mentioned in the second photo would be included in a more open market. This makes goal behind these images closer to being achieved. eBay shows that is wants the world to be connected by the internet to allow knowledge, info, and items. The two ads add to their marketplace and give the customer even more options to purchase the things they love opening the market for consumers. Retailers also gain more accesses to the open market by using eBay as a service to sell their product through. The internet should never be a space for the innovation to be halted or markets limited because of the ISPs believe they are providing service to those who are deemed important. Work Cited Daniel Cortez 5 The  EBay Main Street. EBay, 08 July 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. http://www.ebaymainstreet.com/issues Connected  EBay Inc News. EBay, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.ebayinc.com/our-company/connected-commerce/>. Cambridge English  Cambridge English Dictionary. Cambridge University, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/open- market>. Meinrath, S., & Pickard, V. (2008). Transcending Net Neutrality: Ten Steps Toward an Open Internet.Education Week Commentary,12(6), 1, 12-21. Retrieved from Roberts, Katie. The open market: eBay and  Business Analysis of the toy industry ToyNews. ToyNews, 21 Feb. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.toynews- online.biz/business-analysis/read/the-open-market-ebay-and-amazon/030528>. Daniel Cortez 6 AD CAMPAIGNS - Bailey  AD CAMPAIGNS - Bailey Friske. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://cargocollective.com/baileyfriske/AD-CAMPAIGNS>. Photo 1 31, 2010 Sarah Shearman August, How Long? 1-1 Minutes, February 20 2017 David Golding, and February 17 2017 Emily Tan. EBay redoubles marketing efforts for fashion  Campaign: marketing, advertising and media news & analysis. Campaign, 31 Aug. 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.< http://www.campaignlive.co.uk/article/1024923/ebay- redoubles-marketing-efforts-fashion-offering> Photo 2