Bazan 1 Valeria Bazan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102- 035 26 February 2017 Brady Strategic Efforts to Make America Safe Gun control continues to be a primary issue in the United States. Pro Gun Control organizations such as the Brady Campaign, keep pushing for stricter background checks and the banning of many assault-style weapons in the common market. The Brady Campaign has put together statistics stating that 17,000 (17,360) American children and teens are shot in murders, assaults, suicides and suicide attempts, unintentional shootings, or by police and that of guns are sold every year in questions transactions (Brady Trying to make everyone reconsider the dangers of guns, the Brady Campaign has made it their specific goal to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (Brady Campaign). They are putting effort in enforcing their background checks to be used and raising awareness of the gun control issue by emotionally and logically appealing to people through their campaign advertisements. The Brady Campaign plans to reach their goal of cutting the gun deaths in America in half by 2025, through raising awareness on the issue in order to a new social norm concerning the dangers of (Brady Campaign). They have put their focus in a lot of their advertisements to strategically send their message across. In image 1, the Brady campaign tried to create a more emotional connection with the audience by making them feel scared and more Bazan 2 aware of the gun violence situation (specifically assault clips) in order to persuade people to call Congress and voice their opinion on the issue. This was done by making the shooting target a little girl. Through this method the image gave off a touching feeling specifically to parents. The image also shows several amounts of bullets around the child target. The campaign used this detail to make the audience question who else could have been a target or victim of those missed bullets. Image 1 does not fail to give off a sense of timeliness. The ad is pushing people to call to raise awareness. However it is important to mention that the emotional appeal and urgent message from the Brady Campaign would not be so effective without them having established their credibility through specific insertions in the image. The inclusion of their name in red letters, for by the Brady Campaign to prevent gun is probably the key feature of them establishing their credibility. By naming their campaign, one is easily able to search it up and quickly find out with who they are therefore making them a reliable source. Another way they portrayed themselves as credible is through the insertion of one of their main goals, prevent gun Writing the message in specifically red letters also gave off a greater sense of importance (Chapman). However, it is important to mention that image one is not so strong with their logical appeal. The Brady Campaign managed to supply a new method of attacking the gun issue by focusing on in image 1. However, this might have not been the greatest tactic. There are a lot of gun terms that are generally seen as interchangeable to the public. However, if trying to avoid an issue such as de California State Senator, who got ridiculed after making inaccurate statements, it would have been better to not use the word as an attacking approach to the issue Blaze ). Assault clips and ammunition magazines are two Bazan 3 different terms that are often mistaken as one another. In image 1, a clipart of a gun is shown at the bottom. The type of gun however, looks like it uses ammunition not clips which is the main focus of the ad. This can rise confusion amongst a very detail-oriented audience and thus the logic of the ad can be argued. In comparison to the weak logic in their first image, the Brady Campaign has tried sending their message across through ads that are of main logical focus. The purpose of image 2 is to inform the audience on certain statistics of gun control in order to persuade them into following the patterns of others who are concerned with the issue which in this case is calling congress. They are advertising their specific background check system that congress should be using according to them. As mentioned above, the Brady Campaign advertising skills in image 2 are prominent to a logical appeal and aimed to the general population but especially those who like to partake in their community. The logical appeal is portrayed through the statistic (the percentages) and the easy to understand clip arts concerning gun control which are of main focus of the ad. The ad wants the audience to that there is a lot of loose ends when it comes to background checks hence if you support a stricter one (specifically the Brady Background check), you should be calling in to make it a demand. The statistics not only allow the audience to reason but also it hits home and raises concerns. The audience is persuaded to act because fear is intice from the percentages, specifically the statistic of 6 million guns being sold every year without background checks. In image 2, the colors remain patriotic interconnecting with the Brady logo which by itself is a very smart move because the campaign is very patriotic in the sense that they are all about making America safe. Image 2 also contains a sense of urgency similar to image 1. The ad wants people to call in so that congress will the This of course refers to the Bazan 4 of Brady background checks on all gun Credibility in image 2 is established through the same key features that were in image 1 too, the Brady logo and their mission statement of preventing gun violence. Preventing gun violence remains a long lasting challenge for the pro gun control advocates. The Brady Campaign remains strong in their stance and has been able to strategically raise awareness and reach out to people through their advertisements. They vary their ads with mainly emotional focus seen in image 1 but also through logical appeals such as statistics seen in image 2. Both images overall contained the same message which was for people to rise against gun violence through means of participation. A lot of calls to congress and voiced opinions will eventually, according to the Brady Campaign, shake the level of concern on gun control. This is aimed to aid the Brady Campaign to realize their goal of cutting down gun deaths in half. Bazan 5 Work Cited Campaign to Prevent Gun *Brady Campaign,* Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Breaking Down an Image. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Howerton, Jason. Anti-Gun Senator Is Being Mocked Relentlessly After He Warned of Magazine in Embarrassing  . TheBlaze, 21 Jan. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bazan, V. (2016). Medium to Gun Control. Unpublished manuscript, University of South Florida. Bazan 6 Image 1 Bazan 7 Image 2