Caruso 1 Paige Caruso Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 2/19/17 Technology and Children In this day and age, technology plays a huge part in everyday activities. Not only are adults being affected by the new and fascinating technology however, children are being subjected to it as well. There is an increased use of computers at elementary schools in addition to abundant learning that is being done through some form of technological media. Children are exposed to screens from the day they enter this world now, children have televisions in their rooms, handheld toys that are by theirs sides (i.e. Leapfrog), and an increased trend of children under ten receiving all access to smartphones or tablets. Within the past ten years the rate of growth of technology has changed hugely. Ten years ago, smartphones were an unrealistic idea, and today they are in every hand. Children are being exposed to so much more technologica l things now, how do parents and teachers know if what they are doing is harmful or beneficial? While the rapid progression of technology seems like such a good thing, people do not seem to be asking the most important question; Is there a social impact on young students due to the increased technology use both at home and at school? Ching-Ting, Hsin, Li Ming-Chaun, and Tsai Chin-Chung. The Influence Of Young Use Of Technology On Their Learning: A  Journal Of Educational Technology & Society 17.4 (2014): 85-99. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Caruso 2 In the article Influence Of Young Use Of Technology On Their Learning: A the main question being asked is the technology-related practices developmentally appropriate for young (Ching-Ting, 86) contrary to the first source this study found that technology is not detrimental to cognitive learning. The study also found that interaction with their children and technology greatly effects the outcome. Children whose parents provided them with a safe learning environment succeeded exponentially rather than children with parents who left them to their own demise. This shows us that children thrive on direction in where to go with their technology. In school, it was found that children strived when using technology based math learning and online books they could read with their friends. This is because when they incorporate technology and their friends it is easier than alone, this goes back to how young students do better with direction from their parents. The writers of the article, Ching-Ting Hsin, Ming-Chaun Li and Chin-Chung Tsai, are very suited and credible. Ching-Ting Hsin is in the Department of Early Childhood Education at the National Taitung University in Taiwan. Ming-Chaun Li is in the Graduate Institute of Applied Science and Technology at the National Taiwan University of Science and Technology in Taiwan. Chin-Chung Tsai is in the Graduate Institute of Digital Learning and Education at the National Taiwan University of Science and Technology in Taiwan. These researchers bring light on how technology may not be detrimental if used alongside parent instruction; and that it can benefit a learning experience. Eisenberg, Michael. Educational Technology,  New Directions For Youth Development 2010.128 (2010): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Caruso 3 Michael Eisenberg starts the article by explaining that technology in education is not simply desktop computers and education is not restricted to the classroom. Elementary aged kids are exposed to all sorts of technological items such as, 3-D printers, automated sewing machines and handheld E books. This type of learning is exposed outside of the classroom but still qualifies as an educational aspect of the life. The author looks at past anthropological themes that shape children and their use of technology. of these economies, rooms, rituals, displays, and represents an opportunity to rethink educational (Eisenberg, 32) He further explains the themes and evaluates how technology can play a part in that part of a young adolescence life. This source connects to the research question I have presented because it not only examines different educational technology but how the brought-up technology can play a key part in the anthropological themes of a life. Eisenberg bring up points that support that want and maybe need of technology in school by advertising its benefits, but he also questions how far we take this new form of education. Michael Eisenberg works as a professor at the university of Colorado where he continues research alongside his colleges at the craft technology lab trying to integrate and blend technology into everyday lives. His specialty is computers and technology as he works in the Department of Computer Science and Institute of Cognitive Science buildings. Lau, Cynthia, et al. The Effects Of Teacher Facilitation On The Social Interactions Of Young Children During Computer  Topics In Early Childhood Special Education 25.4 (2005): 208. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Caruso 4 Lau, Higgins, Gelfer, Hong, and Miller conducted an experiment/research study of 18 groups of children that included both disabled and non-disabled children. The groups also involved teachers who acted as facilitators and ones who did not. The result was found that children benefit greatly from teacher interaction. The students (with or without disabilities) in the groups with a teacher present (and giving instruction) had a more positive time illustrated by their social behaviors, they were more friendly and overall happier about the entire situation that the kids without the facilitator. The result and solution to the continuous impact of technology in education was that a teacher needs to lead the programs when the students are doing technology based learning rather than leaving children to fend for themselves on the computers. Cynthia Lau and her colleges work at the university of Nevada in Las Vegas working on research that goes hand in hand with all the questions and concerns that my topic brings to light. Cynthia herself works in the department of special education where she tries to find a way to incorporate technology and teacher facilitation with children in the classroom. They care greatly about the impact of technology on young children in school and have proven that children need facilitators to get the most out of the learning done on computers. Manches, Andrew, et al. Three Questions About The Internet Of Things And  Techtrends: Linking Research & Practice To Improve Learning 59.1 (2015): 76-83. Academic Search Premier. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. In the article Questions about The internet Of Things And Manches explores three questions, do of devices influence interpretation of, and interaction with, everyday things?, how is the data that is captured by of devices being used?, and how cognisant are children and their careers of Caruso 5 of 77) The author brings up the device the as an example of a toy that monitors health making it not only a bear but a protector to the child hugging it. Again with the answering the second question asked, the bear collects health data that is sent and used by the hospital and parents. The final question the author asked is yet again answer by the children may not quite understand that when they hug the stuffed animal they are releasing data to adults because they are around technology so much. This sense of data being so easily obtained contributes to the worry of parents all around. The main author of the article Andrew Manches is a professor at the University of Edinburgh in the Moray House School of Education. His article is hand in hand with the research question being discussed in this paper, he conducted an experiment the test his three questions and came to the conclusion that children can relate and distinguish between the uses of of toys. This answers my research question by giving evidence that technology does play a huge part in learning and in the end benefits the quality of learning. Plowman, Lydia1, Joanna1 McPake, and Christine1 Stephen. The Technologisation Of Childhood? Young Children and Technology in The  Children & Society 24.1 (2010): 63-74. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Lydia Plowman and her colleges conducted a study of three, four, and five-year in 2008 to study how they interacted with technology and how their parents felt about the usage of said technology impacted the well-being. The study included both privileged and underprivileged as well as families who had abundant of technology and families with close to none. The study they conducted found that families with little to no technology around their children did not simply technology however, they wanted to wait for their children to Caruso 6 be ready to use technology. Most parents with children who came in contact with much technology had little to no concern about the impact of technology on their children even though they understood the concerns. experiment directly relates to the research question; she explains in her paper that children are negatively impacted by technology in three major areas, sociocultural, well-being, and cognitive. His proves that although there are sources that are all for technology and children this is one that shows the detrimental side and possible bad outcomes. The article was written by three prestigious people, Lydia Plowman, Joanna McPake, and Christine Stephen. Lydia teaches in the department of education at University of Stirling; Joanna Mcpake is also at the University of Sterling as a senior researcher; and Christine Stephen is a fellow researcher at the University of Stirling along with being a convener of the Critical Issues for Preschool Education. Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter. Playing With Technology: Is It All  Dimensions Of Early Childhood 42.3 (2014): 18-23. Education Source. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. With Technology: Is It All takes into consideration that technology is a growing trend and that we must learn how to shape it to benefit us the most. The argue against technology based toys is that they take away from fundamental learning opportunities, if a child sits in front of a television all day they then have no time to play and act out what they learned in the supposed learning program. The writers describe positive technology as such that is open ended, leaving room for creative thinking. They say problem is that there is too much technology compared to the amount of (Slutsky,20). It is like the saying is good in the same goes for technology around children. Technology, Caruso 7 such as toys the pair learning and playing simultaneously are the most effecting technology based toys. Ruslan Slutsky works as an Associate Professor at The University of Toledo. He not only teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in early childhood education but he researches the use of technology with children during play and learning. Mindy Slutsky is a veteran preschool teacher of twelve years and has a degree in early childhood education from the University of Toledo. Lori M. DeShetler is going for her doctorate in Curriculum and Instruction. She also works at the University of Toledo as the Accreditation and Assessment Coordinator for the Judith Herb College of Education. This source may answer the research question all together, technology is helpful but only in moderation. Slutsky brings out a part of the question that may not have been thought about before, when we introduce quality and quantity of technology will it benefit children more? His answer is yes.