Feyas 1 Victoria Feyas Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC1101.701 19 February 2017 Effects of Adderall on Creativity and Mental Health Mental Illness affects an estimated 26.2% of people or one in four people. Even though a large portion of the population is affected by these diseases, an even larger portion of the population chooses not to educate themselves on the topic of mental disorders. One concept in particular that is generally misconstrued is ADHD or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. ADHD is a type of mental disorder that causes problems with concentration. Today, doctors rely mainly on a medicine called Adderall to treat this disease. Adderall is a drug that alters the amount of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine, two central nervous system stimulants. By increasing the amount of these two stimulants in the brain, it allows users to better focus and control behavior problems. (Drugs.com) Although Adderall seems to work miracles, it has a negative impact on the creativity and positive mental health of an individual without a mental disorder. Farah, Martha J., et al. we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary Psychopharmacology, vol. 202, no. 1-3, 2008, pp. The author of this article concluded that overall Adderall does not affect the creativity of an individual except in some cases where the individual is coming into the situation as very creative then Adderall may tone down their creativity level. The study that was conducted Feyas 2 involved both convergent and divergent tests of creative thought and Adderall only effected the performance on the convergent task. (Farah 546) Martha J. Farah is a cognitive neuroscience researcher at Pennsylvania University. She studied at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University, and MIT and Boston school of medicine. Martha is now a professor at Pennsylvania University and directs the center for Neuroscience and Society. Because of background she has an extensive knowledge of the human body and brain and can likely give an accurate description of what can happen when a drug like Adderall is added to it. Mohamed, Ahmed Dahir. Creativity with Psychostimulants May Debilitate Mental Health and Journal of Creativity in Mental Health, vol. 9, no. 1, Feb. 2014, pp. This articles presents a similar view on effect on the brain. Here, Mohamed states, medications may increase wakefulness, but as a tradeoff, they may constrict cognitive flexibility and reduce creativity in healthy individuals with no psychiatric (Mohamed, 146) He also states that there is a strong connection between creativity and positive mental health. Since this is the case, and since Adderall affects creativity in those who take it without having a mental illness, it can be assumed that Adderall may influence mental health in an individual. Doctor Ahmed Dahir Mohamed earned his doctorates degree in Pharmacological Cognitive Enhancement at the University of Cambridge. His studies explored how drugs like Adderall and Methylphenidate (Ritalin) affect cognitive functions in healthy individuals with no mental disorders. His studies directly correlate with the research question at hand. Feyas 3 Moneer, Osman, et al. Addicted To  Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal 9. (2015): 8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. to is a journal that talks about students who struggle with an addiction to Adderall(obviously.) Adderall is an extremely addictive drug that alters the brain. Numerous students use this drug to help them focus and do better on assignments. The article closes with saying that even though Adderall seems to be a super drug, its side effects can vary from person to person. Per Moneer, side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, dry mouth, anxiety, agitation, mood changes, sleep problems, headache, dizziness, and more. Other side effects may include fast, pounding, or uneven heartbeats, numbness, tingling, and dangerously high blood (Moneer 8) This journal proves that Adderall not only effects the brain, but it can also have a negative impact on the body as a whole. Osman Moneer is a Chemical Physics Major at Columbia University in New York. He has spent two years as a research assistant and is expected to graduate in 2018. Moneer has collaborated with multiple researchers in mechanical engineering, physics, and chemistry. Smith, Kyle. Try This At  Suzlon Energy Limited SWOT Analysis 62.25 (2004): 87-88. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Try This at is an ironic title for this journal considering that much of the text is about women(mostly) who tried taking Adderall at home as a form of caffeine and as a weight loss supplement. Although many saw intriguing progress, little knew the complications of the pill. This article differs from the others in saying that, users of Ritalin and Adderall will not become physically addicted, but longtime abusers can become dependent on the drugs-- and the most serious side effects can include psychosis and suicidal (Smith, 87) This Feyas 4 differs because the other journals said users would likely become addicted, this journal says only some will. Kyle Smith is an author that writes about everything under the sun, ranging from movie reviews to articles about Adderall! He has been an author for over ten years so it is safe to say he probably knows his fair share about researching a topic. Professional authors do not write about topics that they are not educated on. Kyle has had is work published in the NY post, People magazine and numerous other popular works. Smith likely researched for large sum of time before writing this journal, this is clear due to the amount of works cited he had! Stolz, Stephanie. Abuse: Regulating the Academic Journal of Law and Education, vol. 41, no. 3, July 2012, pp. Abuse: Regulating the Academic Is about how Adderall not only negatively effects people but also education system. This powerful drug has become increasingly popular on college campus and per recent studies out of 1387 students 591 of them had used Adderall before even though they were not prescribed the drug by a doctor. (Stolz, 585) Because the drug is addictive to people who are not supposed to be taking it, numerous schools are beginning to have a problem with a for Adderall. This main purpose was to prove that Adderall is too easily accessed, but it also provides details as to why Adderall is harmful to people, especially for those it is not prescribed to. Stephanie article, Abuse: Regulating the Academic Was published in the Journal of Law and Education. Stolz is a Lawyer and attended the University of Louisville for law. Jerk Magazine, vol. 16, no. 8, Nov. 2015, pp. Feyas 5 Is an article that was included in a magazine to raise awareness about negative effects on the body. The article begins by addressing the obvious, Adderall is a and that all too often people become addicted to the drug. After mentioning addiction, they begin to list more side effects that one may have when they take the drug. A of to be exact, a rush that has ended lives due to its ability to cause a heart attack in whoever took the pill. The article also mentions that the use of Adderall, also known as can cause weight loss, which some may deem as a good aspect until they are notified that after one ceases taking the pill their decreased dopamine levels will once again slow their metabolism and therefore cause them to gain the weight back. Also mentioned is the fact that Adderall is a stimulant while alcohol is a depressant and because numerous students mix the two in order to harder and and because of this they may be faced with serious health risks. (56) This article did not have a specified author but the source is reliable. is a student-run monthly publication at Syracuse University. Their goals include local, state, national, and world politics and issues that breed controversy and keep our reader informed of This source gives an even closer look into the situation that is taking college campuses by storm. The students that wrote this article have most likely come into contact with someone who uses Adderall as a study tool. Feyas 6 Additional Sources Cited: Uses, Dosage, Side Effects & Safety Uses, Dosage, Side Effects & Safety Info - Drugs.Com, Drugs.com, www.drugs.com/adderall.html. Http://facebook.com/jerkmagazine. Jerk Magazine, www.jerkmagazine.net/about/.