Student 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Final Draft Project 1 have become a norm in our society they have consumed most of the agriculture markets around the world and, now they are making way toward other markets such as medical and biological (animals).-- When it comes to GMOs a lot of scientist question if they are beneficial GMOs have been known to cause an impact on the environment Can gmos later on in life have demanding effects on the humans that consume it will lead to some health issues? are relatively new scientific inventions only been around for about 30 years, but through those thirty years, there has been a large mass of forms of That have been created; there seems to be a very controversial l side when it comes to GMOs some people fear that they beneficial because of the mystery of the chemicals that are in place for these news crops. Others believe that they are helpful providing with breakthrough and allowing to improve the quality of life for humans. How has GMOs change the way we consume nutrients have they improve the quality of life or hinder it, and what sort of impacts does GMOs have when it comes to the environment? Genetically engineered crops: experiences and prospects. Washington, DC: National Academies Press, 2016. Print. In this handbook, which is publish by the committee of Genetically Engineered Crops: Past Experience and Future Prospects this source provides a lot of groundbreaking research. They have done extensive research for an extended period deal with they have Student 2 sourced in multiples sources within their handbook to achieve and. back up the hypothesis: have little to no sort of health effects when it comes to humans, and the reports state that people be concerned with any damaging effects that will arise from consuming is this source related to the research question. This reference can relate to the concept; of are GMOs demeaning towards It provides a full-on report that gives lots of factual knowledge on that indicate that it not demeaning to the health, and they actually have no ill effects on the humans that consume them. is this source credible first publish by some of the most elite and scholar scientist organization the National Academy of Sciences they been around since 1863 and is known as one of the most renowned and respect group when it comes to the matter of science. Perry, E. D., F. Ciliberto, D. A. Hennessy, and G. Moschini. Genetically engineered crops and pesticide use in U.S. maize and  Science Advances 2.8 (2016): n. pag. Web. In this journal entry, which burrows multiples authors, they formicate a hypothesis where they relate the use of GMOs to increase of pesticides. This whole journal entry shows patterns that are created throughout the years of research and offers factual details. Over the environment impacts of the pesticides use to farm all the genetic modified organism crops. the end of the whole reports they figure out that. The GMOs market have led to increase in some pesticides and herbicides use. Now this source provides a lot of data but formulate a sort of opinion in it just shows that there has been an increase of chemicals for that correlate to an negative effects to the environment Student 3 How does this relate to the research question this goes with the question does the use of GMOs has some effect to the environment, this journal provides data that deals and answers and give some sort information over this question. Phys.Org is aa website that only posts articles and journal entries that are peer review meaning that the people in the field must review the post before they can be published to the website, adding to the credulity of this journal entry Lee, Maria. EU Regulation Of Gmos : Law And Decision Making For A New Technology. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing, 2008. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 22 Jan. 2017. In this book, the author Lee Maria Goes on about the regulation of in the European unions .and she talks about how gmos are used in industry in the European union also how people can consume GMOs in the E.U. Why is this book applicable to my research question, Because this show a society that deals with GMOs and it demonstrate its effect in an actual community and allow me to see how GMOS work within the European nations? It helps answer the question about do GMOs have a real impact on life or not also is it beneficial or not. Why do I find this source to be credible because it provides a lot of citations, within the book Showing that the person research to a large extent about the matter and has a sense of knowledge over the whole issue. They also provide me the reader with, a bibliography at the end of the book with all MLA citations. For every single quotation this mean time and effort were put to cultivate the whole book. Also, it was an in a scholarly database which gives it a bit more credibly compare to another database such as Google. These were checked and only offered for scholars so this means that source reviewed by people that are educated over these topics and use for academic purpose only. Student 4 Hemphill, Thomas A., and Syagnik Banerjee. Genetically Modified Organisms And The U. S. Retail Food Labeling Controversy: Consumer Perceptions, Regulation, And Public  Business & Society Review (00453609) 120.3 (2015): 435-464. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source talks about the controversy that occurs within the GMO community. And mostly focuses In the United States It speaks of the misperception that consumer views GMOs in the United States and how a controversy has formed that deals with labeling GMOs. I think this is extremley beneficial information to the research question. It talks about just like the previous source where it talks about how GMOs have become a debatable topic. In the EU this what has a similar take but instead it talks about how labeling it a huge debate when it comes to GMOs because some people find To not be beneficial in the United States , this sources correlates with the research question that deals with are they useful, to one health or not. Why is this source credible because it comes from a business and society review and this is known as peer review. That is peer reviews which mean that each piece within this journal entries in the review by people that are educated in the current field allowing. Those who use this source to be certain that they are receiving well credible information that is check for any false or wrong information. So, this piece is reliable. Gilles-Eric Spiroux de Dominique Cellier, Charles Sultan, Marcello Buiatti, Lou Gallagher, Michael Antoniou, Krishna R. Dronamraju. How Subchronic And Chronic Health Effects Can Be Neglected For Gmos, Pesticides Or  International Journal Of Biological Sciences, Vol 5, Iss 5, Pp 438-443 (2009) 5 (2009): 438. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Student 5 In this article, we learn about the connection of subchronic and chronic and GMOs. The researcher in this piece is trying to figure if there is some correlation between the frequency of these diseases to the amount of genetically modified organisms that is consumed by a person and if that means that these people are way more prone to become sick with an illness, Another thing that is done in this article would have to be that it try calls out the company Monsanto for providing false reports which really try to show the correlates if to prove if GMOs can be harmless to the people that consume them This most important issue is totally overlooked in the experimental design and the statistical report made by Monsanto on MON 863. Moreover, any hypothesis which is not statistically significant with their reductive method is always excluded. This disturbing oversight runs false negative results and a risk of health consequences for millions of people and  ( 439) This was stated in text on one of the focus of their text why is this text relatable because deal with one of my research question the ones that deals with do gmos have the harmful effect on humans? And, this was found in a scholar database so meant to be used for academic use. De Spiroux, et al. Debate on GMOs health risks after statistical findings in regulatory  Int J Biol Sci 6.6 (2010): 590-8. In this studies, the researchers go on about GMOs and take three crops that are gentietically modified. Which are soy, maize and oilseed rape what it does is just like the previous sources I just use looking at the so-called test that performs test on rats in which they gave gmos to eats, and the researchers think that are proper, because of the short amount of times? They come to reviews all these tests that Monsanto has performed to show that their GMOs are safe. The researcher questioned them and criticized and published to this piece to Student 6 call out these makeshift tests. To ask for the trial that is more detailed because maybe the statistic might change, they find it necessary that test is taken seriously because why is this applicable to my research question because they ask for more test to be done on GMOs before offered to the public. Because the test that was done are weak and show no correlation of positive or negative Why is this a credible source because it deals with scientists that are similar fields together they are creating a paper, it a peer reviewing mean that the information. Must be overlooked before it can be published and be used for education purposes and this was found off a scholar database, in the end I also like this piece because these pieces are simplified and offered a large number of charts that show what re talking about.