Napoliello 1 Dylan Napoliello Adam Phillips ENC 1102.022 26 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeals and Their Uses Since the start of solar panel usage, there has been much controversy in the public and private sectors of business and government. The powerhouses of fossil fuel energy seek to keep using fossil fuels for energy, believing it to be more reliable and economically efficient. However, the side pushing for an increase in the use of solar power has sprouted multiple organizations that each work to further the collective cause. Among these organizations lies SEIA, the Solar Energy Industries Association, an organization that works to organize events for solar power progression, and helps people find jobs in the field. They also make use of promotional advertisements, which are made up of images making use of the rhetorical appeals; ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos. Through the use of these images, they aim to further their goals by enticing the public to assist them. The Solar Energy Industries Association is a non-profit group of over a thousand member companies, working to expand the solar market. They have been in play since 1974, around the time solar energy started to take a noticeable hold over the public. One of the ways that they help to expand the solar market is by helping those who seek jobs find them in the solar power trade. By doing so, they assist in reducing unemployment while at the same time furthering their cause. They also help to make solar power more affordable for consumers, and take direct participation in the implementation of solar panels. In the year 2012, SEIA merged itself with The Solar Napoliello 2 Alliance, an organization that wants to put into practice state legislation on solar energy policies. sister organization, The Solar Foundation, manages education and outreach programs to help further the development of solar energy policies in the United States. In the aforementioned advertisements, are the four hidden rhetorical appeals. One of these appeals, pathos, is used to appeal to the emotions of the audience. In the first image, we see a family standing together in front of a sunset background. Right from the start, one can see that SEIA is attempting appeal to parents and family. By holding a happy family in front of a beautiful sunset SEIA is clearly attempting an appeal to the parental love parents have for their children, and are hoping that this emotion will drive them to want to help SEIA make the world cleaner for their future. In addition, the word is in a different color than the rest of the words in the image, even further using the children as a means to appeal to the emotions. In image two, we have three panels of pictures taken of actual workers SEIA has helped to find jobs in the solar market. The pathos in this image most likely comes from a sense of community, like the one shown in the final panel. The audience for this image is of course those looking for work, as showing happy people working in solar power plants would appeal to anyone looking for such a job. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal that concerns authority or credibility. By using ethos, an advertisement gains credibility with their audience. In image number one, the ethos comes from the pictured family and from SEIA itself. The family has credibility because the audience is made up of families. When a mother or father views this image, they see the family first. The intention is that they will then think that if another family has benefited from solar power in some way, so will they. The part of the ethos that comes from SEIA is more obvious. A member of the audience would certainly trust an advertisement that comes from one of the largest solar Napoliello 3 power advocate groups in the world. In the second image, the ethos comes mostly from the workers depicted. As previously stated, the images are of actual workers SEIA has helped find jobs. When advertisements come from those directly benefited from the source of the advertisement, the credibility skyrockets. This image also shares the ethos from SEIA that is present in image number one. Logos is the appeal that represents logic or reason in an argument. The logos in image one is hard to find, but is seen in the same place as the pathos in the image. The image contains a happy family sitting in front of a sunset. This not only appeals to families that want to be happy, but also makes the statement that if they want to be happy, they should invest time in solar energy. It also ties into the idea that solar power will help the environment stay healthy for their kids in that if a parent wants their children to grow up in a clean environment that they should invest in solar power. In image two, the logos lies within the construction workers. The image makes potential workers believe that if they want a job working in solar power plants, they should call SEIA and apply. It also suggests that they should do the same if they desire the same community as is depicted in the three panels. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal that relates to time. Kairos is used when an advertisement is released at an opportune time for its success. For instance, a presidential campaign ad released a year after the election would not be as effective as being released during the campaign. In both images, kairos plays an important role. Solar energy is becoming larger every year, and there is no better time than now to start advertising for it. The first image contains the family that has been previously discussed. The kairos in this image is that not only is solar power growing every year, but families are heavily encouraged to act now rather than later. This is because of climate acceleration due to fossil fuel usage. The second kairos is associated with the Napoliello 4 unemployed. Unemployment was a publicly discussed issue at the time of the release, and no doubt was used to take advantage of that. In conclusion, each of these images uses rhetorical appeals to strengthen their arguments. purpose in using the images is to accelerate the expansion of the solar power market. In doing so, they would expand the use of clean and affordable energy sources in the United States and elsewhere. SEIA does this by hiring new workers to assist in the market expansion. They also ally themselves with other organizations in order to pass legislation on solar power policies. Napoliello 5 Works Cited Energy Industries SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association, www.seia.org/. SEIA Launches National Solar Photovoltaic Recycling  Waste360 (Online) 2016: General OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Krawcke, Nicole. Solar Energy Industries  Air Conditioning, Heating & Refrigeration News, no. 8, 2016, p. 8. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgbe&AN=edsgcl.457829192&site=eds-live.