Shephard 1 Victoria Shephard Professor Davis ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The stakeholder that uses the pictures I have presented is Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana, or C.A.L.M. They are an all-volunteer Political Action Committee that is dedicated to stopping the legalization of marijuana in California and Ohio. On the C.A.L.M. website, the mission statement is on the first page: are a dedicated group of individuals, parents, business owners, medical professionals, crime and safety officials, young and old - all working to defeat the legalization of marijuana in California and other targeted (C.A.L.M. website) For the most part, C.A.L.M. points out that the FDA has done extensive research and has found that marijuana has no medical value and is extremely harmful. Everything on the website has the purpose of making every viewer believe that marijuana can do nothing but bad for our country. Both of the images that I chose for this project come from their website. The marijuana leaf behind the no symbol is the logo for C.A.L.M. and the graphic is an image from their page about the financial disadvantages of allowing marijuana to be legal. The pictures that Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana uses on its website use visual rhetoric to explain to viewers how wrong and unlawful marijuana is and that nothing good can come from the legalization of marijuana. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana was formed in 2010 by Carla Lowe to fight Proposition 9 in California. She is a former K-12 teacher and mother of five that has spent the last 35 years fighting the legalization of jolly green (Abby Haglage). goal for Shephard 2 is to dispel the lies that are told about cannabis and make it known just how bad the drug is for the user and hopefully convince the country to keep marijuana from becoming legal. She first witnessed the use of marijuana in the 1970s when she substitute taught a class. She observed kids with long hair kept giggling in the back of the (Haglage) and suspected that they were smoking marijuana. Not much after that, her son began smoking marijuana and she decided to start fighting the legalization of marijuana herself. Because the first image is supposed to be a logo for the organization, it has the purpose of showing what exactly C.A.L.M. stands for. The purpose of this organization is to make everyone see that marijuana is bad and that it should not be legal, and that is what this picture attempts to show. The no symbol shows that marijuana is bad and should not be allowed in the United States. Lowe describes marijuana as fat soluble, mind altering, highly toxic drug that remains in the body for up to one month, building up with each additional joint. The two organs most affected are the brain and sexual organs She also believes that debilitating our teenagers and in so doing it is diminishing the potential for our With a definition like that, it is easy to see why Carla Lowe would dedicate her life to keeping marijuana illegal for the whole country and encourage such anti-legalization images like the ones I chose for this project. The first image that I chose to use is none other than the logo of C.A.L.M. It is a marijuana leaf with a large red No Symbol over it. This picture uses ethos, logos, and karios to persuade viewers to think that marijuana is wrong. Because this image is supposed to be a logo for the organization, it has the purpose of showing what exactly C.A.L.M. stands for. The purpose of this organization is to make everyone see that marijuana is bad and that it Shephard 3 should not be legal, and that is what this picture attempts to show. The no symbol is universally known as an images that depicts what is not allowed or accepted. The use of the no symbol on top of a marijuana leaf shows that marijuana is unethical and should not be allowed in the United States, which is ethos at work. It is logical to show everybody what is not allowed by showing that image with a no symbol over it. Because of that, it makes sense that C.A.L.M. would use that common knowledge to show that marijuana should not be allowed. The logos in this image leads the viewer to think: if marijuana should not be allowed because of the no symbol, then it should not be legal in the United States. Lastly, the kairos in the first photo is very clever. The picture is kind of timeless. It does not contain any colloquial language that will date it, and the no symbol will always mean that the object or action behind it is not allowed. The fact that the image can remain somewhat timeless also points to how important C.A.L.M. believes that keeping marijuana illegal is. This image says that it should also be illegal because it is just that wrong and dangerous, and the second picture says nothing less. The second picture targets the work force of the country. It uses ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos to convince the viewer that there is no way that they will be benefitted by the legalization of marijuana. The purpose is to prove that the legalization of marijuana will affect all employers and even employees. C.A.L.M. believes that income, work environment safely, and productivity levels will decrease if marijuana is legalized. This picture basically targets employers and tries to make them associate marijuana legalization with a loss of important commodities for a business. This image uses ethics to appeal to employers. They want their work places to be safe and productive, and the image tells employers that both of those things will be compromised if they allow marijuana to be Shephard 4 legalized. The most ethical thing for an employer to do would be to try and keep their workplaces as safe as possible for their employees, and employees would also want to keep the places that they work calm and safe environments. Nobody wants to lose money, and nobody wants to put anyone that they care about in danger. With this image, C.A.L.M. appeals to the emotions of employers by implying that both of those things will happen and more if they allow marijuana to be legalized. The picture of money going down the drain also evokes the feeling of sadness because wasting money makes everyone sad. There is a great deal of logos in this second image. It gives a number for how much money all employers will lose if they allow marijuana to be legalized ($81 billion a year), and then gives specific characteristics that will change in their workplaces if marijuana is legal, such as less productivity and more absent people. It is only logical that an employer, a person who makes money off of the efficiently of their workers, would rather have more productive, consistent, and safe workers, all while keeping profit margins up. Employers get a sense of urgency when looking at this picture. If they could potentially lose $81 billion dollars of income, a safe work environment, and all of their productive workers, then it would be of utmost importance to keep marijuana form ever being legal. Money going down the drain is not something that anyone ever wants to see, but this picture suggests that it can only be stopped if we stop the legalization of marijuana. This image also calls on employees to resist the legalization of marijuana because they want to keep safe work environments and higher salaries as well. Everyone in the workforce is being targeted with this image, and there is a big loss involved for every second lost. Both of these images strongly suggest that the legalization of marijuana is unethical, wrong, and will cost way more that it is worth. They do a very good job of communicating Shephard 5 the message that they were meant to, and it is up to the audience to decide how they want to take what the images say and learn from them. Shephard 6 Citations Haglage, Abby. Meet the Anti-Pot  The Daily Beast. The Daily Beast Company, 31 Jan. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Get  CALM USA. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://calmusa.org/calmgetinvolved/>. White House: Feds may up marijuana enforcement - CNN  CNN. Cable News Network, 24 Feb. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.