Molano 1 Luis Molano Prof. Davis ENC1102 26 February 2017 Project Two The Drug Policy Alliance is an organization that stands for the rights in marijuana use such as medicine and socially. Their goal is to help promote the campaign for legalization of marijuana. In the images that I selected, they both accurately reflect the mission of The Drug Policy Alliance of why marijuana should be legalized through the use of Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. The goal of the images selected is to persuade the audience to allow for the use of marijuana. In the first image, the Drug Policy Alliance uses a misconception that people who use marijuana are drug users. The intended audience in this image is for the people who believe in this misconception. The first thing that the audience should notice is the visual rhetorics used in the image. This includes the color blocking used with pink, blue and yellow, these colors are a soft, settle color that gives off the essence of comfort. Another good visual rhetoric used is the design of the image, a graph but it is more than just a graph it is a graph formed by drawings of people which makes the ad friendlier to the audience. The elements used to provide ethos is the use of statistics from the UNODC 2013 World Drug Report, this gives the audience a sense of trust and credibility. The second element used in the photo is pathos, which appeals to the emotions of the audience. The use of pathos is present in the image, in the aesthetics and design of the image. The image has a graph used with the graph made of human figurines, which connect the audience that it is more than just a statistic it is about the people. In Molano 2 the image the color blocking helps attract the audience into its bright standout ad. The image shows a strong appeal to logic and reason as the quote as most people who drink alcoholics, most people who use (other) drugs do so without used gives the audience a new prospective that the audience used can relate to as 86.4 percent of all people over 18 reported have drank alcohol at some point in their lifetime (NIAA, 2015). In the image, the last rhetorical appeal Kairos is present in the ad itself, it gives a sense of urgency to the audience. The second image, is an ad that shows a protest by the Drug Policy Alliance. This photo shows the amount of people in the protest which seems to be a lot of people protesting. An element in the photo that stands out is the repetition of posters held up that read more drug followed by the Drug Policy Alliance website. This image also displays the rhetorical appeals; ethos is present through the amount of people at the protest, this gives the audience an appeal on trust and credibility. The second element, pathos helps establish a connection between the group protesting and the audience, since the people are protesting an issue in which they believe in. Logos is an appeal to logic and reason, and in the image a single poster that reads mass stands out. This quote is a logical reason in the protest itself, more than 570,000 people were arrested for marijuana possession crimes in 2015 according to the Drug Policy Alliance. Why should tax dollars be spent on prisoners due to marijuana possession crimes, when marijuana itself is a drug just like alcohol and it is not illegal for someone to carry alcohol? This is a valid argument in the protest itself. The last element, Kairos is an appeal to timeliness and in this image the protest is a sense of urgency in which the people are gathering on a specific date to protest in something they believe in. Both images accurately represented the views in which the Drug Policy Alliance stands for. Through the use of visual rhetorics and rhetorical appeals it gives a valid argument in favor Molano 3 of their views on marijuana. Both images used had strong visual rhetorics, from the colors being used in the first image to the posters being held in the second image. The rhetorical appeals used are also valid that the fusion of all the appeals give a strong and valid argument. Molano 4 Works Cited Alcohol Facts and  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Drug War  Drug Policy Alliance. DPA, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.