Hoag 1 Avery Hoag Andrew De Carion English II February 14, 2016 Florida Dog Breeding Regulations When walking into a local pet shop, customers do not usually consider where the puppies are actually coming from. While some of the shops sell rescue dogs, other places such as All About Puppies receive their dogs from breeders. These breeders are responsible for fully raising newborn dogs including feeding them, giving them water, and walking them and then selling them once they reach a certain age. However, there are some organizations who do not agree with this method of development. Organizations such as Puppy Mill Rescue work to rescue dogs from breeders that can no longer take care of them or are incapable of selling them. Both of these examples, although they seem to be very different, have the responsibility to take care of the dogs they have. It is in their best interest to keep the dogs healthy and happy in order to get them adopted. A possible solution for these opposing sides would be an agency who creates rules and regulations as well as enforces them and who are dedicated to keeping these breeding places a sustainable environment for the raising of puppies before being adopted. Much like other pet stores, All About Puppies main goal is to maintain the health and wellbeing of their puppies so that they can sell them and make a profit. One thing this family owned business is known for is having purebred dogs (allaboutpuppies.com.) In order to maintain this status they receive dogs from certain breeders who have raised the dogs themselves Hoag 2 and know the exact breed as well as the care needed for each one. Although many people buying dogs take comfort in knowing exactly what they are getting, others believe this to be unnecessary. Through many of their social media networkings, All About Puppies has received negative feedback about supporting the industry of breeding but continue to buy from them in order to keep the status of having purebred dogs. On the other hand, organizations such as Puppy Mill Rescue focus on getting a hold of and giving away dogs that are unwanted or unsafe in these breeding places to safe and loving homes. This particular non-profit organization so far has helped transfer hundreds of dogs from breeders who could no longer take care of them to loving homes (puppymillrescue.com.) They strive to give each dog a happy and carefree life that they may not be able to have where they are breeded. They are centered around the belief that every dog, no matter the breed, should be able to live freely and in a caring home. With these descriptions, it is obvious through their actions that the goals of the two organizations are not alike. Puppy Mill Rescue is against the idea of breeding dogs and works to keep dogs out of places like that while All About Puppies supports breeders because of the purebred status as well as the comfort of knowing where their animals are from. Fortunately, these two organizations have some large ideas in common. The overarching similarity is that they both want to sell the dogs they have. All About Puppies wants to sell these dogs for a profit and Puppy Mill Rescue wants to give the dogs a safer place to live. Although they are trying to get these dogs adopted for different reasons, they still ultimately want the same thing. Even though they share this common ground, they still have not been able to come to a compromise. One reason for this could possibly be that it is much easier for All About Puppies to receive their Hoag 3 dogs from breeders and it is comforting for the local Florida company to know who the dogs came from and what breed the dogs are. One of the largest things the company takes pride in is the fact that most of the puppies in their store are pure breeds. Whereas this cannot be guaranteed if the dogs came from a rescue shelter. With this, it can make it even more difficult for a compromise since it is such a specific and difficult goal for each of the dogs to be a pure breed. Lastly, All About Puppies only buys puppies from the breeders which does not account for all the dogs the breeder has. Puppy Mill Rescue focuses on any dogs that are no longer wanted or selling with breeders and sends them to loving homes. The two organizations are focused on getting different types of dogs and so they have not exactly crossed paths and been able to reach a compromise to make the situation work for the both of them. However, if the two influential companies were to reach a compromise, it could be very beneficial to many. There are not any regulations in Florida about the puppy mill and breeding industry other than the classic animal abuse laws (puppymillrescue.com). If a non profit organization paid for by the government was created for Florida to regulate and watch over breeders to make it safer for the dogs to live, both agencies would be leveled. With this compromise, the Puppy Mill Rescue can continue rescuing dogs that have outgrown the breeding place while knowing the dogs that are in there are safe and All About Puppies will still receive the specific dogs that they want without getting negative feedback about supporting breeders. In order for this idea to work, a board would have to be put together of qualified people to run the agency. Also, a large team of people would have to be developed in order to run the place and be able to physically check up on the breeders to make sure that the dogs are taken care of properly. Hoag 4 In conclusion, it would be beneficial to both organizations to reach this compromise without sacrificing what is important to them. In this case, it would be in both of their interests to keep puppies from breeders in the best health as possible so that All About Puppies is able to sell them and so that Puppy Mill Rescue is sure of the puppies safety while under the care of the breeders. Works Cited All About  About Puppies . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoag 5 Appiah, Kwame Anthony. Is It O.K. to Get a Dog From a Breeder, Not a  New York Times Magazine 2016: 28. Resource Center . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. One dog at a  . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Solotaroff, Paul. The Dog  Stone 1278/1279 (2017): 42-56. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Whitcomb, Rachael. Wisconsin Puppy-Mill Laws Spur Unintended  DVM: The Newsmagazine Of Veterinary Medicine 42.7 (2011): 46. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.