University of South Florida Putting Antisocial Personality Disorder in a Brighter Light Chase Miller ENC 1102 TJ Murray 26 February 201 Miller 2 Putting Antisocial Personality Disorder in a Brighter Light Psychopaths and Sociopaths have a tendency to be demonized and exaggerated by movies and shows depicting them as evil genius killers that are more dangerous and terrifying than any monster. While these may hold some merit, not much of this is really accurate to real life psychopathy and sociopathy. Movie characters like Hannibal Lecter and the killer from American Psycho surely demonstrate the violence from Antisocial Personality Disorder, hereby referred to as ASPD, however do not accurately portray what it means to have the disorder. The media portrayal of this disorder amounts to perversion of a topic already misunderstood, which only furthers the stigma and prejudice against individuals with ASPD. The stigma behind ASPD patients and the fear associated with the disorder is rather valid, however has been stretched to an unrealistic extent. ASPD is a personality disorder, meaning the nature of the issues it causes for its sufferers are not easily fixed, as they are part of the personality. Due to the nature of personality disorders, treatment lies on an awkward border between moral and logistical standards. Although, to understand why this is, important to understand that ASPD is characterized by a specific number and type of factors affecting the way the individual thinks, acts, and even understands the world around them, as Miller 3 shown in the following figure. Characteristics of ASPD Patients Interpersonal Relations Cognitive Lifestyle/ Behavioral Antisocial superficial charm lack of remorse impulsiveness disregard for laws and social customs pathological lying flat or non-emotive affect reckless behavior Criminality unrealistic sense of self worth lack of empathy/emotional understanding risk seeking behavioral issues manipulation inability to accept responsibility parasitism/ Prone to violent crimes/behavior unrealistic goals setting The characteristics of this disorder are indeed terrifying and a danger to society, however not all patients exhibit these to an extreme extent. Regardless of the severity, these individuals need to be contained and treated to avoid any unfortunate incidents. This is where the largest problem lies, psychology and science still found any incredibly effective ways of treating any mental disorders, let alone mental disorders with this level of inelasticity. ASPD is, as previously stated, a personality disorder and thus respond immediately and, seeing as treatment must be willingly accepted, is often times rejected by the patient due to thinking nothing is wrong with them. This hindrance combined with lack of understanding and fear of these individuals has led to a gross misunderstanding and labeling of the disorder when, Miller 4 in fact, the knowledge exists to directly contest with this. Due to the recent increase in psychological studies and understanding, people around the world need to be better educated and accommodating of individuals with ASPD in order to further the goal of treating these individuals as well as move society away from the stigma and unreasonable attitudes towards these disorders. One of the most important things people can do is to help these individuals is to raise awareness of the possibility of treating the disorder. Most people think that personality is rather set in stone and unable to change. Behaviors and thoughts are considered easiest to treat even to clinicians. The truth of the matter is that personality is more malleable than generally thought, according to Martyn Pickersgill. article personality became treatable: The mutual constitution of clinical knowledge and mental health outlines the path that personality disorders followed, in relation to Dangerous and Severe Personality Disorders (DSPD), and discussed how personality became more of a idea that once thought. This idea as well as the current treatment methods employed to treat personality disorders lend weight to the idea that it is indeed possible to treat a personality disorder, such as ASPD. Although, due to the dangerous tendencies of ASPD patients, medications such as mood stabilizers and antipsychotics are common place for clinical treatment, even though such drugs will only disable to patient from acting erratically and possibly hamper improvement. Miller 5 If society cared enough about this disorder and its sufferers, more resources could be put into devising and implementing treatment methods to more efficiently ASPD patients and thus keep violent crimes from being committed as often as they are. In order to achieve this level of success, society needs to be better educated and understanding of the disorder to remove the fear and hatred people harbor and better treat these individuals instead of indefinitely holding them in prisons or secure mental institutions. Although the push for the improvement of treatment methods for ASPD patients is an important movement, this change is unreasonable for society to make without first coming to terms with what the disorder it self actually is and how it affects its sufferers. As shown in the chart previously, ASPD is characterized by a set of criteria that are molded by the personality, meaning there is no choice for the patient. Researchers have done experiments comparing the brain activities in regions expected to cause these specific abnormalities in healthy and afflicted individuals. Eduardo Santana explains these results in his article Brain of a discussing how the differing theories for these malfunctions can range from lower activity in the prefrontal cortex, the part of the brain associated with impulse control and social behavior, to differences in the limbic and paralimbic systems. Now this might not mean much to someone unfamiliar with psychology jargon, however the article mentions briefly an important figure in this conclusion to demonstrate the ideas mentioned, Phineas Gage. As shown in the Miller 6 image, Phineas Gage was struck by a metal rod during an explosion while working on a railroad. The rod punctured his skull and caused trauma to the frontal lobe of his brain but did not kill him. Instead, when studied, psychologists founds that the accident had changed Mr. Gage quite dramatically. He went from being a patient and nice man to being incredibly impatient, unfaithful, and rude, and volatile. This as well as other observed changes were very similar to psychopathic qualities, leading researchers to conclude that psychopathy could be caused by abnormalities in the frontal lobe, specifically the prefrontal cortex. Another commonplace issue with the misunderstanding of ASPD is that sufferers often seek treatment. Leon McRae discusses the lack of willingness to receive treatment in the article antisocial She mentions that often times treatment is accepted due to a desire to escape the confinement of the system holding them. This makes sense when considering the classification of the disorder being manipulative, self serving, and pathological lying. These people see nothing wrong with themselves and thus would see no need for treatment. While it may be obvious that ASPD patients are different than normal people, that mean they are worse than anyone either. To understand and accept something is the only way to improve upon it, therefore to improve problem with ASPD it is important to understand and accept the differences between healthy people and ASPD sufferers. One great example of how ASPD patients differ so much with normal people is shown in Trolley The original thought experiment by F.M. Kamm outline had the conditions shown on the left. The thought experiment starts off with the subject standing at a lever with a trolley barreling towards 5 people unable to Miller 7 move out of the way. The lever will divert the track and miss the 5 people; however there is another person on the second track that cannot move as well. The idea here is that people naturally pick the option to flip the switch and save the 5 people even though it requires killing the one. The experiment becomes more difficult however once the conditions are changed somewhat. The second condition can be varied, in this diagram it is now a heavyset man that you must push in front of the trolley to save the people. This causes some confusion seeing as people are no longer just flipping a switch, they now have to actually kill the fat man to save the people. Pulling the lever is an action that directly associated with the death of the individual, so normal people have no problem with the logistics. However, when required to push the man into the path of the trolley, the action seems more like murder can cause more delay with decision making. Other conditions can be added to change responses, such as specific identities of the individuals or the ages and qualifications of the individuals. This may not seem like much, however when ASPD patients are given this thought experiment, they have no hesitation regardless of the conditions. The fact that everyone can have such a difficult time answering is a good show of how different they are from average people. These patients have no idea why people struggle with answering because it comes so naturally to them; they think differently than everyone else and control it. Of course ASPD patients are dangerous and inhuman in some ways, vital to remember that these individuals have little to no control over this and often realize anything is wrong with them. Their disorder is almost part of them and affects the way they think and even act, but is still treatable. If more of society was educated on this disorder and its sufferers, maybe the stigma against psychopaths and sociopaths could be abandoned for a more Miller 8 supportive approach. Treatment methods of these individuals are difficult and time consuming, but can be improved upon, eliminating the need to warehouse these individuals and commit moral treason against fellow humans. Overall, the change is difficult to make and understand, but important nonetheless and should be considered when thinking about criminals and mental patients alike before condemning them to such a fate. Miller 9 Work Cited Babiak, Paul, Jorge Folino, Jeffrey Hancock, Robert D. Hare, Matthew Logan, Elizabeth Leon Mayer, J. Reid Meloy, Mary Ellen Anthony Pinizzotto, Stephen Porter, Sharon Smith, and Michael Woodworth. Psychopathy: An Important Forensic Concept for the 21st  . FBI, 26 July 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Bacchi, Umberto. Real Hannibal Lecter Was Murderous Gay Mexican Doctor Alfredo  Business Times UK . N.p., 31 July 2013. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Brad. The Trolley  Your Meme . N.p., 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Grow, Kory. at 25: Bret Easton Ellis Looks  Stone . Rolling Stone, 31 Mar. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Kamm, Frances Myrna. Trolley Problem Mysteries . New York: Oxford UP, 2016. Print. Learning, Lumen. The Brain and Spinal  Brain and Spinal Cord Introduction to Psychology . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Mcrae, Leon. Rehabilitating Antisocial Personalities: Treatment through Self-governance  Journal of Forensic Psychiatry & Psychology 24.1 (2013): 48-70. Web. Pickersgill, M. (2012). How personality became treatable: The mutual constitution of clinical knowledge and mental health law. Studies of Science, (1), 30-53. doi:10.1177/0306312712457722 Santana, Eduardo J. The Brain of the Psychopath: A Systematic Review of Structural Neuroimaging  & Neuroscience 9.4 (2016): 420-43. Web. Miller 10 Tracy, Natasha. Why Should I Justify My Mental Illness Treatment To You? Breaking  . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.