Canavan1 Taylor Canavan TJ Murray ENC 1102 26 February, 2017 Millennials Should All Babysit at Some Point in Their Life Millennials (Generation Y) are the talk of the town lately. Their views are completely different from generations before because seen how it affected that generation and they want a repeat of history. Millennials are known to be more family oriented because watched their parents go to work for long hours, and struggle to make time with them at home (Sightings). However, they are also goal oriented and let anything get in their way (Gen Y Video). That being said, their job comes first and a family, maybe kids, will come later. Kids are a lot to deal with, a lot of money and time that millennials want to give up yet. Having the opportunity to babysit for millennials is the best trial run to see how they actually feel about kids because they only have to be responsible for the kids for a couple hours, can figure out if they really are a kid person or not and the best natural birth control. Watching a child for even one hour can be exhausting. Kids love to run around, play games, watch movies go to the park, eat and play some more. basically a full-time job. If Millennials know if they are good at balancing two jobs, then this would show them. Depending how old the child is, the person watching them may have to keep a constant eye on them or could let them be on their own. Millennials are always on the go, so they used to making sure that the little choke-able things left out that a child could choke on. Canavan2 Some people kid people, and okay, but knock it till you try it right? If you can deal with the screaming and temper tantrums maybe you are meant to have kids! If you like the crying, whining, spit up, diapers and cuteness overload then that okay! You just have to have kids, but at least you found out by babysitting and not having a kid then leaving. Having kids is a big responsibility. Most people realize that because too busy enjoying life and doing like bunnies. Some millennials think that if they end up in a situation from unprotected sex they can just deal with it by going to get an abortion. Others deal with the consequence and have the baby. picking one side or the other, just saying that if this generation babysat more think more about their actions and the consequences of them because kids are a big commitment and a lot of time and money. Millennials should babysit at some point in their life because it gives them different opportunities such as new responsibility (even for a couple hours), new point of view as to if they actually want kids or not and it helps with situations of being protected or not. Yes, not everyone will Canavan3 have the time to take out of their busy schedule to babysit or some may already know that they want kids. But for the percentage of millennials that are against it, they should try it because we do need to repopulate the earth and our kids are our future. We want that to be screwed up. Canavan4 Works Cited Generation Y: Definition, Characteristics & Personality Traits. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sighting, Tom. 8 Differences Between Boomers and  US News. N.p., 20 May 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.