Battison Nicol 1 Adrian Battison Nicol Professor Theodore Murray Composition 1102 26 February 2017 Battison Nicol 2 The Marriage Between Socialism and Capitalism Capitalism and Socialism are two economic systems that have contrasting views. The Dictionary of Economics describes socialism as the theory of social organization that advocates that the means of production, distribution and exchange should be owned or regulated by the government or the community as a whole. In contrast, Dictionary of Economics describes Capitalism basically as a system that advocates private property and is formed on the belief that society does better when an individual can purchase and produce as they deem  Although each system has it pros and cons, I believe utilizing a combination of both systems can produce better results than operating each system independently. Capitalism is primarily self-regulatory. Individuals choose what to consume and that ideally leads to more competition and better products and services. For example, in the article Social justice and income  by Amartya Sen, an Indian economist and philosopher from Harvard University, outlines how two young men, Steve Jobs and Steve Woznick, executed their innovative idea of making computers affordable by successfully building the first apple computer in their garage. Jobs and Woznick funded their invention with the financial aid of a capitalist. This article exemplifies how capitalism promotes a free market system whereby citizens are free to create practically any product or service and reap the rewards of innovation and hard work. Battison Nicol 3 Capitalism can also have adverse effects on society. Capitalism can lead to a monopoly when a specific person or enterprise is the sole supplier of a particular product or service. That person or enterprise can abuse their position by charging higher prices. Also, the system is based on the right to pass down wealth down to subsequent generations. If a small group of people hold all the wealth, and that wealth continues to filter down only to their ancestors, inequality and social divisions takes place. Lastly, an economy based on the concept of demand and supply is regularly going to experience growth and decline. A situation The United States suffered in 2008, when the market crashed, causing hundreds of thousands of people to lose their homes and jobs. On the opposite side of the economic spectrum Socialism or Collectivism, better promotes equality. This is done through equal opportunity and wealth distribution regardless of ancestry, creed, economic status, etc. In comparison to Capitalism, Socialism works more towards the reduction of poverty. Although socialism creates a platform for equality, critics of Socialism argue that this system has many faults. Socialism is often characterized as a tool used to groom laziness because people know they would survive regardless the effort they make. Socialism can also be seen as a means of de-motivating innovative people because they are not rewarded individually for their ideas. And the claim that Socialism equally distribute wealth has proven to be virtually impossible by most countries where pure Socialism exits. In these countries there is always a clear distinction between the rich and poor and their governments are typically very corrupt. For example Sierra Leone, my country of origin, though blessed with numerous mineral and marine resources (such as bauxite, diamond, gold, iron ore to name a few) is classified by the United Nations as one of the most corrupt Battison Nicol 4 countries in the world. Individuals at the helm of power get rich everyday whilst the general population is plunged into extreme poverty. Pure capitalism is too insensitive, selfish, and cruel to be an effective economic system. On the other hand, pure socialism hinders individual recognition and rewards for personal efforts, talents and strength. Both system independent of each other succeed. The most effective system provides incentives to individual who work hard and aid to those individuals that require a helping hand when necessary. Although the United States is proclaimed to be a capitalist country it has adapted a lot of socialist theory and that have proved to be very effective in bridging the gap between the rich and the poor. Some of the government social programs in the United States are Pell grant, and Federal student loans which gives opportunity to lower income families who want to pursue educational achievement to be able to do that. Another social program is the Housing assistance given to lower income families so that they can have one of the basic necessity of life. Food stamps are another program that the government is using to help poor people, unemployment insurance that helps people who unfortunately lose their jobs. Medicaid and Medicare, healthcare program that helps the impoverished and senior citizens with their health related needs. In conclusion, I argue that capitalism is a wonderful political and economic system because it gives everyone in the society the opportunity to achieve their full potential. However, it cater for all levels of society like socialism. A marriage between the two has proven to be effective in the United States and provides society with more opportunities for success. Citation: Battison Nicol 5 1. Reisman, George. Capitalism: a treatise on economics. Ottawa, IL: Jameson, 1998. Print. 2. Schumpeter, Joseph A. Capitalism, socialism and democracy. Place of publication not identified: Routledge, 2015. Print. 3. Wolff, Nancy. Income redistribution and the Social Security program. Ann Arbor: UMI Research Press, 1987. Print. 4 Study.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.