Fasulo 1 Angelina Fasulo Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 21 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography Homelessness is undoubtedly a widespread issue in the United States. Many have a general idea of the leading causes of homelessness which often include imperfections in the economy such as high unemployment rates, alcoholism, drug addiction, poor health, lack of healthy relationships with family and friends, etc. Most of America can also agree that military veterans are well-respected heroes that deserve outstanding treatment and benefits for honorably serving their country. At the same time, many American citizens are unaware that an alarming 11% of the adult homeless population are veterans and 1.4 million veterans are presently considered at risk of becoming homeless, according to the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans. Speaking on behalf of American citizens who support their troops, this statistic is quite undesirable and shocking. It raises many questions, including whether the impact of post-service mental disorders in veterans (such as PTSD and depression) widely to blame, whether the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs adequately providing resources and aid to all veterans especially those who are at rick of becoming homeless. The sheer irony in this tragic reality is what inspired this research question: what factors have led and continue to lead to homelessness among U.S. military veterans as opposed to non-military citizens? National Coalition for Homeless Veterans. http://nchv.org/index.php/news/media/back Accessed 21 February 2017. Fasulo 2 Jackonis, Michael J, Deyton, Lawrence, and Hess, William J. its aftermath, and U.S. health policy: toward a comprehensive health program for military personnel, veterans, and their Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics. Vol. 36 Issue 4, 2008, p. 677. Accessed 21 February 2017. The aforementioned article was written by three people, Michael J, Jackonis, Lawerence Deyton, and William J, Hess, the title is its aftermath, and U.S. health policy: toward a comprehensive health program for military and they argue in it that the department of Affairs has failed millions of veterans by not providing them with health coverage. The authors delve into this topic by first evaluating how the VA and DoD(Department of Defense) most likely fell asleep at the wheel. They believe since the U.S. has not been in a major conflict since the Vietnam war that the to its military service members has not been tested and therefore improved. They also note that the VA in the their focus to support operations in regional conflicts in the Persian Gulf, the Balkans, and resulting in an improvement to the VA and ability to respond to incidents relating to them in foreign theaters. The purpose of this informative article is to shed some light on the then little known efforts the VA and DoD has already undertaken at a time when the media was throwing cheap shots. The article also outlines some general guidelines on the direction that the VA and DoD should take in order to service the staggering numbers of veterans not receiving the benefits that come with protecting this great nation. Michael Jackonis and Lawerence Deyton are both lawyers that worked for the VA. Both have insider knowledge that they express in this article. The article was published by the ASLME, a highly respected journal, in 2008. Fasulo 3 Richard Tessler, Robert Rosenheck, and Gail Gamache. of Homeless Veteran with other Homeless men in a Large Clinical outreach Psychiatry Quarterly. Vol. 73 issue 2, p109. 2002. Accessed 21 February 2017. The authors of this article are Richard Tessler, Robert Rosenheck, and Gail Gamache, the title of this article is of Homeless Veterans with other Homeless men in a Large Clinical outreach and they argue that male homeless veterans differ from male homeless non veterans in two categories, substance abuse and personal resources. The authors evidence is taken from a study of roughly four thousand homeless men. The study shows that 28% of participants are veterans. Also homeless veterans have an average of 12.43 years of education, the equivalent of a high school diploma and some college, compared to 11.21 years of education in nonveteran homeless. The study also states a 2% difference, from 18.2% to 16.2%, in the amount of alcohol abuse present from veterans to nonveterans respectively. This study is a statistical analysis of the possible risk factors for homeless and their differences between veteran homeless and nonveteran homeless. The study also researches a possible difference from two age groups and is characterized as before and after They found marginal differences in all categories except and more than 1 The differences were 19.95% and 9.52% respectively where before before 1953 were mor elikely to be married and born after 1953 were more likely to be homeless for more than a year. The authors are sociology, psychiatry, and health policy professors. Their aim is to provide a resource to those combating homelessness so policy can be more accurately formed. The study was published in 2002 by a respected scientific journal. This study was published before controversial media coverage of the VA. Fasulo 4 Gerald Goldstein, James F. Luther, Gretchen L. Haas, Cathleen J. Appelt, and Adam J Gordon. Structure and Risk factors for the Health status of Homeless Psychiatry Quarterly. Vol. 81, issue 4, p311-323. 2010. Accessed 21 February 2017. The authors of this study are Gerald Goldstein, James F. Luther, Gretchen L. Haas, Cathleen J. Appelt, and Adam J. Gordon, the title of the study is Structure and Risk factors for the Health status of Homeless and they aim to further evaluate the health risks of homeless veterans by categorizing the factors into five that have little overlap except within a few key health factors such as addiction, PTSD, adjustment disorder, and personality disorder. The study argues that in the 71.7% of roughly four thousand participants addiction is a factor and addiction increases the chances of every factor across the board at least marginally. However those with PTSD, mood disorders, and personality disorder are 18%, 15.5%, and 46.6% respectively more likely to be an addict. The study states that those who suffer from disorders in the category also suffer from high levels of depression, and reluctance to seek medical help follows suit. This increases the risks of almost every factor adding to the complexity of the issue. This study is a statistical analysis that is meant to evaluate and in turn change current health policy to a more useful and specific genre. The author Adam J Gordon is the director of Addiction Triage for Homeless of the VA, Gretchen L. Haas is a professor of psychiatry, and the other three are doctors in various fields. This text was published in 2010 by and it builds off the study perviously annotated. The study was published after the intense scrutiny of the VA by the media. Fasulo 5 Emily Brignone, Adi V. Gundlapalli, Rebecca K. Blais, Marjorie E. Carter, Ying Suo, Matthew H. Samore, Rachel Kimerling, and Jamison D. Fargo. Risk for Homelessness among U.S. male and female veterans with a positive screen for Military Sexual JAMA Psychiatry. Vol 73, issue 6, p582-589. 2016. Accessed 21 February 2017. The authors of this article are Emily Brignone, Adi V Gundlapalli, Rebecca K. Blais, Marjorie E. Carter, Ying Suo, Matthew H. Samore, Rachel Kimerling, and Jamison D. Fargo, the title is Risk for Homelessness among U.S. male and female veterans with a positive screen for Military Sexual and they argue that MST plays a larger role in homeless veterans, particularly males, than those screened negative for MST. The study claims that the rates of homelessness were significantly higher in veterans screened positive for MST. The average difference was 2.85% across the three different subcategories of homeless. They also claim that MST is an independent factor since the results remain the same among veterans with the mental health factors. Lastly they claim MST is more pevelant in males compared to females by an average of 1.5%. This is a statistical analysis meant to inform of a risk factor for homelessness meanwhile evaluating which sex it is more common in, leading to specialized treatment. The authors of this study are public health psychologists, experimental psychologists, clinal psychologists, as well as doctors with specialities in PTSD. This study was published in 2016 by a scientific journal. Since it was recently published, the study needs more research built on its findings to have more depth. Fasulo 6 Eve B. Carlson, Donn W. GArvert, Kathryn S. Macia, Josef I Ruzek, Thomas A. Burling. Stressor Exposure and Post Traumatic Symptoms in Homeless Military Medicine. Vol. 178, issue 9. p970-973. 2013. Accessed 21 February 2017. The authors of this study are Eve B. Carlson, Donn W. Garvert, Kathryn S. Macia, Josef I. Ruzek, Thomas A. Burling, the title is Stressor Exposure and Post Traumatic Symptoms in Homeless and they argue that eight factors are potential causes of PTSD and in turn homelessness. They claim that childhood abuse, adulthood abuse, natural disasters, military service, sudden death of a loved one, witnessing traumatic events, and are present in all PTSD sufferers that were a part of this study. 42% had at least two or more factors present. They also claim that PTSD is underestimated since not enough factors are characterized as PTSD risk factors. Lastly they claim that PTSD is more prevelant in people who suffer trauma as a civilian first and as a military service member second, which in turn creates a higher risk for homelessness. This study has been made to inform agencies like the VA of health factors that their constituents suffer from. This study explains PTSD to be a complex but measurable issue. The authors of this study are abnormal psychologists, psychologists employed by the VA, clinical psychologists, PTSD specialists, and research scientists who focus on rehabilitation of homeless substance abusers. This study was published in 2013 by which makes it relevant since the authors are all qualified physicians and scientists that work closely with PTSD sufferers. Fasulo 7