Blew 1 Ryan Blew Alison Missler ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Include, Exclude, You Decide One of the most common spectrums one hears about is the Autism Spectrum. According to Autism Speaks, an organization promoting autism, autism is a term for a group of complex disorders of brain where disorders are characterized by difficulties in verbal and nonverbal communication (What is Autism). Since the first sign of autism was discovered, it is estimated that in the the number of people with autism grew 273% (U.S. Department of Education). Scientists have discovered that every person falls on the spectrum, but where one falls depends if he will be diagnosed. People cannot seem to figure out whether or not students with the disorder should be included in the traditional K-6 classroom setting, where we see all types of students from different demographics, intelligences, and backgrounds. This conflict is occurring between many stakeholders, including the Florida Inclusive Network, also referred to as FIN. According to their website, the goal of FIN is to include all students in the classroom by collaborating with all districts and schools to provide custom services and support the insurance of all students with disabilities have the same educational, social, and future opportunities as their peers (About Us). At the same time, Corpus Christi Catholic School (CCCS), in Tampa, Florida has a different viewpoint. Under the vision of the National Catholic Education Association, alternative school charges students up to an additional $1,200 for having special needs. However, this allows the students Blew 2 to be excluded from the classroom to get a more one-on-one learning style (Our Mission). Although both organizations have the same intentions on allowing autistic students to succeed, both have different teaching styles to allow this to happen. By using the funding through public and private organizations, the FIN and CCCS can figure out the best way to determine if a child that falls on the spectrum can be implemented in the classroom with the other students. The Florida Inclusive School mission is to collaborate with districts and schools to provide customized services and supports ensuring all students with disabilities have the same educational, social, and future opportunities with their peers. It also provides data- driven research to be shared with administrators, faculty, parents, and students. It shares the same interests as the Inclusive Schools Network, as the two are association partners. The FIN organization created a product called Best Practices for Inclusive Education (BPIE), where the district is to prioritize any needs that are founded in the assessment of all students with disabilities to achieve their highest potential through inclusive practices. FIN is there for the parents, providing fact sheets to educate parents (About Us). These fact sheets include determining how inclusion should be made, how to figure out if your child is in an inclusive school, and communication tips. Being in an inclusive classroom has many benefits, and if a child is in one, it should be obvious. Mesibov and Shea from the University of North Carolina, discovered that students who have a disability and are included in the classroom receive modeling of lower spectrum students, higher self-esteem, and less stigma of disabilities (Mesibov 338). It was also reported that learned social interaction skills were generally better in integrated setting, though this was qualitative data. Blew 3 On the other side of the debate, private Catholic schools are choosing to exclude students in the traditional classroom. Corpus Christi Catholic School has been serving the Tampa Bay area since the Their mission is to provide an exceptional experience and grow through spiritual, scholarship, and service acts. CCCS has been accredited by the Florida Catholic Conference and National Catholic Education Association, also known as the NCEA. With the NCEA believing that students with disabilities should be excluded, it is no surprise that CCCS follows in their footsteps. In a recent study of 19 Catholic schools, the researchers were trying to determine how many catholic schools actually want the special needs education to be available to those who want it. Of the 19, only eight believed that their mission was intentionally about those with special needs. With the average number of students with specials needs in elementary schools being 8%, it is important for all schools to make it part of their mission. Especially since of the 19 schools, 13 of them had students with Autism Spectrum Disorder (Durrow 481-484). The stated mission of most Catholic schools was inclusive and promotes the availability of programs to all students. With this being said, it is no surprise that when it comes to students with Autism, they are not included in the classroom. Not only in studies, but in a recent conversation I had with Carmen L. Caltagirone, the principal of CCCS, she explained how the schools in Tampa exclude the children. In CCCS, the school will only accept students with very mild cases. This is due to them only having mainstream classrooms. However, the school provides the mild case students with a learning specialist to help them achieve. Thus in mild cases, the learning style is same as the public schools. However, in more extreme cases, students are referred to Morning Star school, a Blew 4 school approximately five miles away from CCCS, where the faculty is specialized in helping students with disabilities. This specialization comes with a heftier cost to the parents of these students. Caltagirone stated, Christi Catholic does charge more because they provide some excellent, very specific programs for students with special Although research tended to bring out the negative sides of the exclusion, there were positives. When a student with autism is excluding, he is getting an individualized support that the only focus in the room is on the student (Durrow 487). When a student is learning a task that is too difficult for them, and he looks around the room to see every other student understanding the material, it could negatively hurt the child. The child deals with the struggle of not understanding why, and it could reduce to violence, seizures, or other major health problems to students with autism (Durrow 488). Excluding the child would allow for a lesser chance of these problems. Looking at both sides of this debate, it causes a person to wonder whether students with autism should be included or excluded from the everyday classroom. With the number of fees associated with sending a student to a private catholic school, it seems as if it would work best to lower the tuition for those with autism, and force the government to use the Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA) to pay for those with disabilities to get them the care they need. This may have to go through the elected Secretary of the Department of Education, Betsy Devos. Simply adding the students to the classroom could allow for the tuition rates to drop and higher an aid to working with the student on a case by case basis. It is very difficult to perfectly assess the growth of those with a disability, but the states should implement a way to try and figure out how to test students and force all schools to do it for those with a disability. Students Blew 5 should not have to be treated differently when they already are just from having a disease. John McCardell, a Harvard and John Hopkins University graduate, lowered tuition fees by ten percent. His school was able to decrease the tuition for those people that had any financial troubles (Howard 38). Thus, if organizations can make lower costs for those who suffer from low-income, they should be able to implement the rest using government funding for those with disabilities. Even on a local level, fundraising and help from districts could solve this financial issue as well. CCCS could simply work with FIN to see the benefits of having students in the classroom, and with the connections FIN has, allow for their school to include all students. Whether a student with autism should be implemented or excluded in the classroom is a heated debate, where public and private funding could help solve the debate. The conflict has risen between the Florida Inclusive Network, who believes in inclusion, and the Corpus Christi Catholic School, who believes in exclusion. However, the IDEA, the local governments, like the Tampa Mayor, Bob Buckhorn, and connections through the FIN, could help eliminate the extra financial struggles of the exclusion and allow all students to be included in the classroom as much as possible. Blew 6 Works Cited About  Florida Inclusion Network. Florida Inclusion Network, n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Caltagirone, Carmen L. Personal interview. 7 Feb. 2017. Durrow, W. Patirck. And Serving Students With Special Needs In Catholic Schools: A Report of Catholic Education 4 (2007): 473-489. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mesibov, Gary B., and Victoria Shea. Inclusion and Students with Journal of Autism & Developmental Disorders 26.3 (1996): 337-346. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. National Catholic Education Association. National Catholic Education Association, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of Education. National Center for Education Statistics: Fast Facts, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What Is  Autism Speaks. Autism Speaks Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.