Ryan Meaney Professor Dori Davis English 102 22 February 2017 The NRA Mission The NRA promotes an idea that anyone from any demographic can own guns indiscriminately without restriction or unnecessary regulation. This organization promotes this image in many ways whether it be through specific media outlets such as browser images, commercials, and a wide variety of other credible sources. These select images are prime examples of the mission to promote safe and informative ideals by establishing ethos, pathos and logos in their own respective ways. The images presented are an important representation of the mindset of the NRA and the image that it promotes. Although these images have their distinct differences the ideas behind them are similar. Starting off, the first image provides a good representation of the mission that the NRA fights for the rights of the people. The image uses ethos pathos and logos to push forward the idea of little to no gun regulations, as well as the idea that weapons should be sold to the public with little to no government interference. The first image represents the NRA image through Ethos or a by the picture identifying the NRA as a body that will not speak for the elites but for the common American. This is an essential marketing tool for the NRA because a sense of comradery around a topic in which so many people are incredibly passionate about can go a long way for cause. An vs. mindset helps boost morale and helps bring about more people who identify with the cause increasing the backing of the mission. The first image also uses pathos to establish an emotional relationship with its audience by the image exclaiming to the audience to and The image pulls on ones emotions with this ideal and the message of how will speak for not the media as it pertains to the elites and the overly influential. This image also establishes a sense of logic and reason by identifying with logos. The first image exudes an aura of logic and reason by the statement will speak for This is important to the goals of the NRA because if the people identify the NRA as a group made of common day people in which they work for the common day people it will increase the appeal. The image also chastises the by denouncing the media and pushing the resolve for the common man. Moving on, the second image is also a prime example of the mission in culture. The second image much akin to the first uses ethos, pathos, and logos respectively to push the resolve forward to the general populous. The second image uses ethos to connect with the audience on an emotional front by using the image of the patriot. The patriot is key by establishing that much alike the noble patriot the NRA is here to fight for the civil liberties of the people. There are not many historical figures that exudes this image quite like the patriot as shown from the second image. The second image uses logos or persuades logically by the persuading the audience to the Second This ideal is an important part of the identity and the combination of ethos by the patriot and logos by the statement the Second Amendment creates an image that likely resonates with supporters of the NRA as well as draws interest to those hoping to learn more from the general populous. The second image also uses pathos to affect the audience by incorporating the patriot and the US flag in the background of the image. The patriot gazing off into the horizon as well as the American flag dancing in the background likely resonates with emotions as it pertains to American ideals. This image brings about American ideals which likely increases ability to connect on an emotional level to the second image shown. These two images represent the messages that drives the NRA to truly work for the people and allow those people to have access to firearms indiscriminately. The two images enhance this ideal by presenting arguments such as may speak for elites but America will speak for and the visual stimulant that comes alongside the image of the patriot fighting for the rights of our constitution. Though the two images try to accomplish the same sentiments they have very distinct differences in style by which they go about persuading the general audience about the significance of their cause. For the case of the first image although pathos is present the image mainly focuses on ethos and logos to persuade the audience about the necessities of the cause. In contrast, the second image deals much more in pathos than logos while also establishing credibility through the image of the patriot. Though the two images differ in practice the ideas behind them be any more similar than the other In conclusion, the NRA is an organization intention is to allow the 2 nd amendment right to be exorcised by little to no government intervention. It is an organization that pushes for these ideals as passionately as they do persistently. These ideals are represented in two distinctly different ways as it pertains to the images shown. All three use pathos, logos, and ethos to push their argument forward but these two images show distinct differences in practice. The first image presents its issues with a more logos and ethos inspired argument while the second image uses more pathos and ethos than the other presented. The images have two distinct but there and resolve be any more similar. 1) 2) Works Sited Protecting the Second  TexasGOPVote. N.p., 19 June 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.texasgopvote.com/government/protecting-second-amendment-007891>. NRA-ILA. We Will Stand And Fight With All  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nraila.org/articles/20160427/we-will-stand-and-fight-with-all-weve- got>. NRA-ILA.  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nraila.org/>.