Marianna Andreucci Theodore Murray ENC1102 26 February 2017 The Influence of Fast Food on the Human Body Easily accessible, cheap, tasty and quick. These are the first positive qualities that come to mind when thinking about Fast Food Chains. However, fast food also has many negative characteristics that are commonly associated to it; for example, it is well-known that fast food chains serve low-quality, processed, unhealthy food that may be deleterious for the human health if eaten daily. Do then then negatives outcomes the positives? The answer of most Americans is no. Since fast food restaurants are easily accessible and convenient, they are very popular in the current American society; in fact, they are so popular that every day more than a quarter of all Americans will eat at fast food restaurants (Pirello). Because of these reasons, the Western Diet is characterized by an over consumption of refined sugars, saturated fat and salt (Myles 1). Therefore, the largest and the unhealthiest fast food chains such as Donuts, Chick-fill-A, Burger King, and Taco Bell should be required by law to use healthier and higher-quality ingredients. Fast food plays a key-role in the current American Society. We live in a society where time and productivity are essential, and many aspects of our daily life are fast-pace. Time management have become crucially important to to keep up with the work-load given at school or at many regular jobs. Many individuals must give up on many personal activities to keep up with the fast- pace rhythm of our civilization. Some of these activities include having the time to cook a meal, having lunch or dinner at home, or going grocery shopping regularly to have fresh ingredients at home. Since many Americans do not have time to do these activities regularly, fast food restaurants are loved by all the busy and hard-working Americans because they are fast and inexpensive. The drive-through option enables people to pick up food while driving to work in a very busy day where there was no time for cooking. In fact, 50 to 70 percent of all fast food orders come from a drive- through window (c). Drive-through is not the only way in which fast food companies are changing our way of life; the amount of food and the quality of food that we eat is also influenced by fast food. For example, study shows that, among ninth graders, a fast food restaurant within 0.1 miles away from their school results in a 5.2 percent increase in obesity rates (Currie 34). Additionally, a fast food restaurant 0.5 miles away from the house of a pregnant women will increases their chances of gaining over 20 kilos during pregnancy (Curries 34). The quality of fast food ingredients is also not getting better over time. The Western Diet is characterized by omega-6 fatty acids, an overuse of salt, and a high amount of refined sugar (Myles 1). These ingredients, if nor used in extreme moderation, will damage kidneys, heart, and immune system. (Myles 1). One of the main used ingredients in fast food restaurants in Hydrogen Oil, this ingredient is used in cookies, bread, chips, fried food and salad dressing. Hydrogen oil contributes to buildup of cholesterol and it can cause plaque in the arteries because it is a saturated fat, which is the unhealthiest type of fat Fast Food Will Kill You: Here - ). Another widely used ingredients in any fast food restaurant that is surely low quality is the meat they serve. Low quality meat can be extremely unhealthy because they contain Antibiotics, Toxins and hormones. The buildup of Antibiotics in meat and the intake of other types of drugs from the animal when it was alive can cause our organs get intoxicated and it can favor many types of cancer, as well as building up antibiotic resistance Fast Food Will Kill You: Here - ). Industries also implant cows with hormones, some of them synthetic, to fatten up the cow before it is slaughter. Studies from the FDA have found that the hormonal intake of the cows can speed up the sexual development of girls and increase the chances to have breast cancer Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human ). The compound that affects growth in girls is called Zeranol, an endocrine destructor that blocks estrogen levels causing growth abnormalities Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human ). Some people may argue that fast food chains are not supposed to change the quality of their ingredients because this may increase the price and make food less tasty. However, even if the food may cost a little more on average, it would still be worth it. In fact, the ingredients have become so unhealthy that the European Union have banned imports of U.S. beef to protect human health Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human ). In addition to this, the food would only taste better with fresher and healthier ingredients and it would increase the life-span of many people that because of their life style cannot afford or do not have the time to cook at home. In conclusion, it was proven that the ingredients used in fast food do not only harm a singular individual but an entire society. These chains also tend to pollute the environment because of the way their businesses are ran. This is why the impact that fast food has on society should not last and higher standard for nutrition should be imposed by The U.S. Government in order to save the life of many Americans. Works Cited Currie, Janet, et al. The Effect of Fast Food Restaurants on Obesity and Weight  American Economic Journal, vol. 2, no. 3, Aug. 2010, pp. 34-68. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human  Healthy Eating SF Gate, healthyeating.sfgate.com/hormones-food-supply-affect-human-body-2194.html. Fast Food Will Kill You: Here -  500 - Internal Server Error, www.progressivehealth.com/mdconalds-fast-food-linked-to-diabetes.htm. Haqqi, Ty. 16 Biggest Fast Food Chains in the  Insider Monkey, 5 Oct. 2015, www.insidermonkey.com/blog/16-biggest-fast-food-chains-in-the-us-375127/12/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. McDonnell, Steve. What Percentage of Sales Are From Drive Through Windows at Fast Food Restaurants?  Small Business - Chron.com, Chron, smallbusiness.chron.com/percentage-sales-drive-through-windows-fast-food-restaurants 75713.html. Myles, Ian A. Fast food fever: reviewing the impacts of the Western diet on  Myles Nutrition Journal, vol. 61, no. 13, 2014, pp. 1-17, Web. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Pirello, Christina. How Fast Food Has Changed Our  One Green Planet, 10 Mar. 2012, www.onegreenplanet.org/vegan-health/how-fast-food-has-changed-our-nation/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.