Tsai 1 Sharon Tsai Instructor Alison Missler ENC1102 14 February, 2017 Child Labor Issue A recent report reveals the fact that most clothes from popular brands like, H&M and GAP might come from sweatshop factories and even from child laborers(Maclntyre). The International Labour Organization (ILO) defines child laborer as those whose work is harmful to their physical and mental development and deprives their childhood, potential and dignity(ILO). One of the most prominent child laborer opponent organizations who is committed to fighting for rights is the United Nations Fund(UNICEF). UNICEF has carried out many projects which reduced the considerable number of child laborers; nevertheless, there are still around 168 million child laborers in the world and around half of them working in hazardous conditions(ILO). In fact, the practices that UNICEF implemented to stop child labors are not as effective as shopping with conscience which shares the same idea with fair trade (Rudell 283). Therefore, it would accelerate the elimination of child labor, if UNICEF collaborate with the Fairtrade International(FLO), whose mission is to promote the concept of fair trade and prevent all forms of forced labors including child labors. UNICEF is a United Nations (UN) program that provides humanitarian and developmental assistance to children and mothers in developing countries. They that Tsai 2 all children have a right to survive, thrive and fulfill their potential to the benefit of a better (UNICEF). In other words, UNICEF is the representative of children who upholds their rights and ensure their safety. Their mission is work with others to overcome the obstacles that poverty, violence, disease, and discrimination place in a (UNICEF). Among those disadvantaged children, child laborers are regarded as one of the biggest victims. Therefore, UNICEF has dedicated itself in reducing the number of child laborers by cooperating with governments in developing countries, civil society organizations, employers, and so forth(UNICEF). For example, in Burkina Faso, UNICEF developed a project with government and civil society partners to provide social resources and service to children who work in artisanal gold mines and it ended up more than 15,000 child workers leaving the artisanal mines (UNICEF). Hence, rescuing child laborers is very urgent and increasing the speed of rescuing is important as well. UNICEF not only provide social sources and services but also offer medical assistance for child wellbeing. Professor Zarkar points out there are five reasons why child laborers are under danger because their jobs are injurious to health, are likely to lead to injuries, involve night work, have long working hours, and affect education (Zarker 23). Among five reasons, top four reasons are related to physical issue; therefore, the most worrying part is most child laborers getting hurt during their work but they are never taken to see a doctor. (Zarkar 24) Hence, UNICEF emphasized on child both mental and Tsai 3 physical health in Nepal(UNICEF). More than 9,000 child laborers living without family care were supplied with goods and services including medical assistance, counselling, mediation with parents and employers for their rehabilitation, reintegration, and reunification with families(UNICEF). Without a doubt, what UNICEF have done changes thousands of child lives and brings them back to happy and safe environments. On the other hand, the Fairtrade International(FLO) put their emphasis on protecting forced labors and encourage the idea of fair trade. Fair trade is based on a partnership between producers and consumers which allows farmers to improve their lives and consumers to reduce poverty through their shopping (FLO). One of the five programs on which FLO focusing is called child and forced labor, which mainly prevents and effectively eliminating all forms of forced labor, child labor, and human trafficking (FLO). ILO states that over 60 percent of child laborers worldwide work in agriculture and this amounts to over 98 million girls and boys; thus, FLO makes efforts in improving child labor issue. FLO works with Fairtrade producer communities to encourage them to establish a child-inclusive, community-based monitoring and remediation system (FLO). They also guarantee that if they find violations to the child labor requirements, they would take immediate action to protect the impacted child or children(FLO). FLO plays an important role in both rescuing child labors and encouraging not to hire child laborers. Fair trade is included in the concept of shopping with conscience, which is seemed as Tsai 4 the method to stop sweatshop industry where a lot of child laborers work. Shopping with conscience means purchasing products from ethical companies and boycotting products from unethical companies (Rudell 283). Consumers are one of the factors to bring about the problem of child labors but now they can take their responsibility to solve this problem through this method. Everyone, as a consumer, should take advantage of shopping with conscience and fair trade to help those child laborers. UNICEF and FLO share some common grounds; however, they never work together to tackle the child labor issue. First and foremost, they all focus on the problems happening in developing countries like China, India, and countries in third world. There is relatively less resources and information in developing countries than those in developed countries. Lack of resources and information might lead to the ineffectiveness of solving problems. In addition, both UNICEF and FLO work hard to improve the situation of child labor but they respectfully collaborate with different non-governmental organizations and apply distinct methods. UNICEF focuses on rescuing child laborers from hazards and provides aids; on the other hand, FLO collaborates with local organizations to make sure that there are no farms hiring child labors, let alone fair trade itself is already an approach to stop child labor. Even though they share same goals, their methods are very different from each other. The compromise between UNICEF and FLO is cooperation in order to increase the efficiency of eliminating the existence of child labor. Some of the actions that UNICEF take Tsai 5 are less effective because they do everything by themselves. On the contrary, the fair trade is exercised by consumers which means not only FLO but also consumers are involved in the action. Manufacturers and providers would be more likely to follow will. Hence, UNICEF should learn more about fair trade from FLO and apply the concept in the future projects to make them work more efficient. Additionally, UNICEF is more influential in dealing with child labors than FLO. They can work together to persuade some private firms or civil organizations to have agreement with them. The article, There Child Labor In Your points out that fair trade has been proven to be one of the most effective tools for improving the problem of child labor There Child Labor In Your Therefore, the compromise between UNICEF and FLO is feasible and they should work together to increase the effect on child labor issue. In conclusion, UNICEF and FLO are two remarkable organizations who are committed to end the existence of child labors. It is sad to admit that there are still millions of child labors waiting to be rescued and the work would be challenging and hazardous. No matter what obstacle they may meet, it will not decrease the resolution of eliminating child labors. They would be more effective and more efficient on this problem, if UNICEF and FLO collaborate to share the resources and communicate their methods toward this issue. Then, the day with no more child labor existing is coming soon. Tsai 6 Works Cited Child Labour in Agriculture  International Labour Organization, ilo.org/ipec/areas/Agriculture/lang--en/index.htm. Child Labour Child Protection from Violence, Exploitation and Abuse  UNICEF Rights & Emergency Relief Organization, Child  International Labour Organization, www.ilo.org/global/topics/child-labour/lang--en/index.htm. Fairtrade International (FLO): Child and Forced  Fairtrade International (FLO): Fairtrade International, www.fairtrade.net/programmes/child-labour.html. Fairtrade International (FLO): Our Vision and  Fairtrade International (FLO): Fairtrade International, www.fairtrade.net/about-fairtrade/our-vision.html. Is There Child Labor In Your  The Huffington Post, 9 Feb. 2016, Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Maclntyre, David. 10 Major Clothing Brands Caught in Shocking Sweatshop  TheRichest, 7 Aug. 2014, www.therichest.com/rich-list/most-shocking/10-major-clothing-brands-caught-in-shocki ng-sweatshop-scandals/. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Tsai 7 Rudell, Fredrica. Shopping with a Social Conscience: Consumer Attitudes Toward Sweatshop  Clothing and Textiles Research Journal. Sage Publications, vol.24, no. 4, October 2006, pp.282-296. Zakar, Muhammad Zakria, et al. Likes A Person Whose Body Is Covered With Health Hazards Faced By Child Laborers In The Brick Kiln Sector Of The Okara District,  Canadian Journal Of Behavioural Science / Revue Canadienne Des Sciences Du Comportement 47.1 (2015): 21-28. PsycARTICLES. Web. 9 Feb. 2017