Lee 1 Lesther Lee Alison Missler ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The new era in bathroom policies Target retail chain recently found itself in complication after it formulated a contentious policy that aimed at allowing its employees and customers to use the bathrooms which matched their gender identity. This new move aimed at benefiting the transgendered individuals as it permitted them to freely use the bathroom matching their sexual identity regardless of being assigned a different sex at birth. However, this policy received mixed reactions from the public, some of whom signed an online petition to oppose the move. The petition was sponsored by the American Family Association and it called upon the public to boycott consuming the products. Despite the federal laws of the Equality Act which prohibits discrimination of any person on the basis of gender, majority of people feel that policy would turn out to bring more harm than benefits. This opposition comes from a point of view which questions the safety of the public in regards to being sexually assaulted by the people who identify as transgendered. Although this could be looked at from a positive point of view that promotes equality, these new bathroom policies have caused Target a decrease in sales by 7%. There is a conflict of interest between Target, which attempts to implement a new policy and federal law that allows individuals from LGBT groups not to be discriminated against for the right to use the restroom in Lee 2 which they belong, and the American Family Association. Trying to mitigate the risks that are likely to occur should men and women be allowed to use each bathroom in the retail store, the American Family main concern is in the unsafely environment they claim this to be. Although Target and the American Family association may have valid standpoints, the goal is to provide an environment that is free of discrimination as well as safe for the everyday public. Target decision is based on a very specific point of view. They believe that champions of diversity and inclusivity, making our business stronger, building our talented team, and working toward a more equal (Target). This implies that Target only has good intentions to comply with the new evolving world and a society which breaks though barriers. As good as this may be, this decision has brought elicited mixed reaction from customers who expressed their disapprovals and have sworn not to consume products leading to the loss of its popularity in the market place. Nevertheless, the decision was massively supported by the individuals supporting transgender rights as well as advocate groups who stand strong in vision that each member has a right not be discriminated against because of his or her gender, identity, or sexual orientation. As sales do continue to decrease, Target solemnly denies the affiliation of the loss in sales to the controversy brought by the new restroom policy. In efforts to amend, Target claims to spend $20 million for single-toilet bathrooms at 300 more stores. bathrooms are not for individuals whose biological sex and gender identity differ, but instead are for people who are uncomfortable with the thought of Lee 3 using a restroom with a transgender (Catholic News Agency). With this investment, Target gives the public an option that holds a common ground. The American Family Association is trying to act responsibly by protecting the societal values that are likely to be lost incase women and men are allowed to share the same public restrooms. They believe move is highly irresponsible and the new policy poses a danger to wives and (American Family Association). In order to compel Target to revoke its decision, this association called upon the members of the public to petition online by presenting their signatures following the oath Target makes the safety of women and children a priority, I will shop (American Family Association). Based on these beliefs, these main concerns linger around the safety of the community. Being similar to this case, some states in United States such as North Carolina have passed federal laws which restricts the transgendered individuals access to the bathrooms of their choosing. The American Family decision of opposing Targets decision feeds of the idea that sexual predators are going to take advantage of an innocent innovation and cause harm to women and children. Looking for a way to fix this situation, the association believes that a reasonable solution translates that should keep separate facilities for men and women, but for the trans community and for those who simply like using the bathroom alone, a single occupancy unisex option should be (American Family Association). This way, safety would be ensured, and it would allow for the average Target consumer to feel comfortable with the decision of using the public restroom in the facility. Lee 4 Based on the above observations, it is very clear that the two major stakeholders competing against each other in this case have a valid point that justifies the decision that was taken by each of them. Target formulated this policy in order to act ethically by complying with the laws of the land and ensure fair treatment of the transgender group by ensuring they are not discriminated against. On the other hand, American Family Association decided to move in order to protect women and young girls who are likely to be abused by the men who use the bathrooms meant for (Wildmo). Since the decision that was taken by each stakeholder is sound and rational, there is need for each to compromise their stand and ensure a common ground is reached that will ensure of neither sides loses. In other words, it will be a win win situation for both stakeholders. This will be achieved through a simple solution which entails Target to locate a member of their staff as a bathroom attendant in each of their restrooms. By doing so, people who find the need to use the bathroom regardless of being transgendered or not, will find the comfort and safety that is required. The bathroom attendants will serve as an extra measure of security that prevents sexual predators and others with harmful intentions meant for women, men, and young children to be violated. Being a very achievable compromise, this decision would allow both Target and the American Family association to fulfill what they stand for. Transgendered individuals would benefit and not be to use the bathroom for the gender they identify (Hallowell), and families would achieve a sense of security. Thus, being a win win situation for the two stakeholders. Lee 5 With that being said, it is very important to for the community to provide a safe and discrimination free environment for everyone. The decision to provide bathroom attendants as an extra measure of security would be the ideal compromise as well as a less expensive and time consuming alternative to the construction of single bathroom unisex stalls or any type of segregation concept. The goal is to fulfill belief in breaking down barriers set by society as well as finding a common ground which allows the American Family Association the reassurance they need concerning the safety of everyday consumers and families. Works Cited Andrews, Travis, M. A danger to wives and Petition to boycott Target over transgender-inclusive bathrooms claims growing support. The Washington Post. 16 April 2016. Diversity &  Target Corporate. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Editor, CNA. After Decline in Sales, Target Tests out Bathroom  Catholic News Agency. Catholic News Agency, 12 Feb. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Halloweli, Billy. Target makes a big move following furor over the transgender bathroom policy. The Washington Post28 August 2016. Sign the Boycott Target  American Family Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Wildmo, Tim. Why you should boycott Target: Opposing view. USA TODAY. 2 May 2016.