Justin Cox Adam Carter ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Low-Income Families Deserve Homes Too Low-income families across America are slowly being driven out of their homes due to an increase in rent rates and the overall living wage in their neighborhoods; this process is known as gentrification. In response, Right to the City was founded in late 2007 with the purpose of protecting communities facing gentrification. Right to the City (RTTC) is a non-profit organization which advocates for the practice of land and housing prices being independent from market speculation. On the other hand, Landlord Association is an organization who believes landlords have the right to raise rates in order to maximize profits. If there is a desire from potential residents to pay more for the same living space a low-income family currently occupies, the Landlord Association is defending the right to pursue that opportunity. This  forces us to ask ourselves whether or not profitability outweighs right to housing. Many believe it is our moral obligation to empathize with and assist those who are less fortunate than us. With that said, it is easy to understand why Right to the City believes that housing a commodity but a human . This is why landlords should be restricted from vacating residents for the sole purpose of maximizing profits. Instead, landlords should be obligated to provide or assist their residents in finding alternative housing prior to raising rent rates, and should only be able to raise rates if their current residents acquire affordable alternative housing. Right to the City was organized in late 2007 as a responses to gentrification and with the purpose of ensuring low-income families, people of color, and LGBTQ individuals are accommodated with affordable housing. primarily focused on establishing an area is free from market speculation and that serves the interests of community building, sustainable economies, and cultural and political (Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier. Mission &  to the City ). In other words, they believe communities have the right to be provided housing that influenced by the market, and should have access to standardized and static rent rates. Right to the focus on preserving communities filled with people of color stems from statistics which show that the majority of areas facing gentrification are predominantly black. According to Lance Freeman, author of Goes the Hood: Views of Gentrification from the Ground Up , the two cities facing the worst case of gentrification are Harlem and Clinton Hill. Of which, 81% and 100% of the residents are black in each city, respectively (Freeman, Lance 45). It is clear Right to the City has a legitimate reason to believe that gentrification is racially motivated. But, Harlem and Clinton Hill are also low-income areas, meaning a high majority of its residents are in the lower-class. These low-income areas are filled with families that are at risk of losing their homes and have alternative accommodations, forcing them to live in shelters or even on the streets. RTTC is focused on keeping these families housed because they are aware of the mental and physical effects homelessness has on an individual. According to Sandro Galea of Boston University, is abundant evidence about the health consequences of homelessness...the homeless have premature than those who are appropriately The negatives that derive from kicking these families out of their homes simply outweighs the positives that emerge from raising rent rates. So, it is crucial we minimize the possibility of these families becoming homeless by encouraging the Landlord Association to accommodate tenants prior to raising rent rates. The Landlord Association is looking out for the best interest of landlords across the Nation. Simply, are in the rental business to make (Landlord Association). So, they will take advantage of any opportunity they have to increase rent rates. Furthermore, the Landlord Association is aware of the increasing isolation of poor, minority neighborhoods and the startling spread of extreme (Buntin, John). Their focus on the displacement of low-income families and their actions certainly racially motivated. As stated before, simply interested in maximizing profits according to market demand. The Landlord Association believes that increases are a foreseeable aspect of every landlord-tenant (Landlord Association). Meaning, rising rent rates are inevitable and should be expected by tenants. But, arbitrary increases in rent rates necessarily provide tenants with an opportunity to find affordable alternative housing. This is why it is important landlords assists tenants in acquiring alternative affordable housing prior to raising rent rates. If we ensure low-income families have access to alternative housing prior to raising rates, many families will no longer be at risk of becoming homeless. This will ensure low-income families are housed and allow landlords to raise rates accordingly. John Butin of Slate magazine also recognizes that all too often fail to fit remedies to the John). In other words, there are no policies in existence (or very few) that ensure tenants are accommodated prior to price increases. Additionally, know all too well that financially sound, long-term tenants are the most desirable tenants because they are lower-maintenance and cost less and are less time consuming than having to seek out new (Landlord Association). It is clear, landlords would much rather keep their current tenants than suffer through the process of seeking new ones. So, they should have no problem accommodating low-income families prior to raising rates. On the other hand, Right to the City should be satisfied by the compromise because it ensures low-income families will have a place to call home. In order to fulfill the compromise, both parties will have to come to a mutual understanding that their individual demands will not be fully met. Landlords have every right to raise rent rates relative to current market prices. With this said, tenants also have the right to not be stripped of their homes due to their inability to keep up with price increases; especially if they built a reputation for being a tenant. Implementing a system which allows landlords to increase profits while simultaneously ensuring tenants have a place to call home, will satisfy both of the parties desires. This is why, landlords should be obligated to provide or assist their residents in finding affordable alternative housing prior to raising rent rates, and should only be able to raise rates if their current residents acquire alternative housing. Bibliography: Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier to the City . N.p., Jan. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Landlord Association Erie, PA November 2001. Web. 14 Feb 2017. Buntin, John. Gentrification Is a  Magazine . N.p., 14 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Freeman, Lance. Goes the Hood: Views of Gentrification from the Ground Up . Philadelphia: Temple U, 2006. Print. Galea, Sandro. Homelessness, Its Consequences, and Its  of Public Health . Boston University School of Public Health, 28 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. UNITED STATES QuickFacts from the US Census Bureau . USA Government, 5 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.