Munoz 1 Marcos Munoz Professor Alison MIssler Enc 1102 12 February 2017 Fracking in American National Parks Fracking in National Parks across America has been a prevalent problem. Drilling for oils and natural gasses causes a lot of issues like making the fresh water undrinkable, and polluting the air of methane gas. This water pollution affects animals that live there and also the people that rely on the freshwater streams or water wells for drinkable water. In a study done by Robert B. Jackson of Duke University, sixty-eight drinking water wells methane levels rose a substantial amount after natural gas drilling and hydraulic fracturing started to occur (David C. Holzman 119). Pollutants in the air caused by fracking causes detrimental environmental issues that harm the ecosystems and wilderness that are inside the National Park (Timothy J. Sullivan 30). Organizations like Americans Against Fracking are actively working to form a national coalition that will ban fracking or slow it down. The National Park Foundation is an organization that actively works in supporting the National Park service and which would help protect and preserve our National Parks for many generations down the road so they could also enjoy them. Both of these stakeholders can play a crucial role in trying to prevent fracking and drilling for oils and natural gasses in the national park by teaming up together and work towards this one goal. Although these two organizations have the same exact purpose, they both have similar ideas which would be helping the environment. If they get the adequate support from Munoz 2 everyone they should be able to achieve their goal if they can meet together and form a compromise for fracking in national parks. The Americans Against Fracking organization is a group of concerned americans that are actively working towards the banning of fracking everywhere in the United States. and over, seen fracking and drilling for oil and natural gas contaminate water supplies, pollute our air and industrialize rural (Wenoah Hunter 2). This shows that fracking is a problem itself. When companies frack in or next to national parks and contaminates their water supply for animals and even humans too. Americans Against Fracking also works toward educating the public about fracking and how it can affect the environment and the people around the drilling and hydraulic fracturing sites. The Americans Against Fracking Organization has already stopped the beginning of fracking in the Delaware River and also have passed over 250 municipal measures against fracking. This stakeholder would be good for solving the problem of fracking in national parks because this group is already trying to stop fracking in general. This stakeholder also understands that fracking is a huge problem that a lot of money is going into, but they are determined to take the small steps towards slowing down the process of fracking and at least making it a little safer for people and the environment.This stakeholder holds a key piece in trying to find a compromise or solution to the problem of fracking in our national parks. If the Americans Against Fracking organization focused on working solely on stopping fracking just in national parks, then that would be a good first step in stopping fracking. Munoz 3 Another Stakeholder that could help find a compromise in stopping fracking in national parks could be the National Park Foundation. The National Park Foundation believes in supporting the National Park Service and protecting the national heritage of the parks and also preserving the National Parks so that future generations could also enjoy them. The National Park Foundation was chartered in 1967 through congress but has been a group since 1916. Since then, the National Park Foundation has built an immaculate reputation that helps them have a good amount of publicity and public trust towards themselves. Having a good reputation could help put a halt to stopping fracking in National Parks. The National Park foundation also educates people about what National Parks are about an shows that worth preserving. They have programs and activities for all ages whether you are old or young.National Parks have started to have attendance spikes that shows that more people are caring for it which is a positive. For example, Shenandoah National Park had an attendance spike of 411,429 people (Vic 3). The attendance spike definitely helps with everyone showing love to the national parks which helps get more recognition out into the public and shows people the the national parks are worth preserving instead of being used for fracking and drilling. This stakeholder is important in finding a solution to fracking in national parks because they can support to the banning of fracking because they are a large organization that has a lot of people supporting them. Also, since they have a good reputation, that will help them when fighting against oil companies because it shows that they are trustworthy. These two stakeholders could definitely find a compromise and work together to stop fracking in national parks. With the active group and work of Americans Against Fracking and Munoz 4 the support of the National Park Foundation, fracking could be stopped eventually. Since both Americans Against Fracking and the National Park Foundation have astounding reputations, they could use that to their advantage while fighting fracking companies. Since Americans Against Fracking wants to ban fracking, they could start in just the national parks and work with the National Park Foundation to put a halt to the oil drilling in national parks. It would be easy for both of these stakeholders to come together because they have the same core foundations which are caring for the environment. Having something they are both passionate about will make it easier for them to work together to end fracking in national parks. Munoz 5 Works Cited About the  Against Fracking . Josh Fox, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Holzman, David C. Methane Found in Well Water Near Fracking  Health Perspectives . National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 01 July 2011. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Sullivan, Timothy J. Pollution And Its Impacts On U.S. National Parks . Boca Raton: CRC Press, 2017. eBooks . Web. 14 Feb. 2017. VIC, BRADSHAW. Shenandoah National Park attendance  Valley-Herald (Woodstock, VA) 06 Oct. 2016: . Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Our  Work National Park Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017.