Sturm 1 Harrison Sturm Professor Staiger ENC 1102.005 14 Feburary 2017 Mature Games: To Be Regulated or Unregulated? Video games today flood the market with a plethora of topics for players to investigate. Mature games are often the most well received but are the most susceptible to scrutiny. To make matters even more complicated for mature games, they are becoming more popular with young audiences due to the content despite the emphasized age limit. To prevent this, concerned parents call for a ban of mature games or at least stricter regulations on the sales of them. Distributors such as Steam state that the sale of the games is an act of freedom of speech and that there should not be a ban. Both groups agree that video games are a source of media but are unable to agree on how to regulate them when sold to young audiences. Lobbyists for regulation do not necessarily believe mature games should be banned from shelves. Instead of attacking the games because of their content, the games are receiving controversy for being sold to young audiences. An example of such would be the game Hatred which was argued by Abigail Elise on International Business Times where the purpose was solely based on shooting young children in school, police officers and innocent (Elsie 1). The argument claims that the rating system is only used as a reference while being blatantly ignored when young audiences immediately purchase the games from retailers. According to an anonymous writer on the news blog The Artifice, parents argue that the distributors need to enforce the age ratings games received since the retailers simply allow Sturm 2 young audiences to purchase video games...with little censorship and concern as to the appropriateness of the (Artifice 2). The article also criticizes parents who are equally responsible since they do not bother to look at the game before purchasing and labels them as hyopcritical parents hypocritical parenting. Another writer for the Gaurdians of the Law, Marcy Magiera, mentioned how several states are pushing for reforms to limit exposure of mature content to young audiences. Countering the claims that the sale of video games are protected by the first amendment, she states that I want my access to violent content (Magiera 1). Claiming that until there are strict laws, she is willing to do the regulations herself to prevent her children from playing mature games. Both articles firmly support the idea of strict regulation on how mature games are sold and to whom. The other side of the argument calls out on freedoms, rights, and liberties to protect the sales of mature games. Most defenders are quick to state that it is the fault of the parents who ignore the content and not the retailer. Others defend the content of games in a different manner. An example of such would be Steam allowing Hatred to be placed back on sale after a brief ban which according to Michael McWhertor on an update in the news outlet Polygon, co-founder Gabe Newell apologized to the developer for the removal from Steam (McWhertor 2). Yale University PhD graduate Craig Fehrman commented that their worst, video games become a of (Fehrman 1). Fehrman argues that videogames are meant to be played and can be seen as works of art in place of pointless wastes of time. Political and moral theorist Marcus Schulzke on the other hand defends the content of the games. Using empirical evidence, Shulzke creates a list as to why he defends the content in mature games. While he does acknowledge the counter arguments, Shulzke states that the fears Sturm 3 are not confirmed or at least issues that should be looked at. In the end, he states that moral status of video games is certainly far from over, but it needs to evolve and learn from some of the shortcomings of previous (Shulzke 10). Both articles defend the content of mature video games as being what they are intended to be; sources of entertainment. Neither conclusion claim that they should be sold to young audiences but state that the games are not the cause of social issues in the world. A potential compromise between concerned parents and distributors such as Steam would be to have retailers understand who they are selling the mature games to and have parents take control over the scenario. A mix of distributor and parental regulation is a likely means of preventing young audiences from playing mature games. Retailers need a steady source of income and are unlikely to stop the sales of mature games. However, they could ask for an identification before they the sell the game and advise parents on exactly what the game entitles. Parents in turn can set regulations themselves as for what games their children are and are not allowed to play. An example comes from Dylan McAndrew, a student, who states that his own parents to play allow him to play certain mature games that sexually graphic and have the approval from my (McAndrew 1). McAndrew also states how certain children are capable of handling sensitive topics and that video games should be seen equal to movies. Before purchasing a game, a parent could look at a review on the game or talk to someone who knows the game to get an understanding of the games content. The answer does not lie just in the parents however. Electronic distributors which lack features that limit certain games can create new software that prevent young audiences from sneaking behind their back. This in turn would cover the electronic retailers when young audiences attempt to avoid parental Sturm 4 regulations. The market of video games is unlikely to change in the near future. Developers are going to continue making games whether they have mature content or not. In turn, retailers are going to continue selling the games and buyers are going to play them. People calling for regulation and free sale are likely to agree that video games are entertainment and that the market is going to continue to develop new games. Video games are a form of media for all ages and a source of income for retailers. To have total regulation would ruin the entertainment of those who enjoy the games and put many retailers out of business. To have no regulation can result in young audiences being exposed to mature content and possibly harming their understanding the limits between a game and real life. Neither extreme works in total favor with society and most certainly causes friction with the other party. The idea of limited regulation, limited freedom, and the general caution of parents is a commonly suggested compromise. Retailers can be able to sell their wares while concerned parents do not have to worry for their children being exposed to mature content. The compromise perfect and young audiences are going to continue playing games. However, it offers a chance to reduce incidents between parents, their children, and the retailers who sell the games. Sturm 5 Sources Cited Elise, Abigail. Game Controversy: Steam Thinks Murdering Innocent Bystanders Is Too  Business Times . N.p., 16 Dec. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Fehrman, Craig. Extra Lives: Why Video Games  Science Monitor 29 June 2010: N.PAG. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. McAndrew, Dylan. Parents Let Their Kids Play M Rated Video , 29 June 2012, www.apacenter.com/should-parents-let-their-kids-play-m-rated-video-games/. Magiera, Marcy. Guardians of the  . Gale, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. McWhertor, Michael. Hatred Is Back on Steam Greenlight  . Polygon, 16 Dec. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Schulzke, Marcus1, marcusschulzke@hotmail.com. Defending The Morality Of Violent Video  & Information Technology 12.2 (2010): 127-138. Science & Technology Source . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Game Content Ratings: Does Anyone Care Artifice , The Artifice, the- artifice.com/video-game-content-ratings-anyone-care-anymore/.