Solanke 1 Emmanuel Solanke Professor Staiger ENC 1102 2/14/17 The legal Drinking Age With the current generation, there has been a debate dealing with the legal drinking age limit. One stakeholder known as the Students for Sensible Drug Policy(SSDP), want the legal drinking age to go down from its current age limit of twenty-one, giving reasons like how people younger can die for the country, and how at eighteen, individuals are officially considered adults per the government. On the other hand, the other stakeholder known as Mothers Against Drunk Driving(MADD), who wants to keep the limit at where it is right now, with reasons dealing with health issues, and less traffic related accidents. Both these stakeholders share something in common, they both care about other people, one does care about a safety, and another care about their freedom and rights. But they both share that goal of caring about others. A compromise between the two stakeholders would deal with lowering the drinking age to nineteen, set a limit on how much these people can consume, and have a health education on this subject. One group who wants to keep the drinking age limit is called Mothers Against Drunk Drivers, also known as MADD. MADD was formed in 1980, formed by a mother who lost her child from a drunk driver, since then, MADD has been making impacts around the country, advocating against drunk or drugged driving, pleading their stories to lawmakers and preventing underage drinking by talking to young adults (MADD 2017). Eric Hoover wrote an article called MADD, the legal drinking age is not up for In the article, he tells the reader that Solanke 2 MADD convinced President Ronald Regan to support legislation that they supported (Hoover 2008). mission is to drunk driving, drugged driving, support victims of these activities, and prevent drunk (MADD 2017). On their stance on the legal drinking limit, MADD wants it to stay where it is, citing that lives have been saved and will continue to prevent more tragedies. The organization states that based on research done, younger folks have a different reaction to alcohol compared to adults, essentially, young adults know how to control themselves with alcohol, they know when enough is enough. MADD states that even lowering the drinking age, alcohol will still be seen as a big deal and will still attract younger folks. To them, younger folks should wait until the legal age before having alcohol, due to safety, their brains are still be developed, and could have effects later in life. On the other hand, Students for Sensible Drug Policy or SSDP, favors lowering the legal drinking age. SSDP is an organization of students who are concerned about drug abuse in their communities and are fighting against the war on drugs. They do this by empowering young people to know their rights, participate in the political process, and push for more (Student for Sensible Drug Policy 2017). The organizations main goal is for individual to make their own decisions, they also want engagement from both sides about these issues. SSDP gives us three arguments as to why the drinking age should be lowered, twenty-one fosters unsafe drinking habits, it gives guardians more options, and its inconsistency with the definition of adulthood. Starting with the fostering of unsafe drinking habits, SSDP explains that due to the drinking limit, young adults are drinking behind closed doors which ends up becoming binge drinking. With regarding giving guardians more options, SSDP tells us that if the drinking age is lowered, it can hopefully plant safe drinking practices with their children, contrast to drinking behind closed doors. Lastly when talking about the inconsistency with the definition of Solanke 3 adulthood, In the United States of America, you are considered an adult at the age of 18, you can vote, serve in the armed forces, even serve on a jury, and SSDP states inconsistencies because they drink alcohol. Even with their differences, they share the similarity of wanting to help others. MADD wants to make sure young adults and the people around them are safe from drunk and drugged driving, and underage drinking. While SSDP focuses on empowers young adults to get involved in fighting for their rights regarding the war on drugs, they advocate for drug use, but advocate for people to make these decisions. A compromise between the two stakeholders would be dropping the legal drinking limit set at the age of nineteen, but a limit on how much alcohol can be consumed would be in place, which would please MADD. There would also be some health education in the school system and its mandatory, it would cover topics on alcohol consumption and drinking responsibly. Scott Walters is a university dean of students wrote a fictional letter, in the letter the country is pictured to have lowered the drinking age but has limits on the young adults mainly the ones entering college. He gives us examples saying how alcohol is served on campus, but checks in place for safety like monthly health and safety inspection, as well as an excise tax on the alcohol that was put in place according to the letter. If a compromise like the one suggested by Walters was put in place, there might not be a change right off the bat, but over time alcohol will stop being so important, accidents could be reduced, and people get to choose how they dictate their lives regarding alcohol. Furthermore, regarding the issue on lowering the legal drinking limit, there are two stakeholders, one who want it lowered for issues related to health and safety. The second stakeholder wants it lowered for issues regarding rights of people. A compromise between the Solanke 4 two would benefit both, supporting both ideals. The compromise would be dealing with lowering the legal drinking age, but limits would be put on people of the age of 19 on how much alcohol they could consume. As well as a health education on alcohol consumption. Solanke 5 Works Cited Hoover, Eric. MADD, the Legal Drinking Age Is Not Up for The Chronicle of Higher Education, vol. 55, no. 11. Madd. MADD - Mothers Against Drunk  MADD - Mothers Against Drunk Driving. www.MADD.org . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Ssdp. Lowering the Drinking  Students for Sensible Drug Policy. http://ssdp.org/campaigns/lowering-drinking-age/ . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Toomey, Traci L. Rosenfeld, Carolyn. Wagenaar, Alexander. Minimum Legal Drinking Age: History, Effectiveness, and Ongoing Alcohol Health & Research World, vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 213. Walters, Scott T. the Drinking Age Were Lowered, What Then? A View from the Year Journal of American College Health, vol. 58, no. 6, pp. 579-581.