Velez 1 Luis Velez Professor Adam Carter ENC1102.034 12 February 2017 Smoking on a College Campus: Who Does It Affect? Students from all walks of life can decide on whether they choose to smoke or not smoke, but in a college environment, there are multiple people that they must take in consideration. Between students, there are those who choose not to smoke and students who wish to smoke on university campuses. The following organizations have two varying views of smoking on campus and both organizations involve a perspective: Americans for Rights fights for protecting all college health for the better since the majority of the U.S. population does not smoke. (Americans for Rights, 2016). C.L.A.S.H. (Citizens Lobbying Against Smoker Harassment) dedicates their time to, the discrimination against smokers by exposing the anti-smoking (C.L.A.S.H, 2017). Both organizations may have their interests invested in students on a general scale, but these students would side with either stakeholder based on their choice whether to smoke or not. Therefore, most people can assume that there can be no solution to the issue of smoking on campus. The compromise that can be established between both the C.L.A.S.H organization and the ANR (Americans for Rights) is for college universities to have designated smoking areas away from any heavily populated buildings. Given most college students experience the beginning of independence from their parents right as they turn 18 years old, where they can purchase cigarettes, cigars, etc. Although they Velez 2 have found a new freedom and wish to exercise it with impunity of their parents taking disciplinary actions against them (grounding, punishment, etc.). They are no different from any other students; they just choose to do something that not all students can agree with or choose to participate in. Not only is personal choice a reason as to why some students smoke, but students smoke due to it being habitual or to suppress their cravings to smoke (Piasecki et al., 328). Besides that, smokers usually stay in a secluded area to smoke, or they congregate with other smokers in a small area that not many people pass by. There are few cases where students (who may often be misunderstood as ignorant) will just take out a cigarette and light it up in a public area, whether it is coming out of class or any building; but not all student smokers do such a thing. Outside of that, since most smokers congregate among themselves in secluded areas, it should not be an issue as to why they cannot smoke on a college campus. In their eyes, they will go out of their way to smoke anyways to not affect anyone. On the other side of the spectrum, there are other students enrolled in a university who choose not to smoke, and would also not want to deal with the effects of smoking, which is where the Americans for Rights. Smoking can have such effects can range from an unpleasant scent to even lung cancer (effects of second hand smoke in the most severe occasion). Besides that, students pay five thousand dollars or more for an average cost of attendance (if living on campus), so they should not also pay for the decisions of other students who wish to smoke wherever they please. From a survey of 1400 students in 2004, 56.3 percent of these students denied being a college smoker (Levinson et. al, 2007). Although social smoking has become a trend over the last ten years, there are still some students who live on campus who do not want to face the issues of secondhand smoke, or have the weekly to monthly event of living Velez 3 in a residence hall and smelling marijuana or cigarettes in their own room. At the University of California Berkeley in 2011, 77% of students (out of roughly fifteen hundred students who lived in a residence hall on campus) stated that they were bothered by secondhand smoke (Garg et al., 2011). Going on the point of being bothered, there are some students who are involved in different clubs and organizations, like fraternities and sororities. As stated by Williams (2015), girls are discouraged from smoking while wearing their due to the fear of misinterpreting their organization by smoking while many of these students end up going to the necessary officials (Resident Assistants, University Police, etc) to attempt to resolve the issue, but with so much effort, many times their pleas for help fall short. In the eyes of a resident assistant, they would see smoking issues in a resident hall firsthand. For example, a resident may have multiple complaints of a roommate smoking in the common area or their shared room, solely because the smoking resident does now wish to leave his room to smoke. That would clearly violate a resident hall policy; but a resident assistant cannot have a resident take disciplinary action unless caught in the act, so the roommate with a complaint must deal with the mess. The Americans for Rights fights for students who would be in this scenario, so that issues such as this should not come across anyone at any time. Although these stakeholders may be pitted against each other, since their goals are complete opposites, but there is still common ground that exists between these two organizations. For example, both the ANR and C.L.A.S.H. are fully invested in the interests of these students across multiple college campuses, both smokers and nonsmokers. Besides that, these organizations have active procedures or goals that are driven to protect the rights of each student based off of the personal choice, whether they decide to smoke or not smoke. Velez 4 Other than that, there is profound support for both parties in their missions, which range from memberships in each organization along with providing evidence for of their cause on their websites. Outside of that, since the main focus of these organizations is the students in college campuses, there is a compromise that can be made that will satisfy both organizations, for the benefit of all students. After examining both sides of this issue of smoking, the best alternative that would be agreeable to both stakeholders would be to implement designated smoking areas throughout a college campus that is away from any residence halls or building with many people (classroom buildings, libraries, cafeterias, etc). This compromise benefits both stakeholders in a variety of ways, even if both smokers and nonsmokers must give something up for the compromise. In the case of the nonsmokers, they would still have occasional issues of running into smokers on a college campus; however, it would only be if the designated smoking locations were in a route to class. The benefits for nonsmokers would include a cleaner environment around their classrooms, residence halls, and areas where people congregate often (cafeterias, libraries, etc). On the other side of the coin, smokers lose the liberty of being able to smoke anywhere on campus, but they can still smoke in the designated areas where smoking is permitted, away from heavily populated buildings (libraries, residence halls). They would also have the benefit of having a cleaner environment to live in and study, even if smokers do not directly see that benefit. Also, having smokers smoke in designated areas only would alleviate the amount of complaints and maintenance costs that residence hall faculty must deal with (in the case of a resident smoking in a residence hall) along with promoting a healthier place for all students to live (Gerson et al, 2005). More importantly, for the sake of both student smokers and Velez 5 nonsmokers, the issue of secondhand smoke would be avoided because the only ones that would have negative consequences of smoking would be the ones who choose to smoke. With having the compromise of making all university campuses have designated smoking areas on campus would benefit both students who smoke and students who choose not to smoke. The biggest regulation to be implanted is to have these designated smoking areas away from residence halls, dining halls, and heavily populated buildings. Even though students who do not smoke may have instances where they are around a smoker, having designated smoking areas on campus will make those instances infrequent. On the other hand, students who choose to smoke are still able to smoke, but it has to be within a certain area on campus. Both sides still have something to lose from this compromise, but in the end, both stakeholders can walk away content with that decision. Velez 6 Works Cited and Americans for Rights. American Rights Foundation, 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 This article is the primary source for college students who choose not to smoke. Although students choose to smoke, there are other students who do not wish to smoke and do not want to deal with smokers, so this organization represents these students. Garg, Trit, Nicholas Fradkin, and Joel M. Moskowitz. of an Outdoor Residential Hall Smoking Policy in a California Public University: A Case Journal of American College Health, vol. 59, no. 8, Dec 2011, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=2&sid=8d191f24-ab3a-4d88-aa4c- 5f12d7e1be39%40sessionmgr120&hid=119&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#d b=psyh&AN=2011-25535-014. Accessed 24 January 2017. This article is written in reflection of the students of the University of California, Berkeley. The article has information regarding a study of how the students have been against secondhand smoke and preferred smoke free environments. This bibliography is full of information that reflects the stakeholder who is against smoking on campus. Gerson, Megan, Jennifer L Allard and Laura G. Towvim. of Smoke-Free Residence Halls Policies: The views of Administrators at 3 State Journal of American College Health, vol. 54, no. 3, Dec 2005, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=07b15c22-d02c-42a3-bf05- Velez 7 3dce01e038e3%40sessionmgr4010&vid=3&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=2005-15599-004&db=psyh. Accessed 24 January 2017. This article explains how strict some universities are getting in regards to their smoking policies. The source also provides some statistics on college smokers from beginning their college careers versus continuing to smoke by the end of their senior year. The article does mention how student smokers may be rebellious to universities making smoke free policies, since it states how would respond in a rebellious manner. Levinson, Arnold H., Shelly Campo, Jan Gascoigne, Olivia Jolly, Armen Zakharyan, and Zung V. Tran. But Not Smokers: Identify Among College Students Who Smoke Nicotine & Tobacco Research, vol. 9, no. 8, 2007, https://academic.oup.com/ntr/article/9/8/845/1063656/Smoking-But-Not-Smokers- Identity-Among-College. Accessed 29 January 2017. This article specifies how students identify as smokers in a five-year survey among eight different universities. The survey percentage of those who do not identify as smokers makes the argument for students who choose not to smoke on a college campus. Piasecki, Thomas M., Allison E. Richardson, and Shawn M. Smith. Motives for Smoking Among College Psychology of Addictive Behaviors, vol. 21, no 3, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ehost/detail/detail?sid=0f8a9043-5469- 427c-a10c- 32b4ec580637%40sessionmgr101&vid=0&hid=126&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2 ZQ%3d%3d#AN=2007-13102-006&db=pdh. Accessed 28 January 2017. Velez 8 This article gives multiple facts about the motives of why college students smoke. It also mentions an experiment done at a college campus in Missouri in order to determine what student motives for smoking, which came down to two main reasons: the desire to reduce craving and by habit. Williams, Jill M. Lighting Up: The Rise of Social Smoking on College  American Journal of Psychiatry, vol. 172, no. 10, 2015, http://ajp.psychiatryonline.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1176/appi.ajp.2015.150506 09. Accessed 25 January 2017. The article explains how common smoking has become a common thing to do among college students. Not only does the journal provide information about the differences of being a smoker versus a nonsmoker, but it also provides an insight into how smoking is viewed negatively among different groups of people, who can be understood as students from different backgrounds (Greek fraternity and sorority members, lower income students, etc).