1 Leah Hansil Adam Carter ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 GMOs: Always Buy Informed The world is changing in many ways and with this also comes advancements in technology. One of these advancements is the ability to genetically modify foods. Genetically modified organisms are the result of a laboratory process where genes are taken from the DNA of a species and mixed into another DNA (World Health Organization). Many might see this technology as a great advancement, although not everyone sees it that way. While the American Society of Plant Biologists (ASPB) believe that genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are the answer to the food shortage problems, other organizations like GMO Free Florida (GMOFF) have a much different opinion. They believe that GMOs will bring more harm to society then they can help it. In order to both help the planet while still giving people their right to choose, both genetically modified foods with proper labeling and non- modified foods should be supplied at grocery stores. The American Society of Plant Biologists is a professional society devoted to the advancement of the plant sciences. The society first originated in 1923 with approximately 200 members. Their goal was to find a way to use science to solve the upcoming food shortage problem (American Society of Plant Biologists). This society has grown and now publishes two world-class journals and organizes conferences that are key to the advancement of the science. They believe that through plant biology, many of the issues concerning food and the farming industry can be solved. Their concerns are not invalid as many studies have shown that extreme climate change is leading to the collapse of food production which causes large food shortages 2 threaten human health and (Cobon 150). Conditions such as droughts, floods, and rising temperatures make it nearly impossible to grow food in what used to be suitable farmland. With these climate changes also comes new bugs and pests that come to feed off the crops. Thomas Malthus, an economist and writer believed that the population would grow faster than food would be able to be supplied (Berkley). With these concerns becoming more of a reality, scientists are turning to the idea of genetically modifying livestock and the seeds used to grow crops. These modified foods include plants with improved resistance against diseases and drought, increased nutrient levels, and even animals with enhanced growth characteristics (World Health Organization). They believe this scientific process is the answer when it comes to feeding our growing population. On the other hand, numerous people in the population are against this new found technology. An organization calling themselves GMO Free Florida hopes that one day the government will ban the release of all genetically modified organisms into the environment. The organization has been together since 2010 and now has over 15,000 subscribers that work with other Florida-based organizations to work towards diminishing GMOs. They have also started many divisions of their own called Right to They claim that GMOs have potential health problem, may cause serious environmental damage, and even violate the rights of the consumers (GMO Free Florida). The information is not made available to the public on the process in which scientists modify the food and therefore speculation arises on how safe these foods will actually be. The three major health concerns with genetically modified foods are toxicity, allergenicity, and genetic hazards (Zhang 121). Those against the process worry about chemicals and toxins entering the food. Since the process is not explained to the consumer there are concerns with what is exactly going to be entering into their body and if have a 3 reaction to it. Therefore, they want to see these foods on the shelves if they could be dangerous to those consuming them. When considering both organizations, even with their opposed beliefs, they have the same over-all goal. Both the American Society of Plant Biologists and GMO Free Florida want what is best for the health and survival of the human population. Although their views differ on how to accomplish this, it is in fact the same goal. The ASPB believes the best way to achieve this is through the means of genetically modified organisms because it will ensure that the human population stays fed over the years. On the contrary, GMO Free Florida believes that feeding the population on GMOs is against the best interest. Even though the opinions differ, they do both want what they believe is best for the survival of all humans. However, there is a way to compromise between the two organizations. Putting both GMOs and non-GMOs on the shelves with proper labeling could be a solution that benefits both groups without overstepping on either side. Genetically modified organisms will be available for those who wish to support the science and for those who are opposed, there will be non- modified foods available as well. As time goes on, there comes the possibility of increased demand on either side. The customers will have the choice of which type of food to buy and with that option being available, grocery stores will also be able to choose which one to provide more of based on demand. Although for this solution to work both sides must give something up. The American Society of Plant Biologists must give up on GMOs being the only source of food on the shelves and GMO Free Florida will also have to give up on non-genetically modified foods being the only item on shelves as well. Those opposed, however, will have peace of mind that the foods that are modified will be properly labeled as to not cause accidental consumption. 4 Labeling of GMOs will also allow consumers to make informed decisions when picking out groceries. Since foods are not currently labeled many customers are consuming GMOs without even knowing. Labeling these foods will bring back the right to choose. With the ASPB wanting the support of GMOs and GMO Free Florida shooting for the banning of all GMOs, it may seem like an impossible debate to fix. Even though with this compromise each organization must give up part of their mission, it will help them reach their overall goal of benefitting human life. This compromise allows both those who support and those who do not support this new technology to have food available to them. It also allows research to be done on if GMOs are demanded by the public based off of sales which will aid in deciding whether or not to continue further with technology. Over time, new decisions can be made on which option is the correct way to go. 5 Works Cited GMO Free Florida. gmofreeflorida.org/about/ 29 January 2017 American Society of Plant Biologists. aspb.org/about/ 29 January 2017 Cobon, David H., et al. Shortages Are Associated With Droughts, Floods, Frosts, And ENSO In Papua New Agricultural Systems 145. (2016) 150-164. Environmental Index. Web. 23 Jan 2017 Just Passed A GMO Labeling Bill. Super Happy About NPR. npr.org/sections/thesalt/ 29 Jan. 2017 Genetically WHO World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 American Society of Plant Biologists. aspb.org/about/history/ 29 January 2017 Ecology of Human Populations: Thomas The Ecology of Human Populations: Thomas Malthus. N.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Zhang, Chen, Robert Wohlhueter, and Han Zhang. Modified Foods: A Critical Review Of Their Promise and Food Science And Human Wellness 5.(2016) 116-123. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017