Patel 1 Mrs. Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Should College athletes be paid? The NCAA is an non profit organization that looks over the college athletes and the universities as an whole. The NCAA has requirements for what an eligible student athletes is, and the rules the student athletes and the universities have to follow are made by the NCAA. One of the rule that is on the NCAA bylaws is that, college athletes are NOT allowed to be paid for whatever reason (NCAA). But the NCAA makes billions of dollars and distributes it to all of the universities, some say thats not fair because big time schools use that money under the table to get the best players and its not fair to small school due to the fact that the big schools get big time players then more revenue made from tickets sales and the increase in the fan base. In the first picture by the NCAA it shows where the NCAA gets all of the money from. Ethos is the appeal of ethics and we see that in the writing that the numbers are from the 2014-2015 year and its tells the viewers how the NCAA gets all the money. The NCAA says that how they get their money and show us where they spent it on. Pathos is the appeal to our emotions, in this picture we are given 3 different ways the NCAA makes money and this affects the viewers because they see that there is a lot of money being moved around and non of that money goes to the student athletes but it goes to universities to make more money. Logos is an a appeal to logic in way to show the viewers the numbers in picture one that show the revenue made the NCAA from broadcasting, small streams and tickets sales make up all of the money Patel 1 that NCAA make but give back to the universities and which means that if a school makes it to a championship game then they have an higher revenue and thats not fair to small schools because the big schools does extra things with the money they get from big time games while small schools get nothing and therefore there is no way for them to get extra revenue. Kairos is the timeliness and in the first picture is the year the data was gathered which was 2014-2015 and the numbers we see are from big time broadcast networks, small streamers and ticket sales (NCAA). The NCAA tries to show that they make a lot of money from man different viewers and this how they get all of their revenue button of it goes to the NCAA. The second image is a picture from the NCAA showing the college to pro rate. Ethos is presented in this by the NCAA being the source and them saying that this this is the rate at which college athletes go to the pros shows us that the rate is really low and thats when we have pathos, the viewer of the table would see that lees than 10 percent of athletes make it to the pros and that is crazy because it goes to show that the other 90 percent either drops out or cant make it to the graduate school. Logos is also presented in this blog by showing ups the use of numbers and that basically knowledge from the NCAA to the viewers. The NCAA shows that not many student athletes make it to the pros and the viewers believe it because they are stats taken by the NCAA and so the viewers believe it. Kairos is used in the second picture t show that there is no positive from going to play college sports because you either go pro or 90 percent of time you just get a bachelor degree and a bachelor degree in our time is like a high school diploma. The professional businesses are looking for more qualified people end so most of these college athletes have jobs after school. Patel 1 Both of theses pictures goes to show that athletes should be paid, because the NCAA seems to give a lot of money the big schools because there is an higher fan base there but they see that the small schools suffer from this. Small schools have the facilities like big schools do and therefore big time players go there. Another big reason is that big schools also pay athletes undertake table and get caught. So this is unfair to small schools and thats why the college to pro transition is really bad. If athletes were to be paid then they would have a chance to go to graduate school so they can get better jobs, so basically they can have a career after sports. (Complex) Patel 1 Patel 1 Work Cited Estimated Probability of Competing in Professional  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 02 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Lodge, Alexander. Afraid of the Big Bad NCAA?...The Ed V. NCAA Impact on the Amateurism  Journal of Corporation Law, vol. 41, no. 3, Spring2016, pp. 775-793. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=buh&AN=114455550&site=eds-live. Maurice Peebles Deputy Editor Complex Sports. Twitter. IG. 7 Common Sense Reasons Why College Athletes Should Be Paid (According to Jay  Complex. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Silverstein, Yisroel, CLC. National Collegiate Athletic Association  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 10 Feb. 2017.