Braganca 1 Marcela Tozatti Fiuza de Braganca Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Braganca 2 Visual Rhetoric Propagandas or any other type of visual advertisement is extremely important when trying to reach and to create an impact in the subconscious. Many organizations invest their advertisements in visual content that will eventually create a greater influence in the  process of the audience, and PETA does no different to turn attention to their cause. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals the greatest independent organization in the world that promotes animal rights awareness around the globe with the purpose of ending animal abuse by through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest  Our Mission the use of advertisements with different visual appeals is definitely one of their greatest tools to widely spread their missions across the world. In the first advertisement PETA focus on taking advantage of Pamela image and morality to bring attention to the awareness, the celebrity  strategy. On the other hand, the second image focus on the emotional aspect of the audience by selecting a picture of a baby cow and the track of her beating  to make people sentimental towards their cause. As seen, advertisements are constructed in its most provocative and influential way to cause some kind of impact in life, and here are two examples of advertisements in which they have used different rhetoric appeals, in this case focusing mainly on morality and emotion, to change behavior toward animals. Every rhetorical appeal has its own importance on either a paper or on a simple advertisement, which is responsible for the connection between the audience and the stakeholder. In this case, we have two different advertisements that its purpose is not to achieve those who Braganca 3 already care for the animals, but on the contrary, to achieve the people who had never thought about animals as living beings, only as humans resources. To call their attention to the cause, PETA has to be very authentic and understand that different people will be affected differently depending on which advertisement they are looking at. According to Lane, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides, authors of Rhetoric Really Matters, appeals are how rhetoricians engage their  (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds.) and for instance the organization has to, in a way, think with different brains. people may be more sentimental than others and some people may be more rational than others, for instance PETA have to propose a range of different advertisement to be able to engage their audience. On the first image, as mentioned before, Pamela image in being used as the main strategy to call attention; maybe someone might change habits because they admire her and wants to be just like her. On the second image, there is no celebrity emphasizing the advertisement, but there is a baby cow and her heart rate that will definitely touch those people who are more sentimental. As seen, that the two advertisements focus strongly on different rhetorical appeals, ethos and pathos respectively, but both succeed on promoting their message to their audience. One of the main strategies used by organization is the use of a public figure to enhance animal awareness over society, and they have done it with many different celebrities to increase this propagation, including Pamela Anderson. According to a research conducted by Corey Lee Wrenn that analyzes the strategy of using female figure in advertisements, she stated that The professionalized organization must prioritize survival, and female vulnerability is thought to ensure consistent revenue and public (Wrenn, 132). In fact, Braganca 4 using sexuality as an strategy might not be ethical but, as stated, it gives the organization what they want, attention of the public to their cause. In figure 1, the propaganda is composed by all of the four rhetorical appeals (logos, kairos, pathos, ethos) to challenge our ethical beliefs regarding animal treatment, but using credibility seemed to be the main focus of this advertisement. However, besides her image, the sentence ALL ANIMALS have the same  also emphasizes the idea that cows or any other wild animal should not be seen as a source of food for humans. Yet, they use logos to point out how contradictory and wrong is to eat animals, since they are living beings that deserve as many rights as humans do. goal, as stated, is to spread animal rights awareness and the first step towards succeeding this fight is by encouraging people to disrupt traditional habits imposed by society and encouraging new ones, such as changing their eating diets. Besides using logic to state a claim, the appeal to urgency also has a big influence in overall advertisements, and the sentences Go  or Go  have became the main logo of recognition that they use it to impose the considerably right lifestyle that people should have been following right away. In this advertisement, emotional appealing is not as much emphasized comparing to the others rhetorical appeals. The purpose of this image was more to cause an reflection than to make us sentimental, in a way that would make people ruminate why would it be fair to chop up animals and make them source of food when they look so similar to people, as demonstrated in body. However, in the sentence Have a Heart, Go  they seem to be appealing to feelings just enough to make people question their own moral beliefs as if they were heartless to be supporting the animal industry. Lastly, PETA is the greatest organization that fights for animal rights in the United States, hence everyone know the Braganca 5 tremendous influence this organization has in the nation. For instance, PETA does not only own respect among activists, but owns it from all kinds of people, and for that reason they are their own source of credibility and morality which is reinforced with images. On the other hand, while image 1 is appealing more to self reflection, the second advertisement prioritises the sensation of repentance. To make the audience involved in the cause, the sentence A BURGER stops a beating  make people to stop and realise that a burger is not only a piece of food, but that it was once an actual living being that has been victimized. According to a research on the effectiveness of violent advertisements on the audience conducted by Hillary A. Leonard and Christy Ashley, found that consumers distinguished ads based on the perspective from which the violence is presented (the victim or the perpetrator) and the deservingness of the (Leonard, Hillary A. and Christy Ashley, 88). In other words, the purpose of this advertisement is not to make people feel frightened or shocked, but to guide them to think on the scene of someone killing an inoffensive creature and then making people feel guilt. Yet the logic claim is clearly stated on the image pointing out the indignation of the people that are consciously killing animals only for the sake of their own pleasure. In the sentence you may not value our own life, but she values  two rhetorical appeals were joined together, kairos and pathos. As seen, the sentence is in present tense, making the person who is reading to feel blame about the  of an innocence animal, as shown in the picture. As the purpose of the advertisement, this statement is supposed to make people feel sad about it and supposedly to make people change their eating habits. When people order a burger on a restaurant they do not tend to associate the dish with animal that had to been killed for pleasure; for instance, the heartbeat is also drawn in the figure to show that the piece of Braganca 6 meat in plate was part of a living being that owned a heart and not merely from the self of a supermarket. Just as image 1, the second advertisement also has the logo Go  which clearly states the goal of the organization, to promote an ethical life to animals. Expressly, PETA really want to get inside of head to change their ideology and certainly one of the most common ways to succeed it, is by provoking the feeling of remorse. These two images have a lot to describe on their own, and no description was needed to the understanding. With the proper use of the rhetorical appeals any message can be encoded and processed with a positive outcome of the matter of that specific advertisement. performance and creativity have guided their fight over years and years that certainly had a participation on gathering the total number of million members and  Our Mission fighting over this cause. These two advertisements show how the different use of visual appeals promotes different sensation in conscious, rather to be a reflection or a sentimental effect. Braganca 7 Work Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Leonard, Hillary A. and Christy Ashley. Exploring the Underlying Dimensions of Violence in Print  of Advertising , vol. 41, no. 1, Spring 2012, p. 77. Our Mission About PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Wrenn, Corey Lee. The Role of Professionalization Regarding Female Exploitation in the Nonhuman Animal Rights  of Gender Studies , vol. 24, no. 2, Apr. 2015, p. 131. .