Benrube 1 Jared Benrube Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102: Composition II 26 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric and the National Popular Vote For nearly three centuries, the Electoral College has been used in the United States to elect our president. While the system has worked for the most part, two of the past four presidential elections had the candidate that won the popular vote lose the overall election. These results have caused some to believe that the Electoral College is an outdated system. One stakeholder that supports this belief is the National Popular Vote. The creators of the NPV have the belief that every vote should matter in the presidential election, and that the Electoral College system leaves the voice of the voters unheard. Two of the pictures that they use help support their beliefs. The first image is a map of the United States that uses blocks to represent each electoral vote, and the second image is an advertisement used to inform the audience of what they can do to help. Through the use of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos in the images provided on their website, the creators of the NPV are able to educate people on why the Electoral College should be fixed. The National Popular Vote is an interstate compact that was created in 2006 as a method of combatting the Electoral College system. The creators of the NPV bill believe that the presidential election should be determined by the winner of the popular vote, rather than the electoral vote. According to the NPV website, the bill has been enacted into law in 11 states that are in possession of 165 electoral votes. When the bill is enacted in enough states to have at least 270 of the electoral votes, it will go into full effect (National Popular Vote). Through the use of Benrube 2 images and videos on their website, the creators of the bill are able to inform their audience about their beliefs on how the Electoral College should be fixed. A rhetorical analysis will be done on two of the images used by the stakeholder that will be referred to as and The first image is a map of the United States that uses blocks to represent the number of electoral votes each state has. That map is color-coded to show the states that have the NPV enacted into law, the states that have passed it in one or both legislative chambers, and the states that have or had a hearing for the bill. The second image is an advertisement that was used on their Twitter to inform their audience about their ability to contact their state legislators about the NPV bill. While it may not be apparent, both images use visual rhetoric through the use of rhetorical appeals to persuade their audience about learning more about their ideas and beliefs. Benrube 3 Ethos is one of the methods of persuasion that is used in both images. According to Jessica McKee and Megan McIntrye the book, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, ethos is defined as, method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman 27). The way each image uses ethos is vastly different. For ethos is used through the use of a map that uses squares to represent the number of electoral votes each state has. This shows that the image is credible because the map is being used as a graph to show how many electoral votes each state has as well as which states have and enacted the bill. uses ethos through the use of the NPV logo. This tells the audience that the image is reputable because coming from the organization that is behind the bill. A rhetorical appeal that usually goes hand-in-hand with ethos is logos. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic and reason as well as being the consistency and clarity of an argument (Hoffman 32). shows this through the use of a map graph that provides a statistical representation of what states have and enacted the bill. In logos is used through the text on the image. The image provides the audience with information on what they can do to contact their legislators about fixing the Electoral College. In the article Should There Be a National Popular  John Koza, one of the creators of the NPV bill, says that around 75 percent of voters support the NPV according to polls (England). This supports the ethos of the two images that are used because in the map shows that only a select few states have not had hearings for the bill, and through the audience is given the resources they need to show their support for the NPV. Another rhetorical appeal used in both images is pathos. Pathos is an appeal to emotion and it is used to make the audience feel a connection to the argument. While pathos fully Benrube 4 noticeable in an argument can be made that the colors used to color code the map can be considered pathos. On the map there are 5 colors used to represent the status of the bill in each state. Green represents states that have enacted the bill into their law, orange represents states that have had the bill passed by one legislative chamber, yellow represents states that have had the bill passed in both legislative chambers but in different years, blue represents states that have had a hearing for the bill in at least one legislative chamber, and gray represents states that have not had a hearing for the bill. The colors of the map makes the audience feel that most of the US is supportive of the bill, and they may contact their legislators if in one of the states that had a hearing for the bill. In the text informs the audience about the ability they have to tell their legislators about the NPV bill. Along with this text, the American flag in the background make the viewers of the picture feel that they are helping their country. The final rhetorical appeal is kairos which is defined as, appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 41). presents kairos through the fact that a map that can change at any time depending on if a state passes the bill. In kairos is shown through the urgency of the text. The phrase the link is underlined and tells the audience that they should act fast. The reason for the sense of urgency is because this picture was uploaded on to the Twitter on the day that the Electoral College places their votes in the presidential election. Both images do a great job of using rhetorical appeal to inform the viewers of the image about the NPV bill and what they can do to help. The map in tells the audience where the bill has and been enacted. If the bill enacted in the state of the person looking at Benrube 5 the map then they have the ability to contact their legislators. This is where comes into play. Since was posted on Twitter with a provided link to where the audience can contact their legislators, the audience can act share the image so that others can act too. The images that the creators of the NPV use get the message making across to the audience, and persuades them to take action. Benrube 6 Works Cited England, Trent and John Koza. Should There Be a National Popular  U.S. News Digital Weekly, vol. 4, no. 38, 21 Sept. 2012, p. 15. EBSCOhost Web. 26 Feb. 2017 <search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=82209042&site=ehost- live>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. National Popular  National Popular Vote. Web. 26 Feb 2017. <http://www.nationalpopularvote.com>.