Alummoottil 1 Alvin Alummoottil Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Blunt Truth: The Legalization of Marijuana Ganja, Pot, it goes by many names, but most people know it as marijuana. In the current age marijuana is regarded as a medicine to some, and as a dangerous drug to others, yet it is simply a plant. Marijuana has been growing in this world longer than most civilizations. Its use has been dated back to 2700 BCE, where it was used in China and India to treat ailments like muscle spasms, depression, pain, insomnia, among many other things. Marijuana was used to treat sour eyes by the ancient Egyptians in 2000 BCE, and the Chinese even used it as an anesthetic in 200 CE. Ironically enough in the nineteenth century marijuana was used in the United States to treat a variety of issues ranging from appetite and gout to cholera and sexual interest (Nelson 1-2). Today marijuana is used (in states where it is legal) therapeutically and as treatment for a plethora of illnesses such as glaucoma, post- traumatic stress disorder, migraines and many others. However, marijuana is still debated as a hot topic due to the stigma that surrounds this mysterious plant. With every debate comes two sides who hold different viewpoints on the matter at hand. One stakeholder that has a vested interest in the legalization of medicinal marijuana is The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, otherwise known as NORML. NORML is an American non-profit organization based in Washington, DC whose aim is to move public opinion sufficiently to achieve the legalization of non-medical marijuana in the United States so that the responsible use of cannabis by adults is no Alummoottil 2 longer subject to penalty. One stakeholder who is strongly opposed to the legalization of marijuana is Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana also known as CALM. CALM is an all- volunteer Political Action Committee dedicated to defeating any effort to legalize marijuana, their belief is that Federal laws against the use, cultivation, and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or softened. Although NORML believes that marijuana should be able to be consumed by adults responsibly, and CALM believes in defeating any effort to legalize marijuana, they both promote the wellbeing of citizens in common and can compromise by working to achieve the federal legalization of only medical marijuana. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws has been working since 1970 to reform marijuana laws in the United States. They have been supporting movements across the country to achieve their goal of changing the public opinion of marijuana to achieve the legalization of non-medical marijuana in America so that adults can responsibly use cannabis without the fear of facing penalty. They are not only involved in the judicial process of legalizing marijuana, but they are also active in informing the public and dispelling common myths that surround marijuana. For instance, NORML works with other pro marijuana groups to hold public rallies and informational meetings that are aimed at gaining public support for the good that could come from the legalization of the plant. NORML also supports the medical applications of marijuana such research that is being done on the therapeutic element of marijuana known as Cannabidiol or CBD. There has been a great deal of research regarding the medical qualities of CBD and this can be seen by the CBD alternatives that have been innovated in place of pharmaceutical medications, which are commonly known to have adverse side effects and addictive qualities. This is seen in a 2014 report published by the Journal of the American Alummoottil 3 Medical Association (JAMA) Internal Medicine, which claims that enactment of statewide medicinal marijuana laws is associated with significantly lower state-level opioid overdose mortality (Armentano 2). NORML is for the legalization of non- medical (recreational) marijuana and holds that adults should be free to responsibly consume cannabis. There have been proven results on the usefulness of Marijuana as a medication for wide variety of ailments. A 2003 study by the University of Milan in Naples, Italy reports that compounds in marijuana inhibited the growth of glioma cells in a dose dependent manner and selectively targeted and killed malignant cancer (Sircus 264). Furthermore, the more research that is done with the CBD component of marijuana, the more promising the results. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana, also known as CALM is an all-volunteer group that is determined to defeat any effort to legalize marijuana. They work to educate the public of all the damages that marijuana causes such as social damage, loss in productivity, absenteeism, and financial strain. CALM works with other anti-drug organizations by actively opposing pro- marijuana movements to reach their ultimate goal to end the fight for marijuana legalization. CALM supports studies that depict the negative aspects of marijuana. This is depicted in a report by World Net Daily a popular internet news source, which claims that the legalization of marijuana is linked to the increased use of heroin and other opiates. The study reports that of illicit substances has the appearance of creating freedom, but, in reality, it expands the use of the opiate of the masses that allows the statists to (Loudon 1). With studies like these published on their website, CALM aims to discourage the public from consuming marijuana by exemplifying it as a gateway down a slippery slope. With donations from volunteers and generous donors CALM is focused on the defeat of all pro marijuana legislation and hopes that all federal regulations that outlaw marijuana are upheld. CALM Alummoottil 4 provided funding for a study conducted by The Department of Housing and Urban Development, a department of the US government which oversees home ownership and analyzes hosing trends. The study stated that the four states with the highest homelessness rate are also those which have legalized recreational marijuana (Gazette 2). This study was supported by CALM as more evidence that points towards marijuana as a negative influence in the community and further their agenda against the legalization of marijuana. Although both stakeholders are staunchly against each other in their goals, there is still hope for compromise. Even though they both have opposing views on marijuana, they both have public safety and education in mind. With that being said, both stakeholders could come to a compromise by legalizing only medical marijuana federally. This can be accomplished if both stakeholders set aside their differences and work together to get this legislation passed in Congress. Both organizations have strong lobbyists in Washington, and if they both worked together this compromise could come to fruition. With this compromise both stakeholders would have to make some obvious concessions. NORML would have to sacrifice its goal of legalizing non-medical marijuana in the United States, and only medical marijuana would be legal. That means only patients who have been prescribed medical marijuana by a doctor would be able to buy it. CALM would have to concede with its goal of opposing the legalization of marijuana too and allow for the legalization of only medical marijuana, for it can only be purchased by a prescription. This compromise would benefit both sides because most people who use marijuana do so for therapeutic reasons such as to treat an illness (Nunberg 4-5). NORML should be satisfied with this compromise because the federal legalization of medical marijuana would cater to those people who desperately need this type of medicine. While CALM should be happy with this compromise because instead of allowing for the legalization of all marijuana, the Alummoottil 5 legalization of only medical marijuana greatly limits the number of those who are able to buy marijuana to those who are or legal age and are in real need it, rather than adolescents who are merely attempting to use it for mischievous purposes. The legalization of medical marijuana has proven to be beneficial in many places across the country. Colorado has paved the way for the legalization of marijuana in America. With the immense amount of tax collected from the sale of medical marijuana, Colorado has been able to fund a vast number of public projects which range from the creation of public parks to the improvement of public schools (Way 1). Using the model that Colorado has provided the entire country can benefit from the tax revenues that are collected through the sale of medical marijuana. These funds could be used towards public welfare projects such as social security, public roads, community parks and many more. With the success story of Colorado as evidence, this compromise suggests a viable solution between these two stakeholders. In summary, this compromise is a healthy medium for both sides and successfully keeps in mind the goals of both stakeholders. By legalizing only medical marijuana the risk of kids having access to marijuana is eliminated because medical marijuana can only be bought with a prescription from a doctor and registration with the state in which one lives. Marijuana may have a great deal of stereotypes and stigmas surrounding it, but it is just a plant that has been around as long as civilization itself. If both stakeholders could come to this viable compromise, who knows of the progression this country could hope to see in the future. Alummoottil 6 Works Cited Gazette Editorial Board. EDITORIAL: Experts Link Homeless Surge to  Colorado Springs Gazette. Gazette, 22 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Loudon, Gina. Why Pot Legalization a  State of Mind. Worldnetdaily.com, 11 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Nelson, Elizabeth Marie McGhee, PhD. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Nunberg, Helen et al. Analysis of Applicants Presenting to a Medical Marijuana Specialty Practice in Journal of drug policy analysis 4.1 (2011): 1. PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Paul, Armentano. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, 28 Aug. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Sircus, Mark, Dr. Compendium Surviving Cancer - Natural Allopathic Medicine. Raleigh: Lulu, 2014. Print. Way, Art. Colorado and Washington Laid the Groundwork for California to Set the New Gold Standard of Marijuana  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance, 4 Jan. 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.