Wilcox 1 Mitchell Wilcox Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 January 2017 Gas vs. Electric Cars With new innovation and technology, there are more available option when customers want to buy a new car. When consumers take into consideration what their vehicle could possibly do to the environment, the option of an all-electric motor is brought up. Organizations such as Geenpeace, an international environmental organization, support the production and sales of electric cars. They support these new and innovative vehicles due the positive effect they have on the environment and the elimination of carbon dioxide emissions. However, strong American motor companies such as Ford have built their business around car models with the traditional combustion engine. Ford needs its traditional gas combustion engine models because they allow them to produce quality but affordable cars. In competitive automobile market, environmental organizations like Greenpeace are in a constant dispute with major motor companies like Ford that produce traditional gas combustion engines, but through the utilization of hybrid cars, CO2 emissions can be greatly reduced. Through the production and use of main car models and the traditional gas combustion engine, these, like all, vehicles contribute to air pollution through carbon dioxide emissions. According to corporate Company Ford Motor Company was created in 1903. In that same year on July 23, 1903 they produced and sold their first car, the Model A. Over 100 years later, not only is Ford one of the largest American made motor companies, it is also one of the largest motor company. Ford has built, and set the Wilcox 2 foundation of their company around the traditional gas combustion engine. The most famous engine of them all created by the founder of Ford (Henry Ford) is the traditional V8 engine. According to to Date as of December 13, 2016 since 2009 most of best sellers are still using the V8 engine. Also it reported a demand for passenger cars and as well as continued strong sales of commercial This means larger cars that also burn off more amounts of gas are being bought by the American people. Ford has built their foundation of their company on the traditional gas engines. They need the gas engines models if they want to remain the American motor company giant that they are today. Greenpeace, one of the largest international environment organizations is now supporting the production and sales of all-electric automobiles. Greenpeace wants plug in electric vehicles to move towards significant role in (CE Delft 2010). Greenpeace is backing companies that produce electric cars due to the fact that electric cars sustainably cut CO2 emissions and improve air Greenpeace reported an alarming statistic: since 1990 CO2 emissions have increased by 38% (CE Delft 2010). The production and use of electric cars means that the progress in reducing CO2 emissions could be monumental. Greenpeace is confident that electric cars are not only the more environmentally friendly, but also if automobile sales did turn to a market dominated by all-electric cars, there would be ample generated from a large range of energy sources, including renewable sources with virtually zero CO2 (CE Delft 2010). main goal is not to sell automobiles, it is solely to protect the environment and through the support and use of electric cars it could have a serious impact on the environment. Wilcox 3 With new technology, a new area of the car market is available to car customers; the hybrid car. A hybrid car is half combustion engine, half electric engine. For Ford Motor Company and Greenpeace, the hybrid car could be the best compromise; Ford could still make a profit while helping the environment at the same time. According to Report on Hybrid Electric Vehicles powered by a combination of an optimized, high efficiency internal combustion engine and electric These new hybrid cars are not only reducing the consumption of fuel, but also reducing the CO2 emissions produced by the car. new lineup of hybrids are catering to the customer for fuel efficiency, and the environment (Sustainability Report on A ofll hybrids can run on all gas power, all electric power, or a combination of both depending on the speed and distance the car is going (Sustainability Report on HEVs). The production and use of the hybrid car seems to be the most efficient and feasible compromise in the efforts of Ford to continue sales but also reduce CO2 emissions. In efforts to remain the face of American motor cars, they have to maintain a certain standard. The standard is traditional gas combustion engines, but the company for over a decade now has been branching out and making hybrid cars (Sustainability Report on HEVs) . Greenpeace, one of the largest environment organizations, discusses the need for major reduction in CO2 emissions (CE Delft 2010). In competitive automobile market, environmental organizations like Greenpeace are in a constant dispute with major motor companies like Ford that produce traditional gas combustion engines. The production of hybrid cars is the next best thing in terms of improving the environment, reducing air pollution, and catering to the needs of the success of a big time American company. Wilcox 4 Works Cited Delft, CE Green Power for Electric Cars - Development of Policy Recommendations to Harvest the Potential of Electric  Greenpeace EU Unit. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Delivers Best November Year-to-Date Sales Since Driven by Growth in Commercial Vehicles, Passenger Cars (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ford Motor Company  Ford Corporate. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Hybrid Electric Vehicles  Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEVs) - Sustainability Report 2014/15 - Ford Motor Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.