Victoria Winsor 2/26/2017 ENC 1102 Ads for Vegan/Vegetarianism PETA is an organization that stands for People and the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Being such large and well known organization, they have accumulated various ads throughout the years that play a big part in earning support from people and getting their word and mission known. Most of their ads show a large amount of pathos as they seek to make people try and relate to animals. However, every ad needs not only a sense of pathos, but ethos, logos, and kairos. I have chosen two ads by PETA on the subject of vegetarianism that appeals to all four of those. The first image shown is a picture of a girl hanging from her wrists along the side of two pigs hanging in a similar way. They are in the same conditions, only half of the pigs body is present, as is hers. Both of their insides are removed, exposing a gaping hole. There is an enormous amount of pathos in this image that PETA has appealed to; guilt, uneasiness, sadness. Seeing pigs being hung in such a way is something people are accustomed to seeing, but when you put a person in the picture, it is now something to be concerned about. In this sense, it makes your recognize that without realization, human life is most often valued over an animals life. The logos in this ad comes from putting a human and an animal on the same scale, PETA puts into perspective for its viewer. We are now not only looking at a pig after it has been slaughtered for meat, but looking at what it would be like if we did something like that to a human. The act no longer seems normal, but inhumane. Shown in the left hand corner is logo, which is where the credibility comes from. Not only is this image making a statement but it is also accredited by one of the biggest advocates of animal rights and equality in the world. The image and logo alone is enough to send a message, however PETA decided to include text to make the image more powerful, it states: on Meat? Go This could be considered a call to action, calling out to the viewer that this is what is happening right now, and change needs to happen fast. The second ad is very different than the first, in the sense that it is simplified. The image being shown is a chicken getting ready to eat a human leg, with the words in the upper left. It is very minimalistic with few words, yet it sends a very powerful message. Again, PETA has put a situation into perspective; instead of a human eating a chicken leg, it is a chicken eating a human leg. By doing this, PETA is almost making the viewer uncomfortable, and maybe a little disturbed. How is it normal for people to eat animals, yet somehow appalling to hear an animal has eaten a human, it the same thing? That is the logical question PETA is bringing fourth with this image, creating a strong feeling of guilt. Again, their logo is clearly shown in the bottom right hand corner, to show that extensive research has been done and can be accredited by a very big organization. While those senses of ethos, pathos, and logos are very clear and important in this ad, the text included brings fourth Kairos; another call to action. It typed in large letters, and it capitalized, but the subtlety of it makes it stab right through the heart even more. Nevertheless, while these images are extremely different, they both are doing the same thing, which would be putting things into perspective. It is important to notice the use of minimal text in both ads, it sends a message on how seeing can change ones perspective on something as opposed to hearing something. They both have a strong appeal to pathos as main way to gather attention from their viewers seems to be by creating a level of guilt. Their pathos is what will appeal to their Kairos. In other words, if PETA can make you feel a certain amount of guilt that is a call to action within itself. Typically when someone feels guilty enough about something, they want to make a change very quickly, and both of these images do just that. As eating meat is something that people have been accustomed to seeing for a very long time, it has no effect. However, when the roles are flipped, it brings forth awareness. PETA has a way of showing instead of telling. People hear all the time that animals are treated as objects and tortured for meat, and have never actually seen it. While these images super graphic, the first shows how farm animals are treated and the second shows what it looks like. Both incorporate the use of humans to make it more relatable. Most of their ads show a large amount of pathos. However, every ad needs not only a sense of pathos, but ethos, logos, and kairos. The two ads I have chosen incorporate all four of those. Works Cited http://www.peta.org/