Reges 1 Caroline Reges Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.05 26 February 2017 Advertisements of the World Wildlife Fund Humans have had a huge impact on animals and the environment in a negative way, and now people are trying to undo the mistakes that have been made. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is a large conservation group that wants to nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on Mission). They work with existing conservation groups that help fulfill their motto and give them funding. The world advertisement support their mission. Their advertisement of Tarzan in the jungle swinging into a field of chopped down trees shows their support for the rainforest. Their advertisement of an elephant that is half elephant half skeleton shows their support against poaching and preventing the elephants from going extinct. Using the elements of logos, ethos, pathos, kairos, and logical fallacies, the mission of conserving nature and threats to diversity can be seen. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) spends a lot of their time and money conserving the environment and the creatures that live in it. In 1961, a group of 16 of the leading conservationists, going by the name the Morges Manifesto, realized that the expertise to protect the world environment existed, the financial support to achieve this protection did Ever since, they have continued to grow, and are now active in 100 countries around the world (History). Their main focus is to protect species and their habitats. They are also able to do this by helping communities figure out ways to conserve their resources. They want to spread the Reges 2 word about what doing to get more people to believe in their cause. The World Wildlife Fund spends 74% of the of the money they spend on program expenses, which is the percentage that a majority of charities spend on programs(4), which shows they are dedicated to their cause. The WWF is passionate about saving the earth and making it a better place. Logos focuses on consistency and clarity of an and the and evidence of (Hoffman 32), which can be seen in the two advertisements shown. In the Tarzan photo, it states how of rainforest disappears every This gives the reader proof that a the rainforest is getting chopped down very quickly. This relates to mission because they want more people to believe in their cause, and this is a fact that proves their point. In the Elephant photo, it states how their African Elephant Program wants to conserve the forest and savanna elephant population through their projects and policies. This proves to the reader that the WWF is working to protect species and their habitats. The elements of logos within the advertisements show the logic behind their cause The method of ethos can be seen as an appeal to (Hoffman 27). The logo on the Tarzan advertisement shows the reader that they can look up their website to find out more information to learn about the issue. This proves to the reader that the World Wildlife Fund knows what they are talking about. This relates to the goal about spreading the word about their goals. The elephant advertisement states how they have years of experience in elephant This would make the reader believe they know what doing. This relates to their focus of protecting species and their habitats. The use of ethos shows that the reader can believe in what saying Reges 3 When looking for pathos, it can be seen being to draw in the audience and help them (Hoffman 37). The image shows Tarzan swinging on a branch into nothing. Tarzan is an iconic TV show character, and any viewers who knew of him or who watched his show would relate and feel scared seeing Tarzan flying into nothing. In the image, a majority of the it is just cut down trees, with a small amount of trees on the left side. This is supposed to shock the reader to show just how many of the trees are being cut down. The image with the elephant shows the elephant as half elephant, half skeleton. This makes the reader upset, because the elephant is a cute animal but they made it look a lot scarier by making it half skeleton. All of these elements relate back to the World Wildlife main focus, to protect species and their habitats. Kairos is known as appeal to (Hoffman 41), which can be seen within the two advertisements. At the bottom of the Tarzan picture, it talks about how of rainforest disappears every If the reader were to think about this for awhile, they would realize how much of the rainforest is chopped down every hour, every day. This makes the reader want to take action because they can realize how extreme this amount of tree-chopping is. At the top of the advertisement, it says you making the reader realize that they have to start acting now, because there much time. At the bottom of the photo, it states how one can action through Conservation Action to help speak out for animals and their habitat to help their cause. placed at the bottom of the photo because it assumes the reader has read everything else on the page. They only would have done that if they really felt passionate about this cause after looking at the advertisement and wanted to help. All of these elements relate to the goal of getting people to support their cause. Reges 4 The slippery slope fallacy states that if one event happens, then other events will happen as well (Logical Fallacies). The elephant picture states how you wait, the only place to see an elephant will be a So, waiting and not taking action to save the elephants will cause the elephants to go extinct. Ad Populum is a fallacy that focuses on the positive or negative parts of an argument than the real issue(Logical Fallacies). In the advertisement of Tarzan, it shows a massive amount of trees cut down, and then a city in the distance. This picture is implying that the humans are the cause for all of the trees being cut down and the reason Tarzan is going to land on nothing. This is part of it, but this the main issue, which is that humans need to be planting more trees and need to conserve resources. They are making people feel guilty without offering a solution. Both advertisements do support the World Wildlife mission and main goals. Both photos influence the reader by trying to show them what reality is and leaving them feeling shocked. The first picture really proves how extreme the amount of rain forest being cut down is. The second picture shows how close we are to elephants becoming extinct. Both of these leave an impact on the reader and make them want to take action. When looking at the two advertisements, the elements of logos, ethos, pathos, kairos, and logical fallacies can be seen to prove the effectiveness of the advertisement itself. The World Wildlife Fund conserve nature and reduce threats to diversity, and with these well-made advertisements they were able to promote their cause and get more people to support what they believe in. Reges 5 Works Cited Wildlife Fund, http://www.worldwildlife.org/about/history. 26 February 2017. The World Wildlife Fund was founded in 1961 in Morges, Switzerland. This was used as the main stakeholder within my paper. Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs, Kimber. (Really) Matters. XanEdu, 2006. Allyson Hoffman has her Masters in Fine Arts in Fiction and is a mentor at University of South Florida. Kimber Wiggs has a PhD in Literature and is a mentor at University of South Florida. This was used to explain the different rhetorical appeals within my paper. University, 11 March 2016 https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/659/03/. 26 February 2017. Purdue OWL was founded in 1997 and is a part of the Purdue Writing Lab, in West Lafayette, Indiana. This was used to define the logical fallacies used within my paper. Wildlife Navigator, 1 July 2016, https://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=search.summary&orgid=4770. 26 February 2017. Charity Navigator was founded in 2001 in Glen Rock, New Jersey. This was used to prove the credibility of my stakeholder. Wildlife Fund, http://www.worldwildlife.org/. 26 February 2017. Reges 6 Reges 7