Pircher 1 Lauren Pircher ENC 1102 Ms. Theodosiou Feb. 26, 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetorics: GMO Inside Since 1982, genetically modified organisms (GMOs) have changed the way Americans eat and grow food and the raising concerns about the safety of these foods has caused the public to fear what they are consuming(CITE). In 2012 a non-GMO movement emerged to require mandatory labeling of genetically modified organisms and with this various organizations formed to help the public be aware of harmful GMOs. One such organization, GMO Inside, is a campaign dedicated to educating the public on what GMOs are and the organic or non-GMO alternatives(GMO Inside). This organization heavily influences the public to reconsider their food choices by means of effective visual rhetorics in their advertising. GMO Inside is a campaign that is committed to helping all Americans know which foods contain genetically modified organisms. They believe that every individual has the right to know what is in their food and make positive choices based on this knowledge. GMO mission statement states, we have the right to know in our (GMO Inside). This organization supports and advocates of the labeling of GMOs, as stated in their mission statement, they believe everyone deserves to know what they are consuming. GMO Inside maintains their goal of transparency in the food system by targeting big corporations that use Pircher 2 genetically modified organisms within their products and pressure them into labeling of any items that contain these GMOs. For decades, genetically modified organisms have changed the way food is produced, making it almost impossible to know what does and contain GMOs. GMO Inside uses visual rhetorics to convey a strong message about genetically modified organisms and their harm on the environment and people. Figure 1 shows an image of an baby with various infant formula companies on its chest. In this image GMO Inside is trying to show that genetically modified organisms are negatively affecting children. Figure 1 appeals to ethos (credibility) by incorporating large infant formula companies on the chest of the baby. They also include GMO logo at the bottom of the image to show credibility and accuracy of the information provided. With the strong use of visual representation, Figure 1 appeals to pathos (emotion) and logos (logic) by making parents feel a sense of guilt and concern about feeding their children GMOs as well as logically convincing that GMOs are detrimental to health. The innocent appearance of the baby is used to show that it is our responsibility as parents to protect children from harm. The placement of the formula brands on the stomach of the child illustrates that these products containing GMOs are negatively their health. The white background resembles cleanliness and purity, something genetically modified organisms are not. Another way this image makes the audience feel concerned or worried is within the text, making your baby a lab The comparison of a child to a lab rat would make any parent angry, thus effectively appealing to pathos. GMO Inside also appeals to kairos (timeliness) by creating these ads during an era that heavily uses and relies on genetically modified organisms to provide our main means of produce/food. Pircher 2 Figure 2 shows an image of a well-known whiskey company, Mark, and a major GMO corporation, Monsanto. GMO Inside is depicting Mark and Monsanto as culprits in this era of genetically modified organisms through the use of visual representation. The primary audience for this image are males, as whiskey is typically known as a beverage. Figure 2 appeals to ethos by representing large corporations, Monsanto and Mark, this gives the image credibility as well as shows authority. The visual representation in this image helps GMO Inside appeal to pathos by showing that GMOs are present in products we might be unaware of such as alcoholic beverage. GMO Inside appeals to emotion by frightening its audience. The arrow pointing to the glass of whiskey says on the this is comparing the whiskey to a strong crop desiccant, a product that if consumed one would die. This exaggeration is a common logical fallacy known as moral equivalence. According to Purdue Owl, moral equivalence is a fallacy that compares minor misdeeds with major atrocities (Purdue Owl). Although this whiskey contains GMOs (a minor misdeed), if consumed it will most likely not kill. As we see from the text, however, GMO Inside is inferring that this minor misdeed (GMOs) is comparable to a major atrocity such as death. Aside from appealing to credibility and emotion, GMO inside appeals to logos (logic) by portraying that males who drink Mark whiskey may be unaware of the potential health risks that this drink possesses due to its contents (GMOs). GMO Inside uses visual rhetorics in this image in order to convince their audience of the harmful effects of genetically modified organisms. The sufficient use of visual rhetoric in both GMO images helps their campaign reach their mission of creating a transparent food system. GMO Inside accurately appeals to emotion, logic, credibility and timeliness within their visual advertisements (Hoffman 18). Both Pircher 2 images help to illustrate the negative effects of genetically modified organisms through visual representation alone. By targeting a specific audience in each image, the campaign is able to grab their attention in hopes of changing the way Americans view their food and potentially chose non-GMO products instead. For example, Figure 1 specifically targets parents and uses visual representation to appeal to pathos by creating a sense of guilt. Figure 2 takes a different route in order to illustrate the negative sides of GMOs by targeting a male audience. Both of these images show that GMO Inside is dedicated to help all audiences of America know which products contain GMOs and the harmful effects that GMOs possess. Since 1982, genetically modified organisms have changed the way food is produced causing uncertainty about the general public regarding the safety of foods (Dandachi 9457). With large food corporations hiding the truth, many are concerned about the unknown chemicals in their food. GMO Inside, a campaign, aids in this controversy by educating the public on GMOs. They use effective advertising to grab the attention on the potential harms that GMOs can cause. (word count: 1047) Pircher 2 (Figure 1) (Figure 2) Pircher 2 Works Cited Why GMO  Inside . N.p., 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Matters . Tampa: U of South Florida, 2016. Print. Logical  Owl Online Writing Lab . N.p., 1995. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.