Gilliam 1 Quartney Gilliam Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 26 January 2017 PETA: Rhetorical Analysis Essay As somber melodic music plays in the background of a video depicting black and white images of animals looking helpless, tired and abandoned you may began to feel bad for the animals and obligated to help them. Even if you have no attachment to these animals or have cared about them before, seeing the dogs and rabbits wrapped in bandages and looking innocently at you can make you feel entitled to save them. The sudden drive you get to help the animals is due to the rhetorical appeals used in advertisements by an organization such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). PETA, a non-profit organization that campaigns for animal rights, works to bring awareness to society of the different industries in which animals are used, mistreated or killed. It is the primary goal to end all forms of animal cruelty worldwide with the help of society supporting their campaigns, boycotting brands that harm animals and by spreading knowledge on alternatives that are cruelty free. Through the use of creative ads that embody the four rhetorical appeals, PETA can tailor the ads to target a specific audience and get their support. In the two that will be Gilliam 2 discussed in my paper, image one (left) depicts Dave Navarro posing for a dark themed cruelty free ad and my second advertisement (right) shows actress, Sofia Sisniega starring in a more subtle and softer advertisement. While both of these advertisements take slightly different approaches to reaching their audience, through the use of celebrity appearances, simple yet effective facts provided, dramatic effects and makeup to depict the suffering of animals being harmed or how they should be treated, and emphasis within their tone of message, PETA is able to encourage their audience to boycott companies that participate in animal cruelty. To start it off, a prominent rhetorical appeal present in the two PETA advertisements displayed above is ethos. PETA is aware that we live in a society in which people are influenced by not only what their peers are doing, but also by what celebrities are doing. To take advantage of how influential people with credentials can have on others, PETA began collaborating with celebrities such as entertainer, Dave Navarro, and actress, Sofia Sisniega in their commercials so that they can interest more diverse people to support their movement. Being that Navarro is celebrity musician who also stars on reality television shows, PETA has a more precise audience to grab ahold of and educate on the importance of animal testing. With the use of bold colors and urban fonts, the advertisement embodies style to attract people who find it pleasing or are fans of Navarro while also make them read the ad and get involved to make a change. When speaking on how exactly they build their credibility through celebrities participating in these creative ads, PETA stated that famous people literally expose themselves in the most vulnerable way created a campaign that was hard for both the media and the public to A elaborate, Sofia Sisniega is also modelling nude to promote campaign in the second chosen advertisement. To see this ad plastered anywhere for the public to view would cause them to stop and read to learn what exactly is going on. Through the use of celebrities, PETA attract and intrigue their curiosity to what point they are trying to prove while also establishing their credibility. Logos is present in the first advertisement where PETA states that used for painful and deadly products tests are poisoned, blinded, and PETA is attempting to persuade their audience to help end animal cruelty with just facts about what exactly animals that are tested on experience for the purpose of human consumption. By informing their audience of the reality that comes along with any good or service that uses animal testing for production, PETA is using logos to also persuade the audience to take alternative routes to products that involve animal testing. In relation to the second advertisement, Sisniega has beauty is written across her body and the similar statistic about animal testing on the ad. While using the same logical approach in both ads the statement about true beauty is another take on logos because it makes the audience stop and consider the point PETA is making. If a beauty product required animals to be harmed in the process of being created, then there is nothing beautiful about it and the audience should find alternatives or embrace their own beauty with no products. With this creative take on a logical appeal, PETA is able to make their audience Gilliam 3 consider the underlying truth to products that are tested on animals while also encouraging the viewers to help PETA by boycotting companies that still use animals in their experimentations. Pathos is evident in my first advertisement where Navarro has been illustrated to resemble an animal that has wounds from experimentations. With over his body and a bleeding eye, Navarro sits in a corner of the room looking abandoned and hopeless. The added gashes and bleeding cuts are there to emphasize the harm that animals undergo when being tested on while also convincing the viewers feel bad for animals that are harmed in testing and feel compelled to help them. The use of an emotional appeal present in my second advertisement through both the nudity and the rabbit sitting next to Sisniega. As stated before, the nudity capture the celebrities in their most vulnerable stage and in terms of this ad, Sisniega gives off an innocent persona while an all white rabbit is resting next to her. To the audience, the entire advertisement appears to represent purity and innocence which ties into their claim of true beauty being cruelty free. Kairos is used in both advertisements to encourage the audience of PETA to boycott brands that do not produce cruelty free products right now so that they can end animal abuse in all industries. PETA has a method of embedding kairos in with their logos by giving their audience a statistic and following it up with a few words that encourage the viewers to act quickly so that animal cruelty can come to an end. The first image does not directly emphasize the urge to act now, but by saying choose cruelty-free only in their statement shows how urgent this matter is to the organization. PETA is practically begging their audience to choose products that are cruelty free for the sake of animals that suffer from testing. Following the same tone, the second advertisement also manages to indirectly express sense of urgency by stating that their audience should choose products not tested on This means that taking the cruelty free route is something that should have always been done and if the audience is not doing so yet, it is not too late for them to start. Overall, PETA uses their implicit approach to try and persuade their audience to support brands that do not test on animals so that they can be one step closer to achieving their goal of ending animal cruelty. In summation, PETA uses advertisements to grab ahold of their attention and to achieve their mission of stopping animal cruelty. Being that their audience is very broad which can make it difficult to appeal to everyone, through the use of creative yet effective advertisements PETA is able to modify who exactly they are trying to appeal to. As analyzed through the two advertisements that were chosen for this paper, PETA utilized ethos through celebrity appearances, logos through short yet impacting facts, pathos by allowing the stars of the commercial to represent how animals feel or should feel, and kairos is represented by an underlying tone of urgency. With all four of these appeals being effectively used PETA is not only able to reach their modified audience of people who support either of the celebrities in the ads but also get a reaction out of their viewers and encourage them to support Gilliam 4 movement. By continuing this trend but constantly altering each ad so that they can reach a new audience, PETA is one step closer to achieving their goal of ending animal cruelty across the globe. Gilliam 5 Works Cited People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Advertisement. . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta2.com/heroes/dave-navarro-is-cruelty-free/>. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Advertisement. . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://www.petalatino.com/en/features/sofia-sisniega-urges-shoppers-choose-cruelty-free-produ cts/>. Silvia, Beth. A for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.