Viviana M. Milla Milla Professor Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 24 February 2017 1 United Nations Women and the defense of education Outline I. Introduction A. United Nations Women a. United Nations Women is an organization that cares for the development and empowerment of women. Overall in the vulnerable areas such as the Middle east. i. Its purpose in the countries of Syria and Jordan is to achieve the empowerment of women thought education. ii. To achieve Women education UN Women appeals to ethos by the use of political images. 1. Use of Malala image 2. Use of Theresa May Quote. b. UN Women intervention in Syria and Jordan is more frequent since 2010 i. In 2011, UN Women developed the campaign #We are here to stimulate education in Syrian and Jordan Women affected by the War Milla 2 ii. In the Post 2015 Development Agenda and Beijing+20. UN Women engage its civil society partners in the global dialogue on the Post-2015 Women Development agenda iii. In 2016, UN Women developed the campaign #Yes all girls, in which Malala was the figure, to encourage equal education in Syria Jordan and Palestine. B. Despite, UN Women strongly appeals to the use of ethos, the strategies utilized in each image is different. While picture 1 appeals to borrowed credibility thought the use of image, picture 2 appeals to Intrinsic authority thought the use of UN Women logo. II. Body Paragraph (make as many of these as you need to) A. United Nations Women utilize the image of socially relevant people in order to encourage the society to achieve equal education. B. As we can appreciate, in the web page of #yesallgirls that is supported by UN Women, the entire page makes reference to Malala as an example of the struggle for education.. a. The purpose of this paragraph is to discuss the importance of Malala and in the different Arab countries where her image has been used. b. The credibility of this article in the web page is supported by United Nations Women that ensures the veracity of it. c. Different types of ethos applied by this source Milla 3 i. The use of Borrowed credibility represented by the figure of ,Malala.. d. How enthymemes is used in picture 1 i. How the reason is implicit in the message of all girls, everywhere have a right to education. ii. The unstated assumption about equality represented by the figure of different girls in black and white. e. The implicit use of pathos thought the expressions in the picture i. The well use expressions in the picture 1 to catch the attention of the international viewers. C. Despite the use of and the UK primer picture evoke to almost the same rhetorical appeals, picture 2 appeals are more political directed to a different public. III. Body Paragraph A. United Nations Women uses political images with rhetorical appeals in order to catch the attention and call to the action of international organizations. B. In the page of the telegraph, Theresa May is called as most feminist Prime Minister ever, because she advocates for education in the UN council. a. This source demonstrates that due to the strong point of view of Theresa May in education, her position is take as an example for other countries of what they have to do. Milla 4 b. The credibility of Theresa May quote is ensured by UN Women because this is an international organization. c. The image of Theresa May uses a different kind of ethos i. The use of borrowed credibility ensured by her picture and quote ii. The use of Intrinsic authority ensured by the UN Women logo. d. The implicit use of logos in Theresa quote i. The use of relevant example ensured by her quote of continuous support to education e. The use of pathos thought the expression of Theresa face and her quote. i. May expression evoking unacceptance to women illiteracy. ii. Theresa quote that encourage other countries to struggle women illiteracy. IV. Conclusion A. UN Women uses different rhetorical appeals depending on the audience that will receive their message. a. Use of political relevant figures to call for international action b. Use of iconic people (Malala) to evoke a social change. Milla 5 B. UN Women must try to apply more kairos to their images, because Women education is a timeless situation that needs immediate resolution. a. One possible solution can be the use of phrases that call for immediate action b. A second solution can be the use of cruel images about women illiteracy in the middle east that catch the attention and evoke immediate action. C. Picture 1 must be included in future campaigns against women illiteracy, because Malala relevance is timeless. The figure of Malala itself represents the struggle for women education. However, the power of picture 2 is constraint to the period of Theresa May as prime minister. V. Works Cited Burke, Richard. as Ethics, Vol. 93, No. 1 (Oct., 1982), pp. 45- 55. 1982. McKinley, Tretler. girls who persisted and spoke out for their right to Malala Fund, https://blog.malala.org/eight-girls-who persisted-and-spoke-up-for-their-right-to-education 43986ec95782#.yjwlepgwa. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Sanghani, Theresa May most feminist Prime Minister The Telegraph, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/politics/is-theresa- may-the-most-feminist-prime-minister-ever/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Milla 6 United Nations family of Sites. United Nations and United Nations Women, 2010, http://arabstates.unwomen.org/en/countries/jordan. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Milla 7 VI. Appendix Image 1. Poster campaign #Yesallgirls. This campaign was supported by United Nations Women to encourage education in the middle East. Milla 8 Image 2. Quotation of Theresa May discourse in United Nations assembly in 2015.