Dalla Costa 1 Sarah Dalla Costa Andrew De Carion ENC 1102: Composition 2 Spring 2017 Image 2 Image 1 Dalla Costa 1 Genetically modified organisms (GMO) are a relatively new movement, and the everyday man is only recently becoming aware of it. There has been allot of controversy concerning GMO firstly, due to its unknown effects on not only human health, but also its effects on the environment. Many people have begun to take a stand and demanding the labelling of foods that are genetically modified or contain traces of GMO. This can be largely credited to organizations against GMO products, The Non-GMO project being the most successful one. In the two images above the non-profit organization The Non-GMO project is attempting to enact their mission of empowering consumers with information about GM products, they believe everyone has a right to know what is in their food and deserves access to non-GMO choices both images explicitly state parts of their mission, Image 1 states is in your and Image 2 states is your right to know what is in your . (The Non-GMO Project) The Non- GMO project employs rhetorical appeals such as, pathos, ethos and logos to focus on GMO in foods specifically to encourage people viewing the images to see their point of view on the issue. The Non- GMO project shines a light on the negative aspects of GM foods, by provoking a sense of fear in Image 1. It portrays an apple and an octopus intertwined, these two species are not something people will see coming together very often. Firstly, this catches their attention and after more investigation, the viewer will notice the apple bears very sharp teeth, making it look monster-like. This evokes fear in an individual, especially if a child sees it. Secondly it states: is in your if viewers already worried about this by just looking at the picture, they would be now. This was used as a tactic to reinforce what the cartoon at the side shows and to get viewers thinking and even investigating their foods more now. These characteristics of the image effectively enforces the organizations mission, as Dalla Costa 1 viewers begin to subconsciously wonder about what may potentially be in the food that they are buying and consuming and in return it will encourage consumers to purchase products with the organizations signature logo, indicating it is GMO free. Image 2 depicts the image of a skull, composed out of healthy, seemingly natural produce with are what you in very bold text and below it reads our right to know in our foods. Pledge to choose Firstly, the skull makes viewers think about what they have recently eaten, or rethink what their diet may be like. It makes people picture what they for example, someone with an unhealthy diet may be made of sugary snacks and processed foods and forces them to ask themselves if this is what they want to have in their body. Secondly the phrase our right to know in our foods. Pledge to choose creates a sense of anger, it makes the viewer aware that they actually may not be as informed about what they are consuming as they thought they were. This stimulates the want for information about GMO products, which the organization provides. This statement will again encourage those who view it to purchase Non-GMO verified products. The Non- GMO advertisements are effective as, the Non-GMO project executive director who states that is inspiring to see the growing passion being focused on the problem of GMO contamination (Westgate). This shows that their use of pathos, is increasing the awareness of GMO products efficiently. Both images display the organizations signature butterfly logo, and image one reinforces the mission of the organization by stating that individuals have right to know what is in their food, this upholds the credibility and trustworthiness of both advertisements. This logo can be used as indication of trustworthiness as the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) officially added the Non-GMO project as the only North American third party verified logo to its food safety auditing services in early 2014. The organization gained this esteemed Dalla Costa 1 position due to the high level of precaution and testing done on products before they can be verified, they must pass a very thorough six step verification process; the core requirements are a based upon traceability, segregation and testing at critical control points [of the food production to verify that ingredients are not genetically modified (NSF International). The organizations website imbedded within its logo is also included in the images, this again establishes credibility as it offers the opportunity for individuals interested in finding out more about the organization to do so through their website, which has a plethora of topics to learn more about, including tips on choosing Non- GMO products. This shows that the organization is confident in the information that they are providing. Both advertisements are thought jerkers and encourage people to analyze the ingredients of their food products. Image 1 forces people to take into consideration that genes from a completely different species may potentially be in their food, most of the population is unaware of this fact. In a survey done by the International Food Information Council 53% of the participants indicated that they had not heard much of or anything about GMO foods in grocery stores. (Non-GMO Report). This image brings awareness to that possibility and encourages them to decide whether they are okay with it or not, by doing research and reading articled provided by the organization they can become more informed about it. In Image 2 the image being portrayed will encourage people to reevaluate their eating habits, as they may have never thought of viewing themselves from this perspective before, some people may not like the idea of what they like, hence encouraging them to change the things they eat. Secondly people may not know that they have a right to know what is in their food like the picture states, this will encourage people interested to do more research into the Dalla Costa 1 products they are buying and to find out the truth about what they are eating, they may even revert to buying Non-GMO project labelled foods. Overall both Image 1 and Image 2 work hand in hand in conveying the message of the Non-GMO mission that people should know what is in the food they are consuming and if it contains GMOs. Both images include features of pathos, ethos and logos to help them portray this. The images evoke feelings of fear, anger and uncertainty in people viewing it, all because of the main factor of not knowing what they are actually consuming. The images effectively meet the organizations mission of empowering people through awareness in the debate against labelling of GMO products, as both images have powerful meanings hidden between the lines that can be unveiled by simply looking closely at them and taking the time to understand it. Dalla Costa 1 Works Cited Page Non-GMO Report. Most U.S. consumers still unaware of genetically modified foods  2011. 25 Feb 2017. NSF International. Non-GMO Project  2013. 25 Feb 2017. <www.nsf.org>. The Non-GMO Project. Mission. n.d. 25 Feb 2017. <https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/history/>. Westgate, Megan. The Non-GMO Project: Empowering Consumers, Protecting a Non-GMO Future (Response to  28 January 2011. 23 Feb 2017. <https://www.nongmoproject.org/blog/the-non-gmo-project-empowering-consumers- protecting-a-non-gmo-future/>.