Fennell 1 Anna Marie Fennell Andrew deCarion ENC 1102 26 February 2016 The Minimalists Everyone has heard the mantra, is but two men have employed the phrase to be an entire lifestyle. The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus, share their philosophy through their website, books, podcast, and documentary. Primarily, their promotional images utilize the emotions and timeliness, along with an appeal to the effectiveness of minimalism and the authority that The Minimalists have built for themselves. Image I appears on their website and displays their logo, whereas image II is a poster for their documentary. The Minimalists are an independent duo that is aiming to educate their followers how they can incorporate the practice of minimalism into their lives in a consumerist society. They share how employing a minimalist lifestyle has benefited their mental wellbeing and how it counteracts the persuasion big businesses can have on our psyche. The duo tour around the country lecturing and explaining the tangible ways to change perspective. diverse crowd of about 40 gathered in a classroom at Hawes Hall at Harvard Business School to ask about balancing minimalism with materialistic jobs, handling the overwhelming onslaught of digital clutter, social responsibility, and how to be minimalist in (Plumb). They have a contemporary perspective on minimalism and aim for it to applicable to the everyday American. They are concerned with the wellbeing of the masses, and want to share their story. Fennell 2 At first glance, image I associates The Minimalists with their logo above them. The image is in black and white; a snapshot of their lives as friends and coworkers. The two are in the middle of having a conversation, perhaps, appealing to Kairos. This is not a typical appeal to Kairos, in that it does not directly appeal to urgency; the two men are depicted as carefree and truly living in this isolated moment. This snapshot provides the potential freedom one can develop from their lifestyle and perspective. The Minimalists believe that once one lets go of aspects of life that are unimportant, they have the freedom spend their time on goals that are meaningful to them. Furthermore, it appeals to the emotions the two are smiling and laughing. The members are smiling and seem like their material has benefitted them, like they have it all figured out and you could too. They are happy and the viewer associates their joy with their ideology and brand. Image I being a branding image, another appeal is ethos. The font type incorporates the individuals into the logo as part of the lettering and reinforces their role as innovators for their mentality. Being an independent duo and having a developed this meaningful logo and produced an organic photo displays the prevalence of their Fennell 3 brand and their hard work they have invested into their content. The two are incorporated into the logo itself, so they have created and embody their brand that they have made for themselves and are experienced; they practice what they preach. Image II is the cover poster for their documentary, which could be found by anyone browsing Netflix or YouTube. Meaning can be found in every aspect of this image, but Pathos and Kairos are mainly at play. Most of the shot is composed of nature, and it has two individuals all out on their own; thriving by themselves. The typical idea of minimalism is escaping society to meditate in a lush environment and reconnect oneself with the earth, but this image provides a more contemporary perspective. The duo shot this photo in a barren, dry landscape in the middle of an open road. This image places focus on the relationship between the duo, their friendship and partnership, amidst the barren landscape. It is meant to invoke the peace and serenity one can obtain through their philosophy with the clean and simple type face. The fact that it is a documentary employs logos; more educational and reputable than a fictional Fennell 4 movie or television show. It says that it is about the important things, as opposed the material things it makes the viewer question what they think is important and whether what will be addressed in the documentary. is the thing that gets us past the things so we can make room for important actually things at (Millburn & Nickodemus). This is why there are alone and centered in the frame, their lives and relationships are what is important to them, not extravagant cars or clothes. important is like a call to action, which employs Kairos. The viewer is urged to start paying attention to the important things now instead of wasting their time on unimportant things; the sooner they start living like a minimalist the better it will be for them. Once again, like in the previous image, the two are still, yet in motion. They are looking towards the sunset, the sunset can be a metaphor for the potential growth and opportunities awaiting them, appealing to Kairos. Their shadow is cast behind them and represents the past, possibly years of meaningless work and strife. Kairos is placed subtly into the image, with their nonchalant positioning, but it does imply that there is hope ahead and time is fleeting with the presence of the sun setting. Finally, Ethos is employed in that it has a full body shot of the duo out in nature without any other props or crew. It is just them embodying their philosophy out in nature, therefore they have the essential first-hand experience supporting their rhetoric. They have a symbol above them reinforcing their ability to consolidate their philosophy into a simple logo. It seems like a minus sign, but it is encompassed in a circle, invoking wholeness. Therefore, one can become more whole by subtracting the meaningless aspects of life. The images want the viewer to wonder, makes these two dudes so special? What do they know that I Through these images, The Minimalists want the viewers to investigate what their brand is and hopefully latch onto something that increases their quality of Fennell 5 life. They want to share the impact mindfulness has had on their health and wellbeing. At first glance the promotional images seem intriguing in their simplicity and clean aesthetic, but upon further inspection, they are thoughtful and clever with their subtle, yet effective, visual rhetorical appeals. Freelance writer, Michael Kwan, stumbled upon The Minimalists and he shares his experience in a similar fashion through his blog, beyond the rhetoric. get caught up in the destructive game of keeping up with the Joneses, because you compare yourself against your immediate peer feel compelled to drive the newer car or the more elaborate wardrobe. But none of those things will make you happy in the long (Kwan). The Minimalists want their followers to eliminate peer pressure and the psychological manipulation of advertisements and be able to focus on what is truly meaningful to them and what will really promote their happiness and wellbeing. Fennell 6 WORKS CITED Matt, director. Minimalism: A Documentary About the Important Things. 2015. Kwan, Michael. SNIPPET: RYAN NICODEMUS, THE Beyond the Rhetoric, btr.michaelkwan.com/2017/01/29/sunday-snippet-ryan-nicodemus- minimalists. Accessed 25 February 2017. Millburn, Joshua Fields, and Ryan Nicodemus. About the  The Minimalists, Accessed 25 February 2017. Plumb, Taryn. Henry David Thoreau, but with Boston Globe, www.bostonglobe.com/lifestyle/style/2012/12/19/like-henry-david-thoreau-but-with- wifi/AXbWgbzx9PLGwJ1jfgeQvL/story.html. Accessed 25 February 2017. Weaver, Joshua. Press Photos, The Minimalists, 29 August 2012, plus.google.com/photos/106741199058746497532/album/5782087879797426257/62361 13553547120178. Accessed 25 February 2017.