Rudderham 1 Stephen Rudderham Dr. Karen Hanson ENC1102 2-21-17 Rhetorical Analysis Outsourcing has become an important issue in globalizing business world. Outsourcing is when a company form one country migrates to another country, usually in a developing nation, in order to produce their Many organizations have stressed their opposition to the issue, stating that it is unethical and harsh on the workers in foreign countries to have to craft clothing and other items while being payed minimally. However, organizations like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce support the use of outsourcing in order for businesses to create greater profits. They argue that by producing more jobs abroad it will in return create more domestic jobs U.S. Chamber of They claim that increasing business abroad will raise the global economy and in return raise the economy in the United States. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports the argument of outsourcing through two images using visual rhetoric that show U.S. businesses branching out into other countries. Image A shows an American flag with the stripes separating from the ends and becoming tangled up with each other. There is also 51 stars on this flag. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce uses this image in order to promote American businesses outsourcing their products to different countries. By presenting the American flag the viewer of this image has a sense of trustworthiness because the American flag is an important symbol for national pride. This is Rudderham 2 used to provide ethos or, way of providing trust with his or her (McIntyre, 20), because it shows the relationship the viewer has with the flag. As an American, the flag is the symbol of America and the people respect it. This allows the audience to feel like the image is trustworthy and providing an accurate message. Looking more closely into the flag, the stripes are protruding out and entangling each other far away from where the flag normally would stop. Now, because this image is in support of outsourcing, the stripes show logos and the logic that American businesses should spread out and reach past where they are normally supposed to operate. Logos is, appeal to (McIntyre, 23). The stripes indicate that American businesses are moving to other countries and connecting with the governments there. They are being entangled in the globalizing world. Lastly, this image shows 51 stars on the flag which is also an appeal to logos, because it is evidence without proving emotion. The 51 stars represents the future and that America is a growing place. Other nations can help the U.S. and provide them with support for the businesses. Image B shows the crest of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented in an article about employee benefits of outsourcing. This image is supposed to make the reader feel safe and unjudged when discussing the controversial topic of outsourcing. By doing this pathos, appeal to (McIntyre, 22) is demonstrated. When discussing controversial topics people often take a defensive approach in order to not offend anyone. By seeing a crest with an eagle and the colors of the U.S. on it people reading the article attached to this image will make them feel more comfortable discussing this topic. The colors of the crest are also red, white and blue with an eagle which again represents America and bring unity to the viewers. This shows ethos because it is an image that shows authority. It is trying to show the audience Rudderham 3 that America as a whole is in support of the purpose of the image. In this case, it is showing the American citizens are in support of outsourcing. Logos is shown in image B as well because of the words in the crest. It says, Spirit of and, U.S. Chamber of By stating these two things right on the image the viewer can see the reason behind the article and can formulate assumptions about what it will be about. They know that this organization will support commerce and the businesses that are trying to outsource their products. The two images that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have selected to go along with articles and papers they have published are rhetorically successful in allowing the audience to understand their point before viewing any more than just the image. Both of these images represent American colors which gives the viewer an emotion of national pride, as well as showing the authority that the U.S. presents in the world. These two things show logos and ethos. If they were to select different colors it would not make as much sense when dealing with American business and people. Less emotion would go into the viewing of the article and no sense of pride would be pre-established just from a quick glance at the image. Also, the authority figure that the U.S. presents in the world would be nonexistent. If people feels that a top organization in the U.S. are being supported by the government then they are more likely to give the topic a chance. If the colors were different and an eagle was not on one as well as the American flag on the other, then people viewing the image would not understand the purpose that is being portrayed. Outsourcing will continue to be a controversial topic between business people and human rights activist. But, by showing these rhetorical appeals Rudderham 4 the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has shown why they believe outsourcing is supporting the American people and economy. In the future, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce will continue to show why outsourcing can be beneficial to the people of their nation and other nations. Some reasons that they believe this is that it can boost the economy of both nations and give more jobs to the nation they go in to. The open opportunity that allowing outsourcing provides makes businesses support what the Chamber of Commerce is doing. Eventually they may be able to find a solution to allow the open opportunity in all countries without the criticism of people in opposition of outsourcing. Until then, the Chamber of Commerce will continue to use rhetorically appealing images to provide support of their opinions. Rudderham 5 Image A Image B Rudderham 6 Works Cited About the U.S.  U.S. Chamber of Commerce. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.  Investopedia. N.p., 01 Dec. 2014. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text.