Nguyen 1 Nhi Ha Phuong Nguyen Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 February 25, 2017 Animal testing: An essential procedure With the variety of procedures used in research, there is no doubt that some researchers prefer one technique than the others. In fact, Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR) believes that animal testing is essential to study and find treatment to diseases such as cancers or Moreover, this organization wants to change the perspectives of people about animal testing through articles, pictures, and campaigns. While the image on the left shows that animal testing is still the most promising and essential procedure compared to the current technology, the image on the right represents the proud achievements researchers got from animal testing technique. With ethos, pathos, and logos, both images show that animal testing is essential for doing research; therefore, these pictures supplement mission. The primary goal of FBR is to promote animal testing, because FBR believes this promising procedure potentially gives good results. This organization argues that animal research Nguyen 2 can help study and find treatment to serious diseases, resulting in saving the lives of many people. According to FBR, testing is essential for understanding the safety and proper dosages of new medicines and (Biomedical Research). Without the use of animals, it may be challenging for scientists to know how certain diseases and medicines affect humans. Moreover, animal testing has been proved to bring many proud achievements to the society. According to FBR, used to combat cancer, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, and malaria would not have been possible without research with (Animal Testing and Research Achievements). Therefore, animal testing is indeed essential based on its beneficial effects. Both images rely on ethos to persuade audiences support animal testing. The image on the left shows that animal testing is still the most promising procedure, so it is essential to use animals for research. In addition, by having logo at the bottom, this image shows its credibility; therefore, it successfully brings attention to audiences who have already heard about the organization. Once trust is established, audiences feel motivated to understand the message of the image. While the logo of FBR may not be convincing enough to audiences who do not know about FBR, it gives audiences the freedom to do research on this organization and animal testing related topic on its website. Besides, the image on the right shows achievements animal testing bring to society. In this image, the doctor with her professional attire creates credibility to the audiences. With a great sense of trust, FBR can easily persuade audiences to support animal testing. These images also rely heavily on pathos to get the attention and connect them to the essential of animal testing. While the image on the left leaves the audiences with a sense of astonishment, the image on the right makes audiences feel happy. The title vs. of Nguyen 3 the left image brings surprise to the audiences, and this sense will trigger the curious. In fact, curiosity has the ability to urge the audiences to find out what their misconception is. Furthermore, the magnifying glass on top of the word represents animal testing has commonly been underestimated and misunderstood. This design element suggests that audiences should have a closer look at animal testing and a fairer perspective on this topic. In addition, the word in red may also bring audiences the sense of horror, because this color usually represents the sense of urgency and danger. Specifically, this provocative color creates an urgent need for audiences to find out the importance of animal testing when doing research. In contrast, the image on the right shows a great sense of happiness. Because the lady with the pink shirt is smiling at the dog, pathos is established in the right picture. The happiness this image brings to audiences indicates that animal testing is friendly and benefits society, so this procedure contributes significant effects on scientific research. Therefore, audiences will have better connections to the essential of animal testing, resulting in giving support to this promising procedure. Equally important, both images establish logos to supplement the reasons why animal testing is essential for research. The primary goal of the picture on the left is to promote animal testing and persuade the audiences to change their perception on this procedure. The message essential need for animals in biomedical shows that animal research is essential, because it helps study the progress of many diseases and also find treatment to them. According to Garattini and Giuliano in the article testing is still the best way to find new treatments for studies have led to the production of drugs that have affected the epidemiology of human pathology, contributing to prolonging (3). With the help of animals in research, scientists successfully found treatments to a wide array of diseases. In Nguyen 4 addition, by placing the magnifying glass on top of the word the left image shows that animal research has commonly been underestimated and misunderstood. Therefore, FBR creates the word in red color to emphasize the urgent need for audiences to change the misconception about animal testing and understand why this procedure is necessary for research. Besides, the picture on the right claims that animal testing provides proud achievements, so people should support this technique. People are smiling at the dog in this picture, because dogs having cancers can actually help kids with osteosarcoma. According to FBR Communication, bone cancer known as osteosarcoma is so similar between dogs and people that intensive research in canine osteosarcoma has led to several breakthroughs in treating osteosarcoma in (How Best Friend is Helping Cancer Treatment). Because of all the benefits animals bring to research, animal testing remains the most promising and essential procedure. Therefore, people should support animal testing for the benefits of both humans and animals lives. In conclusion, with the use of ethos, pathos, and logos, these images successfully represent the interests of FBR. While ethos creates credibility to persuade audiences support animal testing, pathos triggers emotion to connect them to the goal of FBR. Besides, logos provide reasons and evidences to support the use of animals in research. Through both images, FBR tries to change the misperception people have about animal testing, and this organization also emphasizes the importance of animals in research. Nguyen 5 Works Cited Biomedical  Foundation for Biomedical Research, fbresearch.org/biomedical- research. Accessed 11 February 2017. Testing and Research Foundation for Biomedical Research, fbresearch.org/medical-advances/animal-testing-and-research-achievements. Accessed 25 February 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Animal Testing Is Still the Best Way to Find New Treatments for  European Journal of Internal Medicine. 1 Dec. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Best Friend is Helping Cancer Foundation for Biomedical Research. FBR Communication, 15 Feb.2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.