Zaid 1 Yossef Zaid Professor Karen Hanson ENC1102.084 26 February 2017 PETA versus Animals used for entertainment Going to a theme park or a circus and seeing magnificent creatures doing performances is a sight to behold. Many people find these sights breathtaking, and many more find it blood boiling. To see these majestic animals used as a source of entertainment while they suffer, this violates every nature law in the eyes of these people. There are groups of people like People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals (PETA) who fight to bring an end to these saying that having animals do these tricks is abuse. To train the animals to do these tricks is a hard but simple process in most cases, however it causes the animals pain and discomfort. PETA believes that animals should not be used as a form of entertainment, they believe it is abuse and a violation of the natural rights they should have. PETA campaigns to make changes in the way animals are treated, to end the abuse they believe animals are suffering from. PETA somewhat successfully shows that they are helping animals through their actions using two images to display their victories over the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, and Seaworld. PETA displays their ability to challenge large corporations and change the world through these to images by promoting their victories over said large corporations. For example, this first image shows a baby elephant being in how to do a certain trick, underneath the image are a few words describing victory over the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus Zaid 2 (PETA). This image contains pathos, ethos, and kairos but it lacks strong logos. Each of these rhetorical appeals increases the effectiveness of the image to convey ability to make a change. Even the lack of logos increases the effectiveness slightly. To begin the strongest appeal in this image and text is pathos. Pathos is the appeal to emotion 37). The image solely displays pathos with no other appeal being emphasized in it, a baby elephant being tied up in an odd position with a man holding a metal rod near it, it is hard not to feel bad for the elephant. That all in the text below the the image words like protest, cruelty, and concern are used. The use of pathos in this invokes three emotions that increase the effectiveness of the image, sympathy towards the elephant, dislike towards the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, and respect towards PETA. These emotions would help PETA win over the trust, showing the audience how PETA is the good guy and the Ringling Bros. are the villains. By winning over the audience in such a way will allow them to look at PETA with a positive feeling in the future. Kairos is the appeal to time like a call to action or a fact about history 41). The short text under the image states that this achievement of making the Ringling Bros. stop using elephants for performances was an event 35 years in the making (PETA). This makes the event feel like a historic happening, which makes it feel more important to the audience than if this fact was left out. Ethos is an appeal to authority, it addes credibility to what it mentioned and shown 27). The text under the image mentions PETA and Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus which are widely known organizations and corporations. The fact that this information is coming from one large organization about another means it has to have some level of credibility because if it was found to be false PETA would lose a large amount of trust. Using the names of well known people makes it easier for those who want to know more to Zaid 3 search for it. This leads to the lack of logos, there much information about how or why PETA made the Ringling Bros. stop using elephants. This is first because this is only meant to be a small summary of the fact that it happened. Secondly, because by not having an abundance of information it allow those who are curious to look for more information and those that curious will not be held down by excess information they want. Each of these rhetorical appeals, or lack of them, enhances the effectiveness of the image. The images propose is the celebrate victory over the Ringling Bros. and make it known to the people that PETA is making a difference. However, the effectiveness of this image falls a little flat due to the location of the image. The image is located on their website under the milestone tab, to get to this image would take at least two minutes even if the person knew where it was (PETA). This means only those who look for it or those who accidentally stumble upon it will be affected by it. This crimped the number of people who will see the image to only those who are already interested in PETA and their achievements enough to end up at that page. The second image is of a sad looking orca whale with a short text below it stating announcement to end their orca breeding program (PETA). Similar to the first image this main rhetorical appeal is pathos, however it also contains ethos,logos, and kairos. The images purpose is to celebrate victory over Seaworld and inform the audience of ability to change the world. Pathos is the main rhetorical appeal, it appears in the image through the sad orca and in the text with words like intense and imprisoned. Again this image invokes feelings from the audience, sympathy for the orca in the image and all the Seaworld has in captivity, respect and praise towards PETA for these orca, and dislike towards Seaworld for these orcas in the first place. These feelings will allow the Zaid 4 audience to trust PETA to a greater extent than they had before. The ethos used in the text below the image is small however it adds credibility to the image by increasing its trustworthiness therefore increasing effectiveness. The kairos has a similar effect as the ethos in this case, by mentioning that this had taken the audience will appreciate the time PETA spent in achieving this victory increasing how much they like PETA as a whole therefore increasing the effectiveness. This image has logos which is an appeal to logic. The logos in this image includes a list of all the ways PETA campaigned to cause this event to happen. Reading this list will allow the audience to see all the planning PETA had spent doing to achieve this outcome and the logic behind their actions. This will increase the effectiveness of the image. However, the effectiveness of the image is lost because it is hard to navigate to. The image is located on their website under the milestone tab, to get to this image would take at least two minutes even if the person knew where it was (PETA). Without high traffic no matter how effective the image it will not be able to affect many people. Both of these images are similar, what they try to achieve, how they try to achieve it, and how well they they achieve it are all similar. Both images are made to promote the achievements of PETA, both images use pathos as their main rhetorical appeal, and both images are slightly successful. They both have differences, beginning with rhetorical appeals the first image is more successful in its use of pathos and kairos while the second is more successful with logos and ethos. The pathos in the first image is much greater and invokes a greater feeling from the audience. While the second image barely has any kairos the first uses it well to change the perspective of the crowd. The logos and ethos in the second image work better together than just the ethos in the first image does. However both images aim for the same thing with similar Zaid 5 success. Both image can prompt those who are interested to look into the topic deeper, looking at the Broadcasting (BBC) website people can find out more about the events (BBC). Looking at the web article people could see that PETA was telling the truth (BBC). By researching in further people would learn more about the accomplishments of PETA, which was the reason for leaving out logos in the first image. Both images have a flaw that can not be overlooked, they are both hard to find. In a research paper titled Public Awareness Of Engineering the authors had laid down guidelines that would make information spread effectively. The guidelines were to make certain that the information was reliable, that they had support, and that they were getting the information to the targeted group (Lance et al.). The problem with what PETA is doing is that they getting the images to the targeted group. The images are hard to find if people looking for them, this lowers the effectiveness of the images by a large margin. PETA somewhat successfully displayed their ability to challenge large corporations and change the world. Both images are relatively similar using pathos to show that PETA is fighting for the freedom of animals and is winning. PETA is trying to make people believe that one day all animals will be free, with these images they show they are taking it one solid step after another. Zaid 6 Zaid 7 Zaid 8 Works Cited Davis, A. Lance, and Robin D. Gibbin. Public Awareness Of Engineering. [Electronic . n.p.: Washington, D.C. : National Academies Press, c2002., 2002. of South Florida Libraries Catalog . Web. 26 Feb. 2017 McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Milestones For For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals , 26 Feb. 2017, http://www.peta.org/about-peta/milestones/ Bros circus to close Show on after 146 British Broadcasting Corporation, 26 Feb. 2017, to stop breeding orcas following Broadcasting Corporation, 26 Feb. 2017, http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-35829477 Zaid 9