Rhule 1 Jessica Rhule ENC 1101 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 2/13/17 Involuntary Psychiatric Holds: For Better or Worse? In the field of psychiatry ongoing issue regarding the topic of involuntary commitment, which involves court ordered psychiatric treatment to an individual experiencing mental health problems Official If the individual is deemed a threat to themselves or someone else the court will order an impatient stay up to 72 hours. In mandated outpatient treatment, the individual will be required to adhere to a treatment plan designed by the courts, established on a case by case basis. Organizations like Mental Health America feel that these types of treatment plans restrict the autonomy, disregard the intelligence, and go against human rights Statement In Contrast, the American Psychiatric Association believes that involuntary psychiatric commitment is a necessary tool and a crucial key to mental health recovery Official Due to their surface level differences, neither of these parties have found a resolution on their own; however, both organizations wish to help people with mental health issues recover in a humane, respectful, and effective way. With these similarities in mind, the two organizations could find a satisfactory compromise through modification of the current involuntary treatment policy to be more individualized, compassionate, and detailed. MHA is a nonprofit organization against the use of involuntary treatment in psychiatric facilities to protect factors such as human dignity, autonomy, and respect of persons for the individuals with mental health issues. This organization prides itself on focusing on the individual above all else and pushing for changes in American mental health related policies. Rhule 2 a group of people aimed at promoting mental health wellbeing throughout America by working on pushing policy that promotes early identification, and intervention, access to integrated care, and insurance as stated in the MHA policy, they clearly show support for personal autonomy in recovery Statement The main concern regarding involuntary treatment is also revealed when they discuss their background: MHA explains health treatment and services can only be effective when the consumer embraces providing reasoning to support their anti-involuntary psychiatric treatment perspective Statement The MHA anti-involuntary commitment point of view is validated by researcher James Gottsein who claims free from unwanted psychiatric drugging is a fundamental (Gottstein 51). His analysis of how current involuntary commitment policy impedes on American constitutional rights including, the to be notice of rights and filing right to have hearings open to right to have the hearing in a real [and rights proper evidentiary standards and best (Gottstein 52). Writings like his show validation and support for the reasoning against involuntary commitment. In contrast the APA is an established organization that determines the guidelines for diagnosis and treatment in all things related to psychiatry. Their first diagnostic tool began as early as 1880 when mental health diagnoses were limited to only seven illnesses: mania, melancholia, monomania, paresis, dementia, dipsomania, and epilepsy Vision, Mission, Values, and Since then, the diagnostic tool has been expanded to 265 diagnoses. Tthe APA is directly concerned with the treatment of people with mental health issues, humane care, effective treatment, education and expansion of the field Vision, Mission, Values, and Goals). They believe that involuntary commitment is often necessary when one is a threat to Rhule 3 themselves or someone else because of their mental health issues and claims that it can be an effective and useful treatment method. This is commonly due to the fact that individuals are frequently inconsistent and not dedicated to the treatment on their own, thus involuntary commitment is required for it to be effective of the Task In research done to support their usage of involuntary commitment, it was found that of the discharged patients continued to be unwilling to accept treatment voluntarily, discontinuing treatment immediately after frequently resulting in those same patients being forced to return to the treatments shortly after of the Task Based on the research of both Gottsein and the APA the concerns of both sides to this argument have been shown to be valid, contributing to the lack of solution to this disagreement. Since the MHA is a nonprofit organization pushing for change in legislature, while APA is a established organization responsible for major decisions in the realm of psychiatry the two groups have yet to work together and find a compromise that would meet both of their desires. The common ground between both parties is that their priority is concern for mentally ill people and finding effective and humane treatment for them. On their site, the MHA mentions multiple times, involuntary commitment is permissible in last resort, specific cases, implying they permit the use if it is on humane, and very necessary terms, where persons pose a serious risk of physical harm to themselves or others in the near Statement Additionally, the definition of involuntary commitment, is to only be used when one is an immediate threat to themselves or others Therefore, there is clearly established agreement between the two groups that is not being used to build a compromise between them. Rhule 4 Based on the agreement that involuntary treatment should only be used in cases where the individual is truly an immediate threat to oneself or to others, in addition to changing policy so rulings are more individualized to each case, both organizations would have their needs met, and the system could be much more effective. This would include, the APA changing the treatment procedure for mentally ill patients in crisis in the next DSM, to require more earlier intervention, in depth personal analysis, gentle and more compassionate employees, and treatments available for longer than 72 hours, per communication with individual. This would require the MHA agree to and permit the newly revised more humane and autonomous conditions. This compromise would prove to be a more effective treatment method based on the research claims made by Dan Moon, who showed a case study based on a mentally ill gunman who shot a total of 18 people. analysis revealed realized that this tragedy could have been averted if Loughner had been civilly committed and provided treatment for his mental (Moon, 1). Additionally the National Alliance on Mental Illness as cited in research states: should adopt broader, more flexible standards that would provide involuntary commitment and/or court-ordered to help ensure that all of those in need get help, not solely those that appear to be an obvious threat (Moon, 25). Showing how this compromise is beneficial and a feasible option because of the participation of the APA. The compromise of altering the present policy regarding involuntary civil commitment would be beneficial to the MHA because it would accomplish their primary goal of making the policy more humane, and respectful. Meanwhile, the APA would benefit because the people they aim to help would have more opportunity for recovery, and more effective treatments. Overall, society will benefit from this because approximately 1 in 5 adults in the U.S. experiences mental Rhule 5 illness in a given year, and with this policy in place even more of this hindered population will have better help, faster Health By The Rhule 6 Works Cited American Psychiatric Association. Vision, Mission, Values, and Goals. APA Publishing, 2017, https://www.psychiatry.org/about-apa/vision-mission-values-goals. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Citizens Commission on Human Rights. CCHR Florida: Baker Act. CCHR Florida, 2015, http://www.cchrflorida.org/baker-act-help-and-information/. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017 Curtis, Alicia. Bad Subjects: Political Education for Everyday Life, Dec. 2001. https://bad.eserver.org/issues/2001/58/curtis.html/view?searchterm=involuntary%20com mitment. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Gottstein, James. Commitment and Forced Psychiatric Drugging in the Trial Courts: Rights Violations as a Matter of Alaska Law Review, vol. 25, no. 51, 2008, http://scholarship.law.duke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1059&context=alr. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Mental Health America. MHA: Who We Are. Mental Health America, 2016, http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/who-we-are. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Mental Health America. Positions Statement 22: Involuntary Mental Health Treatment. Mental Health America, 2016, http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/positions/involuntary- treatment. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Moon, Dan. The Dangerousness of The Status Quo: A Case For Modernizing Civil Commitment  Widener Law Review, vol. 20, no. 209, 2014, Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Rhule 7 National Alliance on Mental Illness. Mental Health By The Numbers. NAMI, 2017, http://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-By-the-Numbers. Accessed: 12 Feb. 2017 Starrett, David, Miller, Robert, D., Bloom, Joseph, Weitzel, William, D., Robert, Luskin, D. Involuntary Commitment to Outpatient Treatment: Report of the Task Force on Involuntary Outpatient Commitment. American Psychiatric Association, 1987.