Daniela 1 Daniela Pena Castro Composition II Bianca Hernandez 26 February 2017 Advertising on food wasting awareness Nowadays, food wasting is a significantly growing public issue that requires immediate attention and effective solutions to start reducing the alarming numbers of the last few years. Multiple organizations such as the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and the Ad council, who advocate for social causes and major social concerns, have worked on multiple graphic advertisement campaigns to raise awareness about recent food wasting statistics. For example, in 2012 the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC) in reveled the results of a research study showing that Americans throw 40% of its produced food every year (4). After this research studies results, the NRDC and the Ad council join and released multiple visual resources with rhetorical appeals to impact their audience. The effective use of rhetoric appeals such as the selected colors, the inclusion of logos, or the integrated quotes on images; are part of the strategies of the NRDC and the Ad council to connect the community with their message about food wasting reduction and sustainability development. Rhetorical appeals are persuasive strategies made to convince a desired audience about a specific topic or concern. These strategies usually advocate for feelings, logic, timeliness and reason on their spectators. For example, in the first image presented by the partnership between the NRDC and the Ad council. The first rhetorical appeal recognized will be Ethos, which refers to the credibility of the source and the backup information. This is represented by the inclusion Daniela 2 of the logos of both organization, which means that what is being shown on the image is made by an on the topic that has national validation. Another ethos appeal that could be identified on the image will be the inclusion of the webpage of the campaign, which means that there is a lot more information and resources to support what is being said and shown on the image. Appealing to credibility on a topic such as food wasting makes the audience truly think about the importance of working within the community for sustainability development a food wasting reduction. Another major rhetorical appeal utilize is the first Image is pathos, which evokes emotions on the audience. In the specific case of this image the quote saying that on average every American family throws 1500 dollars every year on food they never consume, make the spectator feel guilty about all the different things that they could have done with that money instead of just throwing it to the trash can. Also, the phrase on top of the web page ending with waste is meant to make the audience feel sad and guilty, because said in a tone that makes it looks like someone is begging the spectator to just waste the food. Pathos is one of the strongest rhetorical appeals, because it stays with the spectator. Therefore, the next time the spectator is about to throw an unused product or the left-over of a dinner, they will remember the phrase and the guilty feeling and they will try to change it, and they will avoid throwing those products. With this chain of actions the wasting reduction will start and the campaign will prove its effectiveness. In terms of timeliness, also called Kairos, the relationship might be found on the fact that the phrase and the picture used are simple and generic so anyone, independently from their age or origin will understand the message. Additionally, the if can be recognize as a call of action, meaning that we, as a community, must start using our products and stop wasting our Daniela 3 food right now. This issue is not something that could be faced later, is something that requires concrete actions right now. And exactly what the image is trying to tell. The final rhetorical appeal represented on this image is logos, which as predicted by its name refers to logic. The image utilizes a white background which might be associated with the inside of a refrigerator, which is in fact of one the places were saving the most could start for plenty of families. Additionally, the play with the standard font used for expiration dates and pricing of the products. This is made to persuade the spectator about the argument of the picture, basically If you use it you lose it. On the second image presented by the partnership between Ad council and NRDC, they are trying to present a similar message than they did with the first one. However, this time the main focus is not reason and economic advantages of saving food, but the concrete amount of wasting that each one of us is responsible for every year. In terms of rhetorical appeals, logos could be recognized over the font used for if Which as in the first image, is the same as the one usually use for the expiration dates of the products. Which is related to the idea of the organizations about food wasting reduction, and using the products before they get to the expiration dates and the consumer feels forced to throw them away. In relation to pathos, the appealing to emotions, the fact that they use 290 pounds, plays an important role. This weight corresponds to the mass of two small size people, so the audience will feel guilty and think about how each one of us throws away the weight of what could be two people every year, with the food we consume. At the same time the phrase used in the image, could be appealing to logos, as it helps the spectator picture and realize the proportions of this growing issue. Additionally, the chosen colors for the background and the font, help the spectator to maily focus on the quote presented and have the bag of bread just as a supporting Daniela 4 element. As in the first image the appealing to credibility is represented by the presence of the logos of the organization, and the inclusion of a website which provides the audience with back up information and an argument for the credibility of the information that its being presented and its sources. The credibility over this image is a key point for the organizations to accomplish their objective of reducing food wasting and support sustainability. For the appealing to timelines both organizations maintain the same strategy they had for the first image, including the phrase it, store it, share it, just waste plays not only with the feelings of the audience but with the sense of urgency. Additionally, the usage of the IF on capital letters is a call of action to the audience, as it might be perceived as if someone was screaming at the spectator. Also, the fact that it s over a yellow font makes the viewer emphasize part of their attention on this phrase. And Therefore, focus on the overall message of the image and the organizations. The NRDC has work together with the ad council to develop an efficient visual campaign that spreads a message and consents an audience about the importance of reducing food wasting, but also about how this issue is directly affecting each one of us. For this visual campaign, multiple rhetorical appeals were identified to have a direct impact on how the audience receives the message and what they do with it. Overall, details such as the font and size of a quote, or the selected combination of colors might end up making the difference between a successful campaign or one more boring advertisement. Daniela 5 Images: Daniela 6 References: Berkenkam, JoAnne.  NRDC. N.p., 21 Aug. 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2017https://www.nrdc.org/issues/food-waste National Resources Defense Council (NRDC). Hospitality Industry . N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. National Resources Defense Council (NRDC). Save the Food . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.