Sahadath 1 Shari Sahadath Karen Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Humane Society of the United States Against Animal Testing On Cosmetic Products Animal Testing has been a controversial issue for many years. There are many organizations that support the use of animal testing because it aids in the production of their cosmetic products. Most of their reasons for testing on animals are strictly for the assurance of safety on their products for human use. As much as they try their best to reduce the use of animals on cosmetic products, they do not want the risk of their products harming humans. However, there are just as many organizations who are against the use of animals in laboratories, especially for cosmetic testing. One such organization is The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) which is a non-profit organization that fights for rights. They believe that animal testing should be prohibited, as they are committed to protecting and helping animals in laboratories. They are for the promotion of animal advocacy. The Humane Society of the United States auspiciously supports its argument to the public that animal testing should be prohibited through two images showing visual rhetoric linking animal testing to an increase in animal cruelty. The Humane Society of the United States contends that animal testing should be proscribed through two images that display the need for action to help animals suffering cruelty. For Sahadath 2 example, Image A shows a dog that looks undernourished and seems to have been ill-treated. This picture is urging people to take action to help animals who have experienced cruelty, to end their suffering. It is dreadful as it shows what many animals have to face when tested in laboratories. In this image the first words printed are on (Animal Testing). These words are significant in demonstrating the seriousness of the issue of animal testing. The Humane Society of the United States connotes that the dog in this picture is trapped in a cage, going to be harmed for the safety of cosmetic products. The rhetorical appeal of pathos, an appeal to emotion, is clearly demonstrated in this photograph. The dog shows pathos in this image. According to Megan McIntyre and Alysia Sawchyn, appeal to your sadness is one kind of appeal to (37). It is stated in the words of the picture that more needs to be done and that people should which is an example of kairos rhetorical appeal, an appeal to time. (Animal Testing). The rhetorical appeal logos is shown in this image by the appearance. The dog appears to be malnourished and afraid, which is evidence that it was not fed or treated properly. The rhetoric appeal of ethos is also shown as the picture was taken directly from The Humane Society of the United website. It shows credibility as the picture was taken specifically for this organization, and it includes that the USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) is involved in this issue, as stated in the picture (Animal Testing). Image B urges people to A Hero by donating dollars a in order to help animals who suffer from animal testing (Animal Care Centers). According to the article published by Gregory Mone, motivation for the new rule stems in part from concerns about the ethics of testing the safety of chemicals on living (20). This picture shows of an unhappy and petrified dog that has been rescued by the members of The Humane Society of the United States. This illustrates the plight of the dogs that have been salvaged by this organization. Sahadath 3 In this photograph, the use of pathos rhetoric, is evident by the dismal look on the face. According to Megan McIntyre and Alysia Sawchyn, offers a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held (36). The use of the logos rhetorical appeal is clearly shown by the disheartened dog, which shows evidence of the dog being mistreated. The appeal of ethos is conspicuous as this picture was also taken from the website of The Humane Society of the United States. This image is credible as it is owned from this organization with proof of their name stated on it. The kairos appeal is used as the picture is urging the public to a monthly showing an appeal to time (Animal Care Centers). By making a donation every month can help these animals be revived from their torture. These two images are the ways The Human Society of the United States profitably argues that animal testing should be terminated. Image A, the picture of the malnourished and ill-treated dog, which shows the rhetoric appeal of pathos is effective as the dog brings sadness to our hearts because of its distressed appearance. According to Megan McIntyre and Alysia Sawchyn, images of caged animals hope to make you feel sad enough that you will want to donate money to their (37). Effective use of the rhetorical appeal kairos is shown in this picture as it compels people to take action by donating money as soon as possible, to help these animals experiencing cruelty. The logos appeal is forceful in showing effectiveness as it shows that animal testing is a real issue faced by many animals. There is an effect to get the readers thinking of the cruelty faced by animals. The dog in the picture shows significance as it makes an appeal to the readers to take action to help these animals. The words on this image educate readers with awareness of the issue. This may also lead readers to further research on this specific topic. Lastly, the use of the ethos rhetorical appeal showing credibility leads readers to take the issue seriously without any doubts of deceit on the matter. It is evident that it is truthful as it is stated Sahadath 4 on the picture that the image was taken for this organization. When being compared, image B, the picture of the troubled and fearful dog, shows effectiveness as well. The pathos rhetoric in this photograph is effective because it makes people want to help the dog because of the sadness in its eyes. It makes readers want to press that a monthly button for assistance in this issue. The appeal of logos also shows that the readers may grasp an understanding of an issue they may or may not be aware of. This issue can further be researched after given specific information on this problem. The picture asks people for donations which brings up the issue that animals need some sort of aid. Again, the dog in this picture grasps attention, to get people aware of this evident issue of cruelty towards animals. The ethos rhetoric is the same as image A, showing integrity as it can be found on the website. Also the use of the kairos rhetoric appeal is effective for this image as it shows a sense of urgency to donate, to give these animals some sort of help. It makes the reader seem that these animals are in need of assistance as soon as possible. From this picture, readers can gather that the faster these animals receive help, the less cruelty faced. Both of these images are similar in expressing effectiveness of the message The Humane Society of the United States is trying to delineate. They both are cogent in the use of rhetorical appeals with evidence of pathos, ethos, logos and kairos. The Humane Society of the United States has efficaciously argued that animal testing should be forbidden by these two images showing the cruelty faced by animals. Both of these images highlight this serious issue by using victims such as dogs to emphasize what many animals endure. These pictures give readers a sense of the distraught these animals face daily and how much assistance is needed. According to Mone, vitro and silico testing will play a much larger part in how we assess chemicals in the (Mone 21). This means that animal testing can eventually be abolished when further research is done to complete these alternative methods. Sahadath 5 In the future, The Humane Society of the United States can accomplish their goals; to cease animal testing, by continuous promotion of animal advocacy and campaigning to make animal testing illegal. It is in their best intentions to make animal testing decreased as much as possible until it becomes prohibited. Sahadath 6 Works Cited The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Care The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Pathos Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Mone, Gregory. Models In Cosmetics Replacing Animal Communications Of The ACM 57.4 (2014): 20-21. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sahadath 7 Image A Image B