Ohnmacht 1 Tyler Ohnmacht Theodosiou ENC-1102 2/26/17 Ohnmacht 2 Uber Advertisement In world there are a multitude of ways to travel, one of the newest modes of transportation are ride-sharing services such as Uber. Uber as a company has an ultimate goal to make money in order to survive as a business. In order to do so Uber used unique business strategies including advertising to specific audiences, and doing so in a minimalistic way. Uber advertises not only to their customers, but also to possible employees. Through their use of rhetorical appeals Uber communicates to their emotions, logic, and to their own credibility. Uber was founded in 2010, and launched as a fully functioning app in 2011 in the city of San Francisco. Uber is one of the most popular ride-sharing services in the world with drivers in major cities from San Fransisco, to New York, to India (Uber.com). Uber has caused a major disturbance in the transportation industry as their business model, which hires drivers as independent contractors instead of employees, allows them to bypass many regulations that normal taxi companies have to follow. This innovative way of transport relies on both getting customers to use the service, and also on people to drive for Uber, as a result Uber must market itself to both consumers and potential drivers. main audience in the ads shown are potential customers and drivers. Uber does not use classical marketing strategies however, mostly relying on word of mouth and other non-traditional ways of advertising. This leads what traditional ads they do use being targeted at specific groups, the first ad seems to target men and women who can drive and need to make money, the second targets parents, and those concerned mostly with safety when being driven, and also potential Uber drivers. Ohnmacht 3 The first image has one major appeal to pathos, which is defined in Really Matters as appeal to emotion (Lee et al. The first appeal is the text that is bolded saying as money can sometimes be hard to come by especially for young adults, which this ad seems to be targeting based on the age of the woman in the foreground of the picture. The color palate which makes it seem that it is a sunny day in the ad is also an appeal to emotion. Uber is trying to make driving seem appealing and so they make it look sunny outside in the ad and use a bright color palette as opposed to black and white. These colors set a light hearted tone for the picture and would illicit an emotional response of joy from the audience. The idea of making money would invoke excitement or joy at the opportunity, especially when it is paired with the task of simply driving your car. Uber is trying to communicate the appeals in the first picture to people who need to make money, have a personal car, and can drive. The second ad however has much more when it comes to pathos. The girl in the foreground of the picture is in an Uber, the text underneath her head reads rides on the suggesting that in an Uber, children would never be in danger, or be in the least possible amount of danger. The smaller text indicates that Uber puts the safety of customers before anything else. All of these things are trying to spark an emotional response, mostly one of happiness that these rides are safe, and a feeling of security. The use of a child in the foreground instead of an adult is a clear appeal to pathos because people tend to care about the safety of children more than that of adults. Carmen Cosoi notes the use of children in advertising in her paper the role played by children and tweens in advertising using content mentioning children and tweens represent the main attractions in terms of TV commercials and because of the positive reaction This supports the idea that the use of the child in the ad was to trigger a positive Ohnmacht 4 response from the audience, which in the case of the second ad is people who need to get somewhere and want to do so safely. The second ad makes additional emotional appeals to parents because of the use of the child in the ad. The tone of the ad is very serious also, using black and white to indicate a serious tone as opposed to the color of the first image. Uber also uses appeals to ethos in their advertisements, is an appeal to own credibility. . .and is used to show that your claim has (Lee et al. 27-29). In the first ad there is only one appeal to ethos and it is that there is an Uber logo in the bottom left corner of the ad. This shows that the ad was put out by Uber, and gives credibility to the text at the top of the picture saying that one can money driving your own The second image uses the same appeal to credibility with the Uber logo appearing in it, this time across the top of the advertisement. Like the first image the second one uses the Uber logo in order to give credibility to the other text in the picture. Uber wants their name to be synonymous with safety, and by putting the name of their company they tried to connect the two. This is directed not only at customers, but also to their drivers. This however is a an appeal to authority fallacy, as even though Uber is a successful ride-sharing company, however this does not make them an authority on safety. Six Uber drivers in Brazil have been murdered due to changes that Uber implemented. Other than this however both of these ads do not have any other appeals to credibility. Logos, or to (Lee et al. 32), are used in these Uber advertisements as well. The first ad uses appeals to logos through the text, the overall objective of the ad is to get people to become an Uber driver. Uber assumes people like to make money, and like to drive their cars, then logically they will want to become an Uber driver. Uber uses the text as the claim Ohnmacht 5 as a logical premise, to support the unstated claim that they want the people in the audience to become Uber drivers. The unstated assumptions in this ad are that the audience which is young adults, want to make money, and like driving their car. Another unstated assumption made by the ad is that the audience would be willing to drive strangers. The second ad uses appeals to logic that have less assumptions. The first unstated assumption in the second image is that people want to be driven safely, this is a good assumption as most people would agree to that. The smaller text is also a logical appeal, as a company Uber is known for putting their consumers first in any possible way, including allowing them to set destinations after they have a cab, and pay in cash in some regions. In relation to the ad Uber has made it a safety regulation that all Uber cars must be no older than seven years past the current year. This is to ensure that the most modern safety technology is given to customers (Uber.com). This is a good appeal to logos as it is seemingly void of logical fallacies. With these appeals Uber makes solid arguments as to why people should use their service. All in all Uber expertly uses minimalistic styling and rhetorical appeals to logos, ethos, and pathos in their advertisements in order to connect with the millennial generation to attempt to get them to use their app, and also to work for them. Although their ads are not perfect, they are a great example of how advertising can be simple but make a very specific point. Ohnmacht 6 Works Cited Cosoi, Carmen Maria. Exploring the Role Played by Children and Tweens in Advertising Using Content  Annals of DAAAM & Proceedings, 2011, p. 473. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.349222650&site=eds-live. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . 2016. Web. Uber.com . Uber, n.d. Web. 17 Jan. 2017.