Bakst 1 Adam Bakst Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC1102-086 S17 Composition II 26 February 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Rhetoric Appeals: The National Rifle Association Gun rights have come to an explosive head within the last decade. With recent mass shootings and a recent election cycle, gun control has become a huge topic for debate. The National Rifle Association (NRA) is the notorious front organization for the protection of the second amendment and therefore produce articles, news and images helping their cause. In attempt to appeal to those already involved in the organization as well as trying to recruit new members, the NRA has published photos to help push their agenda. For this essay, two photos will be analyzed: one being a group of older white men in and the other being two women being instructed in proper gun usage. Both these images invoke many reactions and sympathies to an audience both familiar and new to the platform. Using the rhetorical appeals, primarily ethos in Image A and pathos in Image B, as well as taking into consideration their audience, the National Rifle Association intends to push their stake in the matter of the rights to bear arms. In 1871, when Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate saw a lack of marksmanship within their militia, The National Rifle Association was formed with the mission statement to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (A Brief History of the Bakst 2 NRA). Moving through history and into current events, the NRA is a huge powerhouse in politics. At the forefront of almost all major political actions. Famously quoted political pundit George Stephanopoulos once said me make one small vote for the NRA. good citizens. They call their Congressmen. They write. They vote. They contribute. And they get what they want over (Masket). This essentially means that the NRA has a loyal basis. The members are very strong in their beliefs and will call, write and protest on their second amendment beliefs. It is with this information and loyalty that the NRA can use in their images. For the first example, shown below in the visual section titled Image A is a photo depicting five older white men with a large United States of America flag behind them. In this photo, four of the men are in suit and tie attire while one is in either a police or fire formal attire (NRA Blog Staff). So, just with this image at face value there is evidence for ethos, or an ethical approach. For this, a main point would be the outfits of the men. With the formal wear of the service man, that is a sense of responsibility and knowledge on such subjects like firearms and protection. In everyday life, a police man, a fireman, or anything like these professions grab attention. It is that feeling of when a driver notices a police cruiser in their rear-view window, they are instantly adjusting their driving skills even if they were not bad to begin with. Also with this, the four business dressed men give a sense of intelligence. Especially in America, society bats a favorable eye to those we crown as hard working, these men dressed up in suits don the ethical appeal of wisdom and dedication even if it is not bluntly mentioned in the photo. And, as one can see the American flag in the background, symbolizes both an ethical approach and an emotional tactic or pathos. Being that the flag symbolizes American values the audience is verified on their belief that the American ideals ethically approve of this (the second amendment being a major right), but this representation also tugs at the pride. It is often Bakst 3 second natural for a citizen to feel pride for their homeland and that feeling is amplified when seeing the nation representation boosted in a large backdrop signifying an U.S. ideal. To move to a logical understanding, those pictured in the image fit the key demographic of the audience and is essential appealing to their logic of like mindedness. According to Pew Research Center, out of the three demographic traits (gender, race/ethnicity, and age) the average gun owning American is a Non-Hispanic white man either 50-64 or 65+ (Morin). This is identical to the five figures in the photo. Choosing this demographic makes it a logical tactic because these demographics can see themselves in these figures. That is not to say that their characters only appeal to a logical understanding. It is important to symbolize such an age groups to appeal to the idea of time, or kairos. These older men are taking on the belief of never too late to The elderly models of this image can be speaking to the late bloomer on gun control as if to say time like For the next image, the audience sees a direction for a different demographic. Image B features both a younger and older woman being instructed on proper firearm handling, a main pillar of the beliefs. Based on the rhetorical appeals, this image seems to push the mind towards the emotions fear and instinctual protection (Gross). The National Rifle Association want to focus in on the need for firearms as a tool for protection taking advantage of the statistic that 60% of Americans own a gun for that very reason (Gallup). With this the NRA also uses the disturbing statistic put out by such organizations as the Battered Support Services, BWSS, that to 70 percent women experience physical or sexual their (BWSS). Adding these together the pathos in this image contours the feeling of fear, and therefore a need for self-protection. Taking this pathos idea, the viewer can also consider the Kairos of the setting. The woman in the foreground is handling a modern gun, with modern Bakst 4 clothes wearing modern headphones; everything about this photo shouts that this is a present issue that needs to be taken into consideration right now. And, to show that the NRA supports reliable education in the photo an instructor is featured to show the shooters the inner workings. Placing the skilled handler utilizes the ethics of these shooting schools the association advocates. And although this photo does not strongly use a logos technique, all the other appeals combined push the message of this photo quite forcefully. Taking into consideration both current members as well as recruit for new ones, the National Rifle association can produce two powerful images. While appealing to the very common demographic white male demographic with image A, the organization counters that with targeting the potential market of middle-aged woman in image B. A political force as strong as the NRA is knowledgeable enough to know not to put all in eggs in one basket, so delivering two images for complete opposite groups shows their versatility. Not only this, but also gives good evidence on their manipulation of the rhetorical appeals. Interloping many of the appeals together gives the images a sense of importance, urgency, and emotion all at once. Bakst 5 Work Cited Page A Brief History of the  NRA. National Rifle Association, 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. BWSS. The Facts on Violence Against  BWSS. N.p., 2017. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Gallup, Inc. Personal Safety Top Reason Americans Own Guns  Gallup.com. N.p., 28 Oct. 2013. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Gross, W.H. The Well Armed Woman. 2017. NRA Family, https://www.nrafamily.org/articles/2017/2/8/the-well-armed-woman/. Accessed February 2017 Masket, Seth A Political Response to Gun  Washington Monthly. N.p., 17 Dec. 2012. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Morin, Rich. The Demographics and Politics of Gun-owning  Pew Research Center. N.p., 15 July 2014. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. NRA Blog Staff. Henry Repeating Arms Honors Selfless Service at The NRA Foundation Banquet. 2017. NRA Blog, https://www.nrablog.com/articles/2017/2/henry-repeating-arms-honors-selfless-service- at-the-nra-foundation-sportsmens-banquet/. Accessed February 2017 (Word Count: 1312) Bakst 6 Visuals: A. B.