Jackson 1 Christian Jackson Lorie Jewell ENC1101.21 20 February 2017 The Electoral College The electoral college is a major political tool that has been around since the birth of our nation. Within the electoral college, electors meet to vote for the president and vice president and the counting of the electoral votes is done by Congress. There are 530 electors in total and it takes a majority of 270 electoral votes to elect the president. This unique tool was designed to operate like a system for it gives all states equal voting power for every state has a pre-set number of votes depending on their current population size and the electors have the final say for who will become the president. Over the years, people have questioned the effectiveness of the electoral college for some believe the popular vote should be the only vote needed to determine who the future president and vice president will be. Others believe the electoral college is far too powerful and simple needs to be reformed so that its power will be reduced. Frankly, a large number of still people believe the electoral college is a fundamental part of our country and that it is still a necessary to too for determining the next president and vice president. This long, complex conversation leads to this research question: is the electoral college still a necessary tool for determining the president and vice president in the modern era. Webster, Gerald, Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral The Geography Teacher, Volume 13 Issue 3, Web. Jul-Sep 2016: p101-105, 5p. Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral article goes in depth on how the electoral college was created by our Founding Fathers and shows how the Jackson 2 current electoral college system works. Webster talks of how many of the same things we argue today in regards to the electoral college were also discussed by our Founding Fathers. For instance, Webster says this about how the Founding Fathers argued about the electoral college system: One idea was to have the Congress select the president, but this option was rejected for several a second option was to allow state legislatures to select the the direct election of the president was also considered, but there was insufficient support for its selection. (Webster 101) The author, Gerald Webster, of the article Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral analyzes my research question on a balanced perspective because he simple tells the audience of how the electoral college was formed and how it operates. Webster also introduces some of the core proposals and debates that will be seen in later parts of this paper for the (Webster 101) proposal is brought up and several other potential reforms are presented that are also presented in other sources that appear throughout this paper. Webster does an excellent job creating a strong historical point of view because it shows the audience of how the Founding Fathers argued about the same proposals and ideals regarding to the electoral college as modern society does now. This is a credible article because it has been peer reviewed. Benjamin, Bolinger. Abolishing The Electoral International Social Science Review, Volume 82 Issue Web. 2007: p182-186, 5p. Abolishing The Electoral article provides evidence on how the current electoral college system should be replaced or abolished by another voting system because the current system is unfair to many American citizens. For instance, Bolinger makes the observation that with a small populations control a disproportionate number of electoral Jackson 3 votes compared to those with larger (Bollinger 180). Bollinger supports this observation by using actual research to show how unbalanced the current system is: According to the 2000 census, population was 33,871,648, giving it fifty-five electoral votes. Wyoming, the least populous state, had only 493, 782 residents, earning it three electoral votes. In other words, California gets one electoral vote per 615,848 residents; Wyoming receives one vote per 164, 594 residents. That is nearly a 4:1 ratio in favor of Wyoming. (Bollinger 180) The Abolishing The Electoral article strongly analyzes my research question from the anti-current electoral college system stance for it uses accurate research such as the 2000 census to show the audience how the current electoral college system is undemocratic because a large number of U.S citizens are overlooked in the process. The article is credible because it has been peer reviewed. The article is also credible because it uses accurate information that was compiled by Benjamin Bolinger who is an experienced voice on the topic. The article also provides a fair historical perspective because it was written in 2007, a year before President Barack Obama was elected. Lampert, Richard, Honorable Barbara Boxer, Michael W. McConnell, Public Interest Institute (John Hendrickson), Jack Rakove, Bob Barr, Pros and Cons of the Electoral College Congressional Digest, Volume 96 Issue 1, Web. January 2017: p18-31,14p. The Pros and Cons of the Electoral College article discusses both sides of the conversation on whether the electoral college is still necessary. For the people who do not support the electoral college, Richard Lampert, a professor at the University of Michigan, beliefs most likely summarize the way they view the electoral college for he said this, democracy means the majority rules, the Electoral College is an undemocratic (Lampert 18). For Jackson 4 the people who do support the electoral college system, Michael W. McConnell, a professor at the University of Law School, beliefs most likely summarize the way he views the electoral college for he said this, Electoral College is not going to be changed, and there are far more urgent and promising topics for reform of our presidential selection (Lampert 24). Lampert and the other authors within the and Cons of the Electoral article strongly analyzes my research question from both stands in the current conversation. This article is a credible source for it uses information and well respected opinions from those who stand on the anti-Electoral College conversation and the voices that appear on this side of the conversation are: Professor Richard Lempert and Honorable Barbara Boxer (a U.S Senator). This article is credible because it uses information and opinions from those who fully support the current Electoral College and some of the voices that appear on this side of the conversation are: Professor Michael W. McConnell and John Hendrickson (a research analyst). Kefauver, Estes, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Law and Contemporary Problems, Volume 27 No.2, The Electoral Process: Part 1, Web. Spring,1962: p.188-212. In the article, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New the author Estes Kefauver proposes several different ways the electoral college can be reformed, but he also discusses the issues with these proposals, as well. One of the major proposals he introduces is the direct national election solution. The primary idea of the direct national solution is to eliminate the electoral vote for each state so that the individual vote will be the only deciding factor in getting the President and Vice President elected. One of the main issues he states for this theory is this: Jackson 5 The most frequent argument made against direct national election in the Congress is that it would be futile for Congress to submit such an amendment to the states; that it would have no chance of ramification by three-fourths of the states because thirty-six of them have added weight in the election of the President by reason of the electoral college system. (Kefauver 195) The author, Estes Kefauver, of the article Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New analyzes my research question from both stands in the current conversation. Kefauver provides a particularly unique viewpoint on the conversation because he wrote it in 1962, so this article is a testament to how long this interesting debate has been going on. This article also does a good job of stating the many issues that come along with each proposal for electoral college reform. Colquitt, Bryce, College Policy Studies Journal, Volume 36 Issue 4, Web. November 2008: p693, 2 p. In the article, College Bryce Colquitt, the author, talks about how uneven voter representation is within the current voting system. Colquitt focuses in on the fact that voters and their issues in certain states that are referred to as states (Colquitt 1), which are states in which the can assume who will receive the electoral (Colquitt 1), are largely overlooked in the overall current electoral college process, but the issues of voters swing states like (Colquitt 1) are focused on too much. Bryce proposes the idea that attempting to a constitutional amendment reforming the Electoral College, one which awards elected votes proportionally, removes the majority mandate, and replaces it with a (Colquitt 2) would be the best remedy for fixing the issues within the current electoral college system. Jackson 6 The author, Bryce Colquitt, of the article College analyzes my research question from an anti-current electoral college system for the author wants major reformation take place within our voting system so that all voters will be represented equally. Colquitt provides a unique perspective because he wrote it in 2008 after President Barack Obama received the votes needed to become the President of the United States of America. Colquitt wrote this article eight years ago, so it is a testament to how long this debate has been stirring throughout the country. The article is credible because it uses accurate information that Bryce Colquitt produced and collected. Dunne, Michael, Presidential Elections: Two Centuries of Constitutionality Continuity and Political Change With An Analysis of the Political Geography of Barack Re-election Political Quarterly, Volume 84 Issue 2, Web. April- June 2013: p265-277, 13p. In the article, Presidential Elections: Two Centuries of Constitutionality Continuity and Political Change With An Analysis of the Political Geography of Barack Re- election Michael Dunne talks of how the electoral college has changed over time and he provides an argument and a counter-argument as to why the current electoral college system is effective and how it is not effective. Dunne supports the current electoral college by saying this: If one purpose of the USA political system is to create, rather than suffer from, a system of and to maintain a federalism of competing jurisdiction; to emphasis the general rather than sectional interests of what George Washington, in his Farewell Address, called the great of the then the present system is indeed for (Dunne 276) Jackson 7 Dunne provides an effective and logical counter-argument by saying this: But the potential for simple discrepancy between the popular vote and the composition of the electoral college always exists: the risk is inherent in the system- even more so with a pejorative term, of course. (Dunne 276) The author, Michael Dunne, of the article Presidential Elections: Two Centuries of Constitutionality Continuity and Political Change With An Analysis of the Political Geography of Barack Re-election analyzes my research question from a moderately pro-current electoral college stance, but he also acknowledges the flaws of the already established political system, as well. This article is credible because it is peer reviewed. This is also a credible article because it comes from a credible author, Dunne, who presents accurate research in a well-balanced manner. Jackson 8 Works Cited Webster, Gerald, Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral The Geography Teacher, Volume 13 Issue 3, Web. Jul-Sep 2016: p101-105, 5p. Benjamin, Bolinger. Abolishing The Electoral International Social Science Review, Volume 82 Issue Web. 2007: p182-186, 5p. Lampert, Richard, Honorable Barbara Boxer, Michael W. McConnell, Public Interest Institute (John Hendrickson), Jack Rakove, Bob Barr, Pros and Cons of the Electoral College Congressional Digest, Volume 96 Issue 1, Web. January 2017: p18-31,14p. Kefauver, Estes, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Law and Contemporary Problems, Volume 27 No.2, The Electoral Process: Part 1, Web. Spring,1962: p.188-212. Colquitt, Bryce, College Policy Studies Journal, Volume 36 Issue 4, Web. November 2008: p693, 2 p. Dunne, Michael, Presidential Elections: Two Centuries of Constitutionality Continuity and Political Change With An Analysis of the Political Geography of Barack Re-election Political Quarterly, Volume 84 Issue 2, Web. April- June 2013: p265-277, 13p.