Osenton 1 Lauren Osenton 26 February 2016 Bianca Hernandez ENC1102.088 Project 2 Intermediate The debate between fossil fuels and renewable energy has been argued for years. Fossil fuels are non-renewable and depleting but most people are accustomed to them while renewable energy is clean but may not be as reliable. Greenpeace is an organization that uses peaceful protest to bring awareness to a plethora of environmental issues such as endangered animals, protecting the forests and oceans, and sustainable food. Greenpeace also speaks out about climate change and believes that the best way to reduce it is to become more reliant on renewable energy such as solar or wind energy. According to Greenpeace, fossil fuels account the vast majority of greenhouse gas which are harmful to the environment and humans. The two images use the appeals to credibility, emotions, timeliness, and logic to illustrate the different effects of nonrenewable energy. The two images support stance on renewable energy and climate change by portraying the negative effects of fossil fuels and their impacts on the environment and future generations. The first image is of a little boy who is crying alone in a drought. This image brings awareness to the significance of climate change. The second image is a picture of workers cleaning up an oil spill and this shows the direct, negative impacts that a specific kind of fossil fuel can have on the environment. Greenpeace exemplifies visual rhetoric by establishing credibility in the two images. The first image establishes credibility by inserting the Greenpeace logo in the bottom, right corner. The logo shows that the photo is an official advertisement by a credible organization whose main goal is to promote a healthy environment for the present and future generations. The image of Osenton 2 the workers cleaning up oil from a spill establishes credibility by having on the bottom left corner. The photo also has on the bottom left. Roenggrit Kuangmong was a devastating oil spill that occurred in Thailand where of gallons of crude oil leaked from an offshore oil (Greenpeace USA). Putting the event that the picture is from proves that the photo is not staged and that it was a real issue that affected a beautiful country. The hazmat suits that the workers are wearing also establish trust between the audience and the source. If the workers wearing official oil spill cleanup suits, they seem very legitimate. The appeal to emotion is also very evident in both images. The photo of the young boy crying while stranded in the desert with nothing but a large piece of cloth evokes anxiety and fear about the future and what it holds for mankind. The dry ground shows that there is a drought, which, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, is caused by a lack of rain or snow, which can come to a halt as the temperature rises. The background is very bland which could make viewers feel like the future is bleak and like there going to be much for them or future generations. Parents that see this photo may feel guilt for leaving their children for the desolate future. Despite the negative emotions that this image may invoke, the sun is shining brightly, so the future could be vivid and beautiful but only if we do something about it, such as switching to renewable energy to reduce the rising temperatures. The second image could summon fear for the world and could make the viewer feel bad for anything or anyone that was affected in the oil spill. According to environmental issues expert, Larry West, birds and marine life are the most common victims of oil spills. The photo is very dark and gloomy which could be frightening and make someone feel as if in danger. Osenton 3 Not only does the visual rhetoric of this stakeholder represent the appeal to credibility and emotions but also to timeliness. Since the first image is a picture of a young boy, he is representing the future generations and it is showing how their lives will be unless we do something about global warming. Climate change has also been the topic of recent current events. President Donald Trump has stated more than once that he does not believe in global warming, which could make it harder for the United States to convert to renewable energy. The second image shows that this is the world we live in and it seems a little alarming. This photo also portrays what the future may look like. Oil spills are a constant threat because big companies are constantly extracting oil. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, million gallons of petroleum are spilled into U.S. each year. The biggest oil spill in U.S. history was the BP oil spill that occurred in 2010, only 7 years ago. According to CNN, about 210 million gallons of oil spilled into the Gulf of Mexico. Finally, both images appeal to logic and facts. In the first image, there is text at the bottom left that says warming will affect us This means that global warming will not only affect one generation, but it will affect all generations to come. According to the National Academies of Science, it is predicted that we could run out of coal by 2088, just 70 years from now. When all fossil fuels have been depleted and if renewable energy catch on then the future generations will definitely struggle. Once all of the fossil fuels have been burned up, Mary Griggs of Popular Science states that all of the ice in Antarctica will sea levels to to drown most major cities in the Even though the extreme dangers of climate change and nonrenewable energy affecting us too much now, it could affect our children and future generations. The photo of the oil spill cleanup is from Osenton 4 a real oil spill and it shows the actual effects. Oil spills disrupt habitats, make them unsuitable for living and can even kill some marine life (West 2016). campaign for renewable energy is important because the effects of nonrenewable energy are detrimental to the environment and those who live in it. The use of ethos, pathos, kairos and logos are apparent in both images and makes the viewer truly realize the negative impacts of fossil fuels. Greenpeace believes that if the world could be more reliant on renewable energy instead of harmful fossil fuels, we could, quite literally, save the world. Osenton 5 Works Cited Warming Issues and Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/issues/. Accessed 20 February 2017. Griggs, Mary B. Would Happen If We Burned All the Fossil Fuels on Popular Science, http://www.popsci.com/burning-all-fossil-fuels-could-raise-sea-levels-by-200- feet . Accessed 21 February 2017. West, Larry. Consequences of Oil About News, . Accessed 24 February 2017. Spills Fast CNN Library, http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/13/world/oil-spills-fast-facts/ Accessed 25 February 2017. Guide to Global Climate Environmental Protection Agency, https://www3.epa.gov/climatechange/kids/ . Accessed 26 February 2017. Thompson, Andrea. The Science and History of Oil Live Science, http://www.livescience.com/9885-faq-science-history-oil-spills.html . Accessed 26 February 2017. National Academies presents: What You Need to Know About FossilFuels, http://needtoknow.nas.edu/energy/energy-sources/fossil-fuels/ Accessed 10 February 2017. Osenton 6