Lowman 1 Micaela Lowman Professor K Luce Composition 1 27 February 2017 Affirmative Action: How Has it Changed Over Time? Affirmative action is a widely debated topic. Affirmative action is a program that helps those who have been historically discriminated against, such as women and other minorities. Over time, the opinions concerning this subject have changed a lot, but the general consensus remains the same. When it was first created in 1961 by president John F. Kennedy, the majority of people viewed the program as necessary. But as the years went on, more and more people of certain racial groups have come to believe that we no longer need the program. Some people feel that there is not discrimination against minorities anymore since the Civil Rights Acts were put into effect. Others still believe that minorities are being discriminated against, so therefore affirmative action is still necessary. Since the beginning of affirmative action, programs that involve race have been the most widely debated programs. Those who support the programs are most likely part of the minority group; those who do not support the programs are White (for race-based) and White males (for gender-based programs). The amount of years spent in college also determines attitudes towards affirmative action, although it does not have as much as an impact that other factors (such as racial identity and upbringing) do. For example, in an article written by Julie J. Park, titled Taking Race into Account: Charting Students Attitudes Towards Affirmative Action,it talks about attitudes towards affirmative action and what shapes those attitudes. A 2004 study showed that Latinos who identified very strongly with their culture believed that affirmative Lowman 2 action should remain in place, they also believed (after 4 years of college) that it was a needed program. Asian American students were caught in the middle of the racial groups. Half felt that affirmative action was not needed and the other half felt that it was needed. Studies that involved Caucasians showed the least amount of support for affirmative action. According to a journal titled Belief in a Just World and Attitudes Toward Affirmative Action, it is argued that Caucasian males tend to have the least amount of support for affirmative action programs because they gain the least from the programs. Since the early 2000s, attitudes about affirmative action have mostly stayed the same. Minorities such as Latinos, African Americans, and women all react positively to affirmative action, whereas Caucasians (mostly males) feel that there is no need for affirmative action. Although the latter feels that there is no need for affirmative action, it is likely that the program will still be in existence for a while. According to an article titled The Role of Organizational Justice and Ethical Frameworks on Attitudes Toward Affirmative Action: The Moderating Role of Organizational Support, written by Edward I. Fubara, Amy McMillan-Capehart, and Orlando C. Richard, the elimination of affirmative action is very unlikely. According to the authors, it is unlikely AA programs will be eliminated because of the organizational support that the programs receive. Because the programs are supported by those who are higher in power, they will probably not be removed. Those who do not agree with the program do not feel strongly enough about it that they are willing to cause problems to have it removed. Although the affirmative action programs help a lot of people, most people view them as unnecessary and unfair. The opinion on affirmative action has remained the same among each racial group, but throughout the years each side (for and against affirmative action) has gained Lowman 3 more support for their argument. Even though many do not feel the need for the affirmative action programs to still exist, it is highly unlikely that they will be removed any time soon. Lowman 4 Works Cited Fubara, Edward I., Amy Mcmillan-Capehart, and Orlando C. Richard. The Role Of Organizational Justice And Ethical Frameworks On Attitudes Toward Affirmative Action: The Moderating Role Of Organizational  Journal of Diversity Management (JDM) 3.3 (2011): 29. Print. Park, Julie J. Taking Race into Account: Charting Student Attitudes Towards Affirmative  Research in Higher Education 50.7 (2009): 670-90. Print. Wilkins, Vicky M., and Jeffrey B. Wenger. Belief in a Just World and Attitudes Toward Affirmative  Policy Studies Journal 42.3 (2014): 325-43. Print.