Wombacher 1 Andrew Wombacher Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 26 February 2017 Evolution of Opinions Regarding Manned Space Travel The idea of traveling into space and exploring the unknown inspires the lives of many, and may be perceived as an opportunity to learn about the origin of the universe. President quote choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and excited many, and persuaded many into supporting the space program. However, there have always been conflicting opinions regarding whether we should be sending man into space. During the same time as President time in office, people were arguing that less time needed to be sending man to space and more time needed to be spent fixing current issues on Earth. These opinions have since evolved into the mindset of today. This paper will discuss how benefits, risk factors, and costs have contributed to the opinions regarding space travel. In the past when man had not traveled to space, nobody knew what opportunities space held for man. Instead it was viewed as an unnecessary program that held no value to life on Earth. However now that people have traveled into space, benefits have been easier to identify. In the report Stemming from Space ISECG introduces three fundamental benefit themes, including innovation, culture and inspiration, and new means of addressing global challenges. Under the innovation theme, the report shares that anticipated innovations include, structures, lower launch costs, higher energy-density storage devices, and increased power Having seen the possible benefits, opinions have changed from Wombacher 2 being skeptical to send man to space to supporting manned space travel. The report then goes on to describe the effects of manned space travel in regards to culture and inspiration. Discovering new information about the origin of the universe allows people to reflect on humanities place in the universe. It inspires people to strive for more, and continue the search for answers. Lastly, the report Stemming from Space exemplifies how the space program has brought people together. While there are academic benefits as a result of space travel, one that is often overlooked is the cooperation between diverse nations to accomplish a common objective. The space program brought people from different backgrounds together. Furthermore, risk factors have also played a huge role in opinions regarding space travel. As risk factors have been introduced, it has progressively gotten harder to safely transport man to, in, and from space. Because missions are not guaranteed to be a success one-hundred percent of the time, it scared many away from the space program. However because risk factors have been introduced, those who have their heart set on sending man to space have developed means of addressing the risk factors. The report Risk Reduction Plan for Human Exploration of lists and discusses how these risk factors are currently being addressed, or a plan of how to address the issue. Plans such as this one are developed in response to issues brought up in research, and organize challenges faced when attempting manned space travel. Lastly, costs have huge weight in influencing opinions. Since the space program requires large quantities of money to function, people question whether it is worth the cost. With modern technology, it is becoming cheaper to send people into space. The article for the by Lee Billings introduces the conflict between sending man and machine to space. He believes that its not a question of should we continue to invest in the space program, but questions whether we should be sending man or machine into space to perform experiments. With it becoming Wombacher 3 progressively cheaper to send man into space, it is also becoming cheaper to send small robots into space to perform the same tasks as man would. Ultimately, Lee supports sending man into space, as stories from astronauts motivate future generations to follow in their footsteps. All in all, opinions regarding space travel have been in a constant state of change. Ultimately, the three main contributors to the fluctuating opinions include benefits, risks, and costs. While the idea of space travel excites many who believe in the opportunities available in the unknown, there are still some who believe that we need to focus on issues on Earth, and worry less about traveling into the unknown.