Cassidy Stow Bob Botkin ENC 1102 - 063 20 February 2017 The Non-GMO Project The Non-GMO Project is an organization created in 2007 by two natural food grocery store owners. Their main mission is to inform society about the dangers and harm that Genetically Modified Foods may cause. They are currently fighting for the labeling of GMOs and have already started labeling non-GM foods with their logo (Non-GMO Project). Most of their advertisements are aimed to inform the consumer and persuade society to buy food that is GMO free. However, they occasionally take a few swings at their biggest opponents, The Grocery Manufacturers Association and Monsanto. Both of these companies are making the biggest profit of anyone from the growth and distribution of GMOs. These companies main concern is that if GM foods are labeled as such, consumers will stop buying their products, there for less profit for them. On the other hand, The Non-GMO main concern is the health of the consumers. This is one of the advertisements used by the Non-GMO Project against Monsanto. The main point of this advertisement is to show that eating food produced by Monsanto is unhealthy and can lead to obesity. There is an underlying message that humans are not meant to eat modified foods, as even Neanderthals were healthier than society today. The colors used in this are very earthy and natural with a strong boarder around the edges. Also, the Monsanto logo is used above the pig, it says Biotechnology innovation, collaboration, Just with that little logo comes another underlying message that Monsanto knows that GM food is bad for society but is distributing it anyways. This gives Monsanto a bad name and rep which gives The Non-GMO Project a step forward in their fight. (The Sensitive Life) This advertisment appeals to logos by using the of mankind and in turn, food. It suggests that when mankind was eatting food as it naturally came, they were fit and healthy. But as mankind started eatting processed and GM foods, such as McDonalds (pictured in the hand of the man on the right), they became inherently unhealthy and obese. Logically nobody wants to be unfit and unhealthy, so this advertisment successfully appeals to ones logic. It also appeals to pathos by using fear. This is because it makes consumers wonder what is wrong with the food distributed by Monsanto that it would cause such an unhealthy lifestyle. It creates a sense of worry that they may end up unhealthy as well. The colors and dark border also bring a sense of despair to the advertisment. And last but not least, it appeals to ethos because its credibility. With how well known Monsanto is and the use of their name and logo, it gives consumers a credible name to blame the issues on. This advertisment is aimed to inform consumers about the dangers and risks associated with GMOs. The Non-GMO Project used the same bright and pastel colors that are in their logo and added a small version of their logo on the bottom, right side. They use a crisp and easy to read font of varying sizes that is visually appealing to the viewer. They include the statement to to get their immediate message across. They also seperated the advertisment into three separate sections. This includes a section on plants that are at high-risk for GMO testing, a section on animal products that are at high-risk, and a secton on how to avoid GMOs. (Living Non-GMO) This advertisement appeals to logos in the three sections labeled and Animal and can I avoid Logically, consumers do not want to eat anything that may cause health problems. The first and second sections are straight forward and warn viewers about GMOs. The third section appeals to the reaction of the viewer when they realize they want to eat food that could potentially be harmful to them. It also appeals to pathos by the use of colors. The pastel and bright colors suggest happiness and healthyness. The cartoons of the globe and the butterfly are visually pleasing while hinting at the theme of nature. Lastly, it appeals to ethos because of the use of The Non-GMOs logo. Since they are an organization that has a big name and good rep in the anti-GMO movement, that automatically adds credibility to the advertisement. All and all, The Non-GMO Project achieves two different things with these advertisments and successfully convinces society that GMOs are high risk and should be avoided. The first being achieved is informing the consumer of the risks and the second is giving their oponent, Monsanto, a bad name. And thanks to the use of three rhetorical appeals, logos, pathos, and ethos, the consumer is able to quickly come to the realization that GMOs should be avoided. Works Cited  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Blog  The Sensitive Life. N.p., 30 May 2013. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. GMO  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., 08 Aug. 2014. Web. 18 Feb. 2017