Barroso Campos 1 Alberto Barroso Campos Brenden Jackson ENC1101 2/19/2017 Should college athletes get paid College athletics have gained immense popularity among Americans over the past few decades. This has resulted into increased revenues for the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the participating colleges which has fuelled the debate of whether college athletes should be compensated beyond their athletic scholarships. This paper will attempt to answer the question as to whether college athletes should be paid. My research question for this essay is: Why coaches, NCAA and universities are getting benefits expect the student athletes? MAJEROL, VERONICA, et al. College Athletes BE New York Times Upfront 147.2 (2014): 14-15. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web.26 Jan.2017. The big sports as football and basketball generate billions of dollars in TV, contract marks, tickets sales and merchandising. The NCAA (Athletic Association) gets a part of this money, the universities get another part, and the rest of the money goes for the coaches. Athletes, who are basically the most important part in college unfortunately do not have the ability to get paid because it violates the NCAA guidelines. Student athletes are considered amateur that is why they are not allowed to earn money. In the future this might change because recent rulings can affect the rules. In August, a federal judge decided that players in top college football and basketball programs, the two most important sports in college are entitled to receive payment if their images, and are used in video games or TV broadcasts. gentleman never competes for that is what Walter Camp wrote in his 1893 handbook on college sports. The amateur code was officially adopted in 1956, and since then the view has been that college athletes are students not professional athletes or employees entitled to paychecks. The NCAA says that top student athletes get other benefits, like scholarships, often covering tuition, and college degrees. Veronica Majerol is a managing editor of digital at the New York Times. She studied for the State University of New York at Binghamton. She graduated with a Master of Arts.She has more than 10 years of experience writing, top editing and copy editing for major publications and websites. Topics covered: National and international news, politics, business, science, media, art, history, sports. She lead a website redesign, from discovery to launch, also she worked in digital and print platforms, such as Adobe InDesign and Adobe. She experience using SEO, social media and other best practices to build Web audience. She worked collaboratively with writers, editors, art directors and other professionals to publish high-quality news stories in a fast-paced environment and under tight deadline. Barroso Campos 2 Karaim, Reed. College Athletes: Are Players School CQ Researcher 24.25 (2014): 577. University of South Florida Library. Web 29 Jan. 2017. Most opponents of directly paying college athletes do not claim the current system is perfect. Many people say they support more liberal scholarship benefits, including a stipend that provides players with enough money to cover the full cost of college. They believe that allowing athletes to collect a paycheck for playing would destroy the idea of the concept and create several additional problems. is my strong belief that universities should not be in the business of running professional terms and semi-pro says Amy Perko, executive director of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, which was created in 1989 by the charitable Knight Foundation to keep college sports true to the educational mission of universities. Knight affirms that paying student athletes would mean schools were essentially operating professional teams under the banner of an institution of higher learning. Perko says that the commission believes that the college athletic system needs to reform the opposite direction: putting the in student-athlete first by re-emphasizing academics. To that end, she adds, the commission supports giving students more time for classes and a greater chance of completing school with a meaningful degree. Reed Karaim is the author of If Men Were Angels, a Barnes & Noble Discover Great New Writers selection. He lives in Tucson, Arizona, with his wife and daughter. Reed Karaim worked the Washington Bureau of Knight-Ridder Newspapers for eight years. In 1992, he covered the Democratic presidential campaign from April through the election. He is the author of short stories and poetry, and was nominated for a Pushcart Prize. If Men Were Angels is his first novel. Schultz, Jeff. COLLEGE ATHLETICS: NCAA needs to take a hint: At very least, push to unionize athletics will lead to paying  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Atlanta, GA) 2014: General OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In the past college sports were a little part of the university and did not have the name that have nowadays. With the passing of time this has changed, college sports have grown up and major sports like Football and Basketball had increased the institutio n income. College sports have become a major spectacle, eleven out of fourteen football coaches make more than $3million per season plus the major conferences have television deals with CBS and ESPN that are worth more than $3billion. Schultz affirms that there are logistical and financial motives why student athletes probably never get paid. He was against paying student athletes, but that changed when presidents permitted 12 or more games schedules, morning kickoffs, weeknight kickoffs, games almost every weekend at any time. With all these games plus classes and studying student athletes do not have time to get a part time job and earn money. Student athletes should get rewarded for all the income they produce from their likeness. We have to keep in mind that there are other issues that must be resolved before making big decisions, like whether the payment would be the same one for all the sports. Student athletes have to be aware that if this changes and they start getting payed they would be recognized as employees and employees they can also get fired. Barroso Campos 3 Jeff Schultz is considered one of the most extremely regraded sports writers who works for the Atlanta Journal Constitution since 1989. He is a common blogger and sports columnist who freely shares his opinion. Jeff Schultz now works for the AJC and writes one or two articles weekly in the newspaper, but he is known for his personal daily blog on his Atlanta Journal Constitution website. Honored by Associated Press Sports Editors, National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association and others. His article explains very clear why student athletes should get paid. It is not easy to be a student athlete, they have a lot of responsibilities inside and outside the field and their coaches, professors, directors expect from them their best. College athletes do not have time to have a job, that is why they should get at least a minimum of the benefit that the university earns because of them. Van Rheenen, Derek. Exploitation In College Sports: Race, Revenue, And Educational  International Review For The Sociology Of Sport 48.5 (2013): 550. University of South Florida. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. There are a lot of debates who argue the same question about college athletes, if they should get paid for what they do or not. Some people think that student athletes are being exploited and others think that they get enough rewards by just getting a scholarship. College athletes think that they get an unfair financial reward, but many people think that student athletes are fairly rewarded by getting a scholarship which covers most of their expenses. It looks like there is not too much interest on changing some problems related to college sports, but lately there were some hopeful signs that maybe would change something in the future. Sports help to maintain and support cultural values adopted at a given place. Sports also provide many opportunities, scholarships help people who have low income to get education and at the same time doing what they love which is to play sports. Many athletes do not come from rich families and college it is what helps them to survive and get a degree. It is understandable why college athletes are disappointed with the NCAA rules, being a student athlete, competing, and representing the university is their job but they do not obtain any income. Derek Van research interests include cultural studies of play, games and sport, the connections between sports, learning and schooling, and the role of intercollegiate athletics in the American university system. A former Academic All-American and professional soccer player, Van Rheenen teaches courses on sport, culture, and education. In 1998 he received the Outstanding Dissertation Award in the Graduate School of Education, UC Berkeley. Professor Van Rheenen was named a Public Scholar in 2012-2013 at the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Van Rheenen directs the Cultural Studies of Sport in Education degree concentration for students studying the intersections of school and sport. He also directs the Athletic Study Center at U.C. Berkeley.Dr. Van Rheenen has been a Visiting Professor at the International University of Monaco, is an invited speaker at national and international conferences, and is regularly interviewed about the role of sport in society and the intersections of sport and schooling, particularly American college sports. Should College Athletes Be  Bill Lyon 86.1 (2001): 4. University of South Florida. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Barroso Campos 4 How much money do you suppose Penn State made from riding the broad back and fleet feet of former star running back Curtis Enis? A million? Five million? Ten? What we do know is what cut amounted to, which is the figure made by joining the tips of index finger and thumb. For his 1,363 rushing yards and 19 touchdowns during the 1997 college football season, Enis was invited to an awards ceremony. A man is entitled to want to dress for such an occasion. But a suit of clothes required money that Enis did not have. Were he just a student and not an athlete, he could have accepted the gift of snappy duds from anyone. Were he an accounting major, a banker could have bought him a wardrobe, and no one would have looked twice. But he is a jock, and we hold jocks to a different standard. It is a double standard and it reeks of hypocrisy. Still, we cling stubbornly to it. We insist on protecting a tradition that no longer exists. Our universities, those supposed bastions of moral values, insist on fostering the transparent sham that college football is an amateur game played for the benefit of student athletes. Bill Lyon is a ports columnist at the Philadelphia Inquirer for over 30 years. He graduated high school at Western Military Academy in Alton, Illinois (1956).He was named Class Salutatorian, he went to work full-time the next day for The News-Gazette in Champaign-Urbana. He worked 48 hours a week to pay his way through the University of Illinois. He took15 credit hours a semester, graduated with honors in February 1961. He served in the 33rd Infantry Division of the Illinois National Guard. He worked for Evansville (Indiana) Courier and Press for 3 1/2 years. He moved on to the East St. Louis (Illinois) Journal for a year and a half and he returned to The News- Gazette as managing editor and finally he joined the Philadelphia Inquirer in summer of 1972. PR, Newswire. March Madness - Should College Athletes Get  PR Newswire US 26 Mar. 2013: Regional Business News. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Many college athletes believe they should receive compensation for the roles that they play. This was highlighted years ago with the Fab  at the University of Michigan. The entire starting team was comprised of freshman players, and they were able to bring Michigan to a Championship game in their freshman year.This almost mythic group of young athletes became a national sensation. The merchandise with the Fab Five on it, the TV, radio, print media, the college, etc. all generated incredible revenue. The five freshmen, who were the Fab Five, received no revenue from their national fame. Does that seem fair when many were impoverished kids?Is it right that none of Division I college players share in the massive revenue enjoyed by so many other people and entities generated from the star performances? While the potential for media exploitation of these young student-athletes is a problem that should be addressed, The Colleges recruit young men and woman to play for their respective schools awarding them with athletic scholarships. The colleges expect star performances for their upfront investments, rewarding college players with full paid 4 year college education. While so many others, again, the TV stations, radio stations, Colleges, Universities, Coaches, etc,, are earning huge sums of money from great college athletic performances, the athletes receive nothing in addition to their athletic scholarships. That is their compensation. The system is not perfect, but it does work. Enjoy the performances for the remainder of the March Madness from our young college athletes who we hope will receive great educations and move onto wonderful prosperous careers. Barroso Campos 5 Warren Sulmasy attended Franklin and Marshall College in Pennsylvania and graduated in 1984 with a major in mathematics. After graduation, he moved to New York to work on Wall Street as a floor trader on the American Stock Exchange. In the mid he started a day trading firm and taught securities trading strategies at the New York Institute of Finance. In 2000, he launched a Securities Trading Software company and is currently the co-founder and CEO of Trinus Investment Partners. Sulmasy was born and raised on the East Coast and is active in supporting local and national charities throughout the United States. An avid sports fan, and a former standout athlete himself, he remains a loyal Giants and Yankees fan. Barroso Campos 6 Work Cited MAJEROL, VERONICA, et al. College Athletes BE New York Times Upfront 147.2 (2014): 14-15. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web.26 Jan.2017. Should College Athletes Be  Bill Lyon 86.1 (2001): 4. University of South Florida. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Van Rheenen, Derek. Exploitation In College Sports: Race, Revenue, And Educational  International Review For The Sociology Of Sport 48.5 (2013): 550. University of South Florida. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Schultz, Jeff. COLLEGE ATHLETICS: NCAA needs to take a hint: At very least, push to unionize athletics will lead to paying  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Atlanta, GA) 2014: General OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Karaim, Reed. College Athletes: Are Players School CQ Researcher 24.25 (2014): 577. University of South Florida Library. Web 29 Jan. 2017. PR, Newswire. March Madness - Should College Athletes Get  PR Newswire US 26 Mar. 2013: Regional Business News. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.