Cherry 1 Mackenzie Cherry Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 February 23, 2017 The NORML Use of Marijuana The use of marijuana has been a largely disputed topic in recent years, and even more so as of late with the recent elections that have taken place. It has been a constant battle of legalization, especially in terms of medical or recreational use. Many people like to compare marijuana to alcohol and have been asking if it is really any worse than alcohol being legal to purchase. It has been found that alcohol can impair driving much more than the use of marijuana can, with research finding contrast to the compensatory behavior exhibited by subjects under marijuana treatment, subjects who have received alcohol tend to drive in a more risky (norml.org) Along with this many people have been researching to find out the real positives of marijuana as far as medical use. Many studies have been done recently to discover just how marijuana could be used medically and is accumulating that cannabinoids may be useful medicine for certain (Grant). With all of the back and forth among people with varying stances on the issue, groups have been formed to be able to share their standpoints. One of the groups at the forefront of the issue is the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), and their mission is to public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (norml.org). NORML has worked nonstop at spreading their message and getting involved in the legal system to make a difference. One of the main ways for any group to share their message is through the Cherry 2 use of advertisements, which is exactly what they did. NORML works to share their message effectively through advertisements that really cause people to think and question their opinion on marijuana as compared to other substances. Image one can be found by anyone simply looking up NORML, and presents you with a very vibrant image of a computer generated cigarette box, with 2 of the 5 cigarettes containing marijuana leaves. They used this graphic to symbolize the statistic they have listed which states out of 5 Americans have used This quote and image appeal to emotion and logic, better known as pathos and logos (Hoffman). Many people already have a certain emotion, whether it be positive or negative, towards cigarettes. Cigarettes can be seen as a more widely accepted item used daily in society, so by making some of the cigarettes in the box marijuana related, its showing how smoking marijuana could be considered just as normal as smoking a cigarette. Adding to the idea of it being normal, the statistic provided shows just how common it is for someone to have smoked marijuana. The two items together really asks people to think about how the use of marijuana is not as uncommon of a thing as some people may think, and even causes people to reflect on their own opinion of marijuana. Down on the bottom of the ad the name of the company is listed along with their mission statement, which serves as an appeal to Ethos, or appeal to (Hoffman). Finally, following the mission statement the add calls on people to more about what you can do to legalize by visiting the website. When it comes to the colors used in the add the colors are very neutral. The whole ad revolves around the color green, which could be considered a clever thing since marijuana is a green item, or can be considered to have a deeper meaning. Green can represent many things, such as new beginnings, nature, abundance, wealth, and growth (Chapman). All of these items Cherry 3 can in some way relate to the argument of marijuana legalization. Nature, because it is a natural substance that is grown and can be found in nature. Wealth due to the fact that it is believe there is a large amount of money to be made from the legalization of marijuana, since the money people spend on it would go to the government and not towards the current black market that sells it. The legalization of marijuana would even be considered a new beginning for society as some, with this item being more widely accepted for people to use as they wanted or needed. The colors do not have much variation, but all work for what the ad is about. For the second image, the ad has a more professional feel, like something that you would see in a magazine. Instead of providing bright colors and computer generated images, the ad has picture of actual items. The three items pictured are a car, an empty beer bottle, and a joint. As the previous image had, this image also contains the logo for NORML followed by the mission statement and a brief statement of what exactly NORML is, as their appeal to Ethos. On the ad below each picture it states either which serves also as an appeal to both logos and pathos. Just as people have to be responsible with the ability to drink, people would also be expected to be responsible with the ability to smoke. While it does not really have any major emotion causing factors, it does cause people to think that if people can be responsible with alcohol, they can also be responsible with marijuana. It also hints at the debate over whether people driving under the influence of marijuana is really any worse than people driving under the influence of alcohol. Finally, as their appeal to Kairos they call on people to visit their website to learn more. Both of these images focus on the idea that people really need to reevaluate their opinions and look at all the facts of marijuana. The ads can appeal to both younger and older adults, who both have influences over the future of marijuana legalization. NORML works to make their Cherry 4 message available and relatable for all people. The goal is to eventually make it so that people are open to the idea of marijuana legalization, and really understand how it is not any different than having access to alcohol. NORML hopes to get people of all ages to understand how they have the ability to influence the future of marijuana legalization, and to make sure they know all the facts before deciding where they stand on the issue. (Word Count 1,089) Cherry 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Grant, Igor, J. Hampton Atkinson, Ben Gouaux, and Barth Wilsey. Medical Marijuana: Clearing Away the  The Open Neurology Journal. Bentham Open, 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3358713/>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://norml.org/>. Cherry 6 Cherry 7