Langenbach 1 Blanche Langenbach Dennis ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Stem Cell Research: Save the Baby or Everyone Else? Langenbach 2 In 2008, Edgar Irastorza, a property manager and break-dancer with a wife and three children, had a heart attack at the age of 31, which damaged his heart so it could only pump a third of its original capability. In an effort to be able to pick up his children and dance again, Irastorza had stem cells directly injected into his heart through a medical research trial (Weintraub). Even though stem cells seem to hold a key for medical advancement, there is much debate about their use and research. The most effective type of stem cell is from human embryos, which creates the basis of the argument due to the infringement on unborn rights to life. The New York Stem Cell Foundation provides an emotional photo to persuade the viewer that exploration in medicine, especially through stem cell research, will lead to cures for omnipresent diseases (Stem Cell Treatment). The National Right to Life Committee presents sentimental image two to convince the audience that all people, born or unborn, have a right to life Rights). These stakeholders have conflicting beliefs on the ethics of stem cell research, but compromises have been considered and attempted. Established in 2005, The New York Stem Cell Foundation (NYSCF) has invested $150 million toward scientific advancements in stem cell research, which is the development of unspecialized cells from embryos into almost all types of regenerative specialized cells, such as nerve, fat, liver, and bone cells (Zawada 3). This stakeholder has already made medical breakthroughs, including turning skin cells into human bone (Geronemus 1). They support stem cell research as it continues to further develop treatments and cures for prevalent diseases. NYSCF also believes in using all types of stem cells, including embryonic stem cells, which are stem cells derived from human embryos. According to much research, embryonic stem cells are the most promising option, proving effective and pluripotent, able to become a wider variety of cells. Langenbach 3 Through the image represented by NYSCF and rhetorical appeals, this stakeholder aims to show that stem cell research holds the opportunity to cure disease and improve quality of life for millions of people. The most captivating appeal of this photo is the pathos, which displays emotions of sadness and concern. The first image has a background of the color blue, which evokes a feeling of sadness. The part of the brain that shows disease is red, which can show represent anger and fear. The black and white part of the image depicting the older woman induces a depressed and worried reaction. The concerned facial expression of the woman with her hand holding her forehead also suggests many negative emotions, including fear, worry, and sadness. Also represented in the image is ethos, which is the rhetorical appeal of credibility. This photo seems credible because of the image of the brain scan behind the woman, which connotates a doctor or medical professional. The photo also represents logos by inspiring questions to ask of the image. From the image, a viewer can understand that stem cell research can find cures for diseases, such as the older Lastly, kairos, the rhetorical appeal describing a powerful moment in time, is shown in the image. This is the concerned look of an older woman who is for the first time discovering her diagnosis of disease. Overall, the New York Stem Cell Foundation makes use of sympathy and is able to convincingly show the vitality of stem cell research. The second image is represented by the stakeholder, National Right to Life Committee (NRLC), which is invested in protecting unborn rights to life and preventing the destruction of human embryos (National Right to Life 1). This stakeholder works to inform the public about the process of obtaining these stem cells, which requires dismantling the embryo and then growing these cells in a culture. They depict stem cell research as killing human embryos, which is equivalent to murder. Langenbach 4 It is clear the perspective the National Right to Life Committee is attempting to show through the second image. The most evident rhetorical appeal in the photograph is pathos, because the miracle of life is astonishing and maudlin. There is a lot of emotion in childbirth, and the image of a father lovingly holding and protecting the pregnant belly gives an emotion of both joy and fear. Also, the fact that the image is black and white, and the viewer can see the baby through the belly, emphasizes that there is another life inside the mother. Even though the photo is black and white, the black gives the idea of darkness, which adds fear to the photo. Ethos is not heavily reliant on in this image; however, the ability to see the baby through the belly reminds the audience of an ultra sound, which is done by a doctor or medical professional. Logos in this photo is obvious, especially when associated with the stakeholder, National Right to Life Committee. The father holding the pregnant belly is a way of protecting the baby from embryonic stem cell research. The baby is unable to protect itself, and the white of the photograph around the baby emphasizes its innocence. The color black surrounding the outside of the protective belly of its mother represents death, which would happen from stem cell research. Kairos is represented in this photo because pregnancy is a unique moment in time, especially a moment similar to that shown in the photo, where the father is hugging the belly. Even though stem cell research widely discussed by the public, each stakeholder is active in persuading opinion on the ethics of stem cell research. Both the New York Stem Cell Foundation and the National Right to Life Committee use pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos in their images to persuade the public of their stance. However, both stakeholders emphasize different beliefs. While New York Stem Cell Foundation attempts to persuade the viewer of the importance of stem cell research, the National Right to Life Committee focus on Langenbach 5 protecting unborn children from infringement on their rights to life. Even though attempts at compromise have already been made, both stakeholders need to work together to help improve quality of life for everyone. Langenbach 6 Works Cited Geronemus, Roy, MD, and Susan L. Solomon. The New York Stem Cell  NYSCF Research Institute. N.p., 7 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Killing Human Embryos (Human Cloning and Related  National Right to Life Committee. N.p., 15 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stem Cell Treatment for Digital image. The Regeneration Center of Thailand. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Weintraub, Karen. Stem Cells: Plenty of Hope, but Halting  The New York Times. The New York Times, 15 Sept. 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Rights. Digital image. The Most Misunderstood Religion. N.p., 18 Dec. 2013. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Zawada, W. Michael, PhD, and Karen E., PhD Kalumuck. Stem  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Science (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.