Student: Heng Zhang Instructor: Casey Clague Class: ENC 1102.076 Date: 2/26/2017 Air Pollution Air pollution is one of the most serious issues that people have to face in China. Due to burning fossil fuels in factories and power plants and oil combustion by vehicles, the air quality becomes worse and worse. Some global organizations take actions by creating meaningful posters to remind people to pay attention to the air pollution. Greenpeace is one of these global organizations. According to official website, it is independent global campaigning organization that acts to change attitudes and behavior, to protect and conserve the environment and to promote n.d.). Greenpeace expresses its goals by using rhetorical appeals, like ethos, pathos, and logos, to attract attention. The first image that Greenpeace uses is the combination of two images, half of the image is smoking pipes, and another half of the image is the hand. The logo of Greenpeace is located on the right corner of the image, and above the logo is the words The sky behinds smoking pipes turns gray, and the background of the hand is dark. This image has the rhetorical appeals of ethos, and pathos. The audience can trust this image because of the logo. The logo shows the audience that Greenpeace is a legitimate organization and it is credible. The dark background of half of the hand makes the audience feel gloomy. The four smoking pipes replace four fingers of the hand, this contains the meaning of danger to humans. If people stop pollution, the hazardous substances from smoking pipes will enter their bodies when they breath the air. Once these hazardous substances enter, they will do harm to the bodies, or even make people die. According to a study from article, pollution is responsible for killing 1.6 million Chinese a year, about one sixth of all the premature deaths in the (Kaplan, 2015, pp. 4) This is not a joke, the death of humans which is caused by air pollution really happened in our world. The words in broken and white style also can attract the audience attention. The style of the words expresses the importance of stopping air pollution, if people do that, their healthy bodies will be affected by dirty air and become unhealthy just like the broken style of the words. The second image that Greenpeace uses is a photo which is took in Beijing. In this photo, the audience can see that the sky is dirty, and it is hard for them to identify the buildings that located in the distance. The logos of Greenpeace are located on the bottom of the image, one is in English, and the other is in Chinese. The words and Measuring the human health and economic impacts on largest are written on the top of the image, and both them are in blue sky style. These words can easily attract the attention. This image has the rhetorical appeals of ethos, and pathos. The same as the first image, the audience can trust this image because of the logo. The logo shows the audience that Greenpeace is a legitimate organization and it is credible. The photo which is took during haze days in Beijing can easily attract the attention, and makes them feel gloomy. If the audience compare the dirty sky with the blue sky style which the words use, they can easily notice severity of air pollution in Beijing. In Beijing, this kind of day is very normal. In these days, if local citizens go outside, they must wear their masks to reduce the possibility of breathing hazardous air, and hard for them to identify their current situation. The words can make the audience feel uncomfortable, with the combination of dirty sky. During these days, if local citizens refuse to wear their masks when they go outside, their health will easily be affected, seriously, other people even have to send them to the local hospitals to save their life. The comparison between the dirty sky and the blue sky also can make the audience notice the importance of improving air quality. If the sky turn blue in the future, local citizens need to wear their masks when they go outside, and they also need to worry about their health. In conclusion, the first image can attract attention easier than the second image, because of creative. For example, if Chinese people see the second image, it will be really hard for this image to attract their attention, because such kind of days are so normal to them that they are used to endure. The first image is creative, so it can attract attention easily. And the first image contains more information than the second image, some audience like spending more time in getting information from the first image than the second one. Work Cited (n.d.) Greenpeace. Retrieved from http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/about/ Kaplan Sarah. (2015). pollution in China is killing 1.6 million people a year, researchers The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/08/14/air-pollution-in-