Cornelius:1 Aidan Cornelius Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 2/26/2017 The Changing discussion of women in combat roles Through the Wars that this nation of have been in women have been excluded from participating in direct combat roles. From World War 2 to present day, women have been excluded from the ranks of men in combat positions, limiting their membership to join supportive roles only. These roles include medic and logistic jobs. Direct combat related jobs were only given to the qualified men. Now that it is the 21 st century, the rights of women are slowly allowing gender equality. The discussion of women in combat roles have changed to them performing well in support combat roles to now being considered for combat roles. Primarily, women were not always considered to be in combat roles. Women were placed in supportive roles than men. Women had to perform well in their supportive roles to even be considered think for combat roles, although this was highly unlikely. In Lizette G.I. Jane Stealthy Breas the Combat Barrier, Alvarez uses a real scenario that happened over seas to a female solider using her quick reflexes to react to the situation at hand (Alveraz page19 ). In the scenario, Alfonso went out her way to try her best in saving a civilian while bullets were flying past her face. Even though the driver did not make it, Alfonso was awarded for her heroic act. Specialist Veronica Alfonso was a medic in the army and she excelled in her field, even thoug it was a supportive role. Her commander commented by saying has advanced the cause of full integration for women in the army by leaps and This article goes on to say, 2001, Americas military women had rarely seen ground combat. Their jobs kept them away from enemy lines as military policy This is most women in the military with some special cases of what occurred with Specialist Veronica. Women are put in supportive roles that for the most part keep them away from the fight. Even though Specialist Alfonso had a minor encounter with the enemy she is still in a supportive role and most of the time does not see combat. In fatale: an examination of the role of women in combat and the policy implications for future American military It talks about women being tasked to male combat units. soldiers are often tasked to work in all- male combat only for their skills but also for the culturally sensitive role of providing medical treatment for local women, as well as searching them and otherwise interacting with That is a quote from the article that is pertaining to 2 locations overseas in the year of 2008 that shows that women were considered as a supportive unit such as a medic. The conversation has changed over time in which now the government and even the American people are considering to open combat roles to women. The views of how the people and the government are changing to accepting it. Also, the conversation is changing to providing insight that women are being put in combat even if they are in just supporting roles.. that the exclusion of women in combat roles is out of sync with the realities Cornelius:2 of present-day warfare, the commission noted that of the military women deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan have already been engaged in activities that would be considered combat- related, including being collocated with combat units and engaging in direct combat for self- That quote is from Bohon Dave fighting force: the military Leadership Diversity commission recommended putting women into combat roles, ignoring an exhaustive study recommending the in the quote from an article in February 21 2011. The quote is referring to that when deployed women are put in the same scenario as if they are in combat. The situation in which their job puts them in is classified as this is the changing idea that women were not allowed in combat roles but are now finding out that women are doing activities in such situations that can be considered as combat roles. The changing views over time are being applied to research on the physical strength of women with experiments as demonstrated in Kharen, Kelly R, and Jameson T James. of Strength and Conditioning with the research being published in 2016 it is an in depth analysis of not only the physical strength of female compared to men but the physical body composition as well. conclusion, this study aimed to describe female Marines, anthropometrically and physically, who were physically capable of heavy lifting at the onset of military training despite no known previous training. These data show that overall physical fitness, specifically aerobic capacity and upper body strength (as measured by ALs and pull- ups), translates to lifting capacity on military occupational tasks and that some active-duty female Marines can perform these with this quote it is given the conclusion that women can perform up to the task as men. This shows that with new ideas of women joining the military and combat roles standards of strength need to be put in place. A decade ago these test exist because there would be no motive to really start them. In conclusion the discussion of women in combat roles have changed over time from only being in supportive roles to now changing the minds of others and bringing upon more research on the matter.