Garcia 1 Ashley Garcia Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 27 February 2017 Deforestation: No Tree Left Behind The presence of at the very least products from be found almost anywhere in the world in a multitude of sizes, shapes, and colors, ranging from a 379.7 ft. coast redwood named Hyperion to a three-inch toothpick. In forests across the globe, companies are increasing the rate of deforestation through the permanent removal of trees, leading to the land being converted for urban or agricultural use. The loss of vegetation coupled with the creation of environmental problems such as soil erosion, a loss of biodiversity, and a decrease in storage of carbon dioxide has caught the attention of organizations worldwide. Founded in 1971, Greenpeace is one of several international environmentalist companies that are actively seeking out solutions to global concerns such as deforestation. The mission statement is to global environmental problems and to promote solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful (Greenpeace par. 1). Greenpeace uses digital advertisements to broadcast their position on deforestation to people across the globe. The two chosen images assist in effectively spreading mission to their audience through pathos, kairos, logos, and ethos. While there are many aspects of figure 1 that makes the advertisement appropriate to endorse goals to the world, pathos is one of the most prevalent rhetorical appeals. Pathos is used to induce emotions in the audience and to persuade them to feel what the stakeholder want them to feel. The main element of pathos in this advertisement is the Garcia 2 melancholy orangutan scanning over the demolished forest that it once called home. The position of its hands and the unusually dim orange fur of the greater ape gives it a devastated persona as well as symbolizing a loss of determination, causing the audience to feel sympathetic. The use of a sutro filter, which darkens the edges of the image, paired with the ominous storm clouds and the murky water at the bottom induce a serious mood, possibly hinting that the rain which normally sustains life will not be enough to save the forest. Although the use of pathos in the first advertisement expresses message concerning deforestation, kairos is also important. Defined as the appropriate time, tone, and structure of an argument, kairos is mainly seem in figure 1 through the words written on the bottom left side of the image. signifies a call to action for the audience to actively revolt against companies like Proctor & Gamble to end deforestation or at the very least raise awareness to those that would be able to change the way that forest industry companies operate (Greenpeace). The two-word statement encourages the audience to see deforestation in a new way that they might not have thought of before. As long as kairos is an essential rhetorical appeal to have in proving the validity of mission statement, the use of logos encourages the audience to focus on the message that the stakeholder is claiming. This terms defines an appeal to the logic that the stakeholder is presenting to those who see the advertisement. The Proctor & Gamble sign leads the audience to conclude that this advertisement is specifically targeted towards the way that the P&G company has impacted the rate of deforestation. At first glance the remaining vegetation Figure 1 Garcia 3 could be viewed as the company replanting the trees that were cut down, but P&G is one of the leading producers of palm oil and it would be reasonable to conclude that the saplings are oil palm trees that the P&G company planted exclusively to extract the oil for profit. Another example of logos in figure 1 is the ropes that the orangutan is perched on. Logically the audience is left to conclude that the wild animals are going to be forced into captivity if they are not killed in the wake of deforestation. Greenpeace uses the preconceptions of the non- environmentalist company Proctor & Gamble and the negative connotations regarding animals in captivity to establish a certain mentality towards the future of the land and the animals that lived there. In addition to the use of logos in proving message to the audience, ethos is used similarly in both figure 1 and 2. The goal of this rhetorical appeal is to prove the credibility of the organization that created the advertisement. The only evidence of ethos is the logo located on the bottom right of both images. The logo proves that the information is trustworthy because Greenpeace is recognized worldwide for the work its members have done to preserve nature and respected amongst many environmentalists and preservationists. The connotations associated with this organization encourage the audience to be more inclined to believe that the information that Greenpeace is portraying is reasonable. Although ethos is the same for both figure 1 and 2, the logos for figure 2 is used differently than in the previous image to spread goals. One appeal to logic in figure 2 is the roughly 200 logs captured in the advertisement. The stacked wood is representative of logos because the audience can reason that the timber pictured in this advertisement is nothing compared to the number of trees that has been cut down or burned since the Industrial Revolution. Greenpeace uses the number of logs to inspire viewers to think about Garcia 4 how many trees are really cut down by non-environmentalist companies and encourages them to do something about it. While logos is an imperative part in establishing claim in figure 2, kairos encourages the audience to take a stand. Using kairos in an advertisement inspires people to want to make a difference or at the very least think about it. In figure 2 the most obvious example is the words written under the logo in the bottom right corner. The call to action inspires the audience to take a stand against the increased rates of deforestation and to stop companies from destroying the forests across the world. As long as kairos is present in spreading mission statement to those who see their advertisements, pathos is essential to influencing the audience. The main element of pathos is the faces drawn onto the logs. The roughly 159 complete sad faces of animals and people tempt the audience to feel both guilty for not doing anything to stop deforestation and gloomy due to the depiction of those directly affected by deforestation. The words a tree falls, it takes lives with on the four logs near the logo also assists in making the audience feel responsible for the havoc that follows deforestation (Greenpeace). The blackness in between the logs could represent serious and bleak future for the forests of the world if something is not done. Likewise, the brown logs represent a loss of comfort and stability for the people and animals that depend upon trees. The green leaves amongst the harvested trees epitomizes a possible hope for the saplings of the future as well as the trees that still stand. Greenpeace uses the emotions of the audience to encourage them to do something to stop deforestation. Figure 2 Garcia 5 Although pathos and the other rhetorical appeals endorse the message that Greenpeace wishes to send to their audience, the effectiveness of the image accentuates the goals of the advertisements. The purpose for creating figure 1 is to expose how Proctor & palm oil production has impacted deforestation. Displaying the transformation of the forest for agricultural profit encourages the audience to understand the environmental problems that companies like P&G have created due to their exploitations of forests. The main purpose for figure 2 is to raise awareness to how cutting down trees effects people and animals across the globe. The faces drawn onto the logs provide incentive for the audience to realize how impactful deforestation is on the world. Both figure 1 and 2 achieve their goals by using graphic images to persuade the audience view deforestation a big enough deal to the everyday person to encourage non-environmentalist companies to decrease deforestation. In summation, Greenpeace is an environmentalist stakeholder that uses images to advertise the message that they want to send to their audience. The two chosen advertisements use pathos, kairos, logos, and ethos to effectively spread the stakeholders mission statement. The use of pathos in figure 1 encourages the audience to feel depressed over how the repurposing of forests negatively effects the animals that lived there. The kairos mentioned in figure 1 inspires the audience to feel a desire to stop deforestation. use of logos in the first advertisement accentuates message that Proctor & Gamble is taking advantage of forests to make a profit. In both the first and second image the credibility is established using the logo as ethos. Logos is used in figure 2 by depicting logs to show how the rate of deforestation has increased. The most apparent evidence of kairos in figure 2 is the words located under the logo because they highlight a call to action. Pathos is used in the second advertisement through the illustrations of faces on the faces of the timber. The four rhetorical Garcia 6 appeals used in these two advertisements stress the effectiveness of the dire necessity that the world needs to change the future of forests and all that are effected by deforestation. Garcia 7 Work Cited Greenpeace USA, www.greenpeace.org/usa/about/. Accessed 27 January 2017. Bogdan. a Tree Falls, It Takes Other Lives With TDM S.R.L. http://www.topdesignmag.com/35-great-examples-of-public-interest-ads/. Accessed 26 February 2017. The Daily Blog, 18 March 2014, http://thedailyblog.co.nz/2014/03/18/greenpeace-deforestation/. Accessed 26 February 2017. Tallest Tree in the Monumental trees, Accessed 26 February 2017