Alissa Crotty Professor Casey Clague ENC1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft: US and Cuba Relations The United States and Cuba have had a tumultuous relationship for the last seven decades. In this the United Sates has established laws and regulations against Cuba from traveling to trade to communication with the country. As a result of this there is an abundance of material, pictures, and public service announcements (PSA) that represents both interests in this matter. The United States interests and concerns are represented through the images with their portrayal of the two nations that displays a delicate relationship and key issues of the United States that utilize rhetorical appeals. The image of Castro and President Obama shaking hands is an incredibly powerful image. The image represents a multitude of aspects and effects in regards to the relationship between Cuba and the United States as the embracing of the two leaders evokes powerful emotions. One of the key reasons for this image to be as powerful as it is primarily having to do with the emotions that the image evokes. The image depicts Castro and President Obama shaking hands, this alone evokes emotions because the United States and Cuba have had such a complicated relationship for the better part of a century that simply the leaders of these two nations shaking hands signifies the evolving nature of this relationship. This image also has the leaders shaking hand sin front of each flag also adding to the powerful nature of this image. In having Castro stand in front of the American Flag and President Obama standing in front of the Cuban flag creates a sense of comradery between the two nations. The image of the two leaders is absent of anything besides the leaders and their flags. This is a prevailing tool in evoking emotion because the United States and Cuba both have only red, white, and blue as the colors of their flags. The similarity of the two flags adds to the sense of comradery between the United States and Cuba. The similarity of the lags as well as the position in front of each flag is significant as flags are key to a nation and their identity as a centripetal force. This is evident since fly the national flag is a sign of pride and patriotism. It is a positive affirmation of loyalty and (What is the Importance of a Flag, n.d.). This shows the power that a flag has for and over a country and the image uses this power in a way that effectively incites emotions from the viewer. This image overwhelmingly appeals to a pathos as the image elicits strong emotions. The intent of the image is clear in that it is a ceremonial picture that does no convey any specific thought or ideal but rather seeks to convey the hopeful relationship between the two nations. The image is representative of the nature of the stakeholder the United Sates because this picture captures the unique position of the United States. The unique situation of the United States being that the United States still has a relatively restrictive embargo in place against Cuba. However, the United Sates seeks to move forward in order to establish a beneficial relationship with the country of Cuba however there are obvious and key obstacles in the way of that relationship occurring. Just as with this situation, the picture of Castro and Obama shaking hands is purely symbolic. Nothing has changed or grown from the occurrence of this photo beyond an extension of good will to one another but that does not diminish the significant impact that this photo has in eliciting emotion. The second image of the person who was subjected to human rights violations represents the reluctance of the United States as a stakeholder in regards to the complicated nature of the United States and Cuba relations. The second image of the Cuban man elicits emotion and concern for the United States to pursue diplomatic relations with Cuba due to the image of a severely beaten man and the reference to the lack of human rights and the abundance of human rights violations that still happen in Cuba. The image o the man is the most successful in appealing to a emotions. The face of a man who has been beaten prompts concern and even outrage in a person. The majority of the ace is covered in bandages that leads people to think of how much worse it most likely is underneath the bandages. This is important because the image plays on a sympathy and natural empathy for other human beings and to see this image as a common outcome in Cuba creates strong negative feelings towards the Cuban government. Additionally, in the image it lists, the man who was beaten, his name and profession. This primarily humanizes him and puts his situation in a more real context that helps people who are viewing this image to realize that these types of actions against the Cuban people are regularly occurrences in Cuba. The image also appeals to a logos. The image contains the headline that USA/Cuba Relations Violence Has To this points out and makes the logical conclusion about the United States and Cuba. According to the United Nations countries must acknowledge and promote basic human rights of its people. For decades there has been many incidences where the Cuban government has violated human rights and this behavior has carried through to present-day Cuba. The phrase used in the image appeals to a logic because it relates the essentials of the situations to what needs to happen. The image also appeals to a ethos because at the bottom of the image there is a hashtag for the movement being this gives people a place to obtain more information about the movement. Typically, a hashtag would not necessarily give a movement credibility but in this case it does because Cuba has no freedom of the press and website creations are heavily monitored so the most efficient way for Cubans to connect, on a global stage, is to use social media. This image reflects the United interests as a stakeholder because it simply and effectively conveys one of the largest barriers between the United States and Cuba having diplomatic and constant relations. The image of the beaten man reflects why the United States has in place an embargo on Cuba because even though they have historically come a long way, the country still has obvious problems with its government. These images both reflect the United as a stakeholder, interests and reluctance with pursuing international relations with Cuba beyond what they have already. The delicate relationship of the two nations is reflected in these images as they produce strong and powerful emotions and thoughts about the shortcomings of the Cuban government as well as displaying the United States hopefulness for diplomatic relations though the image of a beaten man contrasted with the image of two leaders shaking hands. These two images show the nature of relations with Cuba by showing both sides of the coin, the diplomatic and national obligation and the reality of Cuba for Cubans. Works Cited What is the Importance of a Flag. (n.d.). Retrieved from Art Institute of Chicago: