Rayfield 1 Brittney Rayfield Ms. Lay Comp II 22 February 2017 Pictures for Persuasion The National Collegiate Athletic Association has banned a lot of substances that college athletes are not allowed to use. Relating to rhetorical appeals; logos and ethos, the NCAA has used two images that encourages athletes to turn away from drugs. Logos is an appeal of logic and a way to persuade the reader by reason. In the first image, it shows a character turning away from drugs. This character is dressed as an athlete and seems to be in shape by the way the artist created her; obviously she is an athlete. It is quite logical that she turns away from the smoking and drinking because they do tear your body down and she needs to stay in shape. The drugs showed in the picture are actually legal. Cigarettes and alcohol are legal but the character is still turning away from them. If there were illegal drugs, it is obvious the expression would be the same; turning away. Ethos is a way the to show credibility to the audience. In the second image, there is many ways to give credibility. The font on the protein powder looks like a like something printed on prison This shows an unethical reason for protein to cause trouble/be banned. It is also unethical to show the powder and trick the audience because some would think it looks like cocaine but athletes would notice the scooper that comes in protein powders. Pathos is a way to communicate with the audience through emotions. In the picture with the girl turning away from the drugs, she shows a lot of emotion. The athlete shows a look of Rayfield 2 disgust on her face. She also has her hand up towards the drugs with her head turned away as to say she is better off without them. The NCAA encourages athletes to stay away from drugs and alcohol and prohibits many substances. By using the rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, and pathos, the author persuades the audience towards their side of the argument. Rayfield 3 Works Cited NCAA. NCAA LIST OF BANNED  Www.ncaa.org. NCAA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. NCAA.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Vcortez. Picture of  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. NCAA, 29 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.