Plouffe 1 Michaela Plouffe Ryan Phillips ENC 1102 24 February 2017 United States Students Association The opportunity for one to further their education at a university reaps countless benefits, but for some this opportunity is too far out of reach. It is no secret that attending a university is not cheap. In fact, student debt in the United States is at an all time high, sitting at $1.3 trillion (Free Higher Education). The United States Student Association sees how damaging this can be not only to individuals but also to society as a whole. They want to put an end to student debt and want to create free public higher education for all. They try to achieve this goal by working to persuade people to join their cause and make their voice heard. The images posted on the United States Student website have appeals and features that communicate their goal of making higher education completely free. By analyzing the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos within the images on their website it can be understood how the images can be effective in acting as persuasive tactics. The United States Student Association is the largest and oldest student-led organization in the country. They have developed multiple campaigns dedicated to promoting justice in education. They believe education is a natural right and should be accessible to everyone. The United States Student Association is aware of how the high costs of higher education creates inequality. They created a Free Higher Education campaign to put an end to student debt by developing a plan to make all public four-year universities tuition free. They also want to increase the amount of financial aid available for housing, food, textbooks, transportation, and other expenses. To execute Plouffe 2 their goal they will gain massive public support by educating students on college campuses and will express their power through large protest They will make it clear that they are displeased with the current polices and demand change. The United States Student Association also wants to increase democratic governance on college campuses. The United States Student Association effectively uses images on their website as persuasive tactics to grow their campaign. Image one is a campaign poster promoting their free higher education campaign. The image is an black and white photograph from one of their protest, showing protesters holding up signs that say, to Over the photograph, the text says, Higher and Opportunity, and There is also a red banner across the middle of the image saying, The name is printed in the header and the website is printed in the footer as well. The purpose of image one is to get the audience to feel moved to put an end to student debt and to act on those feelings by joining their campaign. The image is trying to persuade people to work with them to develop free higher education. Image two is a photograph of a group of protesters from the United States Student Association marching across the street. The protesters in the photograph are holding various signs and posters while also having their fist in the air. The photograph also captures the Capital Building in the background. The purpose of image two is to show the audience how they reach their goals. The image shows how their organization protests and works in Washington to make change. Like image one, image two also tries to make the audience feel motivated to work for their campaigns. By analyzing the rhetorical images of each of these images the purpose of each image can be better understood. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal concerning the images credibility. In the book Rhetoric Really Matters, Jessica Mckee and Megan McIntyre say, is a method of persuasion in which the Plouffe 3 speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or & McIntyre 27). In image one the name and website on the top and bottom of the image create credibility, which establishes an ethos appeal. It shows that they are a credible organization. In image two the organizations name on the poster the people are holding creates credibility, establishing ethos appeal. Also, the people marching in Washington gives it credibility, showing that the organization does what they claim they do. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal concerning the emotions the image gives the audience. In the book Rhetoric Really Matters, Kendra Gayle, Jessica Mckee, and Megan McIntyre say, appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Gayle, Mckee, & McIntyre 37). In Image one the phrase to and the black and white color scheme makes the audience feel as if they are being kept in the dark and trapped by debt. These feelings establish a pathos appeal, making the audience feel a certain way. In image two the people marching makes the audience feel as if they should be taking action and to fight what they believe in. The capitol building in the background also gives the audience a sense of patriotism and reminds them how the united states is a democratic country. These feelings establish a pathos appeal, making the audience feel a certain way. Logos is the rhetorical appeal concerning how logical an image is. In the book Rhetoric Really Matters, Emily Lane, Jessica Mckee, and Megan McIntyre say, is the appeal to logic. Logos like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and Mckee, & McIntyre 32). In image one the words opportunity, and present a logos appeal, because those are logical things to want. The and protest are also an Plouffe 4 appeal, because it is logical to fight and work for something you believe in. In image two the people calmly protesting and marching presents a logos appeal. Its logical to have a peaceful protest for a cause you believe in. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal concerning the timeliness of an image. In the book Rhetoric Really Matters, Allyson Hoffman and Alysia Sawchyn say, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing & Sawchyn 41). In image one the bold big font of the word creates a sense of urgency. This feeling of needing to act now creates a kairos appeal. In image two the people marching appear to be moving at a fast past creating a sense of urgency. It shows that they are fighting for what they want now and are going to get what they want now. This gives the image a kairos appeal. The national debt is a huge problem in the united states. It prevents equality by taking away the opportunity of higher education from many people. The United States Student Association believes making higher education free would decrease student debt tremendously and would increase opportunity for all. The images on the website express their goal of making higher education free. By analyzing the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos with in the images on their website it can be understood how the images can be effective in acting as persuasive tactics. Plouffe 5 Image one: Image two: Plouffe 6 Works Cited Education Is a  United States Student Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print.