Bourne !1 Aaliyah Bourne Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 25 February 2017 The World Health Organization Views on Vaccination In the past recent years the controversy regarding vaccines have increased. Some or- ganizations believe and preach about the negative effects and ineffectiveness of vaccines, while others try to plead to families about the importance of vaccines. The controversy spiked due to the fact that people felt vaccines caused long term diseases like autism (this theory has however not been proven) and that too many vaccines are required in such a short time period. The World Health Organization (WHO) is an organization connected with the United Nations, they are con- cerned with public health on an international level. This organization supports the vaccination of individuals of the community as they believe that vaccines improves immunity to some diseases. The World Health Organization believes that vaccines are safe and there are no long term side effects of vaccines in comparison to the long term effects of diseases like measles. These two im- ages taken from The World Health Organization both effectively use ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to persuade their respective audience to get vaccinated. The World Health Organization mission is to achieve their Global Vaccine Action Plan by 2020. According to Global Vaccine Action Plan WHO.int The World Health Or- ganization vaccine and immunization goal is to routine immunization to meet vacci- nation coverage targets; accelerate control of vaccine-preventable new and improved vaccines and spur research and development for the next generation of vaccines and WHO has been around for sixty-eight years with their overall goal being to allow Bourne !2 all people to attain the highest possible level of health (who.int). They are a specialized branch of the United Nations that is concerned with public health around the globe. According to WHO, despite the significant progress over the last fifteen years there are still 19.4 million infants who are still not receiving basic vaccines. The two images reflect the stakeholders views on vaccina- tion; the stakeholder is trying to plea to the audience to vaccinate your family.This is so as WHO does not believe in the fact that it is better to be immunized through the disease itself. They say this process is ineffective and dangerous as someone can pay the price of developing a mental illness. The organization Vaccinate Your Baby is also a program that supports the vaccination of children by the age of two. According to Why vaccinateyourbaby.org have become essential tools in preventing previously devastating, widespread disease by signifi- cantly reducing childhood infection These two stakeholders both have common views and missions, they just vary in scope. WHO is geared towards vaccinating everyone in the world while Vaccinate Your Baby is geared towards babies within the United Sates of America. The first image appeals to everyone. In the first image there is a representation of all gen- ders, races, age, cultures and religions. This is so as they are appealing to the world on a whole and the world includes different types of people. The audience is everyone as vaccines spe- cific towards one gender or culture or even race; vaccines made for everyone. Vaccinating one culture for example puts the rest in danger. In the second image The World Health Organization appeals to families with small children. This is evident as the shadows are representations of small children. Parents and caregivers will feel sympathy for the one child on the other side of the side of the gap which represents an unvaccinated child. This contrasts with the four happy chil- dren on the other side of the gap which portrays vaccinated children. In both pictures there are elements of ethos present. According to Rhetoric Matters, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to per- Bourne !3 suade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or ( Hoffman, Wiggs 24). In the first image the logo for the organization is presented at the bottom, there is also the logo for World Immunization This shows viewers that the organization approves the image. This is important as The World Health Organization is the biggest organization for human health and so it gives the image value. In the second image the logo for the WHO is present at the bottom, along with a link to the website. This allows the audience to further research about ing the gab on on the website. Both the logo and the link points to the credibility of the image as it shows that this well known and reliable organization supports vaccination. The World Health Organization uses pathos to help the audience develop some sort of emotions. According to Rhetoric Matters pathos is described as a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the ( Hoffman, Wiggs 34). The first image allows the audience to see that everyone from every race, age, religion and gen- der is being vaccinated. This makes the audience feel pressured and somewhat isolated if they are not vaccinated. This is so as people from their own culture or race are vaccinated and happy, which will make them think someone like me is doing it why The image works to bring a sort of persuasion towards the unvaccinated viewer. In the second image the audience may feel a sense of fear. This is so as the last child who is supposedly on the side of the cliff looks like he is getting ready to jump to the other side. He may fall trying to reach the other side of the cliff or he may reach safely. If he falls this will represent a child getting sick while unvaccinated and possibly dying. This invokes fear in families with children as they see the possible negative effects of not being vaccinated and fear that for their own child. While at the same time seeing how happy, healthy and carefree the children on the opposite side, the vaccinat- ed children, of the cliff seem. Bourne !4 Logos is used by WHO in both images to appeal to logic and reason. According to Rhetoric Matters is the appeal to is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman, Wiggs 29). In the first image the difference in stance of the vaccinated and unvaccinated people allows the audience to become of aware of the risks of not being vaccinated. Due to the fact that the unvaccinated population is tumbling down makes the audience think about the risks of not being vaccinated and that although one per- son may have the disease all unvaccinated persons will contract it. This contrast the vaccinated persons in the image that are standing straight, holding hands and smiling. This represents the level of health and strength vaccinated persons have when compared to the tumbling down of un- vaccinated persons; which may portray that unvaccinated people are weak or sickly. The holding of hands represents the large vaccinated community and how each person is helping and support- ing another just by being vaccinated. The words on the block protect your world get vaccinat- appeals to everyone that they have a responsibility to protect their community and further their world from vaccine preventable diseases. One more person in the world being vaccinated can definitely make a difference. In the second image the place of the phrase along with the words and which has the biggest font, draws the audience attention as the organi- zation is trying to make the audience acknowledge the gap and that vaccinating your family will close it. It also allows the viewers to realize the amount of children who are vaccinated versus unvaccinated and the possible negative effects of not vaccinating your child; which is equivalent to the child falling off the cliff while trying to cross. It also implies a positive outlook in that there are families vaccinating their child and that is why the child seems to be running to the other side of the cliff. The World Health Organization uses kairos to appeal to the audience. According to Rhetoric Matters kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/per- Bourne !5 form the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman, Wiggs 38). In the both images a sense of urgency is invoked in the audience. The first image makes the audi- ence feel a sense of urgency as everyone in their community, no matter what background they are from is getting vaccinated. This is especially so if the audience sees someone in the picture they can relate to. The words on the block also allows the viewers to feel a sense of responsibility and urgency in wanting to be vaccinated in order to protect their community. Again, especially if they see someone in the picture from their culture, they will feel a connection which will further in- crease that sense of responsibility and urgency to keep them safe and protected. In the second pic- ture as the boy is ready to jump across this makes the audience realize that everyone is joining the vaccinated community and that they need to hurry and vaccinate themselves and their family. This picture bring about urgency in the audience in wanting to the In conclusion the goal of the pictures is to appeal to the audience sympathy and logics by further allowing them to think about vaccinating their child, or even keeping up with booster shots. The first picture ask the audience to see the difference between a vaccinated community and an unvaccinated community. The second picture allows the audience to see that the gap to- wards vaccination is closing and that the people who are unvaccinated are thinking about vacci- nation or trying to get vaccinated soon. Both images appeal to our timeliness, logic and emotions in order to get the view across. We further trust this information due to the credibili- ty of the images. With both images, the World Health Organization makes their target audience recognize the difference from being vaccinated and unvaccinated is with only a few words and a powerful picture. Bourne !6 Bourne !7 Bourne !8 Works Cited The Immunization Gap Vaccination for Found,World Immunization Week 2015 poster, 24-30 April 2015, http://www.who.int/campaigns/immunization-week/2015/poster/en/. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Protect Your World Get Found, Posters: World Immunization Week 2013, 24-30 April 2013, http://www.who.int/campaigns/immunization-week/2013/posters/en/. Vaccinate Your Baby, Every Child by Two, http://www.vaccinateyourbaby.org/index.cfm. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017.