MacFarquhar 1 Dylan MacFarquhar Professor Kevin Ip ENC1102 26 February 2017 Democratic Party on College Tuition Debt The Democratic Party has a mission to decrease the burden that student loan debt places on students. In their platform page, they describe that this task will be accomplished through an increased funding in Pell Grants and tax deductible tuition for public universities. Though these two tasks, the Democratic Party believes that they can substantially lower the amount of debt students accumulate during their college careers. Although the party itself does not produce visual advertisement supporting this issue, many of its supporters do. In these two images, the system which puts college student into debt is presented as unfair. These images primarily focus on the ethos appeal which shows that it is immoral for students to pay unfair prices for tuition, the logos appeal which shows that it is unreasonable for money to go towards overpaid university staff, and the pathos appeal putting the viewer in the shoes of a student who feels they are deserving of these benefits. According to Chris Denhart from Forbes, the current total for student loan debt in the United States is at $1.2 trillion and two-thirds of students graduating from college are graduating with some form of debt (Denhart). This is a major issue affecting millions of Americans, leaving them penalized for seeking higher education. Change is necessary in order to correct this system and assure that those qualified and motivated to further their education are able to do so without being placed in debt for years to come. This idea is a major factor in the Democratic political platform. As stated earlier, the party looks to diminish student loan debt by increasing MacFarquhar 2 funding for Pell Grants and by making college tax deductible. There are various organizations which oppose this idea however, as they believe student loans are a major economic industry and tampering with them would result in economic disruption. These images are some examples of how the Democratic supporters are looking to influence and inform those who do not share their beliefs. Both of these images use the ethos appeal which deals with the morality of a subject. The Democratic Party believes that allowing qualified and determined students to pursue a college education is the correct thing to do, for hardworking and taxpaying citizens whose tax dollars go towards public state universities should be able to attend those universities without taking out loans or going into debt. The first image shows a college age student who has grown up respectably with parents who pay taxes and are upstanding citizens. It has a sign which depicts free college as a dream act, for although the student and his parents have done the right thing it will not be possible for him to attend college for free. The producer of this image is trying to show that it is only right for students and families who work hard and live respectably should have at the least an opportunity to have a college education without colossal amounts of debt. The second image appeals to the morality of this situation as well, for it shows multiple college students in debt carrying the weight of overpaid faculty, coaches, and staff. The image shows that it is immoral for students to go in to debt, overpaying for luxuries which do not benefit them in any way. The tuition costs which students pay are going towards million dollar presidents and football coaches, unneeded board members, and overemployed administrators. The producer of the image is attempting to show that although these students are borrowing to pay for their educations, the money they are paying is actually going towards extraneous causes which do not MacFarquhar 3 benefit them. They make this out to be a very immoral situation, causing the viewer to feel sympathy for the students. The logos appeal which deals with logic and reason is presented in both images as well. The first image uses irony to convey how it is only logical for students to go to college without debt. By listing off various reasons of why students should be able to attend college for free, the producer of the image gives logical reasoning as to why free college should be a reality. From a purely economic standpoint, the second image shows that it is unreasonable for students to pay such large amounts of money, putting themselves into debt, just to overpay university staff. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, thirteen percent of state money goes towards higher public education which totals to approximately $145 billion (CBPP). The organization who created the image believes that this amount of money should be more than enough to pay for university fees, and that student tuition should be lessened as it over- contributes to these financial factors. The pathos appeal is extremely evident in the first image. The producer of the image is trying to appeal directly to the emotions of the viewer by placing them in the shoes of those attempting to go to college. They want you to think as though you are one of these students, and put their feelings and goals in your mind, in order to convince them that their ideas are the right way to go. In the first image, the viewer is put in the shoes of a college student looking to get an education for free. The student and his parents have done everything right, which makes the viewer feel that they should be allowed to receive these benefits. This results in a level of sympathy which conveys the images goal. Both of these images use rhetoric appeals which allow them to express their goals through morality, reason, and emotion. By appealing to these senses in the viewer, they are able MacFarquhar 4 to share the idea that college tuition should be debt free and that the current system is not in the best interest of students. The beliefs of the Democratic Party are displayed very well in these images and the use of these appeals allows the producers of the images to better convey their message. MacFarquhar 5 Works Cited Denhart, Chris. How The $1.2 Trillion College Debt Crisis Is Crippling Students, Parents And The  Forbes. N.p., 7 Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Policy Basics: Where Do Our State Tax Dollars  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. N.p., 14 Apr. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wise, Terry. College  Cartoon Stock. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. MacFarquhar 6