Bell 1 Monique Bell Professor DeCarion ENC 1102- 086 26 February 2017 Parents Opposed to Pot Image Rhetorical Analysis In society marijuana has become a prime debate in either keeping its recreational and medical use illegal or allowing the free world to use it as they please. While research has shown that the stimulant can act as a very powerful medical treatment for symptoms of chronic illnesses, research as also shown the harmful effects of using the drug at a young age before the brain is fully developed. Parents opposed to pot is one of many nonprofit organizations that have risen from solidarity to express the dangers of the drug on children and the harmful effects it may bring to them ranging from safety to poor brain development. This organization focuses on the education of parents and children on the dangers of marijuana and actively fight towards their mission statement of Bursting the bubble of marijuana This organization, in particular, is popular for using images and other visuals to accurately relay information to children using colorful and rhetorical images that children and young adults can easily understand. Two images in particular from their website focus on folklores and stories to relay a negative connotation of the drug onto children and parents using ethos, pathos, and kairos. Both represent marijuana as a dangerous and manipulative drug which accurately represents the awareness that parents opposed to pot is trying to implement in society. Parents Opposed to Pot is an organization created by a group of concerned parents determined to protect their children from the multiple dangers of marijuana. The POP claims that Bell 2 the atmosphere we live in today promotes marijuana as harmless and healthy, giving a bent perception of the drug towards its users. This nonprofit group focuses on educating parents and children through articles donated by trained medical professionals as well as parents testimonies. Unlike other organizations the POP lobby for their cause through strict publicity vs rallies and protests. They are strictly online and believe that testimonies and factual articles can efficiently sway others to abandon the marijuana hype and promote a drug-free environment for children. A range of articles inhibits their library, donated from multiple resources covering topics from danger to youth development to motor vehicle accidents while under the influence. Along with spreading knowledge, the POP is very concerned about supplying resources to parents and children to work on recovering from an addiction or help service lines for those who have no one to talk to. There are roughly twenty-five, 24-hour help lines available through the organization read to help anyone who wishes to gain relief from the stimulant. Because reaching out to children is the biggest concern for the organization a lot of their convincing is done through visuals including cartoons and videos. Using this method to spread information allows children and young adults to connect to and understand the information being presented to them. This makes it easier for may them become more rhetorically engaged with the message in a way that they with an article or a list of facts. Overall this organization focuses on the addictive properties of the drug and preventing the youth of today from accumulating an addiction that may trigger harmful long-term effects. the POP strives to prevent in youth through the complete legalization of marijuana nationwide and lobby this goal in their mission statement to the bubbles of the marijuana industry, marijuana lobbyists and marijuana (poppot.org) Bell 3 The first image is very vibrant, colorful and symbolic so it has a very apparent appeal towards children. The image is based on a German folklore of the Pied Piper who was hired by the city of Hamlin to lure rats away using his magic pipe, When the town refused to pay for his services the piper sought his revenge by using his magical pipe by luring all of the children out of the city (Hanif ). In this variation of the image, The kids who are all holding marijuana paraphernalia in their hands is being led by the in a cloud full of smoke. The piper in this image is represented as the head of marijuana dispensaries or smoke shop owners whose main goal is to gain a profit as reflected with the cape containing money signs and the malicious look upon his face. This gives the image credibility in a sense of relating the events that happened in the story to children who are at a potential risk of being by the piper or money hungry company heads. This image comes with a very strong poignant perspective that can persuade both children and parents on the harmful influences of marijuana, represented by the children following the piper unwillingly in desperation. None of the children have smiles on their faces as if a force other than the piper is convincing them to follow suit such as their developed addiction to the drug. This helps children see the negative connotation that Parents Against pot is trying to influence on youth to view this drug as a harmful and addictive substance. The images appeal to parents, however, is represented as more of an act of urgency on their part. In the folktale, the parents suffered the consequence for not paying the piper in a timely manner and instead lost their child for the service. The picture gives parents a sense of urgency to act now in getting their child to stop using the drug or to stay on top of reflecting negative influences from their child before they in a sense pay and lose their child to an untreatable addiction. This image not only tugs at the heartstrings of parents but also displays examples of ethos and kairos rhetoric in order to convince children to stay away from marijuana. Bell 4 In following, the second image displays its rhetoric exclusively to children through its illustrated composure, light colors, and the figure representative of a child. It is easy to notice that this drawing is comparable to that to the Disney childhood icon Pinocchio, something that almost every child has seen and can relate to. The movie Pinocchio is about a wood carver who wished upon a star that his little wooden puppet would become a real boy, A fairy granted his wish by allowing the puppet to move and talk but would only make him a real boy if he proved his bravery and learned right from wrong. Until then his nose would grow in length every time he told a lie Of Choosing to focus the illustration on a very popular Disney character gives this image a sense of credibility to children. In a sense, children look up to Pinocchio and will believe, say do or react to marijuana anyway that he does. This POP relays their beliefs through the character and onto children. In relation to the folktale, the little boy is still representative of a puppet suggesting that children still do not know the difference between right and wrong making them easy targets for marijuana influence. In the illustration, the expression on the face represents shock and dismay at the number of lies and eventually marijuana leaves sprouting from his nose. This display of pathos within the character can suggest to children that the puppet is not happy with the marijuana plant sprouting from his nose causing children to feel the same way about the drug. The length of his nose can be representative of drug companies or peers telling children that using marijuana is healthy for you and brings about no harm. Eventually, however, children smoke the drug believing the lies of the stimulant and over time are overwhelmed with the true danger the drug brings about. Unlike the first image, the character represented is similar to that to a small child vs the teens and young adults present in the previous illustration. This appeals to parents and time in a sense that they have to visualize their young and clueless child in possession of the drug to introduce the reality in the age Bell 5 spectrum of kids who can gain access to the drug. The POP encourages the emotion, credibility, and urgency that this illustration brings to parents and children to promote the abandonment of marijuana as well as steering clear of its dangerous effects. Since the the use of marijuana in the United States has escalated and risen from a point of disapproval to a vital role in mainstream society. Although to this day the recreational use of the drug is illegal, in most states, one of eight adults regularly smokes marijuana helping this trend quickly becoming the new teen fad. Parents Opposed to Pot lobbies for and use of marijuana to cease in order to protect children from future drug abuse problems as well as protect the brain development of children and teens from damage. Both images obtained from the steak holder influence children and parents of their values through the use of pathos, kiros, and ethos. By making the images cartoon and childlike helps their target audience to adequately envision the harmful effects of marijuana and influences them to steer clear of the harmful substance. Bell 6 Works Cited - Bursting the Bubble of Marijuana  - Bursting the Bubble of Marijuana Hype. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hanif, Anees. Pied Piper of  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Pinochio. Story Of Pinocchio. Channel, 5 Mar. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eA-kgNNBy4k>.