Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 17 February, 2017 Treatments of depression in a modern world Depression is a very common, but also a very serious psychological and psychic disorder. It was known since ancient times as early as the time of Heraclides and Hippocrates, but at that times it was considered and included as a form of quiet insanity. Serious scientific research had started only in the last 100-150 years. (as of 2017). The modern understanding and the concept of depression is understood as a clinical syndrome, but without specific etiology, with appreciation of both biological and psychological factors. Depression is also included in several major official disease or disorder classifications that shows depression is appreciated as a real disorder. Depression is often caused by psychological factors, such as, for instance, childhood traumas, posttraumatic (physiological and psychological) causes, uncertainty in some major questions, such as self-determination, ignorance of future. The last one is a major concept for this project as a typical student (not only college level student, but high school student or graduate student generally 16-25 years old) has several factors that can affect his psychological health major changes in life, social misunderstanding, self- misunderstanding, the fear and/or ignorance of a his or her future. The statistics shows that roughly 44 percent of American students report or had reported symptoms of depression. And that is why it is so important to understand the nature of depression depression can be silent for everybody, but not for the patient. The research question is simple, but very important at the same time what are available treatments or techniques in a modern world can be used to help a student with a depression? Student 2 Alvarez, Luz et al. Computer Program In The Treatment For Major Depression And Cognitive Impairment In University  Computers In Human Behavior 24.Instructional Support for Enhancing Information Problem Solving Ability (2008): 816-826. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. A program was created and applied to three groups of University students with major depressive disorder the first one is the people with non-medicated MDD, the second one is treated by the program and anti-depressants, the third is only treated by anti- depressants. The intervention amount was measured by several methods Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, Attention Problems Assessment Scale, Spieberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, Externalized Problems Assessment Scale for Adolescents and Young Adults. All variables and outputs were analyzed by ANOVA for repeated measures. All three groups patients showed remission of their depression, but only the group who had received cognitive treatment and anti- depressants showed increase in intellectual performance (by measuring IQ). This study is relevant to the question because it shows which techniques can be combined together to help the students with a depression. The study itself states that it needs to be repeated using more refined tests because it is hard to measure depression and cognitive levels without precise neuropsychological evaluation. The study included very detailed tables and information with accurate numbers for every measurement. The author Luz Alvarez is a professor at Psychiatry Department, Medicine School, National University of and the coauthor Jose F. Cortes Sotres is a researcher at National Institute of Psychiatry de la Fuente so the credibility is high. Student 3 Jagdish, Khubchandani, et al. The Psychometric Properties Of PHQ-4 Depression And Anxiety Screening Scale Among College  Archives Of Psychiatric Nursing 30.Measures of Mental Health for Diverse Populations (2016): 457-462. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. PHQ-4 is a brief screening tool for depression and anxiety. Study researched undergraduate students from general education classes at Midwestern University. Students were asked question by using questionnaire. It asked whether they have ever been diagnosed with depression or anxiety. (the most common psychological disorders). After that, participants were asked to fill out the PHQ-4 scale. The total number of participants was 934. The study evaluated the reliability of PHQ-4, and it was found to be high 81%. Those who were diagnosed with anxiety or major depressive disorder scored higher scores on PHQ-4 scale. It may look that this study is too basic, but tools like PHQ-4 are an absolute necessity for diagnosing depression and depression-type disorders. It is a simple test, but its high reliability showed that this tool can be used as a first step of diagnosing major depressive disorder - why it is related to the research question. Jagdish Khubchandani has a PhD and a MBBS from Ball State University. A, Velayudhan, S. Gayatridevi, and Rita Rani Bhattacharjee. Efficacy Of Behavioral Intervention In Reducing Anxiety And Depression Among Medical  Industrial Psychiatry Journal, Vol 19, Iss 1, Pp 41-46 (2010) 1 (2010): 41. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. Student 4 This study included two randomly selected groups of total of 120 people to research the depression, thoughts of suicide and anxiety (which is often is a symptom of a depression). The study tried to determine if behavioral intervention by counseling can cope up with depression and anxiety that is one of the major techniques in the modern world that can help a student with a depression, so this study is almost ideal to the research question. The study concluded that the intervention program helped the students they had lower level of depression and anxiety compared to the beginning of the program, their self-confidence raised and the abilities to adjust and establish their place in new circumstances are raised too. The study suggested that intervention program should be included and used in any educational courses. Study includes various information and ways to evaluate the data statistical analysis including tables, analysis of variance (known as ANOVA). A, Velayudhan is a professor at the Department of Psychology, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, India. This study was also cited by other researchers of behavioral of this specific social group students. Li, Xiaowei, et al. Mild Depression Detection Of College Students: An EEG-Based Solution With Free Viewing  Journal Of Medical Systems 12 (2015): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The study tried to develop a more accurate, objective, and precise method for the depression detection. 36 volunteers with a possible depression from the Lanzhou University, China were participating in this research. Their depression states were measured by the Beck Depression Inventory. 9 subjects were evaluated to be in mild depression, 25 considered non-depressed. The study used EEG signals with Hanning Filter. The study selected stimulus materials from Chinese Facial Affective Picture Student 5 System a database of face pictures with different emotions. By using kNN classifier to differentiate between depressed and non-depressed students some outstanding results were reached. This technique is new and there is a future research to be done, but the results were very accurate, in fact, this technique reached the highest known accuracy 99.1%. This study is extremely relevant to the research question because that is a key to success in helping students with depression early recognition of depression symptoms and depression itself. The authors of this study are known for different studies in similar topics and researches. Xiaowei Li is an Associate Professor of the School of Information Science and Engineering, Lanzhou University, China. The technique is new and non-researched, but still, the credibility of the source itself is high. Gabriele Oettingen, Doris Mayer, and Sam Portnow. Pleasure Now, Pain Later: Positive Fantasies About The Future Predict Symptoms Of  Psychological Science (0956-7976) 27.3 (2016): 345-353. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 16 Feb. 2017 There were totally four studies done and evaluated in this work. All the studies were connected to fantasies in college-aged students diagnosed with depression. Common sense suggests that fantasizing, thinking with a positive attitude about future recovers and shelters a patient with a depression, but these four studies showed that fantasizing and positive thinking is not always a good sign. The most relevant part is the fourth study, as it evaluates college undergraduate students and their academic success. 148 undergraduate college students were evaluated in a time period of two months. The outcome is not as clear as it might seem as predicted, the more Student 6 positive the fantasies were the fewer the depression symptoms were shown. But the positive fantasies also shown a strong correlation with academic success the more positive fantasies are, the lower academic success is. This research is related and important because it can help to recognize depression only by academic success. Gabriele Oettingen is a professor of psychology at New York University and the University of Hamburg. She is famous for her psychology researches about future and emotions. She is almost a guarantee of credibility. Also, Sam Portnow is the lead graduate assistant at Department of Psychology, University of Virginia. WCES-2010: The Effectiveness Of Teachers To Recognize The Symptoms Of Depression For Their Depressive  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 2.Innovation and Creativity in Education (2010): 2371- 2376. ScienceDirect. Web. The study researched the effectiveness of teachers evaluating and recognizing the symptoms of a clinical depression in their students. The study was conducted in four high schools. There was a questionnaire named in need The study collected data by using a two-stage technique. The conclusion is mixed there is no clear level of knowledge how to depression, the outcome was mixed. This study is close to the research question study questions the level of knowledge of depression symptoms and knowledge how to distinguish the depression and that is one of techniques of helping the student with a possible depression. The study primarily focused on the recognition of depression symptoms and the depression as a Student 7 condition itself. It included a valid two-step research, data was evaluated by using frequencies, ratios, percentages and referred to well-known authors. is a professor of counselling psychology at the Osmangazi University, so the credibility is high. .