Rodriguez 1 Elle Rodriguez Professor Davis ENC 1102 2/25/17 For the past three and a half decades, the LGBTQ community has been experiencing an expansion of rights. From the repeal of Ask Tell to the Supreme Court ruling in 2015 that made same-sex marriage legal in all fifty states, it is undeniable that LGBTQ rights has had an unprecedented amount of growth in support from our government officials and the average citizen in the recent years. One organization that advocated passionately for the expansion of rights is the Human Rights Campaign (HRC). HRC was founded in 1980 and to this day advocates for LGBTQ equality in the United States and abroad. As largest LGBTQ civil rights organization, the Human Rights goal is to advance the rights of the LGBTQ community so that they have the same rights as every other American. To illustrate the problems that the queer community experiences HRC includes images on its website to help the average person better comprehend the struggles that queer individuals face. The first picture is an illustration of a pie chart and a statistic that addresses how many LGBTQ youth live in a community that accepts them. The goal of this image is to make the audience understand the levels of acceptance and rejection among the communities of LGBTQ youth. This goal is achieved through the elaborate use of logos in the form of statistics and ethos through the use of the company logo. The second picture is also a statistic. But this one describes the amount of queer youth that experience negative opinions about being LGBTQ. The goal for the second illustration is to educate the reader by providing facts and to make the reader emphasize with the Rodriguez 2 children that experience these negative messages. This goal is accomplished by using logos in the form of statistics and using pathos to appeal to the negative feelings generally associated with bullying and harassment. Both pictures are very simple, yet just like the Human Rights Campaign, they advocate for LGBTQ equality by informing the public. The first image is a very powerful illustration of a pie chart that that states 42 percent of LGBT youth live in a community that that except them, while the other 58 percent feels that their community is accepting of LGBTQ individuals. The goal of this picture is clearly to help the audience understand the percentage of LGBTQ children and teenagers who do not feel accepted by their community compared to the children and teenagers that are. The intended audience of this image would be parents of LGBTQ children, LGBTQ adults, and heterosexual individuals who might not be familiar with the topic. The goal of this image is achieved through the elaborate use of logos and pathos. Ethan Sproat defines logos as is frequently translated as some variation of logic or (Sproat). He also defines ethos as is frequently translated as some variation of emotional (Sproat). Both rhetorical appeals contribute to the goal of assisting the audience to understand the percentage of LGBTQ youth who are not accepted by their communities. The use of logos in this illustration comes in the form of a pie chart and a statistic. The pie chart is just a visual aid for the core message, the statistic about LGBTQ youth that are not accepted. While this statistic conveys logos, the HRC company logo conveys ethos. Ethos factors into this image because the company logo is very well known and it is included in the image. The Human Rights Campaign is a very well established company and has gained a very good reputation within the last decades. This makes it a trustworthy organization. So, by including their logo in the image, HRC in a way gives their stamp of approval. The usage of this rhetorical appeals in this image help it convey its message Rodriguez 3 to its audience that LGBTQ kids are not as accepted as cisgender, heterosexual youth. This ties in with the overall goal of HRC because both aim to advance the rights of the LGBTQ community through advocacy. This image may be very simple, but plenty of thought and strategy went into creating it. The second image is a statistic that says 92 percent of LGBTQ youth hear negative rhetoric about being LGBTQ. This image also includes a speech bubble that only has a sash in it, signaling silence. This illustration uses logos, ethos, and pathos to accomplish its goal of educate the audience about the struggles of queer youth. Just like in the previous image, this image utilizes logos in the form of a statistic included in the text. The use of this statistic has a very simple purpose of educating the audience. Pathos has a very big role in this picture, pathos is conveyed using the empty speech bubble and the fact that the statistic is about bullying. Ethan Sproat defines pathos as is frequently translated as some variation of emotional Taking this into consideration, the empty speech bubble has the purpose of making the audience believe that queer youth have a voice so they speak for themselves. This of course will cause any individual to feel bad for the youth because they are experiencing these wrong doing and defend themselves. In addition to this, the fact that the statistic is about bullying makes the audience automatically sympathize with the queer youth. As for ethos, the HRC logo is included again in the image. This gives the audience a sense of trust that the statistic is correct because the Human Rights Campaign is and established and very reputable organization. All of these rhetorical appeals contribute to the goal of educating the audience about the disadvantages of queer youth. This compares to the goal of HRC because both goals ultimately work towards the advancement of rights within the LGBTQ community. Rodriguez 4 The Human Rights Campaign is on the front lines of the battle towards LGBTQ equality. It advocates furiously for queer rights by educating the public, acknowledging the accomplishments of queer individuals, and by taking political action. HRC uses these two images because they send powerful messages about the struggles that queer youth experience. Both pictures utilize rhetorical appeals to capture the attention and educate them. Logos is used in the form of statistics in both images. So is ethos. While pathos is only used in the second image. Both images strive to educate and make the audience understand that LGBTQ youth face obstacles daily. These two images and HRC share one common goal. The goal to advance LGBTQ equality in the United States through advocacy. HRC will continue to advocate for queer rights in the future, but it is up to every individual to treat queer youth the way that they would treat their dearest friend. This is not an easy thing to accomplish. But through the advocacy of HRC and the collective action of passionate individuals, LGBTQ equality is achievable. Rodriguez 5 Rodriguez 6 Works Cited Human Rights Campaign. for LGBTQ Human Rights Campaign. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Dashow , Jordan . Racial and Religious Profiling Act Introduced in Human Rights Campaign. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, Allen Brizee, and Dana Lynn Driscoll. Rhetorical Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical Situation. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2012.