Fishman 1 Jack Fishman Professor Wiggs ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography Internet censorship is the taming and manipulation of the internet by governments or corporations. Countries all over the world have different views on how the internet should be handled, places like Germany, Canada and the United States have some of the more lenient takes on internet control, while countries like North Korea control everything and provide very little internet access to their citizens and countries like China have high access to internet but the internet is highly controlled. This topic can be looked at on a global scale as well as on a smaller scale like college campuses. This topic is one to look at now because of the current state of the world. A lot has been going on politically to where people may now fear internet censorship even more because governments could hide more information, for example, the Hillary Clinton emails. On the other side of that argument people may now want internet censorship more than ever because they feel it could make the internet a safer place for all. The question I want to look at for this project is should internet censorship exist and if so to what extent should it exist? ! Bauml, Jessica E. a mad, mad Internet: globalization and the challenges presented by Internet  Federal Communications Law Journal, May 2011, p. 697+. Academic OneFile, Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Fishman 2 This article is a combination of all the fronts this research question operates on. It deals with United States based internet powers operating in places like China who have drastically different views on how the internet should operate. The articles covers topics like the challenges of the internet in different places. For example the internet in the United States versus the internet in China, the United States was founded on the basis of free of speech and that carries over into their internet policies, however China was not founded on such principles instead their political party choses to control what their citizens can and can not do or see on the internet. The article goes into great detail about the Firewall of helping to provide an even better understanding of the worlds most advanced internet censorship system. Furthermore, the article also touches on speech laws throughout the world as well as corporate complications that come along with internet censorship. This article was written in a law journal called the Federal Communications Law Journal by a lawyer named Jessica E. Bauml. The law journal focuses on communications law giving them credibility to speak on the topic of freedom of speech and privacy. This article helps answers the research question because it covers the issues from both sides. The article also essentially wraps up all the other articles in this annotated bibliography. All of the other articles seemingly focus on an aspect involved in this article and this article helps bring all of those aspects together to in turn help answer the question. ! Beech, Hannah, et al. The Other Side Of The Great  Time 185.23 (2015): 48-51. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Fishman 3 This is a Time magazine article that gives a unique perspective and inside into internet regulations. In China many of the largest technology companies do not exist or operate there due to regulations, companies like Google, Facebook and Amazon have what appear to be mirror images of their concepts operating under Chinese control in China due to their regulations. google is called Baidu, its Facebook is called Tencent and its Amazon is called Alibaba. All of these can be used in other places with internet access but in China they are the only option for those services. The article makes claims that because China controls everything within their internet that it helps their economy because it keeps all the cyber money within China. It also claims that the price of internet stays cheaper in China because they do it this was as well. In terms of how this connects to the research question. The article gives a really fair and honest look into the world of high controlled internet. It does not completely throw away the idea, it puts it all into perspective showing off how the world second largest economy uses a highly regulated internet to its advantage. Time magazine is a credibly source and upon looking into the author it appears that China and southeast Asia appear to be here area of expertise which gives her good merit to speak upon the issue, she was also born in China meaning she has experience with it. ! Soldatov, Andrei. The Taming Of The  Russian Politics & Law 53.5/6 (2016): 63-83. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This article was written in a journal about Russian politics and law. The article breaks down how and why Russia censors its internet the way it does. The article talks about the history Fishman 4 of how everything came to be, all of it stemming from relationship with Global internet business leaders. Russia has a different approach from how China does its regulations, instead of having its own countries internet companies create basically replicas of certain websites, Russian instead tries to manage how the already existing companies operate within their country. The article also talks about what Russia bans from its internet, it has a four level ban list, why they ban it and how Russian intelligence monitors the information they can access through the internet and why. The article was published in scholarly journal specially for Russian politics and law. Researching Andrei Soldatov will provide one with the information to see that is a Russian investigative journalist as well as a Russian secret service experts which gives him merit to write about these topics. This article applies to the question because it gives another perspective about internet censorship from a place that does it differently from China but still has strict regulations but for different reasons. ! Palfrey, John. Four Phases Of Internet  Social Research 77.3 (2010): 981-996. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This article is different from the rest in the sense that it does not really help to answer the research question but it instead helps understand what internet censorship is all about. The article, like the title states breaks down internet regulation into four different sections. The first being which is exactly what it states, an open internet without regulations. The next phase is which is the phase where certain things begin to get regulated and blocked. The next stage is which is similar to access denied in the sense that Fishman 5 not everything is free and unregulated but different because it uses more modernized technology to filter instead of block. The last stage is which is where things on the internet are directly effected by companies involved. For example the article talks about googling and in the United States and how it differs if you were to google the same thing in a middle eastern country. The article is scholarly which lets one know that it is credible. For how it applies to the question being asked, like it was stated earlier, it does not really help to answer that actual question but it instead helps to understand the question being asked. The article can be used to explain why the question is being asked which in turn will help better understand the question so that the question can be properly addressed. By explaining what internet censorship is in terms of stages of it helps give a better understand because internet censorship has so many different layers. ! Peace, Graham. Balancing Free Speech And Censorship: Response To The  Communications Of The ACM 46.11 (2003): 104-109. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article is about internet censorship like the rest of the articles in this annotated bibliography, but this one has a drastically different setting. The setting of this article is on a much smaller scale, the other articles in this list talk about internet censorship on large scales like entire countries. This article talks about internet censorship on college campuses, a much smaller and different scale than entire countries. They did a study to determine whether or not internet censorship was needed or could benefit college campuses. After doing the study they came to the conclusion that internet censorship was not beneficial or desirable to college campuses. They Fishman 6 came to this conclusion of the basis that messing with freedom of speech and privacy can have major consequences. They also found out in their survey that United States colleges do not find this topic to be of a great deal of importance. The article has credibility because of the journal it was written in and who it was written by. The journal it was written in is scholarly and the person who wrote it is A. Graham Peace a professor at the University of West Virginia who has written many articles on information ethics. This article helps breakdown the research question because it looks at the topic on a different scale, this scale has nothing do to with big business or government instead just peoples rights to privacy and freedom of speech. ! Wang, Dakuo and Gloria, Mark. Internet Censorship In China: Examining User Awareness And  ACM Transactions On Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) 22.6 (2015): 31:1-31:22. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This is another article about internet regulations but it is from a different perspective than Other Side Of The Great The article listed earlier in this annotated bibliography focuses on internet censorship from more of an outside perspective hence the name Other Side Of The Great This article focuses on internet censorship from more of an insiders perspective. article is more data and question based than the time magazine article. Wang asked Chinese citizens for their opinions about the internet censorship and formulated data and answers to his questions through that. His questions focused around whether or not people were aware of the internet censorship and if they were did they think it was needed or not. This article also has charts breaking down the data of Fishman 7 the responses he got to his questions. The article is scholarly which makes it credible. Another aspect about the article which adds to its credibility is the fact that the article has actual data and statistics to back up what is being said in the article. In terms of how this applies to the question being asked, the article gives a unique insiders perspective to the question about internet censorship. The data of the article comes from one of the most censored places in the world which helps give a better understanding of how internet censorship really works and whether or not people benefit from it or not. ! !