Behan 1 Nathan Behan Professor Staiger Composition II 26 February 2017 Tesla for Electric Vehicles Tesla Motors as a company is changing the automotive world. What started as a brainstorming idea from Paypal and SpaceX founder Elon Musk, turned into one of the most popular rising automotive companies of the Tesla is not an average car company; it creates electric powered vehicles only. This company believes that the era of the internal combustion vehicle is over, and the future of automobiles is the electric car. The electric car means zero emissions as well as 0 use of fossil fuels. Tesla Motors uses advertisements that utilize Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos in order to show what they stand for and why people should invest in electric vehicles. The first image chosen is straight from Tesla website. It depicts a spherical Earth split in half, dividing a polluted, industrial world from a healthy green clean energy world. This uses Logos in order to show that if one drives an electric car, they are paving the way for a world free of pollution and with more clean energy. The slogan on top of the page states, more than just choosing a This can be seen as both Pathos and Ethos. The slogan appeals to mind by making the viewer feel that they would feel important if they bought an electric car, and it also appeals to a person because of the image it depicts of saving the environment. Another method they use in the image is Kairos. Showing the Earth as both industrial wastelands as well Behan 2 as clean and environmentally healthy shows what can occur over time by purchasing electric vehicles over traditional ones. The second image is another advertisement from Tesla Motors. It depicts a time in the future where archaeologists find old gas stations and not know what they are, or what they are for. This of course appeals to Kairos, since time is involved in the advertisement. Tesla hopes to reach out to people and show that gas stations as well as traditional internal combustion vehicles are on the way out. They want to depict a cleaner future without gas stations and oil companies killing the environment. This also appeals to Pathos since the wording is trying to take a comical point of view of the subject by saying are going to scratch their when they are most likely going to know about internal combustion vehicles as a part of history. This image also appeals to Ethos by showing off new roadster sports car. By creating sporty and interesting looking cars, Tesla as well as other electric car companies are able to show that an electric car does not have to be boring. This is more relatable to younger people as well as car enthusiasts of all ages. Both of these images show what Tesla is fighting for: a better world. They show that the gas stations that we rely on are not necessary, and that the environment as a whole would greatly benefit from the switch to electric vehicles. Without the need for fossil fuels, people would save incredible amounts of money by not having to stop at a gas station to fill their car up every couple of weeks. Electric vehicles also have zero emissions from their motors, which leads to a cleaner environment. Another point being made is the fact that fossil fuels are a limited resource; they will not last forever. At the rate which we are consuming fossil fuels, fifty years from now Behan 3 the Earth will have run out of crude oil. This only strengthens the argument Tesla makes in the race against internal combustion vehicles. By utilizing Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos, these two images from Tesla Motors attempt to turn the tide in the argument for electric vehicles. Using rhetorical concepts leads to more relatable ways of communicating a point, and all forms of communication have at least one of these concepts. These advertisements would have no effect and would not even be an advertisement if none of these rhetorical concepts were used. Behan 4 Behan 5 Behan 6 Works Cited Stringham, Edward Peter, Jennifer Kelly Miller, and J. R. Clark. Overcoming Barriers To Entry In An Established Industry: TESLA  Management Review 57.4 (2015): 85. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. and Martin Koning. Electric Vehicles: A Tentative Economic And Environmental  Policy 23.(2012): 60-69. . Web. 12 Feb. 2017.