Pittard !1 Tani Pittard Hernandez ENC 1102 PETA is one of the top animals rights activists organizations in the entire world. It is not surprising that the ads and images they use are seen globally. It is core belief that animals should have the right to roam freely in the wild. This organization aims to end all traces of captive animals on planet Earth. movement toward non captive animals has many powerful images which cause their audience to understand what really happens behind the scenes of theme parks and which hold captive animals. These two specific images aim to portray the deep set fears of what it would be like if humans were put into these exhibits. PETA uses rhetorical appeals in the two images portraying the realities of animals in captivity in order to convince their audience to stop supporting companies which hold animals in captivity. While neither image one or two are very in ethos, there are still some traces of this visual rhetoric appeal in both. The credibility in image one is mainly portrayed by the PETA logo at the bottom right of the image. There is also a floating ad for SeaWorld in the tank with the model in image one. While this is not at all an ad for SeaWorld, this floating ad gives the viewer the idea that this is really what goes on behind the scenes at SeaWorld. In image two, ethos is notable yet again in the logo of PETA this time in the top right corner. Letting the viewer know this has come directly from the organization of PETA. Another source of credibility in image two which is subtle, is the choice in colors. If the viewer looks closer, one can tell that the main portion of image two is in red, white, and blue. By using our countries flag colors the image shows the reader what is happening in our country currently. This is making it known to Pittard !2 the viewer that it is occurring in their home. The last example of ethos in the second image is the name tag on the person being dragged which reads This is referring to the blatant point that the CEO will wind up being hurt due to his own endeavors. Pathos is more heavily used and obviously noticed in image one as well as image two than most other rhetoric appeals. In image one the most striking evidence of Pathos is found in the models facial expression. Her expression is extremely despondent. This look of ultimate depression and fear aims to show the reader how the animals who are held in captivity feel on a daily basis. Upon taking a closer look, one will notice that the hands are pressed up against the glass. This is PETA showing the viewer that these animals are trapped and merely looking and begging for a way to escape. Another notable instance of pathos is in the colors of image one. Dark blue and gray are the main colors which make up the picture, as well as the background. These colors by themselves give off a cold and upsetting feeling to the audience. While image one uses the emotion of sadness, image two leans more toward fear. The most evident portrayal of fear is found in the main idea of this image, which is the CEO being dragged under water by a killer whale. This invokes fear because it is a blatant stab at the CEO of SeaWorld. In image two PETA is attempting to warn said CEO that if something is not done, he will end up hurting himself and his entire company. Another use of pathos in this image would be the color red. By nature, red is a color of warning, or danger. Using red in the majority of the background is another attempt of PETA to strike fear with their audience and to warn them. Image one and image two simply use pathos to show the audience that animals do not belong in captivity, nor do they want to be. Pittard !3 Both images use an ample amount of the rhetorical appeal as well. In image one, logos is prominent mainly in the text. Under the model in the tank in image one the text reads see Laura as confined to a tiny tank and forced to perform tricks for your This text is appealing to logic by introducing the idea of how absurd it would be to put a person in a tank and force them to entertain people. PETA is using logic to urge their audience to understand that animals are not so different from humans. PETA is showing that no one should be forced to do such things, not even animals. Following the initial facetious statement are the words, the truth behind the show, and Boycott This statement is distinctly using logic by overtly telling the viewer that they should be boycotting SeaWorld, because what the audience occurring in image one is what is happening at SeaWorld. Image two uses the rhetorical appeal logos in a way similar to that of image one, by also using text. On the right side of the image, directly in front of the whales head, PETA asserts a warning to those in charge of SeaWorld by writing, WILL LET YOU GO IF YOU LET HIM The definitive use of all caps and bolding in this text appeals to logic by making the statement seem apparent or obvious, as though the viewer should already be aware of this fact. The words are logical within themselves by pointing out the actuality of who is at fault for those who are harmed at parks such as SeaWorld. Image two is aiming to convince those at the top of all companies which hold animals in captivity that they are only hurting themselves in the long run by keeping the animals captive. Kairos is not excessively used in either image one or image two, yet there are a couple occasions where it is apparent. For example, in image one there are bubbles coming out of the models mouth and nose leading to the top of the tank. While this is a metaphor for aquatic Pittard !4 animals who are meant to spend their lives in water, the bubbles are an intense way to show that being in captivity shortens the life of these animals. It is a commonly known fact that humans can not breathe under water and on average cannot hold their breath for longer than two minutes. Image one is portraying the shortening of the life spans of the aquatic mammals because the model, as a human, clearly does not have much time left to survive in this tank. This is a call to action because PETA is telling the audience that if they do not act soon, the animals in captivity will cease to survive. Image two depicts kairos by the CEO being dragged away. Not only is this a warning, but it is a call to action to those in charge of the funding for these theme parks with captive animals to stop what they are doing. Image two is portraying to those in charge what will happen if they do not cease operations. With this second image, PETA is telling the big companies that they are going to get hurt soon if they do not act now. This is also evident in the text. Coinciding with the CEO being dragged, the text is telling the audience that in order to get rid of the dangers associated with being around large animals, you must leave them alone as soon as possible. Simply stated, PETA is basically saying sooner, the in both image one and image two. Both of these images are powerful pieces of art which use all four visual rhetorical appeals to assure the audience that animals do not belong in captivity. Image one mostly uses pathos to portray what happens behind the scenes at various parks owned by SeaWorld. Image two, however, sticks to a more logical approach. Image two aims to convince the viewer that the answer to stop guests and staff members from getting hurt at these parks, they must all come together with the audience to help end animals captivity. When combining all of these rhetorical appeals PETA is able to convince viewers that animals in captivity are plainly being imprisoned. Pittard !5 However, it is up to the viewer to see what is being done and to take arms against what PETA wants their audience to fight for. Pittard !6 Works Cited Rights Uncompromised: PETA, www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/zoos/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. and Marine PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/zoos- pseudo-sanctuaries/aquariums-marine-parks/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Laura Vandervoort: Confined and Naked Laura Vandervoort: Confined and Scared , secure.peta.org/site/Advocacy?cmd=display&page=UserAction&id=5431. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Fans Greeted at Airport by Massive Anti-SeaWorld SeaWorld of Hurt, 30 Mar. 2016, www.seaworldofhurt.com/comic-con-fans-greeted-airport-massive-anti- seaworld-cartoon/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.