Garcia 1 Santiago Garcia Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 PETA and its war against animal abuse Every year, around 25 billion pounds of red meat and poultry is eaten in the United States of America. The average American consumed 71.2 pounds of red meat, which includes: beef, veal, pork, and lamb. They also consumed 54.1 pounds of poultry which includes: chicken and turkey in a year (NBC). for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, also known as PETA is an American animal rights organization which operates base in Norfolk, Virginia, and is led by Ingrid Newkirk, the international president. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world, with more than five million members and supporters. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest amounts of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry in the clothing trade, in laboratories and in the entertainment industry. PETA works on a variety of other issues, including the cruel killing of rodents, birds and other animals who are considered as well as cruelty to domesticated animals. PETA works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest (PETA) This organization is working to help protect animals and their rights by protesting and advertising against animal abuse and mistreatment of animals. Image 1 is a good depiction of what PETA believes that eating beef can do to people who eat it. This image is found in the PSAs under the Media Center tab on webpage. The Garcia 2 titles for the PSAs are bigger than the other titles and attract more attention since they are more vivid and life changing. The first thing that catches the attention is the highlighted arrow in yellow-green that contains the words The full phrase says Kids Meat is CHILD which is an appeal to Pathos since the majority of the world eats meat and they will feel emotion like guilt, and fear of getting called child abusers, but it also may invoke anger to the parents, because they are feeding their child instead of making them starve and it may cause the viewer to go against the organization which is not a good thing. Another attempt to Pathos is the girl eating the burger, because she looks extremely sad and very overweight and unhealthy for her age (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). Right under that phrase is another phrase that says the Fat: Go This is a lack of Kairos, because it is asking for the viewer to fix their meat-eating habits and everyone around them to make everyone vegan. The problem with this approach to Kairos, is that it lacks the timeliness part, because it say anything about how much meat can be affected by time or anything to support their claim, so the viewer can read the phrase and may agree with the cause, but may not do it at all or any time soon, because there was no urgency or anything that said that time was of the essence (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). In the bottom right corner of the image, there is the PETA logo, which is an appeal to credibility, or Ethos. When one sees the logo, they know that the picture is obviously made by PETA and is them trying to reach out to the viewers, so they can change their decisions in life in relation to animals and food. PETA is a very big organization that many people around the US know about and know its cause. If people see that a big company with tons of followers and supporters wants or does something, they may do it as well to be part of the crowd (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). The phrase kids meat is CHILD is a bad attempt towards Logos, because it is not really true, and can be Garcia 3 perceived in many different ways, since it is not a real statistic that shows that eating meat is abusive (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). The colors used in image 1 are very effective towards getting attention and getting the viewer to understand the purpose of the advertisement. The yellow in the image is very bright and it is used to represent danger which most people know due to warning signs being represented as yellow. This yellow is supposed to get the viewers attention immediately and get them to see the horrible words in it (Chapman, 2016). In the second image, a celebrity is used to convince viewers who like the celebrity to agree with her. If her fans agree with her, they will most likely become closer to be like her or to her, which is what her fans would think. This ad is directed to people of all ages, but especially teens who keep up to date with this celebrity. The celebrity in the image is Dionne Bromfield, and English singer, and a TV personality. The credibility of the image having the celebrity, is considered Ethos, because it is trying to say that this celebrity is on their side, and so should her followers. The logo for PETA is in the top right corner right next to Dionne name to show credibility and an alliance as well (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). The image portrays a very bloody animal, which was skinned so much that the viewer even tell what it really used to be, but it seems like it was a domestic animal, such as a dog, which appeals to Pathos, because many Americans have pet dogs and they would feel terrible to see their dog in this state, so they definitely would try to support the cause to help animals being skinned from happening. The animal lovers would feel heartbroken, angry, and fear all around so they will try their best to help purpose (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). The second image also lacks in Kairos, in the sense that they both really show anything about timeliness, but this one also have a call to action. This image however, does appeal to Logos, in the fact Garcia 4 that the phrase the rest of your Fur ties in with the skinned animal, since it shows that the animal was skinned to make a fur coat and people are buying these coats, so it is trying to catch the attention of those who have bought the fur coats to stop doing any more of this and to affect others to never buy fur coats (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). The colors in the second image consist of red, black and white. The red color is the main color in the image, especially used to emphasize blood and danger or warning. The color is mainly associated with the Devil and violence. The color red is very dangerous in tems of colors, and since it is the most prominent color in the image it is a call to action (Chapman, 2016). The black in the image is to contrast with the red. The white in the image is also to show emphasis on the words and to attract the attention to what PETA wants you to see (Chapman, 2016). Both of these images from PETA are used to get the viewers to see the truth and terrible outcomes of eating meat and buying fur. PETA is trying to stop these actions and is trying to appeal to its viewers by using graphic images that will attract their attention and disgust them enough to not want to harm animals anymore for their own luxury or to eat when they have other forms of doing that. PETA is vastly controversial however, when it comes to their advertisements, because they use images to make people feel bad, but may not use the best words to make people understand the gravity of the situation. This organization has its goals set on helping animals from being killed and to reach out to the general audience for supporting them on this issue. WC: 1342 Garcia 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 <https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers-part-1-the meaning-of-color/>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric really matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-Text. Media  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/media/>. White, Martha C., and Mike Brunker. The Big Bucks of Bacon: American Meat Industry By the  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 26 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nbcnews.com/business/economy/look-u-s-meat-industry-numbers n451571>. Garcia 6 Image 1: http://www.peta.org.uk/blog/asa-agrees-peta-can-take-parents-task-feeding-kids-meat/ Image 2: http://www.thefashionspot.com/buzz-news/latest-news/496173-peta/