Lordeus 1 Regine Lordeus Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 25 February 2017 Standardized Testing It is widely known that the federal and state law requires students to take the standardized test at least three times a year. Purposely for states to determine how well students have mastered in subjects such as: English, reading, mathematics, writing, and science. It is used to also compare relative performances. As standardized testing becomes even biased and difficult for students to pass, National Education Association focuses on setting goals and mission for testing to be reduced. Their mission is to the promise of public education and to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse/interdependent (National Education Association 1). NEA beliefs are that students have the human and civil right to obtain a quality public education, so why not allow them to test regularly without being judged? Thus, although standardized testing is remarkable to help students see where they stand academically and determine their entry to colleges, NEA set goals are to have students only test on assessments created by the teachers. Their mission is distinguished through the use of rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos and logos. These images are to inform the public society that students have the potential to do anything, but test scores are what is blocking their achievements. National Education Association argues that expertise and judgment of education professionals are critical to students (National Education Association 1). Image one portrays a young lady holding a white poster that reads, am more than just a test By visualizing this image, it allows the audience to feel sympathy for the young lady because of her Lordeus 2 facial expression. Her face expression sends off a message on how tired and depress she is from being judge based on her ability. A great example to clearly understand this picture may be that a student is great at grasping information in a classroom, but not great at performing their skills on a standardized exam. Stress/anxiety is what causes students to forget materials before taking an exam. humans are afraid, nervous, angry, frustrated or worried, the reptilian brain activates and neocortex shuts (Haynor 2). The tone that might have been express in the protest was angry and upset. Other students around the young lady are also holding up signs against testing, and wearing masks. The mask may symbolize to the audience that their potentials are being blocked. Thus, although standardized testing is remarkable to help students see where they stand academically, image one conveys that student should not be determined based on the scores they receive. The mission of this image is possible to get schools to stop basing students intelligence off their test results and focus on providing more class assessments. In image one, the mission is to express through the use of rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, and logos. Ethos is known for establishing credibility and trust with the audience. The quote am more than just a test refers to accurate and credible information because it is true that colleges, universities, and performing art schools evaluate students based on their test scores. Not only does standardized testing makes it harder on getting accepted to schools, but limits student chances of earning scholarships. Pathos is presented in a way to allow the audience to sense a feeling. By analyzing image one, it sets off a mixed emotion feeling. Not such a great feeling, but also not a bad feeling. It is more of a expression because of what is written on the poster, and the face expression the students are giving off. The specific designed that allows the audience to sense a feeling was the young lady face expression and the boy who is wearing a mask symbolizing they are tired of being judged by test results. Logos then comes into Lordeus 3 play because image one also appeals to logic reasoning. Visualizing the image, it is understood that the young lady is just overwhelmed and tired of being overlooked because of the lack of her achievements and ability. Assumptions were made that maybe the young lady is bright in performing skills in class, but not so well in standardized exams. NEA would beg to make a change for students to stop getting evaluated by their scores and follow up with its mission help prepare students to succeed in a diverse/ interdependent (National Education Association 1). As states and counties continue to offer standardized testing, National Education Association shares pictures on their organization page to demonstrate the looks on the faces while taking their exam. Image two is directed towards all stakeholders, schools, and senates who believe standardized testing is a great way to measure students achievement. NEA is promoting what anxiety looks like while students are taking their exam. The image portrays a young lady who has a paper in front of her, possibly taking an exam. While visualizing the picture, the young lady has a dejected look. Few students around her also seem to have a sullen look but are not showing as much emotion. The quote around the image reads also believe in increased allowing school districts to use locally-developed assessments instead of the statewide standardized test should be (National Education 2). The purpose of image two is to get a visual idea of how students are beyond stress while taking an exam. It is a credibility that test anxieties are real. The image allows the audience to feel ambivalent. Not every student is great at excelling on statewide exams, therefore National Education would like to reduce testing to once a year. In addition to Image two, the ad appeals to all audience (ethos) stakeholders, schools, and senates. The image mainly focuses on the stress anxiety students suffer while taking their exam. Lordeus 4 Not only are students stressed about aiming a high score, but also stressed about earning a scholarship which determines on their score. The specific element that establishes credibility is everyone facial expression while taking the exam. Image two includes pathos and logos as well. The main purpose of pathos is to allow the audience to grasp a specific feeling from the image. Pathos is successful in implementing this element because analyzing the image allows the audience to feel nervous or quite depress for the students who are stressed. It is informed that too much testing may misinform the public because test is secret, so the public cannot know what students are expected to (Ehrenfreud 2). Last rhetorical appeal is the appeal to logic reasoning (logos). Quotes surrounded by the image allows the audience to understand standardized testing is very biased and could break students apart. While analyzing the image, it was pretty difficult to interpret whether or not it was actually an exam in front of the students. The image could have been more logical and appealing if students were actually taking a real exam, showing their emotions towards the exam. Both images presented in this paper has different methods of getting their message out but has the same goal, which is to inform the senate about reducing standardized testing. National Education Association prefers for students to test annually, rather than the state and county providing the exam three times a year. Less standardized testing equivalents to less chance of students stressing and teachers being overwhelmed. The first image expresses ethos more because it is accurate colleges/universities based students off their test scores. Meanwhile, image two expresses pathos more because visualizing the image allows the audience to feel a certain way. National Education Association believes testing should be reduced to once a year, and have it determine potential, but not to the point where they are being evaluated for it. Lordeus 5 Both images were able to express their goals and missions on why standardized testing should be reduced through the use of rhetorical appeal. Apart from students being stressed and judged, students could possibly make a change for themselves by getting tutored or asking for more class assessments to allow them from failing their exam. National Education Association has proved all it takes is the right image and words to influence the state that testing should be reduced. Lordeus 6 Work Cited Ehrenfreund, Max. civil rights groups support standardized The Washington Post, 14 April 2014, pp.1-3. Web 26 January 2017 Haynor, Nick. Prep and the Educational Connections Inc, E Tutoring, 13 January 2013, pp.1-2. Web 25 February 2017 Jehlen, Alain. To Congress: Less Standardized Testing, More Help National Education Association, August. 2015, pp.1-2. Web. 26 January 2017 Walker, Tim. Less Standardized NEAToday, News and Features from the National Education Association, 2 Nov. 2014 Image 1 Image 2