Barrineau 1 Jacob Barrineau Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The non-alcoholic beverage industry is one of the largest in the United States. Coca-Cola alone brings in over a billion dollars of revenue a year, however there have been many health risks linked to the consumption of the products produced by companies like Coca-Cola. A study conducted by Harvard Department of Public Health found that the consumption of sugary beverages can lead to increased rates of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. To ensure that profits plummet due to the health risks of consuming their beverages, many of the producers of these unhealthy drinks have become a part of the American Beverage Association (ABA) which is an organization founded to support and advocate for American drink producers. The ABA has released two advertisements to boost the public opinion of its clients. The first advertisement relies mostly on pathos as it focuses on health in schools. It is a very strong argument as it uses all 3 of the main appeals together to showcase its point. The second argument relies more on logos and is less of a strong argument due to the flaws within the actual logic that the argument stands on. Overall, both arguments are great motivators to sway people to be on the side of beverage corporations due to their use of the three modes of persuasion as well as their target at American audiences. The ABA was originally founded in 1919 as the American Bottlers of Carbonated Beverages and has since expanded to all non-alcoholic beverage producers. They are an organization that is in support of the different beverage companies that they represent as well as Barrineau 2 American beverage companies. They allow similar companies to come together to grow the industry as a whole. They work together to tackle some of the issues that affect all companies within the industry, one of the most prominent of these issues being their name being public opinion of the companies based on the health risks associated with their products. The ABA takes part in many different global initiatives to help people globally while helping the name of Beverage companies at the same time. Some of these initiatives include working towards increased recycling, helping to regulate sugar consumption for students in the public-school system and working to ensure that freedom of choice is never being taken away from American consumers. They frequently release promotional material about the initiatives they champion as well as the types of products that they support. Figure 1 is promotional piece of material about their work in the public-school system. Figure 2 is an image about the health information about different types of beverages showing that many soda drinks have lower caffeine than energy drinks or coffee. Figure 1 shows a distributer from each of the three largest American beverage companies dropping off their products at a public school with the caption reduced beverage calories in schools by The image is aimed at American parents as it shows that beverage companies have a vested interest in the lives of their children. The overall message that the ABA wants to convey is that American Beverage Companies prioritize health. a stark contrast to the commonly held belief that these large corporations are only out for profit and have no regard for the health of their consumers. The picture itself is crafted so that the first thing eyes are drawn too are the smiling faces of the beverage distributors and then to the statistic showing how these companies help the world. This goes to further enforce the idea that these companies are here to help and that they are not all out for personal gain. Barrineau 3 Though on the surface, the placement of the elements in the image and the overall message are very convincing, the image really begins to appeal to audiences through its use of pathos, ethos and logos. Pathos is the most obvious of the three appeals used in figure 1. The overall thought of helping children makes people begin to feel emotional and therefore be supportive of what the image wants people to think. Ethos is used as there are four different companies that are in support of this image. As well as the 4 companies independently building credibility to the image, the fact that 3 of these companies are competitors adds to credibility of the image as it shows that even people who oppose each other put their competition aside to support a good cause. Logos is used to tie the idea together and make it impactful. Showing that companies support health is one thing, however showing that they have decreased calories in school by 88% validates that they are really trying to make a difference for children. These together allowed for figure 1 to be such a convincing image able of swaying people to become advocates for beverage companies. Figure 2 is an advertisement contrasting the levels of caffeine found in soda, energy drinks and coffee. It is a very bland looking image as it focuses on the actual message to drive the argument. It is meant simply to inform audiences of what they are consuming and let them come to their own conclusion. Due to the notion that America is constantly overconsuming, people generally believe that the option in which they consume less is always going to be the best option. This would in return lead people to go away from coffee and towards soft drinks or energy drinks. The font of the title goes to support this idea as it conveys a negative tone almost condemning viewers for their high caffeine consumption. The image itself mostly relies on logos to get its point across. Without the actual caffeine statistics, the advertisement falls flat. Figure 2 is essentially just trying to state facts to viewers Barrineau 4 and without the actual information the image loses all appeal. The image also contains ethos as it is sponsored by the ABA and contains a link to their website. This image is less convincing than figure 1 as it relies mostly on flawed logos. It tries to state that people should switch to soda due to lower caffeine levels, however many individuals dislike soda due to the sugar contents. Because of this, people could very easily overlook this add or not take it seriously. Both images act to build support for the beverage companies that the ABA supports. Though both images give reasons to be supportive of these beverage companies, figure one is the superior image due to its use of emotions as well as logic therefore solidifying the belief and not leaving people with as much ability to criticize the actual information being used in the claim. Barrineau 5 Figure 1 Barrineau 6 Figure 2 Barrineau 7 Works Cited http://adsoftheworld.com/files/images/bevcos030910big.preview.jpg http://dg6qn11ynnp6a.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/Caffeine-Comparison-Chart- 1024x791.jpg I was unable to find the any of the pertinent information required for the proper citation of these images. not sure exactly how to cite them at this point so I put in the links. only adding this footnote because it is an intermediate draft this is something looking for advice on during the conference.