AL BALUSHI 1 Nofel Al Balushi ENC1102 John Williams 27 th February 2017 Smoking advertisements and teenagers Every day, new people start to smoke cigarettes in the United States. However, smoking is one of the biggest problems in the United States especially when it comes to teenagers. Moreover, people started to smoke likely because many different factors, and the main factor is smoking advertisements. A stakeholder known as is a cigarettes company that their main point is to sell more cigarettes and they are doing that by producing many advertisement to convince people and let them try to smoke. Through the years, Marlboro has produced many advertisements to persuade people to start smoking and buy more cigarettes. Moreover, they make different types of advertisement such us, videos, stickers on racecars, and images. According to the article Cigarette Advertising and Teen Smoking Initiation which is published on 2011 study shows that exposure to cigarette-advertisements images was associated with smoking initiation in a prospective (Hanewinkel, Isensee, Sargent, and Morgenstern 276). In fact, this study shows that out of 2102 teens aged 11 to 17 years, 277 (which is 13%) started to smoke because of cigarettes advertisement. Thus, Marlboro used this idea by creating many cigarette advertisements images to persuade people in the United States, and these images were shared on their website, And in all these advertisements they use rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos and logos to make their advertisements more effective and increase their marketing process and being able to touch people emotions and convince them to start smoking and try their cigarettes. AL BALUSHI 2 Pathos is the way that the image shows the emotion. The first image, which was created by Marlboro, shows a cowboy smoking cigarettes and that means people who smoke cigarettes have power and they are cool and as it mention in the Pinterest website is selling the notion that smoking makes you cooler, through the image of the (Pinterest) . Also, he is standing and looking to the Marlboro packs and that means he is a happy cowboy because of smoking Marlboro cigarettes. Also the text to where the flavor is. Come to Marlboro make everyone want to know what is the taste of the cigarettes. On the other hand, the pathos appeals in the second picture which shows a barefoot young woman on a high parapet overlooking a city as the sun sets which it means smoking Marlboro make you have a really good mood and as it written Maybe Never Reached The Top. Be Maybe. Be this sentence shows that there is nothing impossible in this life and if you want to achieve all your goals you need to Marlboro and you will be in the top of everything. In addition, according to Marlboro marketing campaign aimed at young people article campaign that are effective at reaching (campaign for tobacco-free kids). This shows that this advertisement is really effect teenagers and makes them smokers. Thus, in these two images pathos was used to persuade people and evoke their emotions. As pathos standing for emotions, ethos is the credibility of the images or information. In fact, the first image was taken from a famous tobacco Company, which is Marlboro. And that is what is showing in the bottom right of the image; they put their actual cigarettes pack to show that you have to trust this advertisement because it is original from Marlboro. However, the second image is from the same company and they also put the real pack after the text to show people that they are credible and to make people trust their advertisement. AL BALUSHI 3 Overall, the ethos in these two images makes the audience trust them and care more about their product. As ethos appeals for credibility. Logos is the logic of the images and how the companies make an argument and sentence to convince people. For the first image to where the flavor is. Come to Marlboro appeals to make the image logical and it convey the message that Marlboro put you in touch with the beauty and openness of the plains. Also, on the first image the text Marlboro red! And new extra-long Marlboro the longhorns! Either way. You get a lot to Appeals to show that Marlboro is the best company that make cigarettes and their flavors are the best. On the other hand, the second image is logical as well. The text a maybe never reached the top. be maybe. Be appeals to make people believe in their self when they smoke Marlboro. Thus, logos appeals for logic and it is important to have logos in any advertisements to make it work. Many people around the word are smoking cigarettes, and it is common to hear about people died because of smoking. And According to the center of diseases control and prevention people died because of lung cancer between 2005 and center of diseases control and prevention website 2016). Even thought smoking cause many health problems, Marlboro is still producing many advertisement to sell more cigarettes packs. In conclusion, smoking cigarettes is considered one of the dangerous problems in this word. However, Marlboro producing many advertisement images each months to convince people to smoke and try their products. In fact, they use many things to make their advertisement more effective and work for all ages. They are trying to evoke emotions by using pathos. Also, they use ethos to show the credibility and make people trust AL BALUSHI 4 them. However, they use logos to show the logic of the image. Thus, companies around the world are using these rhetorical appeals to persuade the biggest number of people around the world. AL BALUSHI 5 AL BALUSHI 6 Work cited Explore Dad Marlboro, Vintage Marlboro, and more! Pinterest The catalog of ideas. 27 th February 2017. Digital image. https://www.pinterest.com/pin/526850856379131517/ Be Marlboro. Tobacco Tactics. 27 th February 2017. Compain for tobacco-free kids. the Target: Global Marlboro Campaign Found to Target Teens. Hanewinkel, R, Isensee, B, Sargent, J and Morgenstern, M. (2011) Cigarette Advertising and Teen Smoking  Pediatrics 138.3 (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Centers For Diseases Control And Prevention (2015). Web.