Matthew Feaster Ms. Hernandez Composition 2 2/26/17 Gun Control in the US Today in the US issues having to do with guns have become very controversial. There are many who fight to put more regulations on guns and there are also many who fight to stop the government from taking away the second amendment. The leading organization against gun control in the United States today is the National Rifle Association (NRA). The NRA was first formed in 1871 by William C. Church and George Wingate and their initial goal was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (NRA). But now they spend most of their time campaigning around the country to make sure the second amendment right to bear arms stays intact. They say that their mission is to preserve the core of American values (NRA). They have promoted their message using many different mediums but the most powerful seem to be the videos and images they release. The NRA floods these videos and images with rhetorical appeals in hope that when people see them they will side with the message. Through the uses of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in their images and videos the NRA shows people why the second amendment is worth fighting for. The NRA has released many very powerful images to get their message across. One of these images show two dark and shady figures outside of a house and it says, will have to defend our This image is trying to show that if people allowed to have guns in their own homes then they be able to protect themselves when a dangerous person breaks in. Aliyah Frumin, a writer for MSNBC, wrote, the powerful gun lobby released a vitriolic, new ad ripping the plan to curb gun violence, which includes a pitch to ban on high capacity The NRA used this image to turn against plan and also to fight against gun control as a whole. In this image, they used the ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to make it as persuasive as possible. Ethos is the way an image appeals to credibility or morality. In this image the NRA used ethos to increase their credibility by showing that they care about safety. In this image the NRA makes it seem like they care about safety by showing how it can be really hard to protect yourself from a dangerous attacker if you have a gun. This shows people that they can trust the NRA because they care about the citizens in the US. Pathos is the way an image appeals to emotion. When looking at this image it can strike up fear. People fear that if they allowed to have guns to protect themselves than there is no way they can fight off a home intruder and it can result in their death. This will result in people joining the fight to protect the second amendment in order to make sure that scenario will never happen to them. Logos is the way an image appeals to logic and reason. When looking at this image people can realize that it is a logical decision to help the NRA. The number one goal in many lives is to keep their families safe and through the use of this image more people can see guns as a logical way to achieve that goal. Kairos is the way an image appeals to timeliness. When people look at this image they can see that if they have guns in their homes to protect themselves they can potentially be killed by those two shady figures outside of the house. To make sure this happen they will join the NRA in fighting to keep the second amendment intact. That is how the NRA used ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in this image to persuade people into fighting for guns. Another image released by the NRA depicts a message similar to the one in the first image. In this image it shows three children playing in a field and it says, the kids more important than The NRA released this image to show American parents how it is unfair that President children have armed security when they go to school but it is not allowed to have armed security in any other school to protect students. Dan Lothian and Mark Preston, writers from CNN, write, introduction of children into the gun debate demonstrates the high stakes in this very complicated and emotional issue about how to weigh Second Amendment rights with the safety of citizens following several high profile This image was released around the time of the Sandy Hook shooting and these two men are talking about how the NRA was trying to shine light on President Obama and showing him as a hypocrite. He was trying to put more regulations on gun and was not allowing guns in schools yet he allowed armed guards to protect his children. Just like the first image this image also uses ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to create a persuasive message. Like the first image shown this image also uses ethos to increase their credibility by showing how they care for the children in schools. In this image they are trying to show that if guns were allowed in all schools many school shootings like the Sandy Hook shooting could have been avoided or made less deadly. In turn this can result in more trust from parents because this causes them to think that the NRA cares about their children. This image uses pathos to create fear and anger. This image creates fear by making parents scared that there is really nothing to protect their children if a shooter were to come to their school. It creates anger because it makes people think why does the children deserve armed guards in their schools but their cant be armed guards in any other school to protect other children. These emotions can result in some people turning on the President and more people joining the side of the NRA in the fight for guns. This image uses logos to make people think it is a logical choice to side with the NRA. This image makes parents think that by fighting against gun control and potentially getting an armed guard in their schools they will be more safe and school shootings can be stopped saving many lives. This image uses kairos like the other image does. When looking at this image it may make people think that if nothing is changed their child could possibly die in a school shooting. This can result in those people fighting with the NRA to make these changes in schools. That is how the NRA uses rhetorical appeals in their images to persuade people. Gun control in the United States is an issue that will continue to be fought over forever. There will always be those who are for and against it. As long as the NRA is around they will be releasing images like the images shown to try and persuade people into joining their cause. Since 1999 there have been 31 shootings in US schools (Shen). The NRA thinks the only way to combat this is by allowing security to have guns in schools. By creating and making these images public they hope to get their message across and in turn make America a safer country. Works Cited Frumin, Aliyah. The plan of attack: Pro-gun groups kick into high gear after  MSNBC. NBCUniversal News Group, 13 Sept. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lothian, Dan, and Mark Preston. White House blasts NRA ad as  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NRA  home.nra.org/about-the-nra. NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Shen, Aviva. A Timeline Of Mass Shootings In The US Since  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 14 Dec. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.