Salas 1 Jessica Salas Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 SEC 078 27 February 2017 Take a Shot.. At Teaching Parents about Underage Drinking Underage drinking is a crime that has been prominent throughout the years and only shows signs of progressing like how 1.3 million people between the ages of twelve to twenty have admitted to having five or more drinks on one occasion (NIAAA). The organization and campaign named Parents Empowered are firm believers in stopping underage kids from drinking alcohol. Parents Empowered get their message across by releasing images that shed light on alcohol safety. These images use rhetorical strategies such as ethos, logos, kairos, and pathos to adequately portray the dangers they find in underage drinking. Parents Empowered is a campaign that originates in the state of Utah which focuses on providing parents with information about alcohol safety so that they could relay the information to their children and reduce underage drinking. They focus on using media to further their campaign so they could be heard on podcasts and be seen on the magazines they release. Their mission statement is mission is to eliminate underage drinking. Parents are the number one reason kids (Parents Empowered.org). They try to implement this message to the public by releasing images that use many strategies that would convey what they are trying to say. One strategy would be ethos; ethos is when an author or creator of an image tries to convince the audience to consider their perspective by including elements that help show credibility. For image #1, some examples of ethos were the incorporation of all these different Salas 2 logos or emblems at the bottom of the picture. The emblems are used to symbolize a company or organization and are usually included in pictures when the company agrees with what the image is saying and may possibly sponsor the organization. These emblems are representing organizations like Deseret News, Classroom Connections, Parents Empowered, and Celebrating Red Ribbon Month which all could serve as credible sources for the statistics presented in the picture. In image #2, an example of ethos would be the Parents Empowered logo because it shows that although it is a cartoon, the message it delivers is reliable and backed up by this campaign. There are many images with cartoons that could be parodies which could risk the image of not being taken seriously but in this case, the emblem prevents that from happening. Another strategy would be logos, logos is when the author appeals to being logical so using elements such as statistics and textual evidence for proper reasoning. In image #1, logos could be found when it included statistics in the texts. The statements were alcohol use kills more people than all other illegal shows alcohol is far more dangerous than heroin or drinkers are five times more likely to drop out of and of violent crime incarcerations involves drinking at time of (image #1). These are facts that many people probably know so it helps the audience learn about this side of alcohol they were unaware of, thus changing their perspectives on alcohol consumption. Image #2 shows an example of logos with the image itself, since the girl is underage drinking and now is unhappy because she has kids shows the audience that there must be a big number of underage girls who ended up being pregnant unexpectedly because of a night where they drank and did not give proper consent. Although it does not present statistics about it, one could infer that is must be a likely occurrence. Salas 3 The following strategy is kairos; kairos is when the work appeals to timeliness or a call to action where the person needs to do something in order to change the results or conclusion of an event. Image #1 shows Kairos with the young boy almost being at the mouth of the shark. This creates a sense of urgency and panic which makes the audience want to act now and avoid a life threatening situation. It also makes parents want to inform their kids about the dangers of alcohol before it is too late. This would be the call to action because it persuades guardians to begin or reinforce alcohol safety rules to their kids by performing an action. Image #2 shows the main character of the film as a teenager with kids which was not the original plot of the film meaning that something happened along the way that caused this outcome. This was probably a decision made while being under the influence of alcohol which could have been prevented by being informed. The image provides a sense of urgency as well because you want to end up in the same situation or parents want their kids to be in the same situation so before the child ends up pregnant, they must inform their teens about these effects. The last strategy is pathos; pathos is a strategy used to invoke emotion to whoever sees or reads the piece therefore creating an emotional bond or connection to the message. Image #1 used elements like a young boy being in the ocean all alone (that being scary enough as it is) and his only company is a shark shaped like a beer bottle that is evidently going to eat this boy whole. The shark being shaped as a beer bottle emphasizes the idea that the true predator is beer which contains alcohol. After seeing an image like this, one will begin to feel scared for the boy and would want him to seek shelter. Then the text saying Is Still the Deadliest makes the audience become quite fearful of alcohol use. The image makes the audience be just as scared of alcohol as they would be of sharks which raises awareness and makes the image memorable. Salas 4 Image #2 shows a popular movie called have a twist in its storyline where instead of the girl being caught in a love triangle with a werewolf and a vampire, the girl has two kids where one is the werewolf and one is the vampire. The image uses colors and fonts which is similar to the ones used in the movie ad so that the audience could feel a sense of familiarity. The girl is holding a beer bottle and the kids look like a handful to deal with which makes the audience feel like they do not want to end up in the same situation. Also, the text says drinking can ruin a which helps the audience realize that the original story in Twilight was not supposed to end the way that the image portrays so the decision of drinking alcohol at a young age could change the ending of Although all these rhetorical appeals were explained separately, they all work in unison to deliver an overall message. Parents Empowered are strong advocates of not being in favor of teenagers consuming alcohol and releasing images like the ones mentioned before help express their opinion in an effective manner. Image appeals worked in the image because it made people envision their own child in that situation therefore instilling fear within the audience so making parents want to act soon before their lives are threatened. Image appeals worked in the image because a popular story that people know well was distorted in a way that made the audience feel betrayed since that is not the intended ending. The statements in the images are backed up by the emblems so there is credibility just in case the audience believe the information provided. All of these elements and images go hand in hand in delivering Parents Empowered message by being thought provoking and making the public look into the facts about alcohol safety. All in all, Parents Empowered spread their message by not only using media but also contributing to media by releasing images. Parents Empowered are strong advocates for Salas 5 informing guardians about underage drinking which could then be taught to their children and demonstrate this by releasing images like image #1 and image #2. These images incorporate rhetorical strategies such as ethos, logos, kairos, and pathos to create a long lasting effect on the picture and make the message more memorable. By incorporating these strategies, Parents Empowered could ensure that their message is being heard and will continue to use these strategies since it is evidently effective. Image #1 Salas 6 Image #2 Salas 7 Works Cited the Parents Empowered, http://parentsempowered.org/. Accessed 27 February 2017. Image #1. Parents Empowered, http://parentsempowered.org/stay-informed/. Accessed 27 February 2017. Image #2. Parents Empowered, http://parentsempowered.org/about/campaigns/. Accessed 27 February 2017. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, https://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/UnderageDrinking/UnderageFact.htm. Accessed 27 February 2017.