Alkhamali 1 Abdullah Zayed K Alkhamali Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 27 February 2017 The Thin Line between Self-Defense and Deadly Force Gun violence in the United States has increased in a terrifying way. According to the ABC News, a study by two New York City cardiologists found that the U.S. has 88 guns per 100 people and 10 gun-related deaths per 100,000 people - more than any of the other 27 developed countries they  (para. 2). These statistics give us a clear vision how dangerous guns are in the United States. One of the biggest anti-gun organization called Coalition to Stop Gun Violence which was founded in 1974. CSGV is composed of 47 national organizations working to reduce gun violence. Our coalition members include religious organizations, child welfare advocates, public health professionals, and social justice organizations. This diversity of member organizations allows us to reach a wide variety of grassroots constituencies who share our vision of non-violence, according to CSGV(para. 2). CSGV releases images to fight gun violence by using the rhetorical appeals Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. The two images are effectively representing goals. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence believes that all Americans have the right to live a decent life away from gun violence. This organization has a simple and straightforward mission which states, We seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy (para. 1). CSGV has many members and supporters, but they increased especially after the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting. when a Newtown, Connecticut of December 2012, in th This mass shooting occurred on 14 young male shot 20 children and six adult school members by Bushmaster XM15-E2S rifle. This was one of the most deadliest mass shooting in the United history. One of Alkhamali 2 main goals is to build personal relationships with legislators and challenging them to become dedicated, long-term advocates for sensible gun laws. The victims and survivors of gun violence on our staff are the leaders in this lobbying effort. We are also looking to facilitate the advocacy of state/local activists whenever and wherever we (para. 5). The picture shows Reagan Shooting Survivor when a mentally ill man shot four people including the President Ronald Reagan. This is a credible source that Coalition to Stop Gun Violence used to show how guns are parlous even to a protected guy like the U.S. president. All news channels discussed this terrorism action such as ABC News and Fox News. As a result, CSGV chose this picture to assist her goals which can be summarized of applying more gun restrictions and laws. It is a powerful picture that the CSGV used to show that no one safe while guns are available for everyone. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence exploited this picture by using the importance of Ronald Reagan position. To illustrate, people were shocked and frightened . They love and admire their 1981 March th 30 the n when this horrible action happened o president, so people will condemn the main cause if something happened to him. As a result, CSGV used the idea that if guns spread all over the United States, people and who they care about will probably hurt. that guns are persuade people Coalition to Stop Gun Violence chose this picture to had, someone with a gun shot four people Ronald Reagan . With all protection that destructive including the president. This is a main reason why people should stop using guns of all kind. main objective of this picture is to convince Americans that no one safe while guns are available. Alkhamali 3 child holding a gun. This picture shows a People did not used to see a child with a gun in his/her hands, so Coalition to Stop Gun Violence used this value and attract attention. The picture is a credible source because it reflects what most people believe about the proper using of guns. Children should not use a gun for any circumstances. It is very obvious that the picture holds a powerful and emotional feeling. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence chose to put a child in the picture instead of anyone else, so people will automatically reject the idea of holding a gun. The organization wants to create this idea because of the mass shootings all around the United States. Guns be accessible for children at all. Most of the mass were children. The reason that pushed these criminals to do their crimes is perpetrators . However, the common thing between all mass shootings is that criminals had undetermined access to a gun do not belong to them. ation of assassin The picture of the attempted was very effective on many people. Ronald Reagan People started to remember that even the president of . To the United States got hurt from gun violence illustrate, the purpose of the picture is to attract people wants society. CSGV in way that can lead to a free gun to create the hate feeling of guns among Americans, so they can achieve their goals such as gun restrictions, banding assault weapons, and supporting the mass victims. The picture indeed can helps to support the Alkhamali 4 and , Pathos thos, E rhetorical appeals organization goals because it applies in it three kinds Logos. The child picture was an effective tool that CSGV used to assist their main objectives. They used the perspective about holding a gun by using a child in the picture. As a result, the picture shows how awful the situation is if a child tried to hold a gun. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence chose to put a child in the picture because of the increasing of mass shootings in U.S. Over the past 20 years, however, gun violence has taken on a new form: we have seen the evolution, and increasing frequency, of attempted mass shootings which appear to have as their main objective the intent to hurt as many people as possible. No regard seems to be given to the individual traits of the victims; they are victims merely because they were in that location at that (Taxman 1). Coalition to Stop Gun Violence published two images that use the rhetorical appeals Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. These two pictures support the main goals of the organization. The first picture used Ronald Reagan position as the U.S. president. This makes the picture valuable and credible. After that, the picture shows that no one safe while guns are available for everyone even to the United president. The main reason is because guns are not always possessed by good people. The second picture shows a child holding a gun which is rejected to many people. CSGV wants to shows how awful guns are by making a child the only character in the picture. It does not make sense at all when children can hold guns because most the mass perpetrators are children. The two pictures published by Coalition to Stop Gun Violence are indeed will benefit the organization for even a long-term. Alkhamali 5 Cited Works ABC News  ABC, 2017, http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/health/2013/09/19/u-s-has-more- guns-and-gun-deaths-than-any-other-country-study-finds. Accessed 25 February 2017. About the  CSGV ,2017, http://www.csgv.org/site/pp.aspx?c=pmL5JnO7KzE&b=3509221. Accessed 25 February 2017. Jacobs, Cody.  End the Popularity Contest: A Proposal for Second Amendment of  Tennessee Law Review, 9 Feb. 2015, pp. 231-290. SSRN, https://ssrn.com/abstract=2507308. Taxman, Jeffrey. Gun Violence in America A Vector  Perspectives on Gun Violence: National and International Views, 2 Jan. 2016, pp. 113-123. Wiely Online Library, DOI 10.1002/aps.1490.