Pollard 1 Christian Pollard Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Critical Analyzing of Rhetoric Displayed in Marijuana Ads Throughout time, images have been used to either promote a side of a story or try to make people see the harsh realities of our society. Whether an ad for fast food or an ad for the ASPCA they both have common interests and want to get their point across to the viewers. Ad companies are good with images or videos and leave little clues that people tend to not pick up right away. The stakeholder I will be focusing on is NORML, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, NORML is a non- profit organization that seeks the legalization of recreational marijuana and medical marijuana. NORML has been pushing for the legalization of marijuana for years now, but recently has only become successful in their ways. Over the years, NORML has released several ads and pictures to try to draw a crowd to help their cause. NORML used rhetoric in their images to drop littles clues that hopefully the people would pick up on to try and help in what NORML believes in. NORML the only organization or company to do this, the use of rhetoric in images is all over the web. People have the power to search something and have millions of results in seconds. Everyone has a phone, so what better way to try and appeal to them then to use images. In both images, NORML, shows that Pollard 2 marijuana a bad thing and will help tremendously with our economy, health system, and providing job opportunities for millions of people. With knowing all this, NORML uses rhetoric to appeal to the voters and try to help reform the marijuana laws. The first image says, the what NORML is trying to do is appeal to the people who already are for marijuana laws being reformed and using rhetoric to try and say get out there a vote, so marijuana can become legal. Now the meaning of the picture, shows that NORML is trying to appeal to an audience to try and persuade to get them to vote for medicinal marijuana. I think NORML is using logos to try and prove the credibility of the meaning of the image. The images meaning is clear and the point that NORML is saying, need you to vote, volunteer, and donate to efforts to pass these (NORML) NORML is seeking the help of others, and with their efforts we can pass the bill to decriminalize marijuana. With the use of this image, NORML helped pass the bill to legalize the use of marijuana and in their efforts, may have helped thousands of sick of injured. Legalization of marijuana just for the recreational purpose, but for the medical aspect of it. Medical marijuana has the potential to help thousands of individuals with cancer or other ailments that are not cured yet. With their initiatives and the help of others NORML was able to pass the bill for medical marijuana in the state of Florida. The second image is a picture of a possible student demonstrating her beliefs for marijuana. The sign says that marijuana has the ability of creating jobs for thousands of individuals, especially in an economy like ours that has had its ups and downs. Now marijuana just going to be used for the potential jobs it will create but also for the medical possibilities involved with the legalization of this drug. The purpose of this image is to show that Pollard 3 everyone, no matter the differences between them have their own opinions on matters related to marijuana. I think that this image is using pathos to try and persuade the audience on an emotional level to get them to appeal to the image and the meaning. In the image, it just show a possible student showing her support for her beliefs but also shows everyone in the image smiling. Now someone may so that matter, but the smiling in the picture gives the reader or audience a belief that everyone is happy about the topic at hand. It shows the audience that marijuana something to be afraid of, but rather something to be happy about. Not only will the legalization of marijuana help the sick and suffering, but create jobs for tons of Americans. According to the Washing Post, legal marijuana in Colorado created more than 18,000 new full-time jobs and generated $2.4 billion in economic (Ingraham) This is just after one year of marijuana being legalized and the profits are tremendous. Now imagine is marijuana was legal in all 50 states, the profits and jobs generated would be substantial and crucial in our economy today. With the two images used by NORML to promote the legalization of medical marijuana, this helped the states, in which NORML is active, win and let marijuana become legal for medical uses. This will not only help thousands of the sick, but will help with our economy too. Using Ethos, Pathos, and Logos helps the company or industry get their point across without the audience knowing. This shows that advertising is a key form to promote what you believe in. Pollard 4 Works Cited Medical Florida Medical Marijuana. Florida Department of Health, 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. Marijuana Industry Created More than 18,000 New Jobs in Colorado Last The Washington Post. WP Company, 27 Oct. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 to Reform Marijuana The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. NORML, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Pollard 5