Zhong 1 Wei Zhong English Composition II Jarad Fennell Feb 24 2017 Genetically Modified Food There two organizations are Organic Consumers Association (OCA) and Genetic Literacy Project (GLP). OCA is a non-profit organization that advocates for health, sustainability, and justice. Among the crucial issues the association addresses is the issue of food safety, hence its interest in the genetically modified foods debate (OCA b). It has particularly questioned the safety of these foods arguing that adequate testing has never been conducted by FDA. It also campaigns for labeling of GM foods so that consumers can at least know what they are consuming (OCA a). This way, it stands for health and justice as it concerns consumption of GM foods. Genetic Literacy Project is part of a non-profit known as Science Literacy Project. It aims to shed light onto the debate on applications of genetics by helping create an understanding of the potential benefits and drawbacks of adopting these applications (GLP b). With regard to GM foods, the interest comes from the intention to create public awareness on the various issues surrounding these foods. As part of its mission, it educates on the benefits that the society is set to gain from adopting GM foods owing to fact that these foods stand better chances of feeding the global population (GLP a). The OCA image intends to show the plight of innocent consumers in the wake of the controversy surrounding the safety and labeling of GM foods. Ignorant and innocent consumers could already be enjoying meals prepared from GM foods even with their safety yet to be ascertained. The image shows that if the foods are in any way unsafe, not even children will be spared. In summary, the image portrays the injustice in the inclusion of GM foods in the market. Zhong 2 The GLP image intends to communicate the promise of GM foods and eliminate doubts about their safety. Although there is no wording to backup the image, the fact that the basket full of fresh and nutritious foods is held by a woman is meant to communicate this message. The audience is expected to feel that despite the controversy, there is still a lot that can be achieved with the help of GM foods. For the OCA image, ethos can be seen in the inclusion of the website and logo. The image touches on an issue that is both important and sensitive, and the association appears to have intended to assure the audience that this was its stance on it. The organization is renowned for its well-founded perspective towards the GM foods controversy, and as such, an inclusion of its identity added onto the credibility. It is clear that the stance did not come from any other source, but from a reputable association. For the GLP image, there are no elements to show the credibility or the truthfulness of the information provided by the image. In fact, it is hard for the audience to tell that the image belongs to the organization without being told so. There is no single word accompanying the image, and it appears that the audience has been left to make the conclusion and judgment on what is being communicated, as well as who the communicator is. In the OCA image, using the baby to communicate the message is carefully designed to appeal to the emotion. A baby is innocent and he cannot tell what is good from what is bad. It is thus the responsibility of adults and organizations such as OCA to defend the rights of children, and this is what the association is doing in the image. The baby has the area surrounding his mouth smeared with what appears like a food mixture. One can tell that he ate it without caring what it comprised of, and this is meant to depict the innocence of children when it comes to what they eat. Additionally, the baby looks satisfied after having the meal, implying that he does not have the slightest concern on whether or not it was made of GM foods. The use of the deserve is also an element meant to appeal to the emotion of the audience. The association aims to show that Zhong 3 considering their innocence and sensitivity, children do not deserve to be given GM food with their safety yet to be ascertained and without labeling being undertaken. The audience understands that in short, children do not deserve to be shortchanged into eating something that is not yet cleared to be safe for humans. In the GLP image, the major elements that appeal to emotion include the variety of foods included in the basket. The foods not only look fresh and nutritious, but also, one can tell that a meal made from them would be wholesome and balanced. In fact, from looking at them, it is hard not to think that they are the best one can select from a farm. They raise the appetite of the audience and one can already imagine how juicy the fruits are. The use of the red and orange colors on the fruits is intended to achieve this as fruits colored this way are often sweet and juicy. As for the vegetables, the maize comb, and the pawpaw, the green color is intended to show freshness. All this is meant to appeal to the audience to support the farming practices behind their production. Also worth noting is that a woman is holding the basket. Mothers are known for their caring nature. As such, her inclusion is intended to appeal to the audience by showing them that a mother can only pick what is good for those who depend on her. In the OCA image, the main appeal to logic is the inclusion of a child to show that even children are exposed to the possible dangers of GM foods. Children do not understand what GM foods are or even what their potential harms are. The image is thus targeted at depicting those in support of the adoption as ignorant of what will happen to children and others who are unaware of, or who will not be notified that what they have purchased is GM foods. The fact that the child is shown as having eaten the meal without any care is supposed to show the logic behind labeling of GM foods, and ensuring that their safety is beyond any doubt. In the GLP image, the appeal to logic can be seen from the observation that the woman got a fully balanced diet from a single basket. In fact, the fruits are more than enough for a single meal as there are five types of them. Here, the audience is expected to derive the fact that genetic Zhong applications such as those involved in producing GM foods will help to not only feed the global population, but also provide it with nutritious foods. The background constitutes of a farm. The audience can deduce that the foods were obtained from this particular farm. In the OCA image, the child appears to have already eaten the food. Considering that those producing GM foods are yet to be required to label them, the image elicits a feeling of the need to solve the controversy before the foods get into the stomach. In the GLP image, there are no elements to show the need for urgency or timeliness. Zhong 5 Zhong 6 Work cited Genetic Literacy Project. (GLP). Reasons We Need Biotech Foods and N.d. b. https://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Biotechnology- [Accessed Genetic Literacy Project. (GLP). Financial Transparency, N.d. b. https://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/mission-financials-governorship/ [Accessed McHughen, Alan. Safety and 2014. https:// www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2014/12/16/gmo-safety-and-regulations/ [Accessed Organic Consumers Association. (OCA). Ways the FDA Has Failed Consumers On Genetically Engineered 2017. a. https://www.organicconsumers.org/news/five-ways-fda-has-failed-consumers- genetically-engineered-foods [Accessed Organic Consumers Association. (OCA). N.d. b. https:// www.organicconsumers.org/about-oca [Accessed