Rodriguez 1 Keanna Rodriguez Alison Missler ENC1102.044S1713 26 February 2017 This is Personal Of the enacted 1,074 abortion restrictions since the Supreme decision on Roe v. Wade, 288 were enacted between 2010-2015 Five Years This means that about 27% of all abortion restrictions came from this five-year timeframe alone, which is more than any other five-year period has done. Moreover, lawmakers are planning to defund Planned Parenthood, a provider of abortions and other reproductive health care services, to further restrict access to such care. To combat this rise in limitations, the National Law Center (NWLC), an organization dedicated to advocating for rights, has launched the is campaign. According to the NWLC, the goal of this campaign is to, educate, and activate young women across the country as they faced attacks on their reproductive health is In order to accomplish this goal, the This is Personal campaign relies on the widespread of images that utilize rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and logos, to show how nonsensical it would be to take away or limit access to reproductive healthcare. Although the National Law Center strives to advocate for both women and girls, the This is Personal campaign mainly aims to target young women. In order to appeal to such an audience, the images released by this campaign tend to include some reference to pop- culture media. For instance, one of the images produced by this campaign focuses on American Rodriguez 2 actress, Jennifer Lawrence. In this image, Lawrence is the centerpiece, and beside her lies a quote from her describing how non-threatening Planned Parenthood is: seriously, what harm comes from supplying people with birth control, condoms, pap smears, and cancer The purpose of this image was to undermine the politicians who are working toward finding a way to defund Planned Parenthood (Dias, Take Upper Being most noted amongst young women for her role as Katniss Everdeen in the films, having Jennifer Lawrence in this image appeals to credibility because the audience will interpret her statement as being logical because since she has experience playing someone who fought against the injustices of their society, she must be reliable when pinpointing the injustices or misconceptions in our own society (Guanio-Uluru, Another appeal to ethos in this photo involves the is logo which ensures that it is associated with the This is Personal campaign. Such a campaign is not only supported and created by the National Law Center, but it has already been successful at stopping the Louisiana Board of Health from placing restrictions to shut down abortion clinics and pushing Congress to allow military women who are victims of rape and incest, to have access to abortion coverage is Also, the blue border that encloses the main photo may also appeal to ethos because according to the Wagner Color Research Institute, the color blue is associated with meanings such as trust and security, which will make it easier for the audience to trust the reliability of the information being presented (Madden 91). In addition to appealing to ethos, this image also utilizes elements of pathos and logos. In Jennifer quote, she says, seriously, what harm comes These words can appeal to pathos in the sense that it will make the audience feel guilty for having an opposing Rodriguez 3 view on whether or not access to reproductive healthcare should be limited or taken away. Furthermore, facial expression in the photo provided may also cause audiences to feel this way because of the way mouth is opened and how she stares at her audience. Such a look makes it seems as though, she disapproves of those who have opposing views. Furthermore, the audience may also feel angry or confused about how some people consider people with birth control, condoms, pap smears, and cancer as being harmful. This same quote may also appeal to logos because the services that Lawrence listed, are factual in regards to how they are actual services that are provided by Planned Parenthood. Also, because the services that she listed are not harmful at all, it further appeals to logos. In addition to the image of Jennifer Lawrence showing support for Planned Parenthood, the This is Personal campaign also released an image to show that the campaign disagrees with employers having the ability to dictate whether or not their employees should have access to birth control. With the belief that birth control is necessary for health and to secure their autonomy this image was released in response to the businesses and non-profit organizations that filed lawsuits against the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The argument for these lawsuits was that the requirement for employers to provide their employees with comprehensive health insurance that includes no-cost birth control, went against their religious beliefs Birth Control In this image, a male employer is sat at a desk with an arrow pointed at him that states: guy [should be making your birth control Like the first image, the This is Personal Campaign targets its audience of young women by referring to the show, Rodriguez 4 by using the central character, Michael Scott, as its focus. The use of this reference appeals to pathos because since the show is a comedy and Michael Scott is a rather silly manager, the audience may find it humorous that some employers think it is acceptable to limit their access to birth control, especially if they are similar to Michael Scott. Likewise, the fact that Scott is a male and is portrayed as having authority over birth control access, may inflict anger upon the audience because the decision to use such a contraceptive should be up to the individual and not determined by someone else Birth Control Since both the image of Jennifer Lawrence and the image about birth control were both released by the same campaign, both images share similar appeals to ethos. As seen in the first image, the second image also has the Is logo and is surrounded by a blue border. However, unlike the first image, the centerpiece in the second image, Michael Scott, does not appeal to credibility because he is a fictional character whose expertise resides in the distribution of paper. Similarly, this image does not appeal to logos because the information provided in this image is very broad. The campaign could have benefitted from doing so if they included more insight on the issue that promoted the creation of this image because out of context, the image seems to be opinionated. The National Law Center (NWLC) is an organization, who has been fighting to diminish barriers and expand the possibilities for women and girls, for over 40 years Is With the increase in the amount of enacted abortion restrictions, the NWLC not only plans to fight to decrease such limitations, but to ensure that the targets of such restrictions, young women, can join them in such a fight. In order to ensure that target audience is prepared when speaking with friends, families, or elected officials, the NWLC started the This is Rodriguez 5 Personal campaign to release images to not only promote its mission to and promote equality and opportunity for women and but to supply women with the necessary tools and information they need in order to make a difference in their communities. Rodriguez 6 Works Cited  NWLC. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Birth Control  NWLC. National Law Center, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dias, Elizabeth. Defund Planned Parenthood Plan Moves Forward in  Time. Time, 7 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Guanio-Uluru, Lykke. Female Focalizers and Masculine Ideals: Gender as Performance in Twilight and the Hunger  Literature in Education, vol. 47, no. 3, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 209-224. EBSCOhost. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Last Five Years Account for More Than One-quarter of All Abortion Restrictions Enacted Since  Guttmacher Institute. Guttmacher Institute, 06 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Madden, Thomas J., et al. Images in Different Cultures: A Cross-National Study of Color Meanings and Journal of International Marketing, vol. 8, no. 4, 2000, pp. 26 Feb. 2017. The Birth Control Battle: Courts Must Safeguard Religious Liberty for  Church & State, no. 2, 2013, p. 16. EBSCOhost, Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. This Is  NWLC. National Law Center, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.