Dubas 1 Kayla Dubas Instructor Missler Composition II 26 February 2017 No More Pain in New York New York is a state that is contemplating the legalization of physician-assisted suicide. In May of 2016, the bill to legalize physician-assisted suicide was pending and is hoped to be passed in 2017 (New York). In California, Oregon, Colorado, Vermont, and Washington, these states have already taken the initiative and legalized this form of treatment (How to access and use death with dignity laws). Compassion and Choices is an organization stationed in New York, whose goal is committed to promoting care and allowing patients various choices at the end of their life. This organization has two main slogans, life, My death, My and and Choice at the End of which are found on most visual Their mission statement is to people with information and tools to receive policies that allow people to make fully informed decisions about their and and implement medical aid in dying to allow mentally capable adults in their final weeks or months of a terminal disease to advance the time of death and end unbearable (Compassion and Choices). Compassion and Choices effectively uses ethos, pathos, and kairos to promote the legalization of physician-assisted suicide and raise awareness for this treatment. Compassion and Choices uses their slogans and rhetorical appeals to raise awareness in trying to convince people to support and legalize physician-assisted suicide. They use ethos to Dubas 2 appeal to the ethical viewpoints, pathos to appeal to the emotions, and kairos to appeal to the timeliness. In image one, it appeals to ethos by referring to Brittany Maynard. Even though Maynard is not a very well-known person, it pushes the viewer to want to learn more about her. If one were to visit the website stated in the picture, thebrittanyfund.org, a video would pop up. The viewer would then learn that Brittany was a woman who lived in California and was known for being face of the death with dignity movement since she was diagnosed with brain (Schabner). She researched her options and knew she did not want to die slowly and painfully at a hospice center. The problem that she was faced with was having to move to Oregon to be allowed to use physician-assisted suicide. When it comes to ethics, it is not right to force a terminally ill woman to pack up and move away from her town to be able to have control of her healthcare. In addition, the images also apply to pathos, in the sense that they both leave the viewer feeling a sense of connection and relatability. One may not be able to relate exactly, but most people respect the ability to have a choice and say when it involves life. The image appeals to pathos by using first person. When one uses the viewer feels a sense of connection and makes it easy to relate. First person allows the viewer to be the experience of being the creators mind and allow for them to come up with their own message that appears to be being portrayed (Five Reasons to Write in the First-Person Point-of-View). It also gives the organization a sense of comfort and approachability. The viewer gets these feelings from using first person because it appears that the organization is not forcing one to agree with their views but merely wants them to listen and create their own opinions. Also, when they use Maynard, a real-life person, it allows for the viewer to feel a sense of compassion and pity for her because no person should have to go through the pain and suffering she had to. Lastly, the rhetorical appeal, Kairos, is shown in the way that it provides Dubas 3 the viewer with a sense of timeliness. In the image, Kairos is being shown by using the word This refers to the time when most people would want to use this form of treatment. Using this term references the time one would turn to use this treatment and in fact this is the only time one could use it. Considering the requirements needed to qualify for this treatment, one must have six months or less to live. Even though one may never think that there is a time to die, giving someone who is in excruciating pain the opportunity to choose when they want to die is a remarkable thing. Physician-assisted suicide allows for the person to choose the place, people who surround them, and time they want to die. This was the privilege that Maynard was given once she met all of the requirements. Image one successfully displays the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, and Kairos, in trying to push the viewer to take a stand and work to legalize physician-assisted suicide in New York. Similar to image one, Compassion and Choices uses image two to spread awareness of physician-assisted suicide and push to legalize it in New York. It appeals to the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, and Kairos. When it comes to ethos, it appeals to it by using blue as their color choice. Blue is known for representing trust, responsibility, and faithfulness (Discover the story of English More than 600,000 words, over a thousand years). This appeals to the eye and gives the organization a more trusting feel. Also, the image uses the slogan and choice at the end of which appeals to the morals of allowing people the ability to control their own lives. Both images appeal to the ethics and establish trust between the organization and the viewer. This trust allows the viewer to feel confident in supporting and spreading the message Compassion and Choices is trying to convey. Also, image two appeals to pathos by making the word a lighter shade. It has all the writing in a dark blue but then they decided to have in light blue. This makes it stick out and draws the viewers Dubas 4 eyes to it. Having a choice is important to people and is something that everyone can agree with or at least relate to in some way. Also, the color light blue has the meaning of and (Morton). When it comes to physician-assisted suicide, one may get the feeling of sadness due to it being one ending their life, but it is actually a way one can escape from pain. Being given the opportunity to end pain, die peacefully, and on their own terms can be respected or at least understood by many. Lastly, the rhetorical appeal, Kairos, is being effectively portrayed in this image. Like image one, image two, uses the term of to reference the time one would turn to physician-assisted suicide. Image two successfully portrays the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, and Kairos when expressing Compassion and Choices goal. The organization Compassion and Choices effectively uses the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, and Kairos, to promote the legalization of physician-assisted suicide and raise awareness for this treatment. In both images, effectively get the organizations goal across which is to promote care and allow patients various choices at the end of their life. This organization works to use visual and real-life stories to help promote their cause and appeal to everyday people. Dubas 5 Work Cited Compassion &  Guide Star. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <https://www.guidestar.org/profile/84-1328829>. Discover the story of English More than 600,000 words, over a thousand  Home : Oxford English Dictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.oed.com/>. Fenn, Darien S., and Linda Ganzini. Attitudes of Oregon psychologists toward physician assisted suicide and the Oregon Death With Dignity  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice 30.3 (1999): 235-44. Web. Five Reasons to Write in the First-Person  Ingrid Sundberg. N.p., 30 Sept. 2016. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://ingridsundberg.com/2011/03/14/five-reasons-to-write-in-the- first-person-point-of-view/>. to access and use death with dignity Death with Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Morton, Jill.  Blue. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <https://www.colormatters.com/the- meanings-of-colors/blue>. New  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/states/new-york/>. Schabner, Dean. Brittany Maynard, Advocate for Death With Dignity, Ends Her  ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/Health/brittany-maynard-advocate-death-dignity-ends- life/story?id=26644431>. Dubas 6 SPOTLIGHT ON: The Brittany Maynard Fund Compassion and  Greater Than We. N.p., 07 Nov. 2014. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://www.greaterthanwe.com/spotlight- brittany-maynard-fund-compassion-choices/>.