Lloyd-Gage 1 Marissa Lloyd-Gage Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 27 February 2017 Saying No to Common Core Common core is a set of standards created by the American Government to regulate our students learning. This system maps out what each student should know by the end of each grade to ensure all students are at the same level. The question is whether this system is fair. The Parents Against Common Core is an organization of parents whom do not believe common core should be used in education. They find this system is unfair and believe that it does not allow parents to be involved in their education. The Parents Against Common Core released images advocating the abolition of common core in America. With the use of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, both images show the Parents Against Common opposition of the education system. Parents Against Common Core (PAAC) is an organization of parents that do not believe common core is a fair way to educate their children. Their mission statement mentions we are all created equal, endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights, and among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of There is no greater provider of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness than a quality education. Together, Parents Against the Common Core (. . .) will continue to support and nourish the successful efforts of anti-Common Core citizen Lloyd-Gage 2 (About Us). This organization refers to the Declaration of should be able to make Independence to highlight the belief that common core does not advocate equality. The PAAC works alongside American Principles in Action, an organization that also fights against common core, to fight for what they believe is better education. Parents Against Common Core strongly believes that education should be taken out of the hands of the government and put back into the hands of those who are personally impacted by this system which includes teachers, students, and parents. Image one uses rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to convince the audience to take action against common core. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal that refers to credibility of the speaker. In this image shared by the Parents Against Common Core, ethos is exemplified by parents themselves expressing that their own are being attacked. This is credible because they are speaking for themselves when they say this. The next rhetorical appeal used is logos, the appeal to factual information. In the first image, logos is used to show that the Parents Against Common Core knows what the supportive side of common core is trying to do, 5: Expects enforcement of 95% This shows that the Parents Against Common Lloyd-Gage 3 Core know what the opposing side expects from the education system and use it to show that it is not sensible. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal that appeals to the emotions of the audience. In the first image, Parents Against Common Core use color to appeal to the emotion of the audience. The image is all black with red font. This color scheme can be used to show danger, which would appeal to the eyes of parents because they are always on the lookout for danger. Another emotional appeal in this image is the parental advisory symbol, as parents also look out for this to know if something is appropriate for their children. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal of timeliness. This appeal is used to convince the audience to act now. Parents Against Common Core uses kairos in the first image by adding a telephone number for the audience to call to express their beliefs on common core. The second image also uses rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to persuade the audience to act against common core. Parent Against Common Core made their logo stand out from the rest of the image to show who is saying this. The second image says, every child achieves act is 20% longer than no child left to give the audience Lloyd-Gage 4 statistics to prove their case. The color scheme of the advertisement appeals to the emotions of the audience by making important parts of the text bigger and bolder than the rest. The text also stands out from the light background of the image to show the importance of what the organization is saying. The image also appeals to timeliness by giving a phone number for the audience to call to speak to the senator about what they believe should be done in regards to this issue. The first image uses rhetorical appeals to effectively convince their audience to take action. The use of ethos in this image is effective because parents are speaking for themselves when they say their rights are being attacked. With these words, Parents Against Common Core can effectively convince their audience to take action against common core by using their credibility as parents of students. Parents Against Common Core also effectively uses the rhetorical appeal, logos, to prove to the audience that they know what they are talking about. Another way this is effective is because may not be a term that is well known by the audience, therefor causing viewers to do research on the meaning of this term. This gets the audience more involved in the cause. The Parents Against Common Core utilizes color scheme to appeal to the emotions of the audience. This is effective because the majority of their target audience are parents. Black and red together may symbolize danger, something parents always have their eye out for. This color scheme attracts the eyes of the audience while proposing danger in the common core education system. Kairos is also used in image one to call the audience to action. Included in the image is a phone number. Parents Against Common Core expect that by including this phone number, the audience will reach out to congress and express their beliefs on this dangerous education system. Lloyd-Gage 5 The second image utilizes ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to persuade parents to take a stand against common core. In the image released by Parents Against Common Core, the red, white, and blue logo of the organization stands out from the calm, off-white color of the rest of the image. PAAC did this not only to have their name stand out, but to show that their organization represents the United States to show that they care about the education of our future leaders. Logos is represented where the image says every child achieves act is 20% longer than no child left this effectively gets the audience to further their research on the every child achieves act and the no child left behind act in hopes that their research will lead them to taking action against the common core. Pathos is represented in the big, bold text that stands out from the rest of the image to show the importance of the bold words. is in big, bold letters to emphasize the importance of the audience taking action. Kairos is also used in this image by including a phone number for the audience to call and take action against common core. The Parents Against Common Core released images in hopes that parents will take action against common core. The organization released these images with the use of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to show the Parents Against Common opposition of the education system and potentially get the audience to take a stand. Lloyd-Gage 6 Works Cited Image 1, Parents Against Common Core, 6 July 2015, https://www.facebook.com/parentsagainstthecommoncore/photos/a.385481594971498.10 73741828.353360564850268/423828677803456/?type=3&theater, Accessed 27 February 2017. Image 2, Parents Against Common Core, 6 July 2015, https://www.facebook.com/parentsagainstthecommoncore/photos/a.385481594971498.10 73741828.353360564850268/423578971161760/?type=3&theater, Accessed 27 February 2017. About Us Parents Against the Common  Parents Against the Common Core. Web. https://parentsagainstthecommoncore.com/about/