Nguyen 1 Van Nguyen Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 Section 041 23 February 2017 Two-Child Policy In China: Is It Better Than One-Child Policy? Although the Chinese government has promised that the Two-Child Policy will help China solve lots of major problems in this nation, organizations such as Rights Without Frontiers (WRWF) remain their opposing points of view. WRWF, which was founded in 2001, is one of the branches of Human Rights Without Frontiers. The aims of this organization are to make the public aware of the coercive enforcement of Two-Child Policy in China and to support Chinese women to champion their rights and freedom. Therefore, in order to accomplish their goals, WRWF has used many images and slogans to convince people to stand by their side in this battle. Among those slogans and pictures, two of them have used the four rhetorical appeals to get the attention from the audience. The first image is trying to make people feel and understand the loss that Chinese women are suffering, and the second one is calling people to abolish Two-Child Policy. Despite two images approach the audience in different way, they both serve the same purpose: to get people to sympathize, and to call for help across China and the world. Founded by Reggie Littlejohn, who is also the President of the organization, WRWF to form [a human rights and humanitarian coalition to end forced abortion and in China (WRWF). As one can see, gender imbalance and son-preference are one of the major problems in this nation since 2000 when now there are 37 million more men than Nguyen 2 women. According to Sheila Liaugminas, this leads to aggressive sex-trafficking industry targeting women and in China and nearby countries. President Littlejohn claims that the population control policy, Two-Child Policy, is the cause of these problems. Therefore, she asserts that it is responsibility to inform the public the inhumanity of the policy, to expose the correlation between the coercion of Two-Child Policy and human trafficking in Asia, and to indicate the violations that Chinese women are undergoing. President Littlejohn points out that the Two-Child Policy only be stopped by being exposed, revealed, known about, talked about, and acted (Liaugminas). As a result, WRWF has determined their job is to inform the public horrific crimes against humanity, the real war on of the policy (Liaugminas). In order to get the attention and support from the media, WRWF has held several meetings with a number of journals and has testified in different nations such as the United States, Britain, Ireland, and Canada. In addition, WRWF also uses lots of slogans and images to influence the public. These slogans and images are not just plain sayings and pictures, they are utilities of the organization to convey their messages about the relationship between Two-Child Policy and forced abortion to people in China and people around the world. Simultaneously, to develop the urge and credibility of the messages they are sending, WRWF also uses four different rhetorical appeals in their images and slogans, which are ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. These four types of rhetorical appeals serve different purposes. Ethos is associated with credibility, pathos relates to emotion, logos is known for logic, and kairos appeals to timeliness. As one can see when looking at the two pictures of the organization, WRWF is using an ethos appeal by putting their logo on the images to increase the credibility of their messages. The logo, which is the Chinese national flag and the name, tells the audience that Nguyen 3 WRWF is for women in China. In addition, when looking at the national flag in the images, people from this country will understand that forced abortion caused by Two-Child Policy is the major problem in their nation and they, as the Chinese citizen, have responsibilities to fix it. Moreover, when foreigners look at the logo with the Chinese national flag, they will know that forced abortion takes place mainly in this country. As a result, logo has a great influence not only on people from China but also people from around the world. Thus, the organization will receive more help and support to fight for human and rights from different sources rather than just one. However, reaching for support is not enough to abolish Two-Child Policy in China if people do not act on it. Therefore, WRWF uses another rhetorical appeal, which is kairos, to urge people to help them stop the inhumanity of the policy by saying Forced Abortion in and Abortion Is Not A The organization uses the word rather than other words such as because is a short and direct word. It asks people to have an action on the problem immediately. In addition, by using the word WRWF is telling the audience that Two-Child Policy is coercing women to abort their developing babies although they have their own choice to make that decision. Despite how short and concise the two sentences are, they have the power in their tone to persuade and convince people that Two-Child Policy must be abolished in China. In addition, in order to make the images more noticeable, WRWF uses different contrary colors such as red, white, and black in their pictures. According to Ab. N. Jalil and his colleagues, appropriate color is used for a particular purpose. In their experiment, Jalil and his co-workers find out that is the most arousing color of (Jalil, et al., 813). Moreover, red Nguyen 4 color also has a salient effect. As a result, anything that is in red is more noticeable and looks more important to the audience. In two images of WRWF, red is used for the purpose of getting attention from the public. Moreover, it is also used because the color relates to Chinese national flag, which is also in red. WRWF not only wants the audience to know how urgent and important their message is but also wants to inform them that forced abortion is a crisis in China. Besides red, there is also white color in their images. In Effect On Physiology In A Stimulating Jalil and his colleagues indicate that white color dysphoria or emotional (813). As a result, when the audience reads the message of WRWF in white, they experience a state of unease or dissatisfaction with forced abortion caused by Two-Child Policy. In cooperating with two other colors is the black color at the background of the images. WRWF uses this color to make their messages, which is written in red and white, bolder and more noticeable. Therefore, it helps the organization communicate with the audience through slogans and pictures more effectively. Although the two images are used for the same purpose, each image approaches the audience in different ways. The first image uses pathos appeal to convey message. Therefore, when looking at the first picture, people will see a sad face besides the slogan and the logo of the organization. By placing her face in the image, WRWF has developed a feeling of unease and discomfort in the audience. This phenomenon is shown in a study done by Morris and her colleagues. In their article, Differential Neural Response In The Human Amygdala To Fearful And Happy Facial this group of psychologists suggest that there is an interaction between the human amygdala and the emotional salience of faces. As a result, looking at the sad face of the woman in the image makes the audience feel unhappy and Nguyen 5 thus, want to understand the cause of her sadness. In addition, the slogan in the picture is in red and white, which means that the message is important and urgent. However, only the word which means that the color is related to Chinese national flag forced abortion occurs mainly in China, as stated earlier. In the second image of WRWF, there is a picture of Chinese map with the slogan Abortion Is Not A on it. The map is in red, which, once again, relates to the color of the national flag, and the slogan is in black. This not only makes the slogan more noticeable to the audience but also informs people that China is facing a crises, forced abortion, caused by Two-Child Policy. However, this image is not used as a poster for the campaign held by WRWF due to the size of the image. It is used either as a cover photo of the website or as an advertising taskbar on the news. Despite how differently the image might be used in a particular situation, it is aimed to share the same purpose: to alert the public the crisis that is taking place in China, forced abortion. To conclude, visual images have an important role in searching for support from the public and media, in warning the audience the problem they are facing, and in conveying the messages of an organization. However, in order to get the attention from the public, the organization must use different rhetorical appeals to have their messages reached the audience. WRWF has done a great job in creating their images and slogan by combining all four types of appeals. The organization has received more support than ever and they will not stop fighting for rights until Two-Child Policy is abolished. Nguyen 6 Nguyen 7 Works Cited Jalil, N. Ab., et al. Effect On Physiology In A Stimulating Journal Of Social Sciences & Humanities , vol. 24, no. 2, June 2016, pp. 811-824. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Liaugminas, Sheila. Blog By Sheila Blog By Sheila Liaugminas RSS . N.p., 10 Mar. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Morris, J. S., et al. Differential Neural Response In The Human Amygdala To Fearful And Happy Facial News . Nature Publishing Group, 31 Oct. 1996. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rights Without Frontiers Stop Forced Abortion War On Rights Without Frontiers Stop Forced Abortion War On Women! Rights Without Frontiers , n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.