Chloe Crawford Professor Missler 2/27/17 ENC 1102 Appealing for Freedom PETA (People for the ethical treatment of animals) is an organization that has spent thirty- seven years dedicated to defending, and establishing the rights for all animals. opening statement and main principle is that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other PETA has created a broad and big following support system and has some celebrities on their team as well to help promote their organization. PETA has created many ads which all have rhetorical appeals to promote their purpose and organization. I have chosen two ads by PETA that deals with the concerns of captivated zoo animals which all have a sense of rhetorical appeal; including pathos, ethos, Kairos, and logos. The first ad shown presents Pragyan Ojha, a man who is shown in a cage with his arms grasped on the bars attempting to pull it apart in hopes to break free. This ad also presents a red sign in the bottom right corner that says in all caps, try to relate to their fate: say no to This image provokes a lot of rhetorical appeals, but it mostly appeals to pathos. Looking at the picture alone you it already provokes emotion. Before knowing if the person is famous or not you see a person in a small cage. Then after reading the sign TO RELATE TO THEIR FATE: SAY NO TO It right there evokes a sense of sympathy for zoo animals. People tend to look at animals in cages from one side, but when we flip it and put a human in a cage all the sudden wrong and inhumane. Relating to their fate of being in cages or captivated for the rest of their lives is something that is never thought of, however once looked at it from a different perspective of humans in cages it provides a different outlook on zoos; and evokes sympathy for the animals in cages or zoos. This ad appeals to logos, because Pragyan Ojha is an international cricketer who plays for Bengal in cricketing. He is the latest celebrity who joined the many other celebrities who support PETA. Ethos is another appeal that this ad has by being credible. PETA is at the bottom right hand corner of this ad. By being present in this ad, displays the credibility of this organization. The last rhetorical appeal that this ad presents is karios. By relating to their fate, it does provoke a sense of urgency in acting fast to help zoo animals. The sign is red, which is a color that also displays a sense of caution, importance, and urgency which also relates to timeliness. I think of a stop sign with the color of red, by having their sign the color red it influences people to stop and think about if the situation was flipped around. The next picture is another ad from PETA which presents a man painted as a cheetah, with a stance and facial expression displays fearlessness. There is also a sign is this add that says in all caps EVEN THE WILDEST ANIMALS BELONG IN THE This add also has a strong sense of appeal to pathos. Due to the words on the sign that say even the wildest animals belong in the this is saying that humans are the wildest animal. Humans put a negative connotation with the word animal when we compare it to how humans act. the saying acting like a wild which has a big negative connotation. So after reading the sign it provokes an emotion of, disgust, and that us humans are the wild animals. A sense of logos that this picture appeals to is that regular animals belong in zoos, and that not even the wildest animals (us humans) belong in zoos or cages either. This ad also appeals to karios by also having the sign in white with the letters in red. Like I said earlier the color red, provokes people to stop, think, and then act by creating the sense of urgency and importance. Lastly this ad appeals to ethos by being created by PETA, and their credible organization. Both images created a different perspective and outlook that us humans seen nor thought of, concerning the topic of zoo animals. By seeing humans in cages we realize how wrong it is for animals to be in them, knowing that they the wildest animals but that we are. PETAs ads have displayed how to relate to reality and fate for all the animals in zoos. With both PETA ads using rhetorical appeals including pathos, logos, ethos, and karios it helps their organization fight for animal rights. Works Cited http://www.news18.com/news/india/snapshot-cricketer-pragyan-ojha-is-petas-face-for-its-anti-zoo- campaign-670788.html http://www.peta.org