Hernandez 1 Juan Hernandez Alison Missler ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Spreading Awareness Currently in the United States, the FDA prohibits any man from donating blood if they have had sex with a man within the past 12-months. Gay Health Crisis (GMHC) is one of many organizations that is opposed to this policy by the FDA. The GMHC is an organization that is focused on combating the AIDS problem by providing those with those affected by AIDS with various service; their mission is end the AIDS epidemic and uplift the lives of all (About us...). One of the ways the GMHC is opposing this policy is by informing the public of its existence. The GMHC has used images to inform the public of the MSM ban and how the ban is discriminatory towards gay and bisexual men. The GMHC has a webpage, that discusses what the MSM blood ban is, in an FAQ format. This FAQ informs people of the blood ban and it is where the GMHC show their stance against the ban, and their belief that the policy should be changed so that MSM can donate blood (MSM blood ban). On this webpage, there are two images that are present; the first one at the top of the page is of a B-negative blood bag with the words MSM blood ban in bold red letters to the right of it. The second picture, located in the middle of the page separating the questions from the answers, is of a drop of blood flows down into two separate branches; the branch on the left depicts a man who can donate blood while the branch on the right shows a man who is unable to donate blood. While these two pictures may be plain and simple, these pictures are able to evoke emotion from its target audience, and inform its audience of the ban. Hernandez 2 While the first picture may be simpler than the other, it still contains rhetorical appeals that help to inform the public of the situation. The image uses pathos in a few different ways. This picture is placed at the top of the webpage, just under the header, to emphasize to the reader the importance of the MSM blood ban. The image has B-negative blood bag so that the public is able to relate to it; perhaps they or someone they know is has a B-negative blood type, and they might one day be in a positon where they would be in need of blood. The blood bag is not only red because blood is that color; it is red in order to evoke a sense of danger to the public. In a study done by Mary A. Gerend, from Florida State medical humanities and social science department, the use of the color red in informational pamphlets was shown to increase intentions to be vaccinated. Gerend hypothesized that because red was associated with danger it would motivate people to be vaccinated, meaning that people would see the information as more relevant because it could pose a potential threat to them (Gerend 2009). A similar thinking was done here with the picture; the danger here is not only the MSM blood ban, which is written out in big bold red letters, but also the possibility of not having enough blood. This is also where it uses logos; not having enough blood is a problem that can affect everyone, so banning an entire group of people from donating blood seems illogical if blood is a resource that is always needed by hospitals. Kairos in the image could come from the red. The red color implies danger which could evoke a sense of urgency; the MSM blood ban is an issue that needs to be addressed now rather than later. Thought this image may not literally say much, it is doing a lot to show its audience that there should not be an MSM blood ban. The second image expands more on the foundation laid by the first image. The second image is more complex, but simpler in that is actually stating what it means. The image is Hernandez 3 located in-between the questions and answers on the GMHC web page to show how the GMHC feels about the ban, and sets the tone for the answers to the questions. The image uses pathos with its branching blood drop. The branching paths are all in red because like the previous image, it is trying to draw attention to the importance of the topic as well as the branches themselves. The branches show two different men and their ability to donate blood, and gives some background on the men. These branches are used to show the discrimination that is being caused by the ban; the man on the left who has unprotected sex can donate blood, but the man on the right who does practice safe sex cannot donate blood simply because he has had sex with another man. This transitions into the logos used by the image; it seems illogical to let someone who practices un-safe sex to donate blood, but ban someone who does practice safe sex. From donating blood. The Image also uses Kairos like the previous one; the red is evoking a sense of urgency, that this discrimination needs to change now. This image, unlike the last contains ethos as well. At the bottom center of the image is the GMHC logo; this logo is in white to not only make it stand out from the rest of the picture, but to also make the organization seem more trustworthy since, in general, people associated the color white with being good and pure. The main purpose of this image is to show the discrimination that is being caused by the blood ban. Both of these images are used by the GMHC to inform the public of the MSM blood ban and the discrimination that is caused by the ban. The first image is mainly used to inform the public of the ban, and in doing so showing the public that it is a topic that is also relevant to them. The second image is used mainly to show the discrimination towards gay and bisexual men caused by the ban, and how unjust it is. These images help further the goal to putting an end to the blood ban. Hernandez 4 Works cited About  GMHC About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gerend, Mary A., and Tricia Sias. Message framing and color priming: How subtle threat cues affect  Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 45.4 (2009): 999-1002. Web. MSM Blood  GMHC - Fight Aids. Love Life. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.