Paranos 1 Lucas Paranos Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Since its inception in 1954, the Humane of the United States (HSUS) has been dedicated to general welfare of animals. This includes all animals involved in the agriculture industry. The organization fights for the rights of animals, and does all it can to oppose institutions that abuse and mistreat animals. Regarding the agricultural industry, this primarily involves protesting and shutting down slaughterhouses. They also advocate for a vegan, anti-animal product lifestyle. Therefore, it has put in place a large number of advertisements to convince the general public to help their cause, and also to potentially persuade some of the public to make different lifestyle choices. One example of such an advertisement that they have created involves a picture of a cow looking at the camera with a sympathetic-looking face, and alongside the picture is a fact that explains a part of the social structure of cows. Another of these advertisements is a picture of two pigs penned up together looking at the camera with sad-looking expressions. Both of the advertisements are making an attempt to persuade the general public to support the cause and ideals of the Humane Society of the United States, by attempting to incite sympathy for the animals and the situation they are in. The first of the two advertisements put forth by the Humane Society of the United States in an attempt to sway people to their cause involves a picture of a cow looking at the camera with a sympathetic-looking face, and alongside the picture is a fact that explains a part of the social structure of cows which displays similarity between their social structure and that of humans itself. This supports the ideals of the Humane Society of the United States as they often Paranos 2 advocate for animals to have similar rights to humans. The advertisement appeals to ethos as it comes directly from the stakeholder; the Humane Society of the United States, and has an extensive amount of research on the page in which this image is found. This shows the credibility of both the image and the stakeholder. The advertisement appeals to pathos by inciting sympathy for animals through the sad expression of the cow depicted in the image, and the situation suggested in the fact included in the image. The fact inspires sadness by showing that an animal so often killed for our benefit is quite intelligent and has social structures similar to ours. The advertisement appeals to logos by making the people think about ideas that they would either prefer not to think about or have never thought of before. The image provides a statistic that allows people to think about the fact that cows have similar social structures to humans, having them draw comparisons and therefore ask why animals so similar to us are treated so inhumanely. The advertisement appeals to Kairos in that it states that over the course of their lives, they are friendships over This suggests that the cows in the farming industry form meaningful relationships among their peers over the course of their lives, only for them to be destroyed when they are slaughtered. This advertisement is therefore seemingly quite effective, as it appeals to all four methods of persuasion. However, the other advertisement has certain aspects to it that may cause it to be potentially more effective than this one. The second of the two advertisements put forth by the Humane Society of the United States in an attempt to sway people to their cause is a picture of two pigs penned up together looking at the camera with sad-looking expressions. This supports the cause of the Humane Society of the United States, as it shows the situations and conditions that they are fighting against. This advertisement is very similar to the previous one in its appeals to the four methods Paranos 3 of persuasion. The advertisement appeals to ethos as, like the former advertisement, it comes directly from the stakeholder; the Humane Society of the United States, and has an extensive amount of research on the page in which this image is found. This shows the credibility of both the image and the stakeholder. This advertisement appeals to pathos by inciting sympathy for the pigs shown in the image through their sad facial expressions and sadness for their situation by showing the conditions of said situation. The advertisement appeals to logos by similarly to the previous advertisement, making the people think about ideas that they would either prefer not to think about or have never thought of before. The image of the pigs is a harsh reminder of the conditions that these animals are kept in, and possibly incites them to work against those conditions. The advertisement appeals to Kairos by showing a condition in which the pigs may not have much time left. This incites the people to act fast to help their cause before too late. From these appeals, the advertisement appears to be quite effective in its goal of persuading the people to support the cause of the Humane Society of the United States. To summarize, from looking at the appeals to the four methods of persuasion in these two advertisements put forth by the Humane Society of the United States in an attempt to sway people to support their cause seem to be quite effective. They are both able to successfully appeal to time credibility, emotion, logic, and time. Due to this, the chances that more people will be persuaded to support the goals and ideals of the Humane Society of the United States is greatly increased. Paranos 4 Paranos 5 Works Cited Protect Farm Animals : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. AGRICULTURE IS WHAT WE  Pinterest. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.