Derik Ware Karen Hanson ENC 1102 22 February 2017 The Warmth of Nuclear Energy Nuclear energy a cleaner source for tomorrow. Nuclear Energy Institute(NEI) is a fairly new stakeholder formed from four older companies coming together in order to better promote the use of nuclear energy. Nuclear Energy Institute argues for the use of nuclear energy in the united states by talking with senator and announcing publicly benefits of nuclear energy (About NEI). NEI has images on their website that shows their message even if the words and statistics where taken away. Both images selected use different appeals to promote the use of nuclear energy that NEI supports, all four rhetorical appeals are at work in the images to preserve the purpose of the NEI. The first image is a collage of images as time passes from past to present going from black and white to color looking from left to right. It also includes the four predecessor abbreviations along with NEI. One of the most obvious rhetorical appeals in this image is ethos. Thru including the previous names gives on the collage it allows the viewer to feel that NEI is has a background/trusted stance on the goal of nuclear energy. Another major factor with this image, is that the viewer can clearly see kairos by looking at the how the image moves from black and white into a color image. As the viewer looks at the image it may not give a since of urgency, but rather improves the aspect of ethos in showing a time progression as the older companies merged into a newer stakeholder. The first image also shows pathos and ethos with the pictures of people showing a reliable core group and builds trust with the viewer by suggesting longevity of the former companies. If they were to include more aspects of pathos, this would allow the viewer to better connect with the image. Such as placing images of progress instead of the founding companies in the background. Not only would this make the viewer feel better about nuclear energy but also would give the viewer to remember why the image is important. The second image on the other hand includes a vast amount of pathos and a decent amount of kairos, allowing the viewer to be immersed in a warm feeling of something new. Image two contains field of bushes that are planted in rows and are a vibrant green color. The sky is slightly darker than a baby blue with brilliantly shaded clouds. This alone could be a breath taking view but the artist goes even further and places a sun rise behind four cooling towers set in the distance. All of these give you a feeling of pathos while hinting at kairos as it is an undertone in the image implying a new age or era has begun. However, this image is missing some key elements in order to fully reach the message of what NEI wants to convey. Like a quote giving a logical argument towards nuclear energy. Although these images can be improved upon, the state that they are in gives a rise to strong feelings in pathos trusting the stakeholders background which involves ethos, and both causes the view to look at the past and future which applies to kairos. After looking at both images and looking at what they have in detail and what they need in order to be improved. It can be said that the images convey what NEI stands for without having the stakeholder directly say what they want about the topic. Work Cited NEI, https://www.nei.org/About-NEI/History. 20 Feb. 2017 Nuclear Power Plants - General U.S. Nuclear NEI, https://www.nei.org/Knowledge- Center/Nuclear-Statistics/US-Nuclear-Power-Plants. 19 Feb. 2017 150% zoom. Emily Lane, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides (2016). Rhetoric Matters. Allyson Hoffman, Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters (20-46). My Reviewers. Image 1 above Image 2 above