Al Balushi1 Abdullah Al Balushi Kristin ENC 1102 27/2/2017 Rhetorical analysis The case of legalizing physician assisted suicide had a major effect on the community whither if it is a moral or unmoral act. Upon this conflict people took two side one side is fighting in the favor of those who want the act to be legalized to avoid any criminal charges. the other is opposing of the legalization of Assisted suicide in favor of those who are ill, disabled or old this targeted people are considered mercy killings as if their lives are worthless. Organizations were formed to support and protect both sides an example of those organizations is NYD (Not Dead Yet) . NYD is a nonprofit national grassroots disability rights group that opposes legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of discrimination against old, ill and disabled people. Not Dead Yet helps organize and articulate opposition to these practices based on secular social justice arguments. Not Dead Yet demands the equal protection of the law for the targets of so called whose lives are seen as (About). To achieve the goals that the organization set protests were formed to represent the case and rise the awareness of this conflict. Is legalizing the act of physician assisted suicide the right thing to do by the people or should this act be banned from the community. Al Balushi2 To better understand the goals and intentions of NYD images posted by the organization are utilized. The first image is about one of the protests that the organization formed to make a public stand and let those who feel targeted come out and speak. In the image the camera is pointed on two disabled ladies that are holding boards that represents NDY this an example of Ethos which according to Purdue OWL is frequently translated as some variation of or Rhetorical Situation) another example of Ethos is the presence of the police officer which gives an aspect that the protest is a harmless and safe public act. Another appeal is Pathos which an appeal to emotion, having old ladies would make the audience feel empathy and sorry for them plus old people give a sense of comfort. The involvement of the police officer can give the audience a feeling of safeness and being aware that no harm will come to the protesters. According to Purdue owl logos an appeal to logic or reasoning, the words on the board suicide is not the might drive the audience to think about what this statement should be an answer to. Another aspect is that eventually everyone gets old and this idea will make the audience concerned about themselves when they grow older. As for Kairos, the appeal to urgency or timeliness making the statement on the board in bold letters might indicate the importance of the case. The second image has similar goals to the first image but has some differences to it. The image is about a protest as well but with a bit different when come to rhetorical analysis. An appeal to ethos is that the symbol of NDY appears again on the boards of the protesters which indicates that an official organization held this safe protest. The appeal to pathos can be identified through several elements, a statement on one of the protesters board says cheapest health which in a way effects the audience and give the feeling of unsafety if the person is covered with the same health insurance provider. Disabled people might give the Al Balushi3 audience the feeling of bravery. However, though the case is serious utilizing cheerful colors might calm the audience. Moving on to the appeal to logic, logos can be found in the statements such better of with an explanation mark that makes it a sarcastic question that follows with a logical answer a capitalized this statement represents those who are considered a target of this act. Another aspect is the statement give me liberty give me this will gives the audience a brief inner look from the protesters point of view. The main point of the image is an appeal to Kairos the protests presents people fighting for their rights. Al Balushi4 Work cited Who We  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 Apr. 2012. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, Dana Lynn Driscoll, and Allen Brizee. Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical . Owl.english.purdue.edu. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.