Reinke 1 Ashley Reinke Kirsten Rouisse ENC 1102 22 February 2017 Are you Getting your Seasonal Flu Shot? When someone mentions the flu shot, common for one to say that they simply need to get in. In fact, in a recent poll this was the number one answer for people stating that they were not going to be vaccinated this season (Bichell.) Because people feel that they need their flu shot, on average there has been at least 1,882 deaths each year between 1979 and 2000 (Racaniello.) When these numbers are added up the flu has caused over 41,000 deaths. This kind of mind set is what the Center for Disease Control (CDC) is trying to eliminate. Their slogan is Lives, Protecting and concentrates on attacking major health threats as well as treating the public with the upmost respect through honesty and integrity (CDC.gov.) To accomplish these goals, the CDC actively puts out ads on their website, magazines, and billboards to stress the importance how getting a flu shot can be beneficial for you and everyone you come into contact with. Image 1 is one of the many ads that promotes flu vaccination as well as flu awareness. This picture can be found on the home page of the website for easy troubleshooting towards those that may already be playing victim to the seasonal flu. When first viewing the image, one may first be drawn to the large blue lettering with the This quote will make an instant connection to the viewer by showing them that there are ways to fight the flu and how to get better. This quote is trying to appeal to pathos in that they are drawing upon the Reinke 2 desire and want to be healthy again rather than sick in bed (Hoffman, et al, 37-40.) Furthermore upon looking at this picture, there is a woman in bed that appears to be sick at home with the flu looking distressed. The CDC used this in order to create ethos in the ad because they want to express to their audience that if sick, they can come to them for help. In addition, the quote what to do if you have the flu & take these steps to protect also emits ethos because the CDC is telling their audience they know how to cure the flu and how to prevent others from getting it which gives the viewer a sense of trust and credibility (Hoffman, et al, 27-28.) There is no physical representation of logos in this ad but the CDC is trying to imply that if sick, logically you should come to the in order to make a great recovery since their specialty is working with diseases that affect the health. The bottom quote can also be connected to kiaros. urging the public to get healthy quickly by taking a look at the steps provided and, in turn, showing a sense of urgency to do so (Hoffman, et al, 41-45.) Looking towards the color scheme of this picture, blue quote immediate draws the attention. In context with the quote with the the quote gives a sense of sadness to the fact that the person viewing the ad may be sick but also a sense of empathy (Chapman.) This gives the picture a somewhat quiet sadness to it that overpowering but not unnoticeable. The quote underneath it in gray gives a sense of requirement a rigidness in that the public can only get healthy or stay healthy if they follow the advice (Chapman.) However, the overall color of the photo is a nude color with a faint tint of pink. The mixture of these two colors causes a warm calming feeling to show that even though the person is sick, if they follow the steps shown on their website they will make a quick recovery (Chapman.) Image 2 can be found on the home screen after clicking on the link embedded into the first image. The first thing that is noticed in image 2 is the blue banner saying you at risk Reinke 3 for serious complications from the This quote can be seen as both ethos and logos because logically if the flu is going to cause some of these problems then people should read what the CDC has to say in how to prevent it (Hoffman, et al, 37-40.) Furthermore, this quote shows ethos in that the CDC produced this ad and is mainly focused on the spread of the flu and how to prevent it which builds their credibility in this ad (Hoffman, et al, 27-28.) The next thing that is noticed is the words that seem to be following people at their feet. All of these words are medical problems that gives a frightened and scared tone since the ad is implying that these conditions could be closer to us than we think. The words would be an example of pathos and kairos since the words bring fear to the viewer and urgency to know how to prevent the words on the ground from happening to them (Hoffman, et al, 37-40, 41-45.) Further analyzing image 2, the color scheme is comprised of different shades of blue. This color easily can be represented as sadness that some people end up getting the flu and having it cause serious medical complications (Chapman.) However, the background also has a hint of gray which represents uncertainly in that most people think the flu is just a sickness. Yet, the flu as bland and basic as the gray color suggests. The dark purple color in the words on the ground represents that those complications are always talked about but no one ever think they will happen to them (Chapman.) This concept is also enhanced with the fact that some of these words are faded out more than others to show that these complications can sneak up on someone if distracted with the flu. In contrast to the previous colors, the blue banner on the bottom of the ad gives an inviting and comforting feeling that tells the viewer that even through these things can happen to people that prepare for the flu, there are ways for them to protect themselves from those consequences. Reinke 4 These two ads both have different main points. Image 1 is focused on those that are already sick with the flu and the ways that people can get healthy again and has a pink and nude color tone. Image 2 warms people about the serious medical problems that can happen if someone contracts the flu and has a blue color tone. However these ads both have a broad point of educating the public about the current flu and how to keep themselves and others around them healthy as well has a sense of urgency to do so through the color schemes. These ads mostly are projected towards adults that have kids or that live with multiple people that need information on the flu and the changes that have been made since the last flu season. The CDC works hard every day in order to create new vaccines each flu season in order to create a healthier public that also supports the ads that they put out supporting what they do and what they stand for. This research is paving the way to more advanced medical technology that the public can look back on and know that these vaccines helped keep them alive. Reinke 5 Works Cited Bichell, Rae Ellen. Many Americans Believe They Need The Flu . NPR.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. CDC Works . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. N.p., 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 26. Feb. 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Racaniello, Vincent. How Many People Die From . Virology Blog: About Viruses and Viral Disease. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Reinke 6 Image 1 Image 2