Lando 1 Alex Lando Professor Gocinski ENC 1102 27 February 2017 NFLPA Visual Rhetoric The National Football League Players Association started 60 years ago, and since then it has helped its players to stay safe and get the benefits they deserve. The NFLPA is not known as an organization to have adds with a lot of rhetorical appeals, like PEDA for example. But on the two images that will be discussed in this paper, the audience will be able to see where the NFLPA use visual appeals to sway their opinion. The NFLPA is a union for the players in the National Football League, and represents around 5,000 current and former players. The president of the NFLPA is committed to helping the players here is a quote from him, makes our business so unique, though, is how focused we are on player service. We are not in this just to make money, but to advance our mission, and that helps guide every decision we make as an organization Their mission is, to help current and former players with life on and off the field (NFLPA). The majority of their debates are mainly with Roger Goodell the commissioner of the NFL. The NFLPA struggles because the NFL is a known cooperation so getting public support for them is easy because they have TV time, and a known name. Therefore, the NFLPA must be creative with rhetorical appeals in all their marketing techniques. The NFLPA utilizes the power of social media to get their point across to all corners, both images were released on their Instagram page. These images use visual rhetoric to get their points across. The three main visual appeals that are in these pictures are ethos, pathos, and logos. The that the NFLPA is trying to appeal to are people who follow football and Lando 2 are worried about safety and another group could possibly be people who have interests in unions and best for the union as a whole. The NFLPA is one of the most powerful unions in the country and uses social media and visual rhetoric to persuade the public to support their cause. Both images released by the NFLPA that will be discussed, were posted on their Instagram in April 2016. This images use three different types of visual rhetoric ethos, pathos and logos. First off, we will discuss ethos, ethos is a rhetorical device that persuades the audience by showing the credibility of the company that is using ethos. Both images were posted on the official account for the NFLPA, which gives these pictures credibility. Both photos also have the NFLPA symbol in it. This means a lot because the NFLPA has been around for 60 years. This shows consistency and gives them credibility. Along with both these things the image that talks about the total number of contacts signed gives the NFLPA credibility because of how much they are helping their clients. The NFLPA has a lot of credibility and uses this to appeal to the audience in both of these images. The next rhetorical appeal that will be discussed is logos. Logos are a rhetorical appeal that makes the audience persuaded through facts, numbers, or logic. Both of these images uses logos very well as a rhetorical appeal. Figure 1 has logos by the 60 th university branding. It appeals to logos because there is logic behind these numbers. The reason the NFLPA is putting that on there is to show they are stable and have been there and done that, and exactly what it does in this situation. Figure 2 has a lot of logos in it. The whole image is centered around numbers thus making it the most important part. The numbers in figure two show how much the NFLPA is helping their clients. When the audience sees how large the number is for the worth of Lando 3 all the contracts which is $1,026,095,000, they will be extremely impressed with the work of the NFLPA. I discussed this earlier with ethos but it also appeals to the logic because these are numbers and facts. Also, the total numbers of players signed which was at 338 when this image was posted is a logos appeal. It makes it more personal for the audience because they can see how many people the NFLPA has helped up to that point sign a contract. All of these things show how the NFLPA uses logos in their images. The last rhetorical appeal that will be discussed is pathos. Pathos are a rhetorical devices that appeals to the audiences emotions. The main part of these images that appeals to emotions is the colors. Both images have three colors, red, black, and white. This shows a serious tone while the red catches your eyes are really tells you where the NFLPA wants you to look. In figure 1 there are players in the image as well. One of the pictures within figure 1 shows players and workers holding up signs protesting against the NFL. The signs say, on strike against the And on strike for freedom and This shows the dedication of the workers and players to the mission statement. Also figure 1 has a football player in pads, with a gritty face. This shows how hard working the players are and they deserve to have a union like the NFLPA watch over them. Both of these points would appeal to emotions because people would know how much these induvial care about the topic and problems at hand. Figure 2 have a lot of pathos. Figure 2 is more worried about the facts and just being blunt with them. The numbers are in bold block font which makes you look at them. This is where the serious tone is from. It makes the audience think, the NFLPA is serious and gets work done. All of these points show how the NFLPA uses pathos in these two images. As seen in the visual rhetoric analysis, these two images use visual appeals to persuade the audience into what they want them to think. The NFLPA wisely use ethos, pathos, and logos Lando 4 to persuade the audience. The NFLPA needs to use these three things to help win people over and get their point across. They are in a battle with the NFL on a few big issues like concussions, contacts, safety, etc. They need to get the public on their side and one way they are doing this is by improving their image on social media. They release images like the two discussed in this paper to help their image. Figure 1 in a one sentence summary shows, how hard working and trustworthy the NFLPA is. Figure 2 shows how much the NFLPA helps the players out financially. They helped make 338 players over 1 billion dollars in contracts. That is a huge number and shows how well they do their job. Overall the NFLPA uses these visual appeals very well in these images. The audience takes away a lot from the images and they know what the NFLPA about. Figure 2 Figure 1 Lando 5 Work cited NFLPA. The NFL Players  NFL Players Association - NFLPA About us. NFL Players Association, 26 Febuary 2017. nflpa. Celebrating 60th Anniversary in Instagram. 14 March 2016. nflpa. opened six weeks ago and an all-time record has been Instagram. 18 April 2016. https://www.instagram.com/p/BEZQn52CrbU/?hl=en. Brown, Maury. Players, Inc. Could Be War Chest To Take On Goodell And Forbes. 9 September 2016. https://www.forbes.com/sites/maurybrown/2016/09/09/business-of-nfl-players-inc-key-to- strengthening-players-weathering-strike-or-lockout/#1790ed927297. 28 February 2017.