1 Carly Whitney Smoking has been around for thousands of years, but we are just recently considering how bad they are and the long-term effects of them. Some stores are even boycotting tobacco, like CVS, and they are no longer selling tobacco products because of the health effects. New technology is always being invented and improving old technology and products and I believe vaping/e-cigs are the new upcoming cigarettes. Many of my friends use a vape and they have never smoked a cigarette in their life, but I have heard stories of them trying to get their parents to stop smoking cigarettes so they have their parents try vaping. Vaping/e-cigs are a new trend that has just come up in the last 10-15 years. Whether people smoke cigarettes or vape/e-cigs is up to them, but the press and researchers can make people aware of the health consequences. The controversy is vaping or e-cigs better for a overall health when compared to regular cigarettes has been up in the air since the product came out. Many people and doctors believe the carcinogens in cigarettes are linked to forms of cancer and other health problems and there are fewer carcinogens in vaping/e-cigs. I would like to research this further to see if vaping/e- cigs is better for a overall health compared to cigarettes. Since we do not exactly know the long-term effects of vaping, I would just like to examine the differences in smoking e-cigs and regular cigarettes. My research question is how are e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes different and similar? 2 Carly Whitney Alawsi, F., R. Nour, and S. Prabh. Vaping versus  Dental Abstracts, vol. 61, no. 1, January 2016, pp. 30. Web. 25 Jan. 2016. doi:10.1016/j.denabs.2015.10.020 In the article versus Alawsi F, Nour R, and Rrabh S compared the main points between regular cigarettes and e-cigs and the advantages and disadvantages of e-cigs. Neither of the authors had a side in which type of cigarette is better for you, they all remained neutral. The article starts with the background of e-cigs by stating that e-cigs are a new health concern, they are banned in some public places, and they are mostly comprised of nicotine and flavor. In the article, it explained that most people who use e-cigs are young adults who are not addicted to normal cigarettes, but many adults who smoke cigarettes are making the switch to normal cigarettes to e-cigs. The authors say the advantages of e-cigs are that they have fewer health risks than normal cigarettes because they contain less carcinogenic particles, which are linked to cancer. There is also a decrease in the risk of atherosclerosis and secondhand smoke. The disadvantages of e-cigs are that the emissions can still cause damage to the environment and a health, similar but not as much as normal cigarettes. Nicotine is not good for the human body because it is highly addictive and is called a by the authors. Many e-cig companies and manufacturers are trying to get more and new customers so they tend to omit information or use misleading information to make e-cigs look better. The main point of this article is to show the advantages and disadvantages of e-cigs. This article relates to my topic because it gives good advantages and disadvantages of e-cigs, which helps me answer my research question. We prevent people from smoking, but we can invent new ways to smoke that are healthier for smokers. All the authors have been researching and writing papers about both conventional cigarettes and non-conventional cigarettes for years. They also write most of their papers together so they are familiar with the others information and credibility. 3 Carly Whitney Sherry, Jennifer S., Norine M. Blackstad, and Kasey S. Wheatley. E Cigarettes, Vaping, and Chairside  Allied Health USA, vol. 37, no. 1, January 2017, pp. 45-54. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Studies show that smoking cigarettes are known for making your teeth yellow, brown, and it can even make you lose your teeth. In the article Cigarettes, Vaping, and Chairside Jennifer Sherry, Norine Blackstad, and Kasey Wheatley study the effects vaping can have in the human mouth. E- cigarettes and vaping are described as the new and upcoming trend in this article. It also is stated that one of the first things people notice is a smile. The most important question is does vaping harm the mouth like cigarettes do? According to the article, vaping and e-cigs can harm the mouth similar to cigarettes because nicotine is an ingredient in both e-cigs and regular cigarettes. The negative effects of e-cigs can include damage to the epithelial-rich oral cavity. Epithelial cells are known for regenerating at a fast paste and vaping can interfere with this. Nicotine is cytotoxic, or toxic to living cells; therefore, vaping still damages mouth cells and it can also break the DNA inside of the cells. People who frequently vaping multiple times a day for a long period can end up with mouth ulcers, mutations, and possibly cancer, as this article study shows. Smoking also makes it harder to kill microorganisms so it can cause other illnesses. According to a study done in 2011, 6% participants said they had mouth irritation, 8% said they have dry mouth, and 8% reported coughing. The study consisted of people using a vape for certain times and then filling out a survey on how they felt after. Vaping is different than regular smoking because with vaping you can change the nicotine. The nicotine levels can be changed by the flavor cartridge starting from 3mg and going all the way up to 24mg, sometimes people even get 100mg. The main point of the article is to show the difference in dental health when it comes to smoking. This relates to my topic because oral health is a big factor when it comes to smoking. The mouth is an important factor and smoking changes the mouth dramatically. This supports that e-cigarettes are 4 Carly Whitney better for the mouth than conventional cigarettes. The authors are all registered dental hygienist, so they are very reliable when talking about teeth and factors that can affect them. Trtchounian, Anna, Monique Williams, and Prue Talbot. Conventional And Electronic Cigarettes (E- Cigarettes) Have Different Smoking  Nicotine & Tobacco Research, vol. 12, no. 9, 2010, pp. 905. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Convention and e-cigarettes have many internal differences and external differences including their ingredients and how they are each use and they are described in this article. The article And Electronic Cigarettes (E-Cigarettes) Have Different Smoking did an experiment testing different kinds of both conventional cigarettes and e-cigarettes. Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot wanted to know how strong of a vacuum was required to produce smoke (for conventional cigarettes) and aerosols (for e-cigarettes) and compare the differences. Conventional cigarettes were tested in groups of lights/ultra-lights and unfiltered/regular cigarettes. The experiment showed that the light group needed a stronger vacuum than the regular cigarettes. The density of smoke was also stable throughout the whole trial. Each cigarette was smoked completely and the e- cigarettes were smoked 10 puffs of a new cartridge. The e-cigarettes required a higher vacuum than any other the conventional cigarettes. During the end of the trial the density of aerosol started to decrease which led to an increase in the vacuum. This means that the doses of e-cigarettes are not uniformed and it makes the researchers question if e-cigarettes are useful in delivering nicotine. E-cigarettes were testing with different wattage because most e-cigarettes normally differentiate in wattage. The main point was to discover the differences in delivery in nicotine. This relates to my research question because the nicotine is the true purpose of cigarettes/e- cigarettes, and if they effectively distribute the nicotine, why should people use them? This is a huge difference between cigarettes and e-cigarettes. The authors are all nicotine experts and have been 5 Carly Whitney experimenting on the effects for years and they recently came together to right about how they perform. Keller, Elaine. is safer than  USA Today, vol. 10, 2009. n. pag. Web. In the article is safer than Elaine Keller goes into details about e-cigarettes that most companies want buyers to know. Keller herself was a smoker and she tried almost every way to quit smoking and it finally worked when she tried e-cigarettes. She then read an article about how bad e-cigarettes are for you. She states that the FDA, or food and drug administration, ran a lab report on e-cigarettes and it failed to state how many carcinogens are in e-cigarettes. Her claim is the small, barely detectable amounts of toxins in the cartridges in e-cigarettes are greatly multiplied by tobacco in normal cigarettes. She also believes that most people do not use e-cigarettes because of how they are than normal cigarettes, but because how effective they work. Keller care about the question is vaping safe? She is more concerned what will happen if people continue to smoke conventional cigarettes. Her point was to show the long-term health benefits of conventional cigarettes. Cancer is the big mystery of health issues because we know where it comes from and how it evolves. This relates to my topic because this article states that the FDA ran a report and it showed that the carcinogens in the e-cigarettes cartridges are less than the ones in cigarettes. This is a huge breakthrough when it comes to health problems in relations to e-cigarettes because we can start using information like this to understand the major health effects. Keller is an outspoken writing who was addicted to cigarettes, so she knows firsthand the effects of cigarettes. 6 Carly Whitney Elliott, Debbie. E-Cigarettes: The New Frontier In War On  All Things Considered, 2009. n. pag. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. In the article The New Frontier In War On Debbie Elliott writes about the regulation of cigarettes. She states that the has sued the FDA, claiming it should not be She also says that e-cigarettes should be regulated because of their differences in carcinogens. This article argues if e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes should be banned because they are banned in other countries. She supports her article by having anti-smoking advocates like John Banzhaf speak up. Banzhaf says, without disclosure or testing of ingredients, it basically opens the market to having smokers serve as guinea She also argues if people should switch over to less harmful products like e-cigarettes rather than conventional cigarettes. The main point is to show that the FDA needs to regulate cigarettes to some extent and to show that e-cigarettes are a better alternative. This relates to my topic because it shows the difference in e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes. It shows that e-cigarettes are better for a health, but they are still not good for people. Debbie Elliott is a broadcast journalist for NPR and has been writing and reporting on several subjects since she graduated from the University of Alabama. 7 Carly Whitney Gucht, Dinska Van, and Frank Baeyens. professionals in Flanders perceive the potential health risks of vaping as lower than those of smoking but do not recommend using e-Cigarettes to their smoking Harm Reduction Journal, vol. 13, no. 1, 2016, doi:10.1186/s12954-016-0111-4. In the article professionals in Flanders perceive the potential health risks of vaping as lower than those of smoking but do not recommend using e-cigarettes to their smoking Dinska Van Gucht and Frank Baeyens did a study on the effects of conventional cigarettes and e-cigarettes. Their participants had to fill out a survey about the safety and addictive parts of cigarettes. 70% participants believed that e-cigarettes contain carcinogens like cigarettes and they also call e-cigarettes a 0% of the doctors said they would recommend e-cigs to their clients, but they do agree that e-cigs are less harmful than conventional cigarettes. The main point of this article is to understand the potential health risks are lower than conventional cigarettes, but e-cigs are not recommended to those who use cigarettes. This relates to my question because it shows that even though e-cigs are less harmful than cigarettes, it is harmful for a person to make the switch to them. This opens a huge gap because now we know that people who smoke conventional cigarettes should quit instead of changing to e-cigarettes. Also, it shows people who smoke e-cigs should stick with them because they are less harmful than conventional cigarettes. Both authors have been doing research on all kinds of cigarettes and they write reliable papers.