Mohammadi 1 Mehdi Mohammadi Ms. Poston ENC1102 26 feb. 2017 Globalization In Pictures Globalization is part of our history, and it is getting faster day by day during this century because of many reasons like social media in a new century. People and government all around the world have the different opinion about the globalization. Some group of people agrees with the globalization, and some groups of people disagree with the phenomenon of the globalization in the new century because of the reasons like destroying the culture of each country and making all the individuals with the same culture. However, the organization like World trade organization agrees with the globalization, and they are helping around the world to be globalized. In this paper, I will be talking about the logo of the WTO which will assist countries to have the easier connection between each other and one image from the UNWTO which want to help people to explore the world and make people to be connected to each other which helping people to travel all around the world. This phenomenon will help people to have the better life. Globalization is making our world better place, and it will make people more connected and easier to trade between people more comfortable. The first picture is belonging to the World Trade Organization (WTO); this group is helping countries to have safe and easier between themselves which will help people all around the world to have better life around the world. In the logo of the WTO, the designer used many rhetorical appeals to show the importance of this organization, by the first look at this picture most of the people will see the simple logo which just introduces the world trade organization to Mohammadi 2 people. However designer of this logo made this logo like the earth shape to make logical for individuals and using the logos appeal which will convince people by a first look that this organization is worldwide and it will help all the countries all around the world to have better connection and relation. In this logo, the designer by using the color psychology used the pathos appeal which will help people to be more comfortable with this picture. Five colors utilized in this image which all of them have the different meaning. According to article, the author says The use of color can bring multiple layers of meaning, from primitive responses based on millions of years of evolved instinct to the complex associations we make based on learned assumptions. Companies can use these responses to underline and accent their branding In this logo, the designer used three primary colors which red, green and blue. By using red in the logo want to show that passion, energy which want to show people that this company will work hard for globalization.by using blue in this logo designer means that professionalism, serious-mindedness, integrity, sincerity, and calm which want to show they are the focus of their work. Also, the artist used the green color which will show that people this company eco-friendly and will help the environment which is the big serious problem of our world. In this picture by using the WTO name used the ethos appeal and it wants to show that this picture represents one organization, and it is credible; also, the designer by using making the logo same as the earth picture want to show that this organization is worldwide, so we have to trust this organization. The Second picture is belonging to the UNWTO which is helping people to travel around the world freely. This organization is promoting globalization by encouraging people to go around the world to help each country. According to the official website of the UNWTO it saying UNWTO generates market knowledge, promotes competitive and sustainable Mohammadi 3 tourism policies and instruments, fosters tourism education and training, and works to make tourism an effective tool for development through technical assistance projects in over 100 countries around the This organization helping globalization by connecting people together and make people share their culture in the world. In this picture, the designer used many rhetorical appeals such as pathos, logos, ethos and Kairos because it will make people take an interest in this picture and it make the image to deliver the massage to everyone. The artist used the pathos appeal by showing the man who cannot walk but enjoy the nature in front of him and show him that he is free which make the observer of this picture feel comfortable and emotional that he can travel all around the world and have the same experience. The designer of this picture used ethos appeal by using relevant organization name such as ENAT, Fundacion ONCE to show people that this organization is credible and people can trust this team. This picture has the Kairos appeal which is the rare appeal to use in pictures however designer of this poster by using the date of the world tourism day could make people know about the time of this poster and want to show that this picture is greeting this day for everyone. Besides, the artist did not use logos appeal in this picture. In conclusion, globalization helps people and countries to have to be connected the WTO and UNWTO are supporting the globalization in different ways which will enable people to have the better life in the future. World trade organization was helping each country to have peaceful and safe trade with other nations by making law for trading between countries. In the logo of the WTO, the designer used logos, pathos and ethos appeal to make sure people who observe this logo to trust this organization and make sure to feel that this organization is for everyone in the world. The second is related to the UNWTO which is helping people to be more connected, and it will help the global culture in the world; in the second picture, the designer used three Mohammadi 4 rhetorical appeals which are pathos, ethos, and Kairos. Which this rhetorical appeal artist used will help the observers to feel comfortable to travel around the world, and it will make traveling seems easier for everyone in the world. Mohammadi 5 Work Cited World Tourism Organization  Who we are World Tourism Organization UNWTO. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Staff, Creative Bloq. How to choose a colour scheme for your logo  Creative Bloq. Crea Heakal, Reem. What Is The World Trade  Investopedia. N.p., 26 Nov. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. tive Bloq ART AND DESIGN INSPIRATION, 10 Sept. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. World Tourism  World Tourism Day World Tourism Organization. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. WORLD TRADE  World Trade Organization - Home page. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mohammadi 6 Pictures : First : Second : Mohammadi 7 Mohammadi 8