Gore 1 Maribeth Gore Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 19 February 2017 Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA: Advertisement Decriminalization of prostitution in America is a quietly battling conflict amongst many groups. The morality and ethics behind sex work keeps decriminalization in constant question. A stakeholder known as the Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA (SWOP-USA) are strong supporters of the fundamental human rights of those involved in sex work and hope to end violence and stigma through educating and advocating within communities Home SWOP believes decriminalization would help to decrease harm and promote action with those involved in sex work Through nonviolent action the Sex Workers Outreach Group hopes to reduce violence and achieve dignity and rights for sex workers. SWOP committed to the respect, safety, and autonomy of all sex workers, and seeks to amplify the voices of those who are often left out of discourse around the issues address collectively as a social justice Within the Sex Workers Outreach Gore 2 advertising, the use of pathos, ethos, and logos appeals effectively encourage movements towards equal rights for sex workers. The appeals to pathos, or emotion, in the image above are portrayed through imagery and the clear statements provided. The use of pathos is oriented to appeal to emotions as the image is viewed. The red umbrella is the international symbol for sex worker projects and symbolizes the need for rights and safety of sex workers. An umbrella also symbolizes protection, in this case the protection of sex workers. The statement off our proclaims a firm need for protection for sex workers. The emotional appeal of out-rage and social injustice portrays the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project. Gore 3 Appeals to Pathos in the second advertisement are represented in the imagery provided by the woman. The strong stance of the woman, as well as her dress, symbolizes the stance of sex worker towards the betterment and legitimacy of their careers. Her legs are spread wide in a proactive stance, as well further eluding to her work; however this stance is very awkward and hard to withhold showing the oppression of sex workers, and their working rights. The woman is used as a symbol to represent the hardship and determination of sex workers to be equally represented in the work force. Appeals to Ethos, or the credibility of the information, in both images are represented by the presentation of the sex workers outreach project logos at the bottom of each advertisement. The image also indicates credibility towards the international sex projects including those in the United States. Doing makes the company seem more trustworthy. Logos is the appeal to the logic of information or an image. The Sex Workers Outreach Project directly implements the use of logos in their advertisements. Without the use of appeals to logos, the advertisements would not appear to present solid arguments and would not be able to be persuasive. The short, prompt text of the advertisements, combined with the bold lettering of statements makes it easier for the reader to recognize and comprehend the message of each advertisement. workers have their is a logical thought process of sex workers. It is a simple and logical representation of the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project. is is also a short logically proclaimed statement in the second advertisement. Its positioning beneath a woman representing a sex worker makes it even more logically appealing, as it appears to portray the point of view of sex workers. Gore 4 The fight towards equal rights for women, and the raising alarm about the increased sex trafficking problem in the United States has brought attention to the decriminalization of prostitution. in five women and one in 71 men will be raped at some point in their (National Sexual Violence Resource Center) due to increased sexual violence in America. The Sex Workers Outreach Project based its campaign on the reduction of sexual violence, not only inflicted towards those in the sex trade, but also to those who are not involved. Additionally, the sex industry makes and estimated to 1.6 (Tanzi 431) in underground revenue yearly. Money that would be circulating more readily in the American economy if the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project to recognize sex work as work, were achieved. The decriminalization of sex work is very relevant among many areas, earlier unrecognized. The effects would be greatly widespread in the improvement of American lives, which is reflected in the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project. The Sex Workers Outreach Project uses the appeals of pathos, ethos, and logos effectively within their advertisements oriented towards the rights of sex workers and their safety. Pathos is an appeal to emotion demonstrated in the imagery of both advertisements. Ethos is the appeal to credibility demonstrated in both advertisements by the presence of credible logos and companies. Logos is the appeal to logic as portrayed in the statements provided on each advertisement. The importance of the decriminalization of prostitution may not be readily apparent; however, it would greatly improve the lives of many Americans and reduce negative stigma towards the sex industry. Gore 5 Work Cited About  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. SWOP-USA, 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Global Network of Sex Workers Outreach Projects. Indoors Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Home  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. N.p., 2016. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. National Sexual Violence Resource Center. National Sexual Violence Resource Center. N.p.: National Sexual Violence Resource Center, 2015. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Sex Workers Outreach Group. Panampost. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. TANZI, V.. The underground economy in the United States: estimates and  PSL Quarterly Review 33.135 (1980): n. pag. Web. 23 Jan. 2017