Thomas 1 Essence Thomas Alison Missler ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Project 1 Final In recent times, the topic of raising the United States minimum wage has become extremely hot, particularly because of current employees. The news spread all over, seeing as how minimum wage making employees across the country felt that their work was underappreciated and under paid, and the workers would like to see a rather large increase in their wages. The Service Employees International Union created the campaign Fight For 15, and has had protests with these unsatisfied workers nationwide. In response, companies, in this case have brought out the idea of bringing robots into the workforce even stronger than the idea was before this all started. This way, would not have the need to be paid, let alone be paid more than what they already receive. Before workers quit their jobs and companies become more futuristic, there needs to be a compromise put in place to satisfy both parties at stake. The only compromise that would work without a loss for or Fight For 15 is raising the minimum wage appropriately. Simply put, Fight For 15 activists want better pay. The pay they are making now does not support a comfortable living style and they are short of struggling to keep afloat in world. It started in New York City, where workers chose to go on strike, protesting for fifteen dollars an hour and union rights (www.fightfor15.org). This movement earned the name Fight For 15 and their slogan is Will Fight For 15 has made its way across the Thomas 2 United States in major cities such as Boston, Chicago, and even here in Tampa, and has won placement, all that will be enacted within time, in parts of New York, California, and in particularly Seattle. The movement has even made its way overseas to other countries in Europe to include other underpaid workers beside those in the fast food industry. The main goal of this group is to every McJob into a REAL (www.fightfor15.org). With such demands as increasing the minimum wage to such a higher wage comes threats of quitting if the demands are not fulfilled in a timely manner. And with those threats comes threats of replacements. As a recent spokesperson for the company, former CEO of believes that instead of granting the unsatisfied workers their wish, it would be much easier to just have robots take their place. In the article CEO says Raising the Minimum Wage Will Help Robots Take the former CEO, Edward Rensi, stated, cheaper to buy a $35,000 robotic arm than it is to hire an employee inefficient making $15 an hour bagging French Rensi makes a point that these jobs are indeed entry only level jobs, so raising the minimum wage that high is just He then provides his own theory for compromise: based on the cost of living where the workers are employed, whether it is a rural setting or urban setting, that is how their minimum wage should be determined. A plan like this has been enacted in the state of New York. But all in all, according to Rensi, if these workers do not wish to keep their jobs and accept a reasonable increase in wages, all the company has to do is replace them with robots and machines that will do the job better and for less money. The biggest concern for a big raise in wages would be an immense, collective loss of jobs for sure. In the journal $15 U.S. Minimum Wage: How the Fast Food Industry Could Adjust Without Shedding the authors provide a couple of different ways that the fifteen dollar minimum wage could be met without excessive job cuts. One compromise that the authors Thomas 3 provide is that the minimum wage can be increased to the fifteen dollar mark, only it would not be immediately. The minimum wage would first be increased to $10.50 after a year, and then after three more years, the wage would finally reach fifteen dollars (717). Another compromise that the authors of this journal give is that the minimum wage can be raised, but along with the pay going up, so would the prices of the products they work for, increasing annually (720). Higher wages and higher prices here would cause a domino effect of prices going up for everything. Looking at the history of minimum wage increases, in 2007, the federal minimum wage sat at $5.85; in 2008, it reached $6.55; and then in 2009, it got stuck at $7.25 and has remained there ever since (U.S. Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division). The minimum wage only increases so many cents when it does so, so to have the wage increase several dollars at once seems a little irrational. An increase like this can also have negative consequences in the fast food industry, as well as the rest of the economy, such as countless job cuts and inflation as stated before. But the obvious main reason why these workers are pushing for increases in wages is not so that they can all live lavish lives. They are pushing for this because they do not want to have to struggle to live a basic necessity life. It is well pass time for an increase in the United States federal minimum wage average, but the only realistic compromise that could be set for the two ends is increasing the wage a maximum of five dollars, given if it would have kept the same constant seventy-cent increase each year after 2009. Overall, a raise in the minimum wage would be much appreciated by many of our citizens, but not so much for it to be set at fifteen dollars an hour. And cutting jobs from people to replace them with machines is not a smart move either. For both parties to be in a satisfactory state, the minimum should be increased. But it should be increased to an appropriate amount to Thomas 4 where companies can still thrive without losing money and needing another option to keep the business running, and to have workers working more eagerly and be more financially stable . Thomas 5 Works Cited Pollin, Robert and Jeannette Wicks-Lim. $15 U.S. Minimum Wage: How the Fast Food Industry Could Adjust Without Shedding Journal of Economic Issues, vol. 50, no. 3, Sept 2016, 717-744. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H. W. Wilson), Web. 27 Jan 2017. McFarland, Matt. CEO Says Raising the Minimum Wage Will Help Robots Take The Washington Post, 25 May 2016, Web. 27 Jan 2017. Wage and Hour Division. United States Department of Labor. N.p, n.d. Web. 28 Jan 2017. Fight For $15, Fightfor15. N.p, n.d. Web. 28 Jan 2017. Schouten, Lucy. For Targets With Christian Science Monitor. 14 Apr 2016. Web. 28 Jan 2017.