1 Emily Hickmon Alison Missler ENC 1102 27 January 2017 The Future and Benefits of Kratom in New Jersey Kratom is a natural strain of tea from Southeast Asia that is surrounded by controversy. Some doctors have been researching the negative effects of it while the public is enjoying it both medically and recreationally. Kratom is said to put users into a euphoric, sociable, relaxed state, while also lessening any chronic pain, and reducing users symptoms of opioid withdrawal. If a detox center and the American Kratom Association campaigned together, Kratom would have a better chance of remaining legal in the state of New Jersey. While there are little to no deaths reported involving Kratom compared to the growing death reports from painkiller abuse, there is a push in New legislation to ban this alternative medicine. In Elizabeth, New Jersey, Seton Detox Center has witnessed the different ways that Kratom can work for their patients. The doctors at this hospital have vouched for Kratoms ability to help one overcome opioid and other drug abuse and withdrawal. Dale Jerue, a doctor from this hospital based facility, has performed deep analysis into the uses of Kratom for detoxification and vouches for usefulness. In his paper, Jerue discusses the growth of deaths as a result of painkiller abuse and how the use of Kratom, combined with the social resources at the detox center provides patients with a better chance of successful recovery from opioid addiction (Jerue, Kratom: A Collective Analysis). Within their city, the hospital and detox center sends mobile 2 health units, holds family counseling, and many other public outreach efforts. Many of the patients at this center are suffering from severe addictions, such as a high density of heroin addicts. However, more than heroin, drug addicts are using painkillers, such as oxycodone, with an alarming rate of over 70% growth. (Paulozzi). Some examples of events that this facility hosts are prayer sessions, group counseling, and even dancing events. In America, the abuse of painkillers is unfortunately seen far too much. This usage of course also comes at a cost, as many users see more severe side effects than those of Kratom which gives more effective results. Pain News Network and the American Kratom Association conducted a survey on thousands of Kratom users and it was found that 9/10 of the users found Kratom as a safer and stronger solution to prescription painkillers. Many people in the US are suffering from debilitating pain that medications, like morphine and tramadol can only treat with a numerous amount of side effects including chest pains and fainting. One of the best things to argue the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) with is first hand accounts, which are not scarce within the American Kratom Association (AKA). For years, many people suffering from diseases such as Multiple Sclerosis and Cancer have been using Kratom tea and pills to do what modern medicine The American Kratom Association is a channel for these voices. Already, in 2017, the AKA has presented a petition with over 25,000 signatures to the Donald Trump administration in hopes of keeping Kratom available to those who need it. The American Kratom Association website is full of resources from where to voice your story, what bills are trying to pass against it, to even scientific research studies on all the benefits of the botanical. The detox center and American Kratom Association are both crucial parts of the Kratom community. While the Seton Detox Center throws events and provides emotional and religious 3 support, the AKA provides research and stories to support the use of it. The biggest similarity between the Seton Detox Center and American Kratom Association is that both of them acknowledge Kratom as something that benefits lives rather than hindering them. Within the Seton Detox Center, Doctor Dale Jurue has written an in depth analysis of how he has witnessed Kratom improve the lives of patients that come into his care. The American Kratom Association is also home to many articles full of the scientific reinforcement of Kratom use. In New Jersey, laws have been introduced to legislation against the legality of Kratom. Therefore it is crucial for both stakeholders to work together. Seton Detox Center should propose an event involving the American Kratom Association at their facility in Elizabeth, New Jersey. At this event, the public can see the research and testimony by the AKA while in a place that Kratom has benefitted. The event could start off as a prayer and dance by the Detox Center. Following the introduction, a scientist that has assisted in Kratom research could come out and speak about the costs and benefits of the drug. After the facts are presented, there could be 3-5 people who have used Kratom as a way to alleviate chronic pain, and also 3-5 people who have used Kratom in order to help eliminate their drug addictions. Once all the presentations are complete, a petition is to be handed around the room to collect more signatures needed to prevent anti-Kratom legislature from being passed. During the event, there could be a camera recording the emotional testimonies so that people online can see it across the world. Marijuana is not the only plant fighting against legislature in 2017. Kratom, a plant that has helped many people overcome anything from heroin addiction to chronic pain as a result of cancer, is fighting for legality status against legislation everyday. While the Drug Enforcement Agency sees this substance as a risk, the Suton Detox Center and American Kratom 4 Association see it as an opportunity to overcome what no prescription can solve. One of the most effective ways to prevent this is with the voices of thousands of people via petition. Together, both stakeholders can prevent further banning of Kratom. 5 Works Cited Jerue, Dale. Kratom: A Collective  N.p., May 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Matsumoto, Kenjiro. Studies on 7-Hydroxymitragynine, Isolated from the Thai Herbal Medicine Mitragyna speciosa: Discovery of an Orally Active Opioid Analgesic . N.p.: n.p., n.d. 2006. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Thogulava, Kannon. Ketamine as an Adjuvant to Oral Morphine for Neuropathic Pain in Cancer Patients (2001): n. pag. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Leonard J. Paulozzi. Opioid Analgesic Involvement in Drug Abuse Deaths in American Metropolitan Areas. American Journal of Public Health: October 2006, Vol. 96, No. 10, pp. 1755-1757. https://www.painnewsnetwork.org/stories/2016/5/5/pain-patients-turning-to-kratom https://d3n8a8pro7vhmx.cloudfront.net/americankratomassociation/pages/21/attachments http://www.americankratom.org