Phillips Adam ENC1102.026 12 March 2017 Same Sex adoption Adoption is transferring all right and responsibility of a child permanently from biological parents to a new parents. While there are different types of adoption the most common in the United States is open adoption where there is a contact between biological family and adoptive family. A second type of adoption is semi open adoption where the contact is by letter and pictures without personal visits. A third type of adoption is closed adoption where there is no contact between both families and usually the birth family are anonymous. Some people say that children need both a mother and a father to raise them. But there are others who believe that gender does not matter when parenting. One of the organizations that agree with same sex parenting to adopt is Family Equality Council (FEC). FEC fights for same sex rights to have family and children; to share and communicate their value, morality, laugh and hugs together. Their goal is to guarantee equality and fairness to be happy and to have the right to raise children. It also connects other local families with same sex parents to provide a supporting educational environment. Both images support family like happy images of parents and children. First image used logos, ethos, and pathos. While the second image used ethos, pathos, and kairos. FEC delivered their idea of togetherness, family and love to the audience in these pictures. Family Equality Council works specialty to provide comprehensive environment for all children who have same sex parents. It also connects other local families with same sex parents to provide a supporting educational environment. There is no proof for lesbian and gay parents to be unfit for the parenting roles. Family Equality Council work on connecting LGBTQ people all around in the same area that they live in so they can have support. The FEC organization aims and works toward achieving their moto which is love, justice, family, equality as stated in their website Equality Council Logos is request to logic where the importance of argument in making it clear and logic because if it is not a few audience will respect it. We can see in the first image they use the words, love, justice, family, and equality. Where these worlds are representing what they are offering and confirm their message the worlds included their organization name. Ethos is the appeal to ethics. That is by perusing the audience of their credibility and with their authority. In the first picture we see that they have their website written on the bottom right. Which give the advertisement of credibility that there is a website to back up their statement. And with that it is giving the audience a chance to go and visit the website and see for themselves the credibility of the source and the work FEC does to spread the work and achieve their goal. As for the second image we can see the logo of the stakeholder on the far right where it is two circles joint together as well as the two colors that are also mixed in middle of the two circles. The evidence of togetherness and joining each other is in the design of their logo. Where a circle can present of creating sense of completeness. The second image also has a website and a direction in the website to where you can go and read more about it. Pathos is the appeal to emotions it is mostly used to be able to connect with the audience. It is present in the first picture where there are four pictures that all have a child in them. Also all the people in the picture are happy and smiling. The picture are clearly showing parents with their children having a good time, even thou they are from the same sex. It is emphasizing the possibility of having a joyful time in a family atmosphere. Also in the first image the background is filled with light colors almost white in the center and graduate to light gray at the edges form left and right. With that it gives the image sense of clearness and calmness that go with the rest of pictures. Plus with a light background it cancel out all other noise to bring out to the surface the four family pictures. As for the second image it has the adoption word in a large bold font so that it can emphasis on the emotional package that is usually associated with the world adoption. The second image is composed of three colors dark red and dark orange for the background, whereas; the writing is in whit. Having a bark background and light color the contrast between the two colors brings out the word more and will be more noticeable to the audience. The wording can also play part in the audience emotions. Where they left it in a question mark and left the answer which is their website underneath the question mark. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness another way of thinking about kairos is writhing the right thing at the right time. Kairos is present in the second image where they have the worlds as in join us now at this moment support the cause of adoption and help FEC community to reach its goal. Adding the explanation mark at the end is carrying out the sense of urgency. In conclusion, both of the image where able to deliver the message of the stakeholder. Where family is united even if it is from same sex parents, and that it does not have to be a traditional family to be happy and complete. The first image had logos presents in the world Justice. Family. And ethos that included the website. And lastly, Pathos where the four picture of family like attracted the audience with their cheerfulness. As for the second image ethos was present in the world in a question mark. Also pathos with a dramatic white bold and big writing that contrast with dark red orange background. And finally, it included kairos in the worlds of From analyzing both images the stakeholder FEC is able to attract the right audience for their movement. Works Cited Cianciaruso, Lauren B., and Adrienne N. Zavala. Culturally Competent Care For Nontraditional Family  Osteopathic Family Physician 5.(2013): 217-224. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Family Equality Council. Familyequality.org, 3 Feb. 2017. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Isaacs, Richard C.A. A Relationship Driven Approach to the Identification of a Color Test Protocol for the Presumptive Indication of Synthetic Cannabimimetic Drugs of  Forensic Science International, vol. 242, 01 Sept. 2014, pp. 135-141. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.06.027.