Brunard Octavius Kristen Gociniski ENC.1102.012 27 February 2017 Impaired drivers (individuals under the influence of drugs or alcohol) tear unknowing individuals from their families on a daily basis. Experts estimate that 1 person is killed due to a drunk driver every 51 minutes (Madd.org). Drunk driving or driving under the influence of any drug is a top national debate issue because of the frequency and the impact had on families. It is generally excepted by experts and the common public alike that there is no fixing the issue of driving under the influence. Car accidents that are caused directly by a driver being under the influence could have been avoided, but due to the lack of care and human mistakes make the problem is unsolvable because there is not much preventing an individual to indulge in alcohol and then operate a motor vehicle. Due to the issue of driving under the influence, many organizations and laws were created to attempt to correct the problem. In the midst of the creation of organizations, a group called Against Drunk (MADD) was created back in 1980. Candace Lightner set out and established an organization that is committed to ending the unsolvable problem of driving under the influence (Madd.org). In attempt to solve the issue of driving under the influence the Mothers Against Drunk Driving put out visual images to establish with the viewers the impact that driving under the influence can have. The two particular images selected contains rhetorical appeals that very effectively get the desired point across that driving under the influence is a horrible decision that often times come with consequences. As stated above, Against Drunk was established in the year 1980, giving the organization more than 35 years of experience to date. Fueled by the death of her 13 year old daughter (Cari) that was killed in a drunk driving accident by an individual with 3 prior arrests due to drunk driving, Candace Lightner established an organization with the aid the victims of crimes performed by individuals driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, to aid the families of such victims and to increase public awareness of the problem of drinking and drugged (madd.org). Since the establishment of MADD (not stataitng that MADD is the direct cause) automobile accidents caused by individuals under the influence (madd.org). MADD prides themselves on a starting from a beginning as well as not only focusing on the issue of driving under the influence, but also aiding the effected families of accidents caused by the use of drugs or alcohol. Visual presentation helps in a large way to truly drive home the intended point into the audience. Often times, individuals are labeled by the way in which they learn best. A great deal of individuals are hence why organizations such as MADD use images to connect with the viewer and even persuade. MADD does a good job in using images that contain the appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. Ethos or ethical is defined as a to convince an audience of the credibility or (pathosethoslogos.com). In other terms, a speaker can better communicate, persuade, and convince the audience if he/she is a individual that is known for having knowledge on a subject. In the particular situations in which the message the author is attempting to express does not come from the mouth but instaead a visual, ethos is the established no by the individual speaking, but the logo being placed somewhere within the image. With the logo of an organization on the photo credibility is established. In the first image just under the text written in red with the white background, the viewer will notice mad logo that contains the words and more (Madd.org). The logo of MADD is efficient in the use of Kairos. The terms more calls for immediate action, so immediate that no one else will fall to an individual under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Venturing back to the ethos side of things, since MADD has been established so long, and has withstood the test of time, their logo equates to a sense of truthfulness because of the built since 1980. The way a message makes an individual feel is described as pathos. In this particular image, the artist evokes a sense of pity by juxtaposing the general qualities of a teddy bear, which may be interpretive as caring or loving, wearing a seatbelt. It influences the audience to look at this teddy bear and see the innocence in its smile and overall composure, in efforts of having those viewing granted the realization that endangering its life would be entirely unacceptable. Not only in the contributing persuasion factor of pathos used in the image of the teddy bear, a motif of logos is present within using such a universally recognized object of care. In the campaign protesting drunk driving, MADD also established another more direct form of persuasion. A red picture, which a white word outline stating is killed every 51 minutes by drunk driving. Join us as one of the 51,000 MADD members in Now this, although not requiring any forms of general symbolism, portrays a deeper meaning than most significant drunk driving advertisements by first stating a radically true fact about the statistics of contemporary drunk driving, while also offering a solution to said problem. This initial statistic of is killed every 51 minutes by drunk is used to evoke tragedy through the anticipated conscious mind. It is set out to first shock the audience with a drastic realization that is happening now, in which the audience has an influence in the outcome otherwise. Due to the overall simplicity of this advertisement, it is so successful in bringing its point across. The white letters associated on a red background strike the eye. This red background may be synonymous to the blood sacrificed by the individuals that lose their lives to drunk drivers every day. Give the Gift of a Hug. N.d. Web. <http:www.madd.org/blog,2017,February/give-the-gift-of-a- hug. Html?referrer=http://www.madd.org/blog/> N.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.madd.org/blog/2017/january/why-adopt-laura.html>