Sulbaran 1 Helio Sulbaran Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 29 January, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The Electoral College has been established in the United States since its inception. The purpose of the Electoral College is to elect the president of the United States. Because it was adopted so long ago, it has become a highly debated topic. The argument most discussed goes on whether the Electoral College should be eliminated, or whether it should be updated, and become more of a popular vote election. The National Popular Vote, or NPV, defends the idea of updating the Electoral College system, and becoming a direct democracy (NPV). To support their opinion, they use a proliferous amount of advertisements. The video titled you should support the National Popular explains their position on why the Electoral College should be updated, and how the people can help. Another advertisement, is a picture on where people can be seen protesting on eradicating the Electoral College. These two pieces of propaganda utilize many different rhetorical appeals, which successfully explain their position and attract people to their side. The NPV has an ongoing campaign, on where they are trying to pass their proposition of following the national popular vote for the next presidential election in 2020. They have launched multiple videos trying to persuade people to support their campaign. An example of one of their video is you should support the National Popular This video utilizes rhetorical appeals to try to persuade people to support the NPV ideas. The video is one-minute- long, with only the president of the organization, Barry Fadem, talking about how the proposition is the only way to elect the president of the United States, on where the candidates Sulbaran 2 that wins the most popular votes receives the most Electoral College votes. He explains that they 61% of the way to our goal of and need are 105 more electoral votes for the national popular vote plan for to be in effect for (Video) It is also mentioned in the video what to do to contribute to the cause. However, before they mentioned it, they present the rhetorical devices of ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos, to hook the audience and convince them to support their proposition. The ethos comes in the video by having the President of the organization being the speaker of the video. This provides a sense of authority, because the President himself is the one speaking, and it provides a sense of seriousness and importance because the president made time to make this video. The video possesses logos in the fact that they mentioned that they are 65% of the way, with 105 Electoral College votes left to pass their proposition. This demonstrates that their work is paying off, and that they have the facts to prove that their organization is gaining enough support. Pathos is present throughout the whole video, with the application of music in the background. The music works by creating a mood of serenity, calmness, and welcoming, on where the person watching the video feels welcomed. It also brings pathos with the words the President used to describe the amending of the constitution. By using the words unnecessary and totally (video) to describe the process of amending the constitution, it gives a negative image on the previous efforts to amend it, and it displays the organizations feelings towards the amending of the constitution. In addition, the video talks about the possibility of having the proposition made a reality by the 2020 elections. After displaying the facts, the video starts to talk about what the audience can do before 2020. This brings in Kairos, on where they ask the viewers to write their legislators to support the NPV and pass their proposition in their states. This gives the video a time window to complete the proposal. Sulbaran 3 The NPVs campaign of passing a popular vote for the election has gained attention during the last couple of month, especially with the recent 2016 elections. The NPV took this to their advantage, and created ads focusing around what was occurring during the election. An example of the ads they used is a picture with the American flag as the background, and in white letters, a text that says, can fix the Electoral College. Use the link above to tell your legislators to support the National Popular (Picture) They used the picture via twitter, and tweeted it December 19, 2016. This is the date when the Electoral College members meet, and cast their Electoral College vote (National Archive). The NPV used this day to their advantage to tweet this picture, and quoted it meet today, so a good time to ask legislators to adopt a popular vote for president. http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/mail3 They used the date to support their picture, and used the rhetorical appeals of Kairos and pathos to support their claim. The presence of Kairos is shown in the picture with the picture asking the people to tell their legislator to support the NPV, and used the time of Electoral College members voting day, to write now to their legislator, so for the next election is based on the popular vote system. Pathos is also present in the picture, by having the American flag as the background. The American flag brings the feeling of patriotism. They used it to help and motivate the audience to feel patriotic and that writing their legislator is the right thing to do, the American thing to do. Also, by having the words and bolded, it gives the feeling that it does not have to be brought up to the federal level, just leave it to the state level, where they do not have amend the constitution, just have the states decide if they want to use the popular vote. The two pieces of advertisement selected both possess at least more than one rhetorical appeal. They both use them correctly in trying to persuade their audience to support the NPV. Sulbaran 4 The video uses its rhetorical appeals to explain how the proposition of the National Popular Vote works, what will it do, and after explaining how they have support from 65% of the electoral college voters, they mentioned how the viewer can contribute. The picture, uses its rhetorical appeal combined with the date the picture was publicized, and explained on what the viewer can do and how it will affect them in the future. Even though, they both use their rhetorical appeals correctly, the video has the best persuasive ideas and rhetorical appeals. The video not only possesses the four appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos, but it also uses them in a way that connect back to each other, and present the organization as a growing trend that has to be followed. The picture, however, it is based more on the date and the context it was published. It connects back to the main purpose of the NPV, but it is only relevant if the audience knows what happened on the day of publication. Comparing them both just with the appeals that are common to both, Kairos and Pathos, the video uses them in a way that connects the whole idea of the video together. As explained by Higgins and Walkers, Pathos to the feelings and relies for persuasive effect on triggering audience emotions such as happiness, sadness, satisfaction, pity, or The picture uses the American flag as the background to invoke the emotion of patriotism and that writing the legislator is the right thing to do. The video plays a smoothing country song, which makes the audience feel at home and welcoming to the idea. It also uses word choices, conveying the NPVs attitude towards amending the constitution, giving it a bad connotation and triggers the audience that the NPV cares about not changing it. Here, pathos is used as a way on where persuader conveys a sense that understands and relates to the needs, values and desires of the (Higgins and Walker). Even though the picture uses the American flag to convey patriotism, so the audience writes their legislator, the video uses it in a way on where the pathos connects to the main purpose of explaining the NPV Sulbaran 5 and how the audience connects with the idea of not amending the constitution. Knowing that the majority of the audience does not want to amend the constitution, the video opens a connection with the audience of preserving the constitution, and welcoming the proposition of changing the states electoral rules, not the federal laws. Now, when mentioning Kairos, the video still comes on top compared to the picture because of the following reasons. First, Kairos refers to of persuasion, concerned with the effectiveness of a particular argument in a particular time and physical (Macdonald, 7). In the picture, Kairos is relevant to the date December 19, the day when the members of the Electoral College get together to vote. They tweeted this to promote the idea of establishing the popular vote to elect the president for next election, and all the audience has to do is write their legislator. They made the Kairos relevant by using the date to their advantage to persuade the audience to do it today, so that the next time the new system will be in place. The video, however, uses Kairos at the beginning, by presenting the idea of having the change to the popular vote by 2020. Then it uses all the rhetorical devices to support their argument. The video uses Kairos as it main device, and the other devices to explain how it is a possibility to have the NPV proposition set for the elections of 2020. Rhetorical appeals are a used with the main purpose to help persuade an audience, and follow what the persuader is trying to explain. Because of its application in persuasion, it can be found in many debatable topics. An example of the topics is the Electoral College. The NPV is an organization that supports the idea of updating the Electoral College. To try to persuade the public to support them, the NPV uses a campaign on videos and images full of rhetorical appeals. One of the videos is the one mentioned in the paper, on where the video possesses ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos, on where they support the idea of what the NPV proposition is, how close Sulbaran 6 they are on reaching this goal, and what the audience should do to get to that goal. The picture mentioned has the appeals of Kairos and pathos. It uses Kairos combined with the time of publication to try to prompt its audience to write to their legislators. They both use their appeals correctly and get the point across on why it is the right time to support the NPV. Sulbaran 7 Picture https://twitter.com/NatlPopularVote/status/810901801197326340 Video https://www.crowdpac.com/campaigns/124331/elect-the-president-by-the-national-popular-vote Worked Citation Sulbaran 8  National Popular Vote. http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/about, 19 Jan. 2016. Web. 18 February. 2017. Higgins, Colin and Robyn Walker. Ethos, Logos, Pathos: Strategies of Persuasion in Social/Environmental  Accounting Forum, vol. 36, no. Analyzing the Quality, Meaning and Accountability of Organizational Communication, 01 Sept. 2012, pp. 194-208. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.accfor.2012.02.003. MacDonald, Lauren E.1 and Stephanie L.2 Walsh. Burkean Identification: Rhetorical Inquiry and Literacy Practices in Social  Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies in Education, vol. 3, no. 1, Dec. 2014, pp. 5-17. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eue&AN =100316281&site=eds-live. National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. <https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral-college/key- dates.html>.