Fennimore 1 Chris Fennimore Allison Missler ENC 1102 January 29 th , 2017 Happy Median Marijuana is the most illicit drug in the United States with 25 million Americans admitting to using in the past year. Golden of the was famous for the recreational use of this drug. Since then, marijuana is now 15-20 times stronger than before. This jump in potency calls for a question of whether this psychedelic truly is beneficial for society or will end up as another As time passes and more research is being conducted, scientists are finding out that there are both positives and negatives of marijuana. There are some cases where hazardous effects may outweigh the actual intentioned purpose of curing. On the other hand, there have been studies in incidents that support the evidence that marijuana in fact does contain medicinal properties. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws and Safe Approaches to Marijuana are two stakeholders with opposing stances who may have more in common than one would believe. They care about the safety of America and educating the public of its effects. Although N.O.R.M.L. makes very good points such as medical remedies that outweigh some present pharmaceutical prescriptions and SAM arguing that it has the potential for harm, today there is still no happy median. If both these organizations fight for more research to be performed, more information can be available to the public to finally conclude whether its pros or cons are worth legalization. Fennimore 2 The National Organization of the Reform of Marijuana Laws is an organization located throughout the majority of states even including Florida, that wants to better educate the United States to convince them marijuana who actually benefit America. They want to fight against the traditional propaganda the government portrays on marijuana. The end goal is to have a legally controlled market for marijuana where the public can have access to a harmless new substance. N.O.R.M.L. also believes that America could truly benefit from the medicinal use of weed to the tens of thousands who therapeutically need it. With thousands of cases of solving a plethora of diseases among cancer recovery within patients, HIV/AIDS, ADHD, glaucoma, anxiety, depression and many more. Recent medicine with current opioids are highly addictive with chance of overdose, where marijuana has never a recorded case of overdose. given the recent turmoil concerning opioid addiction and lethal overdoses, some scientists suggest that cannabis may still carry an advantage. may be less effective, but may be a less dangerous says Dr. Franson, now associate dean of professional education at the Skaggs School of Pharmacy at the University of Colorado in (Nelson, B. 67). Now, marijuana is available for pharmaceutical treatments within 28 states. Along with all these pros marijuana provides, one cannot forget the harmful effects it contains as well. The opposing stakeholder Smart Approaches to Marijuana, also located in Florida, is an organization that wants to educate the world of the harmful effects of marijuana. They argue that if weed is legal, this will introduce a new drug where companies can control consumers with another addiction. They are aware that there are some medicinal components within marijuana but should not be legal. Marijuana has had numerous of reports of patients who experiences paranoia, pneumonia, problems with short term thinking, memory, and immune function. marijuana contains high levels of tar, four times as much as in tobacco cigarettes, Fennimore 3 according to the American Lung Association, thus leading to an increased risk of lung and throat (Nelson, E. n.p.). One joint a day, smoked for a consecutive among of years can actually lead to more injury to lung more than just a cigarette. SAM also fights for not letting another big tobacco company to take over the lives of a new addiction. The biggest myth by most pot smokers is weed is not addictive. It is true marijuana is not physically addictive, but it can feel psychologically need and introduced as a habit. Per the Harvard School of Medical School, symptoms include the ones typical of other drugs such as urges to use, insomnia, depression, vivid dreams, autonomic nervous system disruption, anger, headaches, sweating, coughing, decrease in appetite, chills and tremors, and these symptoms may last as long as 3 (Sussman 702). In some cases, some chronic users had symptoms similar to nicotine withdraw. With all these potential risks at hand, this questions whether the positives outweigh the negatives. Both stakeholders show a tremendous interest in what is in the best interest for the United States. They both revolve their organizations about informing the public. N.O.R.M.L. takes the stance of providing factual evidence where incidents of medical marijuana have helped many patients who were in seek of medical attention. On the contrast, SAM states that weed can be addictive and data shows there can be withdraw symptoms that can be similar to those of other drugs. There is information that supports both sides of this argument and sometimes hard to decipher if marijuana could potential help the medical industry. Even though there are both positives and negatives, more research needs to be conducted in order to further the chance of legalization. In the New England Journal of Medicine, the report stresses the importance of focusing research efforts on the therapeutic potential of synthetic or pharmaceutically pure (Volkow 879). The long-term effects of marijuana are still Fennimore 4 little to unknown which would make populations susceptible to indefinite outcome in the future. If both stakeholders, The National Organization of the Reform Laws of Marijuana and Safe Approaches to Marijuana invest more money into scientific research, more proof can be resolved on the fight over the medical and even the legalization of marijuana. Marijuana is a the 3 rd most widely used drug besides alcohol and nicotine. A major increase and popularity in culture the fact is weed is growing interest not only in youth but adults as well. Even though marijuana has been discussed of possible therapeutic remedies for patients in seek of medical help, the talk of the unidentified harms it could contain are still a mystery. As years past, more and more evidence proves that there is a balance between pros and cons of this drug. The common ground for these two stakeholders to agree on is the push for more research. The combination of The National Organization of the Reform Laws of Marijuana and Safe Approaches to Marijuana on the push to force more scientist to perform more experiments is the most reasonable compromise. As data is collected from researchers, this can help finally decide the end of this battle of legalization. Fennimore 5 Works Cited NORML.Org - Working To Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.Org - Working To Reform Marijuana . Norml.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Nelson, Bryn. Medical Marijuana: Hints Of Headway? Despite A Conflicted Regulatory Landscape, Support For Medical Marijuana Is Growing Amid Increasing Evidence Of Potential  Cancer Cytopathology 2 (2015): 67. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Nelson, Elizabeth Marie McGhee, PhD. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smart Approaches To Marijuana - . SAM. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Sussman, Steve et al. Marijuana Use: Current Issues And New Research . Journal of Drug Issues 26.4 (1996): 695-733. Web. Volkow, Nora. Adverse Health Effects Of Marijuana . New England Journal of Medicine 371.9 (2014): 878-879. Web.