Penyak1 Tyler Penyak Mrs. Hernandez ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Rhetoric Appeals in Advertisements Gun control has been an avid topic in the United States over the past couple years. The National Rifle Association, also known as the NRA, is one of the largest stakeholders in this topic. The NRA is a non-profit organization that holds safety classes for people of all ages and educational course that are taught across the states (NRA Explore). This organization presents rhetoric appeals in their advertisement to connect with the audience that is viewing them to have the audience join their cause. The first image is one of the first logo to be created when the NRA was first established in 1871. This image presents many elements of ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos. The image presents great ethos due to it being the actual logo that was used by the NRA. Also, clearly around the main image in the center is the wording Rifle Association of The image shows a great deal of pathos within it. Starting with the center of the logo contains a bald eagle, two rifles that are perpendicular to each other, an olive branch and an American shield. The bald eagle is the biggest element of the image. The bald eagle represents long life, great strength and its majestic look. When people see a bald eagle the very first thing that comes to mind is the United States of America. The eagle in the image is protecting the other elements by standing over them with its wings flared up. This can say that the NRA is the one of the elements that stands for the United States and the national bird will stand by their side. The next element, Penyak2 the two rifles that are perpendicular to each other, is show as the second level of the image. The rifles are what the eagle in standing over, but the rifles are crossed over an American shield. This can bring the appeal that the rifles are being used to protect the American shield and the holding point for the eagle. They appeal aesthetical to the audience with the fact that are perfectly perpendicular to each other. The American shield is the entire base of the elements in the picture. This shows the audience that the United States is the protector of the rights of the people. Lastly, the red background allows for the whole image pop and draws the eyes to the eagle and the rifles. The logo appeals to logos in many ways as well. The image clearly shows exactly what the NRA stands for. The unity of the elements in the image shows the audience the NRA is for the United States and has been around in the states almost since they were officially formed. For Kairos, this image shows that the topic of gun control has been around for hundreds of years. Recently, the topic has escalated and created a lot of discussion among the people. The second image is a set scene that was used in a video advertisement created by the NRA about Obama during his presidency. It presents strong Kairos, logos, ethos and pathos. Pathos is seen the most in the image. The biggest and boldest part of the image is the wording the kids more important than This draws attention to the audience members who have kids. All kids should be considered equal and none should have an advantage over another. The wording is all white besides the words which are in red and draw the viewers eyes toward it. The background is a grey color which usually brings a gloomy feeling to the audience. Also, in the far background an American flag flies in the background. This shows the three kids having a good time together on American soil, living the American dream. The ethos for the image within the image itself. This picture is from a video that the NRA created about how kids are being protected when he was against allowing guns in Penyak3 public education establishments. At the end of the video, the NRA logo is established and presents the credibility of the image. The logos of the image in the image but the reasoning behind the image being created. Obama pointed out that the need of weapons in public education institutions; however, his daughters are attending schools with security personals that are carrying weapons. The audience may question the reasoning behind why the president who say that then send his daughters to school like that. The Kairos established in the image is from the fact of all the shootings that are occurring in schools across the country and if teachers or faculty were armed if the outcomes would be different Rhetoric appeals do help organizations get people involved with their goals that they are trying to achieve. The NRA uses these to get their point of gun rights across for the people of the united states. These are just two images that the NRA uses to try and get people involved. Penyak4 Penyak5 Works Citied Responsible Gun Owners Need to Repudiate the  The Progressive Cynic. N.p., 26 June 2014. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. NRA Uses Visual Rhetoric in Gun Debate (with images, tweet)  Storify. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. NRA  NRA.ORG. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.