Rader 1 Alyssa Rader ENC 1102 Ms. Lay 2/6/17 Intermediate Draft Within this country, marijuana has become a very popular subject. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML, is a stakeholder set out to change the views of marijuana use to the people and the government of this country. Two images, which explain their purpose and stance, while also trying to persuade the audience, are featured below as image one and image two. Through the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, these two ads NORML created can be used to persuade the audience to join them and their pro marijuana views on marijuana use in the country. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML, was created in the recent year of 2013, as a force to help persuade the US to legalize marijuana. Their mission is simple, move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (Working to Reform Marijuana Laws). NORML believes marijuana can actually help people and add to everyday lives and issues. Due to these thoughts they have, their efforts are put towards changing the laws in the United States government, which include restrictions on marijuana use. NORML advertises themselves in many ways, from political cartoons to online databases. Rader 2 Two ads, which stood out the most from recent events, are one political ad of the legalization of marijuana and one is an informative ad to educate the audience of the NORML organization. In the first ad, the political one is what seems to be a possible banner or a billboard of a politician himself saying he enjoyed smoking marijuana. The purpose for this ad is to persuade the audience to think marijuana is not that bad because even the icons of the US government can do such things. The ad uses ethos with the credibility of the (NORML) information at the bottom of the banner in a website to visit. The other ethos this ad is using is the politician himself, which is Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City, to promote the legalization of the drug marijuana. The pathos in this ad is the phrase close to the bottom of the banner saying, last, an Honest This is pathos because it hits the emotions of the audience by making them think he could actually be an honest politician and not make them have anger or other negative emotions by lying or choosing the views as other politicians. The logos in this ad is not much, just the use of facts in which, the quote from Michael Bloomberg is a true quote from him. The kairos is this ad is also not much, just the hope that by adding the website at the bottom urges the audience to go online and search the information on the subject of legalizing marijuana. This ad is a persuasive ad, which the stakeholder NORML uses pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos to do this. The second ad, the informative one, is also one, which makes a play on words as the other ad did, in the hopes to persuade the audience to join their side and views that marijuana can help in more ways then one. This can be said because the ad is a picture on Rader 3 a tree made out of marijuana leaves and dollar signs, while also saying CAN Grow On The pathos in this the quote of money touching the audience because money can usually be a very emotional thing for a lot of people, and the play on the words of money growing on trees can make the audience of this ad think about what the tax money can be used for to change the lives of many people across the US. The ethos in this ad is the NORML logo and website listed at the bottom of this advertisement, which shows that this ad is completely approved by people who seem to know their facts on the marijuana subject. The logos is this ad is not much just that is a true fact the marijuana is grown on trees and can be converted into state governmental revenue to help the public. Lastly, the kairos in this ad is the telephone number given in the left bottom hand corner to give the audience a sense of urgency to act now on the topic of legalizing marijuana by calling that number fast for my information. Due to the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, NORML created a persuasive advertisement to help achieve their goal to legalize marijuana. The organization of NORML, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, is one whose efforts are put towards changing the laws of the United government to be pro marijuana use, make many advertisements to help these efforts. In these two ads which were covered, NORML does good using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to persuade their audience of US voters to help them make a change on current marijuana laws. Rader 4 Rader 5 Works Cited Five Questionable Pot  Truth In Advertising. N.p., 27 May 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.  JaySelthofner.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. (n.d.). Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://norml.org/about