Connor Slater 2/22/17 ENC 1102 Project 2 For many years, cheerleaders and the major cheerleading organizations have been pushing to make cheerleading a sport. There are many aspects to cheerleading that do make it eligible to be considered a sport, while the reasons it is said not to be a sport are very weak. The Universal Cheerleading Association (UCA) is one of the main organizations that has pushed for the consideration. The main goal that UCA cheerleading strives for is that all their cheerleaders know their duty and to make cheerleading a well-known and respected sport (About UCA). The UCA shows their efforts and teaches their kids in many ways and visually is one of the most prominent ways. The two images show main goals because one shows the amazing feats that cheerleaders achieve and the other has injury statistics showing that cheerleading should be made a sport. The Universal Cheerleading Association was created in 1974 by Jeff Webb. focus when starting the organization was to teach cheerleaders what their duties are. He wanted UCA cheerleaders to have the most school spirit, always be smiling, and to be able to lead a crowd at any time for any reason (About UCA). Although Jeff Webb has passed away, his legacy lives on and his goals for the association are accomplished every day. The association now has new goals, and their biggest is to make cheerleading a sport, a well-known and respected sport that is. As of now, cheerleading is not legally a sport, and the main reasoning that sports official say it is not a sport is because they think there is no objective to it. Most people only know cheerleading at football games and other events, but there is a whole other aspect. Most cheerleading programs around the country go to competitions all around the country and create routines to show off and be judged on. This is the real cheerleading, all aspects of cheerleading are shown in a routine including stunting, tumbling, a cheer, and in some cases a jump and dance section. In UCA cheerleading there is no jump or dance section, they focus mainly on the other three aspects (About UCA). If a sports official were to go to a cheerleading competition they would see what the real cheerleading looks like. They would also see the amount of injuries cheerleaders encounter, and both of those are represented in the two pictures below. The first picture talks about the injuries cheerleaders go through. The picture states that 37,000 cheerleaders visited the emergency room for injuries related to cheerleading. That is just dealing with high school cheerleaders. There are also club cheerleaders and college cheerleaders who were not accounted for. According to two doctors named Brenda Shields and Gary Smith, who did research into cheerleading injuries, cheerleaders are most apt to getting concussions than other athletes. They did a survey on 412 different cheer teams throughout the country in one year, and out of these teams 565 cheerleaders had an injury related to cheer. 467 of these 565 cheerleaders had gotten concussions at practice, that is 83% of the cheerleaders being surveyed (Shields and Smith). The cheerleaders also encountered other injuries, such as brakes or sprains, but concussions were the most prominent. The study backs up what the picture is saying with more data. Cheerleaders spend countless hours training in the gym and perfecting their skills, but with this comes many injures as shown above. Injuries cause a great amount of emotion in cheerleaders, as they do in any athlete. Not only does the pain cause emotion, but also the love for the sport. When someone gets a concussion, they are not able to participate in the sport for an average of 5 to 6 weeks, this causes cheerleaders to lose skills because they are not able to practice. With the skills done in cheerleading, one must practice many times per week or else they will lose the skills because they are not done enough. The second part of the picture talks about how catastrophic injuries are four times higher now than they were in 1980, and because of the harder skills. This fact is very true, and many people have had injuries that impair them in many ways physically and make them stop cheering. This is very scary, but shows that cheerleading should be made a sport, just as the other picture shows. The second picture shows the USF Bulls all-girl team at UCA college nationals this past December. This is one of the harder stunts that are done in the competition, but this shows the hard work and dedication it takes to make it to this competition. A team like the Bulls, will train for a whole month, practicing for about 6-8 hours a day, 6 days a week. This shows that cheerleaders do train a great amount and that they are in very good shape. A cheerleader needs to be fit because the performance is a non-stop show for two and a half minutes. Both pictures show that cheerleading should be a sport, but it is not all shown through pictures. Two college professors named Laura Grindstaff and Emily West wrote an article about why cheerleading should be a sport, and they mention some reason why some say it The main argument that opponents have is that the sport requires men to partake in performance (Grindstaff and West). They believe that the dance portion of routines make men do something that men (Grindstaff and West). The opponents say nothing about a point system or anything that actually has to do with cheerleading, it has to do more with what they like about cheerleading. The two professors then talk about all the hard work and all the things that make cheerleading a sport as they are stated above. Although there are many people who disagree, cheerleading should be made a sport and the UCA shows why. Cheerleaders are very physically fit and can do things many other people cannot. The UCA was originally designed to show cheerleaders their main duty on and off the field. Now, a main goal of the UCA is to make cheerleading a sport, that way cheerleaders can get the recognition they deserve as athletes. If more research is conducted, then in the next few years, cheerleading will become a sport, and UCA will achieve their goal. Works Cited About  Varsity Spirit. Varsity Brands Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Laura Grindstaff, Emily West; Cheerleading and the Gendered Politics of Sport. Soc Probl 2014; 53 (4): 500-518. doi: 10.1525/sp.2006.53.4.500 Shields, Brenda J.1, brenda.shields@nationwidechildrens.org, and Gary A.2 Smith. Cheerleading-Related Injuries In The United States: A Prospective Surveillance  Journal Of Athletic Training (National Athletic Association) 44.6 (2009): 567-577. Education Source. Web. 9 Feb. 2017.