Carr 1 MacKenzie Carr Professor Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 26 February 2017 NNIR: Borders That Restrict In 2016 the refugee rate increased seventeen percent, due to the high demand of refugees fleeing to a country outside of their homeland. In November of 2016, newly elected President main focus was on building a wall barricading people from entering America. The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIR) is a national organization that believes in protecting all rights of all individuals. NNIR has been protecting refugee rights for over twenty five years. NNIR is fighting against the Mexican-American wall from being built, as well as blockades in the legal system. Their goal is to fight legal and physical borders and eliminate any inequality of any and all immigrants of the world. Within their twenty five years of serving those that have been left behind, they have made vast accomplishments. Accomplishments such as, during the initial days of the Obama Administration, NNIRR produced an Letter to Barack that was endorsed by over 3,500 diverse individuals and organizations from 49 states and the District of  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. Carr 2 NNIR stresses the inhumane issues that are handed to immigrants. The first image that is presented by NNIR is a visual of a mass group of individuals pushed together. There is not only visual in the image presented, but text as well. The text reads Rights at International across the entire image. The point of this image is to show its audience that immigration is affecting a large amount of people. There is such a mass amount of lives that are affected, and unless we do not stand together the issue will grow larger than the group of individuals in the picture. The rhetorical appeals shown in image is pathos, logos, and kairos. The image shown lacks the rhetorical appeal of ethos because there is no water mark of their organization name. Image one really utilizes the rhetorical appeal of pathos. They are so successful in this appeal because they really show their identity through the picture. You see in image one that they are fighting for a very severe issue of immigration. They utilize the rhetorical appeal of logos because they are showing how illogical an issue like immigration is. They want the audience to understand they must welcome their neighbors, or the mass amount of immigrants will rise and the problem will grow. The image utilizes the rhetorical appeal of kairos by stressing how little time we have as a nation to fix this issue. The NNIR really heightens their voice in immigration, and pushes to lessen the issue of immigration. They believe in respecting lives of all individuals, no matter where their homeland in geographically placed. In image two, you can see an image of one man holding a sign that reads, need legalization now!! There is a crowd of people around the man, Carr 3 insinuating he is not alone in this political view. The point of the image is to stand up for what you believe is right, no matter what measures you must take. The rhetorical appeals shown in image two is ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The image utilized the rhetorical appeal of ethos by showing that the NNIR really know about this topic, because they take action in situations. The image utilizes the rhetorical appeal of pathos by showing what identity truly entails. They believe in standing together as a unit, and fighting for what is right. NNIR believes in taking action, no matter what the measure may be. They not only believe in respect, but they demand it. Image two utilizes the rhetorical appeal of logos by visually stating that if we do not take action in this very serious issue, many lives will be affected in a very negative way. If we do not demand respect, we will not receive it. Image two utilized the rhetorical appeal of kairos with the context in the sign. We need now. The point of the image is to really demand respect now or we will not receive it. The two images that are shown through website is to show how severe of a situation immigration is. The legal, and physical borders that are being made against immigrants are ruining lives around the world. NNIR demands legalization, as well as respect for all human lives. Although there is a lack of ethos shown within the pictures, there is such a strong wave of the other rhetorical appeals. Within the two images, NNIR has really conveyed who they are as an organization, within strength and action. NNIR has conveyed their overall mission and goal, legalization for all immigrants. In 2016 the refugee rate increased seventeen percent, due to the high demand of refugees fleeing to a country outside of their homeland. goal is to fight legal and physical borders Carr 4 and eliminate any inequality of any and all immigrants of the world. They believe in taking action, and demanding respect for those who suffer such hardships. Consider one of your closest family members being denied American citizenship. You are never able to see that family member again until you take action. That is how NNIR feels, and they expect all members of society to stand together to eliminate all legal and physical borders. Image One: http://www.nnirr.org/drupal/ Carr 5 Image Two: http://www.nnirr.org/drupal/programs/immigration-policy-reform-program Carr 6 Works Cited Human Rights at International Borders . Digital image. . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nnirr.org/drupal/>. Immigration Policy Reform . Digital image. National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Baral, Susmita. Refugee Crisis 2016 In Europe: Death Toll And Migrant Arrival Increases, Statistics  Business Times . International Business Times, 10 Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Carlsen, Laura. The Draconian Calculus of Immigration  . Counter Punch Organization, 04 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. FAIR Members, ed. for American Immigration Reform Immigration 2007 Report . Rep. Federation for American Immigration Reform, Dec. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Faulstich, Orellana Marjorie. Unpacking  InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Faulstich, Orellana Marjorie. Unpacking  InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. H.R. 6061 (109th): Secure Fence Act of  . GovTrack, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Carr 7 Blas, and Michael John Garcia. Current State of the Border Fence . Rep. no. RS22026. Border Security, 23 May 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our  Mission National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.