Aldandan 1 Ahmed Aldandan Professor: Hernandez, Bianca ENC1102 Feb 25/2017 The Unattainable Beauty Beauty is a complicated word to define, and the arguments around its meaning are still active. Society do shape the meaning of norm and deviance, based on the sociologist Jon Witt. Witt also believe that women are more likely to consume products that make them feel more beautiful, and go through plastic surgery to avoid the stigma of not being beautiful (Witt 128). However, trying to meet the beauty standards of the media is only possible for a few number of women. Thus, a number of women do struggle to meet these standards (Witt 128). Many organizations are seeking to minimize the negative effects of the beauty standards. The National Organization for Women(NOW) is a non-profitable feminist organization, that seeks equality, and the rights of women in general. One of their goals is to make women accept their body shapes, their main body image campaign is called Love Your Body(LYB). In LYB, NOW uses posters that are trying to evoke emotions towered accepting their given physical bodies, and toward increasing awareness of women differences in general. Image one is showing fragments of a number of women, the fragments are pieced in way that makes them show a single complete woman. The second Image is showing a group of women that have different heights, shapes, and clothing preferences. Each image raise awareness using the rhetorical appeals Ethos, Pathos, Logos and Kairos in order to aware people of NOW goal. The reference to NOW is included in both images, which gives a strong credibility to them. NOW is a feminist organization, that seeks equality, and the rights of women in general. Based on NOW website, some of their objectives are in regard to wage equality, Aldandan 2 gender discrimination, same sex marriage, reproductive rights and health and body image (National Organization for Women). Thus, NOW do have the trust of many supporters for its wide range of feminist related interests. LYB wants to deliver the message that not all women are similar, they do have physical and cultural differences. Pathos is used in the first image through combining different fragments to show a single one. The fact that not all women are capable of becoming even close to the body image of a women on TV or magazines is an unfortunate aspect of the topic, because it can have an impact on health and phycological conditions. Nancy Rudd stated that image plays a key role in many disorders that affect individual health and well-being, particularly among adolescent and young adult (Rudd 153). The second image do also show women with different shapes and health, each one is given a different color to aware the observer even more that they are different. They are also carrying different letters to encourage women and observers to support their campaign, regardless of their cultural background or how they might be viewed by society. Anthropology do focus on the cultural aspect of humans, and the according to the anthropologist Conrad Kottak, cultures are connected through globalization and other practices such as marriage, trade, and religion. Nonetheless, cultures are diverse, people do have their religious, social and many other differences (33-287). The images do emphasize women to dress on their own standards. Logos is used in the first image to encourage women and to notify observers that women should praise beauty, but according to their cultural norms. It is worth to consider that women are also from different races, they do have different facial characteristics and different skin complexions. The second image do also use logos in showing women with different customs, and from different races. The colors are used to aware the observer that all of Aldandan 3 these women are different, they cannot logically be equal in terms of how similar they are to women shown in magazines or in the media in general. Each of the images was used in LYB campaign in different years, the first one was a part of 2016 campaign while the second was from 2014 campaign. Indicating the year of publication is a usage of Kairos, it gives the sense of relevancy to the intended goal. The issue of the media representation of women and how women might be influenced is an old topic, and some might even argue that it was created because of even older elements. However, the studies toward the media representations and toward its phycological and sociological effects did actually increase (Witt 215-217). Moreover, Naomi Wolf researched the topic and published the book Beauty Myth Wolf found that women cannot realistically become similar to super models and other women shown in the media, and she also argued that the beauty myth may not just harm women phytologically, but also it made them focus less on issues that they should fight for (Witt 274). In the current images, it can be assumed that argument is probably not just based on previous research, but also on their own interests and their globalization over the years. The shift toward appreciating the cultural diversity is definitely emphasized in the images, and also supported by NOW in the recent years. The objective of the images is to fight the narrow definition of beauty, in order to reduce the negative influence of the media, and to also make it easier for women to find acceptance. NOW website states that have many options available to them when it comes to campaign tone, design, and creativity. Why do so many choose to use negative, dangerous (National Organization of Women). NOW do also seek to provide a healthier environment for women, in order to reduce how beauty can be related to more dangerous and negative messages in the media. Even though the current images are not by any means an Aldandan 4 example of positive advertisements, they do represent the ideas that advertisers might consider. Appreciating the diversity of women culturally and physically cannot just yield financial profits, but it can also be profitable for future generation in terms of accepting beauty representations. In conclusion, the awareness of people about the beauty myth and the media representation of it is vital for its future. The usage of rhetorical appeals is necessary to spread the message for people in all ages. NOW is able to attract supporters globally, and the fact that they do support feminism in variety of ways makes them perfect in spreading their message to people with and without interests. The more frustrating aspect of the beauty myth is hidden in the images, it can be related but not directly seen. Influencing women to meet the standards of the narrow definition of beauty may require them to spend too much effort, at the end they may not ever be satisfied with their appearance. At the same time, it is not logical for a person to abandon his values to try and meet some expectations that are too far to reach. One of the goals of the images to replace the notion of perusing a single far interpretation of beauty with more accessible beauty norms. The images encourage the appreciation of multiculturalism, and they do encourage women to maintain their values and peruse beauty to a logical extent. The message is also to any potential observer in general, people have to change their expectancy to change beauty norms. NOW focuses on diversity and at the previous research on the beauty myths, and that is possible adaptation to globalization at recent years. If the objective of NOW is actually fulfilled, the media may use more positive advertisements, which can hopefully create a positive influence and wider range of beauty norms. Aldandan 5 Works Cited Kottak, Conrad Phillip. Anthropology : Appreciating Human Diversity. New York : McGraw- Hill Education, 2015.Print Witt, Jon, and Jon Witt. 4 th ed. SOC 2016. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Education, 2016. Print. Organization for Web. 23, February. 2017 Rudd, Nancy A., and Sharron J. Lennon. Body Image And Appearance-Management Behaviors In College  Clothing & Textiles Research Journal 18.3 (2000): 152. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Aldandan 6 Aldandan 7