Alfaro 1 Ariel Alfaro Professor Dennis ENC 1102-003 26 February 2017 Poverty and unemployment have always been factors in society that the United States has been attempting to combat through the enactment of different policies and support organizations. This problem has existed since before President Obama raised the federal minimum wage to $7.25 to 2017 where the minimum wage remains the same despite rising costs of living. According to Nicole Mason, a 25-year-old single mother, the minimum wage job at a fast food restaurant that she is employed at is insufficient no matter the number of hours that she works (Raise the Minimum Wage campaign). She is reportedly working this job to support her two children but has found it extremely difficult to provide for them without a better job. In response, she has attempted to go back to school to become a nurse but has found that nearly impossible because of the amount of hours she must work just to keep her children fed. In order to combat poverty in the United States, some individuals and organizations, such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, have proposed the idea of raising the minimum wage to $15 within all states which has, of course, sparked the rise of opposing organizations such as the Faces of $15 campaign. While the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign believes that there should be a raise in minimum wage within all states to decrease the population of impoverished peoples, the Faces of $15 campaign opposes such a wage adjustment because they believe that this raise would only hurt small businesses and cause unemployment rates to spike throughout the nation. The spike in minimum wage has caused some business owners to close their doors permanently Alfaro 2 such as Annisa, a local favorite in New York City that was forced to close their doors because they could not afford the new labor costs (Faces of $15). The beliefs of the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign revolve around the idea of fair wages to ensure that full time minimum wage job employees have a fair chance of rising above the poverty line. The point of their campaign is to bring awareness to the community the actual struggles that those that must survive off a minimum wage job face. They openly state the they are for a wage that families can live (Raise the Minimum Wage campaign). As it states on their website, the Raise the Minimum wage campaign thoroughly believes that the minimum wage as it is now cruel and is one of the main reasons that individuals must overwork themselves week after week just make ends meet for themselves and whatever dependents they have. Chaney, Small Business Trends Alfaro 3 The image above supports the beliefs of the minimum wage campaign as it depicts a group of minimum wage workers protesting for a better wage. One of the main reasons that this image represents the beliefs of the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign is because this image heavily depends on ethos, pathos, and logos. Though Kairos may be an important and impactful image that may be present in an image, it is not present within this particular image. Ethos, components of the image that make it persuasive through the use of certain credible sources, is apparent in this image through the use of the location of the protest on minimum wage. The protest is taking place in front of McDonalds which is one of the most infamous fast food restaurants throughout the United States. Associated with this fast food restaurant is the fact that McDonalds still chooses pay its employees minimum wage. Due to high influence in the fast food industry this location is extremely appropriate for the location of the of minimum wage protest. Not only does the location of the protest appeal to ethos but so does the actual protest itself. In the bottom-right-hand corner of the image the phrase (Chaney, Small Business Trends) indicates that the protest that is occurring is organized and planned. This shows that the crowd of minimum wage workers belong to an organized idea and group and are not just standing there without a planned-out, organized purpose which also makes their movement seem credible. At the bottom of the image there are also locations listed that apparently also support the cause. This may also indicate that other minimum wage employees from these locations that are listed support the idea of raising the minimum wage to something that meets the current living wage. These components all give way to persuasion as the image can be deemed to have credible sources and therefore more of an impact. Alfaro 4 This image not only relies on ethos as a source of persuasion but also pathos, components included in an image to evoke certain emotions from the audience. There is a red tint over this image that may give way to feelings of passion, determination, and anger or frustration as well as understanding the presence of them within the image. The statement back on the image also instills a sense of determination as well as a feeling of security as this movement claims that they will never give up. The audience also gains a greater sense of determination upon seeing two police officers in the image escort a possible protester away from the group. Witnessing this, the audience understands why the caption says what it does it fills the audience with a greater sense of determination. This image also uses a considerable number of components that contribute to logos or the logic of this image. The author strategically included the three police officers leading away an apparent protester then proceeded to place the phrase back next to it to victimize themselves to gain sympathy then empower themselves with the phrase that then gains them support from a sympathetic and proud audience. Also, even though there is a large protest occurring outside of the fast food restaurant, McDonalds still seems to have their sign illuminated which shows that they are not actually understanding the message that the minimum wage workers are saying and are instead still making a profit regardless if these employees choose to work. Alfaro 5 The Faces of $15 campaign revolves around the idea of exposing the true consequences of raising the minimum wage to $15 (Faces of $15). On their website, this campaign lists about 81 small businesses that have closed due to an increase in the minimum wage which substantially increased the cost of labor. They also advocate the idea that if the minimum wage were to increase the job loss throughout the nation would be substantial. The reason for such a job loss, according to the Faces of $15 campaign, is because of the business that must cut labor to survive and if they do go out of business, jobs are permanently lost. For this reason, the Faces of $15 campaign has made it their mission to bring these issues to light in society and explain what they and many others believe will happen if there to be such a drastic increase to minimum wage. To make a noticeable impact on the audience that witnesses this image, the author used ethos or persuasion through credibility by using Barack name in the title. Using this former name also brings into question past administrative decisions this president has made regarding the topic of minimum wage. Being a well-known advocate for an increase in Warren, Minimum Wage Spike Alfaro 6 minimum wage, bringing past administrative support makes this the argument of this image seem to have a better foundation. This image also includes what the Obama administration was attempting to increase the federal minimum wage to which is what this image is responding to by including the increase from $7.25 to $10.10. This image also includes pathos or emotional appeal by presenting an obvious minimum wage worker being skewered by the line that represents the minimum wage increase. This represents the idea supported by the Faces of $15 campaign which consists of the fear that if businesses were to suffer due to an increase in minimum wage, so too would the minimum wage jobs as they became unavailable which would cause an overwhelming spike in unemployment. Having the minimum wage worker being skewered instead of saved by the increase in minimum wage would cause the audience to feel panic as they realize that what some have been fighting for may end up causing job instability in over 500,000 jobs according to the image. Realizing this possibility, it may also cause the audience to feel unsure about the movement as they begin to worry about themselves individually. Though this image has many components that appeal to ethos and pathos, it also has components that appeal to logos or logic. The minimum wage worker being skewered by the increased minimum wage not only causes a sense of panic or insecurity it also causes the audience to rethink what the consequences of having the minimum wage increased in any way will be. It also begs the question of who will be hurt by this minimum wage increase overall. There is also blood coming out of the skewered minimum wage worker which adds to the idea that the minimum wage workers are ones who will be hurt the most overall. Adding to this idea, the minimum wage worker is also in a sort of spotlight as if to say that this individual will be the victim in the change. Also, the image does not show the face of the skewered worker which Alfaro 7 could mean that these types of individuals will be in a position of less power than they were before the minimum wage increase. Both images that were presents above individually represent the ideas the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign and the Faces of $15. Though the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign believes that there should be an increase in the minimum wage in order to compensate for the increase in the cost of living, the Faces of $15 believe that the minimum wage should remain where it is due to the fear that any change would cause businesses to close and would therefore cause a spike in unemployment. Both images rely on components that appeal greatly to ethos, pathos, and logos but they do fail to appeal to any Kairos. Alfaro 8 Works Cited Warren, William. Cartoon: Minimum wage  NetRight Daily. N.p., 20 Feb. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://netrightdaily.com/2014/02/cartoon-minimum-wage-spike/>. Faces of  Faces of $15. EPI, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.facesof15.com/> Chaney, Paul. for Protest Demands Increase of Minimum  Small Business Trends. N.p., 29 Nov. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NELP.  Raise the Minimum Wage. NELP, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://raisethe minimumwage.com/>