Heath 1 Baylei Heath Kevin Ip ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Not Dead Yet, an Organization against Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia Each year around the world millions of end of life patients are faced with extreme, unbearable pain and often consider taking their own lives or turning to others to assist them in doing so. This is known as suicide, assisted suicide, or euthanasia. In certain countries and a few states, assisted suicide and euthanasia have been legalized (Andre and Velasquez 1). Proponents of assisted suicide and euthanasia are attempting to expand the countries and states that have laws that protect a right to choose to die. However, opponents against suicide, assisted suicide and euthanasia argue that there are alternatives to taking a life. These opponents argue that laws that allow suicide, assisted suicide and euthanasia are subject to abuse and should be overturned (Andre and Velasquez 2). They also believe that through better end of life care and less strain put on relative care givers, they can improve the lives of the terminally ill, and alleviate their desire to end their life. Not Dead Yet is one such organization that leads a national, grassroots disability rights group that opposes legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of discrimination (Not Dead Yet 1). Not Dead Yet raises awareness regarding assisted suicide and euthanasia, and lobbies against legislation that attempts to legalize it, in any form. Stakeholders often utilize billboards, public service announcements, flyers, and other visual images to persuade their audience to support their specific cause, as these tools can be more effective than long, written, often unread literature. To help persuade others to adopt their beliefs, Not Dead Yet uses powerful visual images to draw supporters to their cause. These images are Heath 2 designed to appeal to their audience and convince them that assisted suicide and euthanasia should be illegal, as they are not in the best interest of the terminally ill patient. The attached two images illustrate the goals by advocating against the choice of suicide, euthanasia or assisted suicide. These two images are similar in that they use the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to appeal to their audience, and persuade their viewers against suicide, assisted suicide or euthanasia. Yet, these two images are also very different in their message and appeal. Thus, these two images help broaden awareness of the Not Dead Yet organization by appealing to different emotions and audiences. The image above, used as a public service announcement by Not Dead Yet to discourage public support of physician assisted suicide, is that of a smiling elderly woman. Physician assisted suicide is described as, euthanasia, in which a doctor intentionally kills a person by the administration of drugs, and (2) physician assisted suicide (PAS), whereby a doctor helps a person to commit suicide by providing drugs for (Tomlinson et al. 724). This image Heath 3 utilizes ethos, in that it appeals to the idea of credibility or morality. It implores the audience, through the text, trust a teacher who harmed trust a chef who poisoned how could you trust a doctor who helped to kill a These powerful statements appeal to the moral beliefs of the audience. In addition, the image of the elderly woman utilizes pathos, in that it appeals to the emotions of the reader. The elderly eyes in the image are reminiscent of a sad puppy dog. The reader cannot help but connect the sweet, smiling elderly woman with their own grandmother or someone else elderly that they dearly love. By doing so, they feel persuaded to protect her, as she is depicted as vulnerable and unable to protect herself. The image of the elderly woman also utilizes the rhetorical appeal of logos, in that it appeals to the logic. It seems logical that if you trust a teacher who harmed children, or a chef who poisoned their diners, you certainly should not trust a doctor who assists their patient in taking their own life. After all, if a skilled worker delivers the exact opposite of what is expected of their profession, they have clearly failed and should not be trusted. This is further alarming in the case of a doctor, as a doctor has a higher ethical standard than most professions. A doctor is required to take a Hippocratic oath, which requires him or her to uphold certain ethical standards of their profession (Tomlinson et al. 723). The literary element of kairos is also present in this image, as the woman depicted is elderly, and this persuades the reader that the call to action is imminent, as the woman may not have long to live. Overall, this public service announcement is effective in appealing to the logic, reason and emotions of the viewer to advocate against assisted suicide by a physician, and the laws that support it. Heath 4 The above image utilized by Not Dead Yet in their advertising materials also appeals to the viewer to consider life, not death, in the event of a patient with a terminal illness. This image is that of a string of cut out figures, both male and female, alternating, holding hands, with their shadows in green below them. The caption states, NOT This image is significantly different than the first image, in that it does not depict a real person, however, it is equally powerful in inducing the viewer to oppose assisted suicide and euthanasia. The cut out images remind the viewers of paper cut-out dolls, a childhood favorite of many, thus appealing to the emotion of the viewers, utilizing the element of pathos. The viewer may reminisce back to their childhood, a time of easier, care free days. This emotional draw leads the viewer to view life as the right choice. This cut-out figure image also uses a certain color scheme to further appeal to the audience to reject the idea of death as a plausible alternative for the terminally ill patient. The cut-out figures and their shadows are a pleasant, calming green. The color green is often used to signify life and nature, which appeals to the logic and reason, which is the rhetorical appeal of logos. This asks the viewer to consider life and not death. It is further represented in the caption of the image, NOT in that NOT is written in bold green letters, again signifying life, Heath 5 as opposed to the words CARE and KILLING, which are the only items on the image that are depicted in black. In addition, by using bold, typographical strategies to further appeal to the audience, the image attempts to persuade the reader that killing a terminally ill patient is not an option. This image also utilizes the element of kairos, appealing to the timeliness of the viewer. By capitalizing the phrase, NOT at the bottom of the image, it is a powerful call to immediate action of the viewer to consider and advocate for life and not death amongst the terminally ill, and creates a sense of exigency. This image is another powerful image utilized by Not Dead Yet to encourage the viewer to reject euthanasia and assisted suicide as an alternative for the terminally ill patient. Images that appeal to a emotions and sympathy, and utilize other literary devices can be powerful tools for stakeholders. Not Dead Yet is wise to use effective images to appeal to their audience. By doing so, they increase awareness of their cause, and appeal to viewers to take a stance and not remain silence regarding suicide, assisted suicide, and euthanasia. Changes are easier made when more people support a cause. Heath 6 Works Cited Andre, Claire and Velasquez, Manual, 2015 Suicide: A Right or a Issues in Ethics 1:1-3. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Not Dead Yet, The Resistance. 2017, notdeadyet.org. Accessed 24 February 2017. Tomlinson, Emily, Spector, Aimee, Nurock, Shirley, Stott, Joshua, 2015. Euthanasia And Physician-Assisted Suicide In Dementia: A Qualitative Study Of The Views Of Former Dementia  Palliative Medicine 29.8 (2015): 720-726. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.