Jennifer Moreno Casey Clague ENC 1102.076 12 February 2017 Aging At Home or In a Home Most people are familiar with the phrase and referring to the idea that people develop more knowledge as they grow older. In some ways, this phrase is accurate, but it all-encompassing. This is because elderly person demonstrates reduction of adaptive (Abitov). From this statement, we can gather that the elderly, or senior citizens, are lacking in several mental abilities that adults and perhaps even children are proficient in. However, there is also evidence that, as seniors, coping mechanisms are (Abitov). Considering that seniors experience some mental gains and some losses, many researchers feel that these seniors benefit from receiving care or assistance from others. However, while some acknowledge social care centers as a good location for elderly care, others insist that they need to be cared for in the safety of their home, especially by family. The organization known as Senior Care Centers advocates for the elderly to live in social care centers and Home Instead Senior Care feels that the elderly should live at home with assistance. A compromise would be for each of these organizations to offer services for senior citizens who live at home and that people who need especially close care should live in a social care center. The organization known as Senior Care Centers is an especially notable one to represent the people that support the idea of the elderly living in a social care center. This company offers several different programs, for long-term care as well as general health services, to the elderly. They understand that the elderly tend to have some different needs than most adults, and that they could likely benefit from receiving some assistance. They also understand that some seniors would also prefer to live on their own, but have no desire to impose on their relatives. Because of this, they have a wide range of options for the services that these seniors can take part in (Independent Living). A study conducted by Jun-E Liu observing seniors that live at home helps to support the idea that there are some cons for senior citizens living at home, not in a care center. In this study, Liu and his colleagues questioned these seniors and some of them said they felt sense of loss, boredom, loneliness, helplessness, hopelessness, depression, and a sense of being a burden to the (Liu 1). Though it could be argued that anybody can have these feelings at any time, the environment of a social care center could help reduce some of these feelings, especially boredom, loneliness, and a sense of being a burden to the family. The senior responses to questions about their plans and feelings for the future supports this idea, as some of them considered institutionalized care. Aside from the fact that they be disturbing their family, they also said that they could enjoy many activities at a care center and that they could enjoy the company of other senior citizens living there (Liu 1). These testimonies show that, generally, attitudes towards social care centers are positive. Though only some, not all, the seniors stated that they would choose to live in a social care center, they did not have negative opinions to share about them. Another factor to consider in this argument is how it affects the loved ones, not just them. Hui Xie conducted a study in China that observed caregivers of seniors who had chronic disease. It assessed their quality of life and the differences among different demographics. The study found that older caregivers that had to deal with higher fees related to the health care of the senior, or care-receiver, experienced a lower quality of life: physically, mentally, and socially(Hui 8). He explained that the reason for this is that those at a younger age had more energy available to assist their care receiver and dedicate time to their social life. In both younger and older caregivers, however, there was low mental health. While living with family can make a senior feel burdened, it can be detrimental to the health of their caregiver. On the other hand, there is also a stakeholder that advocates for seniors to stay at-home, choosing to live either with family or a hired housemaid or hourly worker. This organization is Home Instead Senior Care, a facility that offers assistive services, including nursing services, for senior citizens. They emphasize that their mission and goal is to help their customers while keeping their comfort as a priority. For most, the home is a place in which people of all ages can find comfort in, so Home Instead Senior Care feels that their best method in assisting their senior customers is by providing them service in the comfort of their home. A study that was conducted by Ildar R. Abitov and colleagues shows how beneficial this comfort can be. They surveyed two groups of senior citizens: one group of seniors who lived in a care home, and one group of people that live at home with their family. They collected data concerning their experience of loneliness, usage of defense mechanisms, and their involvement in activities. They found that the largest difference between the groups was that those that live in the care home tended to feel loneliness deeper than those that lived at home. They responded saying that they felt forgotten by their loved ones, they felt less satisfaction from activities, and they felt more isolated than their fellow seniors (Abitov 7). Even though their findings did indicate that both groups did experience loneliness and had their issues, the group in the care home had a more intense feeling of loneliness. Considering that this experience also correlated with a decrease in motivation and satisfaction, those who believe seniors should live at home can justify their beliefs. Especially in this study, it is shown that seniors who live at home have a higher quality of life than those that live in a care home. To sum up, Home Instead Senior Care and similar businesses believe that the best option for senior citizens to live at home, because they will feel more comfortable, feel less lonely than those that live at home, and increase their quality of life during this time. Consequently, Home Instead Senior Care and Senior Care Centers both have a similar purpose. They both aim to help their customers, senior citizens, and make them as comfortable as can be. Both living at home and living in a care center have negative aspects, but each side has something positive to offer their customer. To reach a compromise, both sides must acknowledge the positive aspects of their competitor. Accordingly, the best method of compromise for these companies is to acknowledge which service will benefit their customers. Researchers acknowledge that of the rapid ageing of the population, the need of home healthcare, nursing homes and other elderly care services is growing fast. This is not only a concern for the elderly themselves, but also for their relatives, particularly 1). There is a need for the care of senior citizens, but perhaps people are unsure of which method is best for them. For seniors who are fully self-sufficient, or mostly self-sufficient, their opinions differ on where to go, but studies have shown that this group is happier living at home. Both Home Instead Senior Care and Senior Care Centers have nursing and health care services, so perhaps senior care could expand this service to at-home, to best help this group of people. In addition, seniors with debilitating or chronic diseases do better in a care home or institution. This is because they receive the most individualized and consistent care here. Though both sides will not be fully pleased with this solution, it is the best option to achieve their purpose. To conclude, both living at home and living in a care home have their positives and negatives. Acknowledging which home would most benefit a lifestyle is important. These seniors are parents, maybe grandparents, and their decision can affect these people positively or adversely. References Abitov, I. R., & Gorodetskaya, I. M. (2016). Self-Regulation and Experience of Loneliness of Elderly People Who Live in Social Care Residences. International Journal Of Environmental And Science Education, 11(6), 1021-1029. Hui, X., Cheng, C., Yisheng, T., Jie, Z., Robert, D., Jihui, J., & ... Su, Y. (2016). Quality of life in Chinese family caregivers for senior citizens with chronic diseases. Health & Quality Of Life Outcomes, 141-9. doi:10.1186/s12955-016-0504-9 Independent Living and Assisted  Senior Care Centers. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Liu, J., Tian, J., Yue, P., Wang, Y., Du, X., & Chen, S. (2015). Original Article: Living experience and care needs of Chinese empty-nest senior citizens in urban communities in Beijing, China: A qualitative study. International Journal Of Nursing Sciences, 215-22. doi:10.1016/j.ijnss.2015.01.008 Warpenius, E., Alasaarela, E., Sorvoja, H., & Kinnunen, M. (2015). A mobile user-interface for elderly care from the perspective of relatives. Informatics For Health & Social Care, 40(2), 113-124. doi:10.3109/17538157.2013.879148