Berry 1 Cody Berry ENC 1102 Dennis MW 11:00am-12:15pm With or Without Violence Social media has become an important part of business in world. From promoting business to advertising products, there are many uses for social media when it comes to anything. Social media can even be used against other organizations. The Parents Television Council (PTC) aims to protect children from media violence due to its harmful effects, while the Entertainment Merchants Association (EMA) protects the rights of the distribution of all forms of virtual entertainment. These two organizations are on opposing sides of the same topic, however the PTC is very adamant about its opposition toward violent video games while the EMA is just defending the rights of distribution, not directly opposed to the PTC. Both organizations have used social media in some form to create an audience for their cause, whether they themselves created the media or not, and the most common form is depictions or images. Berry 2 The PTC strongly believes that violent video games are linked to increased aggression in children of all ages today. This notion is backed by countless studies that support the fact that violent video games influence the behavior of the children that play them. The image above depicts two children who find a newspaper dispenser and the newspaper reads, TV and games linked to The two proceed to get angry with what the newspaper says and beat up the dispenser. Looking more in depth, what the newspaper reads and what the children say is contradictory, one reads that violent games is linked to aggression while the children get angry and say that it is not true. These children seem to enjoy the activities described by the newspaper which means they play videogames and watch TV and they believe that it does not affect them whatsoever. In reality, they get angry and then destroy the dispenser which supports what the newspaper is saying. They even use weapons to do it, exemplifying the fact that the videogames are influencing them since in violent video games, the characters usually use weapons. Because these two enjoy playing games and watching TV, they do not see the effect it has on them, however increased aggression is very apparent in their behavior. Berry 3 With reference to the ethos of the first image, the image is attempting to make truth of video games having an effect on violence in children. The PTC is attempting to make it seem as though children are epitomizing the negative effects of video games through a comedic cartoon where the children get mad at the article stating the negative stigma. Through the use of humor, the PTC is attempting to establish a sort of truth and credibility to their beliefs through an artistic medium. The design element of cartoon and dialogue is used as an attempt to establish a framework of trust amongst the audience of said cartoon. The pathos of the image is that it is meant to make the audience laugh and have an emotional connection through humor and realization. Since the children are getting angry at the statements in the paper, it makes the audience feel as though the newspaper is telling the truth. The logos in the first image is that newspaper in the cartoon says that the statements are based on studies, making is seem as though the newspaper is indeed telling truthful information. Kairos is present within the first image in a sense that the newspaper is always giving the public eye information that is deemed important by the press. Since this study is being revealed by the paper, it makes it seem as though it is an issue that deserves attention. Berry 4 The second image is much more objective and concrete than the first. The first image includes an ironic message and funny twist to it, whereas this image is meant to display a straightforward message of protection of distribution rights. The significance of the gavel coming down is meant to display the substratum for the entire judicial system. Although the image pertains to the EMA, the protection of distribution rights is a microcosm of the things that occur within the actual judicial system. The purpose of the judicial system is to establish law and order within the nation for all citizens. The establishment of laws and regulations are meant to protect the rights of all citizens within the nation, hence the word being placed directly in the middle of the image. The division of the word could signify the three branches of government who supposedly hold equal amounts of power within the government. The equal division of the word could have an even deeper meaning, with the stigma of equal distribution right protection for all people being the underlying message. In essence, the image is attempting to connect the EMA, an association with a goal of protecting the distribution rights of all visual entertainment, with the United States government and its citizens as a whole. The ethos present within the second image is that of the gavel striking the table. This image is meant to depict rule of law and obedience to it, something that is a concrete principle Berry 5 within our country. The pathos is displayed in the word protected and the gavel because both of those images are meant to make citizens feel a sense of security and emotional peace, knowing that the law will prevail if they are done wrong. The logos in the second image is displayed in the gavel of the judge, because it is common logic in the United States that one has to follow the laws in order to live a fruitful and successful life. The guidelines of law are set because reason told lawmakers that in order to protect the rights of the citizens, there needs to be structure and order. Kairos can be seen within the latter image through the representation of the court case that fundamentally changed the way that distribution rights of citizens are protected. The urgency of the issue was so great that it led to the creation of a law to prevent issues regarding distribution rights. In conclusion, both images were created in order to attract attention to each organizations point of view on the subject of banning violent video games. The first image characterizes how the PTC thinks that violence in media and video games is affecting the children who partake in that type of entertainment. It is trying to create a call to action toward its audience basically saying that its time to stop children from playing violent video games. The second image represents how the EMA won the court case with the law attempting to ban violent video games that was presented in the first place by the PTC. This image characterizes more of a sense of justice than anything being that the right for this form of entertainment is protected under the First Amendment. clear to see that there is some form of tension between the two due to the fact that the PTC proposed the law that the EMA had to take to court in order for the right to avoid the infringement of their right to provide entertainment and these images represent the current conflict regarding the issue of violence in media.