Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 February 2017 Sabek 1 Guns: Forestall the Victimized Firearms are a fundamental part of the United history. In 1791, the Second Amendment was ratified to the constitution as right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be Later in 1871, The National Rifle Association was formed by Union Army veterans Colonel William C. Church and General George Wingate. For the most part, the NRA had focused on safety education, training, and shooting for recreation until 1977 -- the primary focus today is fighting for constitutional rights to own and use guns. For campaigning purposes, the NRA uses visual tactics to attract the attention, two images have been chosen and will be explicitly depicted. Image A is captioned raise a in bold white, it consists of a woman practicing shooting. Image B contains a blurred picture of a woman raped and beaten followed by a comparison of the estimated time it taken police to stop a rape versus the time it would have taken for the rapist to complete their task. Both images are supported by the National Rifle Association and support women defending themselves instead of being victims. This stakeholder communicates their perspective through visual rhetoric that represents the support of the Second freedom to own a firearm through images that convey Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos. Referring to Pathos -- a rhetorical appeal that stimulates a strong emotional reaction from the viewer, image B is very effective in arousing anger and exasperation. There has been an increase in the rise of popular consciousness regarding rape. The idea of rape has brought Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 February 2017 Sabek 2 millions together in union to prevent it from occurring at all costs. Not only would this image be supported by the National Rifle Association but also feminist groups, victims of rape and domestic abuse, and much more. In image B, the face is blurred out but there is somewhat of a focus on the eyes. According to psychological studies, eyes reveal much expression without a word being spoken. This adds to the effect pathos has on the image because eyes seek out emotions. The gruesome bloodied eye and the smudged dark eye makeup raises multiple questions as to what happened to her and evokes a feeling of anger. When looking below it is presented that the police estimated time of arrival would have been 10 minutes after the rapist had finished. In a smaller print, it says get 10 minutes to Women are beginning to see the importance of guns and the right to defend themselves when it comes to situations like the one shown in Image B. a very good chance your next target will be armed, trained, and ready to exercise her right to choose her life over warns Dana Loesch, a conservative talk-show host and longtime NRA proponent. This would have the audience thinking, why risk being victimized when one could defend themselves by keeping a gun around. Pathos is also shown in Image A. This image kindles a feeling of determination and strength especially for women the opposite of Image B. If the targeted audience were women, they would be inspired by another female practicing the usage of a gun, especially with the text in large what bold letters saying raise a Both images revoke the idea of women being victimized using Pathos to reach their sentimental values. Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 February 2017 Sabek 3 Ethos alludes to the sources credibility and whether the audience should trust the information being presented. In image A, the National Rifle logo is shown at the bottom left to indicate that the image is legitimate and supported by this organization. In Image B, at the very bottom there is small fine print referring to the association with the image. There is also the logo as well as the website WWW.NRA.ORG underneath. The logo as well as the website gives the audience proof of credibility when faced with these images. The presence of Ethos within both images allows the audience to confide in the messages being portrayed and gives them incentive to want to further examine the organization and what it does. Logos clarifies an argument as well as the evidence of logic and reasoning for the audience. By providing the comparison between the estimated time take the police to arrive and stop the rape and the time take the rapist to be done, image B presents a strong argument. The flow of the argument continues further below to a fine print that says National Rifle Association believes in the rights of self-defense and if you do too, please support us by becoming a Not only has the image provided logical reasoning as to why self- defense is crucial and the consequences of having to wait for the aid of others, but also information on why joining the organization would make a difference. Image A does not contain much text to create a strong sense of Logos. It provides a straight-forward presentation where the determination and focus on her shooting in the image goes hand-in-and with the text, prevailing that she will not be a victim. Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 February 2017 Sabek 4 Kairos appeals to time, it identifies the perfect time to execute certain words or actions and obtain a desirable outcome. In Image B, the primary meaning is based on account of the time estimated for the police to arrive which is 10 minutes versus the rapist which would already be done. It creates a sense of urgency that makes the audience more likely to act upon seeing the image. The prevalence of rape culture today generates a sense of tension and anger around this image since rape is now more than ever being perceived as brutal and wrong. Image A offer much when regarding Kairos. Defending oneself when in a life-threatening situation should be main priority, especially when considering children and other loved ones, an argument depicted through logos. Crime timed, it happens when it happens -- as shown through Kairos in image B, and protecting oneself is a main proponent of the National Rifle beliefs. They have also contributed to numerous programs such as the Eddie Eagle GunSafe Program in which more than 28 million children were taught to Stop. Touch. Run Away. Tell A If they see a firearm in an unsupervised situation. Also, the Refuse to Be a Victim program has helped over 100,000 men and women develop self-defense strategies. (NRA) Both images provided target mostly the women population because normally they see guns as a violent killing machine. When seen from a different perspective, such as guns preventing rape or empowering a woman to defend herself, firearms can have a completely different and much more positive connotation. Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 February 2017 Sabek 5 Works Cited Landsbaum, Claire. Ad Claims Is Owning a The Cut. 13 July 2016. National Rifle Association. TOUCH. RUN AWAY. TELL A National Rifle Association brief history of the Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 February 2017 Sabek 6 Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 February 2017 Sabek 7