Bell 1 Monique Bell Professor DeCarion ENC 1102-086 14 February 2017 The Legalization of Recreational Marijuana Debate Marijuana remains the third most popular recreational drug of choice in the United States despite about 60 years of criminal prohibition. From its discovery as a medicinal element in 1850 to its spike in recreational use in the hippie movement, marijuana has played a giant role in American culture and development. However, as new research surfaces daily since its discovery, benefits as well as the dangers of the stimulant arise. These findings have prompted organizations to put their stance forward on issues such as health, safety, and wellbeing that are influenced by the drug. Two organizations who have opposing views on the same spectrum are; Parents Opposed to Pot and NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. Although these two credible organizations have opposing viewpoints their shared interest in the safety of young adults poses as a bridge to connect their divided standpoints. Parents Opposed to Pot is an organization created by a group of concerned parents determined to protect their children from exposure of the stimulant. This organization focuses on educating parents and children through articles donated by trained medical professionals as well as testimonies from concerned parents. POP has a range of articles donated from multiple resources ranging from types of marijuana use all the way to tragic effects of the drug including car crashes, addiction, and even death. Overall this organization focuses on the addictive properties of the drug and preventing the youth of today from accumulating an addiction that may trigger harmful long-term effects. POP suggests that the marijuana being circulated in Bell 2 society is laced with a high percentage of THC (tetrahydrocannabinol) a inducing element rather than CBD (cannabinoid) an anti-inflammatory component present in the drug back in the and causing it to be highly addictive and comparable to that of cocaine and heroin (poppot.org). Due to this, the organization fears that children will not be able to sucessfuly of the drug and may suffer from extensive biological damage. In 2016 a study was done by Henrietta Szutoriz and colleges on the exposure of THC to children and the effects the drug has on the developing brain and behavior. In her peer-reviewed article, findings shown an increase of locomotive dysfunctions prevalent in females as well as an influx of psychiatric illnesses present in males (Szutoriz 109). It is prone signs of dysfunction such as this that the POP strives to prevent in youth through the complete legalization of marijuana nationwide and lobby this goal in their mission statement to the bubbles of the marijuana industry, marijuana lobbyists and marijuana (poppot.org) In contrast NORML or The National Organization For the Reform of Marijuana Laws sets out to educate the public about marijuana but for the drugs benefits and full legalization. Founded in 1970 the organization acts as a home to those who are for the revocation of marijuana laws both medically and recreationally and aim to protect users of all ages from unnecessary prosecution from using the seemingly harmless drug. Some of the popular achievements include decriminalizing minor marijuana offenses in 11 states and lowering marijuana penalties nationwide (NORML.org). This organization strives for total recall of all criminal actions taken towards those who use or possess the drug. According to the organization arrests in the U.S have risen from 2 per hour in 1965 to 73 per hour as of 2015 putting more adolescents in jail over minor offenses jeopardizing their future and resulting in needless arrest of hundreds of thousands of otherwise law abiding citizens each Bell 3 (NORML.org). In fact, research has shown the influx of these arrests juxtapose to the rise of tough crime policies. In her study Arrests, Spike among Youth, Donna Leinwand Leger concluded that around 30.2% of youth will be arrested by age 23 for drug or alcohol offenses. Within her scholar reviewed article Leger also included testimonies from experts in criminology and juvenile arrests. Megan Kurlychek a professor from the University of Albany studying juvenile delinquency concluded that Arrests have worse consequences than ever for these  she says. records follow you forever for the average teenager who is arrested for possession of marijuana and we make that define their lives (Leger To this day the organization and sister foundation continue to push towards their motto which states mission is to move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high-quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (NORML.org). Failure by both stakeholders to surrender values in seek of a truce is the justification to the absence of a compromise between the two organizations. Parents Opposed to Pot is set on the strict illegalization of marijuana with no exceptions as well as NORML is set on the complete legalization of the drug for adolescents and adults with no exceptions making it hard for the two to give up mantras for a greater cause. A subject that both organizations share that can help get past their strict beliefs is ensuring the safety of young adults. Parents opposed to pot disagrees with the harmful effects marijuana and bring young adults in brain development and NORML is opposed to the legal dangers that the drug can bring to young adults through incarceration. A solution that will be feasible for both parties beliefs, as well as their commonality, would be to legalize the drug with tough age restrictions. Bell 4 As of the new year the United States has already legalized medical use in all states as well as the legal recreational use in others as of the age of 21. This interferes with goal of country wide legalization of both recreational and medical usage as well as the concern for the interference of brain development in young adults. Considering the brain is not fully developed until the age of 25 The age limit should be set to this point to prevent impaired attention, memory, learning and decision-making in the developing brains of young adults (Weir). If the drug were to be fully legalized for recreational use with an age restriction of 25 this would prevent the long term development outcomes from using the drug before the brain is fully developed while giving those of age the opportunity to use marijuana at their leisure. Other safety precautions can be put into practice to protect underage youth from biological damage as well as the societal struggle with having permanent juvenile records. Controlling the amount of the substance that one can buy and own at one time can help put a tight grip on who can access the drug keeping it regulated and away from underage users. Implementing marijuana health classes and community hours instead of jail time is another way to keep youth out of juvenile detention centers and informing them about the dangers of premature marijuana use while keeping their records clean. With enough persuasion, this law could be implemented through congress as well as the states having the option to put other rules in place to the degree of age verification needed to obtain the drug within controlled dispensaries. The nation would have the opportunity to use the drug as they please if the appropriate age and parents will not have to worry about the endangerment of their children biologically or legally due to strict restrictions on obtaining marijuana. Taking the perspective of this from California, a state that already has recreational legalization has experienced nothing but benefits from its legalization according to Peter Banys Bell 5 Previous president of the California Society of Addiction Medicine stated that recreational marijuana is legalized for adults in California, a rational implementation of public policy would neither criminalize youth possession, nor medically pathologize it by conflating possession with Thus having high hopes and positive predictions for the drugs legalization on both users and youth. Both organizations and their viewpoints would be supported in this situation even if it means that each side must give up a portion of their goals. Parents Opposed to Pot and NORML have been at odds with one another and are each separate stakeholders in the long marijuana legalization debate. These two organizations have been butting heads on their different beliefs that blinded them from seeing the similarities that they share. Through their shared passion for keeping the youth safe from the legal and biological impacts, marijuana causes in society have helped these two seemingly different organizations reach an impasse. Through the proposed solution there two foundations can continue to stress their viewpoints on the drug knowing that their best interests were taken into account. Bell 6 Works Cited Banys, Peter. Mitigation Of Marijuana-Related Legal Harms To Youth In  Journal Of Psychoactive Drugs 48.1 (2016): 11. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. - Bursting the Bubble of Marijuana  - Bursting the Bubble of Marijuana Hype. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Leger, Leinwand Donna. and TODAY USA. Study: Arrests spike among  USA Today n.d.: Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Szutorisz, Henrietta, et al. Original Research Article: Cross-Generational THC Exposure Alters The Developmental Sensitivity Of Ventral And Dorsal Striatal Gene Expression In Male And Female  Neurotoxicology And Teratology 58.SI: Developmental Marijuana (2016): 107- 114. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Weir, Kristen. Marijuana and the Developing  American Psychological Association, 25 Nov. 2015. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., 1970. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.