Longerbeam 1 Megan Longerbeam Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Helping advance the education achievement of Hispanics and all students in America is the goal of LULAC, the League of United Latin American Citizens. This organization has been taking action by establishing scholarship funds, youth conferences, and special programs in order to aide students in fulfilling their highest potential in and out of the classroom. These two images provided by LULAC use rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos in order to convey their message of hope and progress for the academic achievements of students. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that evokes emotion. Image 1 pulls emotional strings in its collage which includes photos of educational milestones like a graduation pictured in the top right corner. Achieving this huge accomplishment can be emotional for any student and their parents, let alone the students that have not had the same opportunities in the past. In 1993, Hispanics had the lowest High School Completion Rate at 61%. This was lower than Blacks, Non- Hispanic Whites, and Asians. However, in 2013 the High School Completion Rate reached a record high with a 79% (Fry). For students, graduating could make them feel like they are helping make change which can be very satisfying. For their parents, they are also contributing to change and helping their children accomplish the things that they did not. Both students and parents are being affected by educational mission for the better. Longerbeam 2 Image 2 also evokes a strong emotional appeal. The first line is in Spanish, which can automatically pull out an emotional response. As a bilingual student, using first language in an area where it is not as common to use it, there can be a sentimental feeling of what that first language means to that person. This can also make that person feel special in that they are the specific audience for this advertisement. Along with making every person feel special and a feeling like they are meant to see this picture, LULAC creates a very diverse group of students even though they are targeting the achievements of Latin American students. This could be perceived that every student has the ability to help others succeed, even if they are not within the same race. This also gives everyone in the audience someone to identify with and receive the message. Emotion is very effective in communicating message of achievement and hope for the future. Ethos is heavily relied on within the two images to portray LULAC as a trustworthy and credible organization. The first image depicts Michelle Obama in the top center picture giving a speech with logo in the background. support of this organization creates a very good view of LULAC that they are credible. Jennifer Lopez is also seen giving her support in the left center picture. She is a Latin American Citizen, which is the group LULAC is fighting for. Lopez makes it clear that the organization is helping students get to where they want to be in life. Having Lopez give that speech shows that it is possible for the students LULAC is aiming to help to get to the stature of Jennifer Lopez. Along with the pictures, there are dates at the top of Image 1 that establish an even more credible view. The top of the image explains that the organization has been in operation for eighty-eight years. This alone can make people trust what they are doing if they have been doing it for so many years. However, what makes this Longerbeam 3 even more credible is the words that come after the dates. They explain those years to be years of progress. Progress means accomplishments have been made, but there will be many more to come. This shows LULAC is nowhere near slowing down their initiatives which can make people believe in their bright futures. The final piece of credibility comes from the center of Image 1. This depicts the logo. The logo itself is a very strong piece. Placing their logo in the center means that LULAC is proud to put their name on what they have accomplished. Their logo appears in the shape of a shield with flag and their name going diagonally through the center. The shield is showing that they are willing to fight for the rights of Latin American citizens. name appears as a ribbon on the logo which could show that they have done so much for their cause and they are wearing their accomplishments. The second image also establishes credibility, although it does not rely on this appeal as much as the first image. The logo in the bottom right corner establishes their credibility. LULAC putting their name on something attaches a stamp of approval as they believe that piece of information to be trustworthy. The picture depicts a group of very happy students. These students also contribute to making this picture more believable. James Devitt of New York University conducted an experiment and found this: slightly happier the face appeared, the more likely he was seen to be trustworthy and vice versa for faces appearing slightly The faces of the students in the picture being happy can make the audience trust what the advertisement is saying much more than if the students appeared to be angry. The faces also help he audience believe that going to college is a very happy thing, regardless of the possibly stressful aspects of college. This image does not push credibility into the audience as Longerbeam 4 much as Image 1, however there are still aspects in the second image that make the audience believe what is being stated. Logos is an appeal that uses logic to create the message. The first image uses logic in the form of dates. It is logical for LULAC to include the years they have been in operation on this flyer because they have been in business for a long time. If they were a new company with only two years under their belt, it would probably not be logical to state this on their advertisements. This use of logos also goes along with ethos. LULAC must be logical in what they place on their statements or they could risk losing their credibility. Image 1 also states that the eighty-eight years as progress. This shows that there is a logical progression of time, and while they have accomplished a lot, they are far from done. Going along with the progression of time, the collage depicts a timeline. The right three pictures are all of students in their educational careers. There was logic in placing these pictures because the final picture at the top seems to be a graduation. The pictures below are students in classrooms or working on computers to get the credentials needed to achieve their diploma obtained at their graduation. Not only was there logic in the line of pictures, but where the final picture was placed. The graduation picture is at the top of the collage. This could represent that when students are graduating, they are at the top of their achievements and they have accomplished something so great. The pictures below can also be seen as building blocks to get them to that graduation. These pictures convey a message of progress and accomplishment, the main goal of LULAC. The second image also utilizes logos to get across message. As an organization fighting for Latin Americans, it is logical to incorporate their language. This targets their desired audience and removes the barrier between languages and cultures. There was also logic used in Longerbeam 5 what age students to use for the picture. The students do not appear to already be in college, so it is logical to say these kids will go to college because it is something they have not already done. However, the students also do not appear to be just starting their educational journey. This means that these students are at the point where they are thinking about their futures but have not yet entered that part of their life. This represents what LULAC believes to be the prime time to start making students aware of what their futures can hold. Kairos is an appeal that deals with timeliness in situations. Image 1 uses kairos with the years stated. These years represent the years in operation and create a timeline but also show there is much more to be done. This establishes kairos because the flyer was published when LULAC had enough years to appear credible but they are also still in operation which means they can still be gaining followers. For this reason, this was the right time for this advertisement to be released by LULAC which appeals to kairos. LULAC is also attacking an issue that is very relevant to our society today. Education is getting increasingly more important to establish a life and career. The Pew Research Center found that only about 7% of women in 1963 completed at least a degree whereas in 2013, 27% of women had done the same (Patten). As time goes on, a degree will become worth the value of a high school diploma and a degree will then be required. LULAC is trying to get students to realize education is very important for their futures. Image 2 also utilizes kairos as there is a saying to promote message. Their statement is that these students are going to college for their family. The education system itself has an aspect of kairos as time is always being used to tell when a student will be done. Unless something unusual occurs, at the end of a twelfth year they will graduate high Longerbeam 6 school. This is a constant alarm clock that is always ticking and telling students how much time they have left to make such big decisions. The students depicted in Image 2 are at the point in their educational careers where they need to start thinking about colleges, and they only have so much time to think before they graduate and need to know what they are doing as they go out into the There is always kairos in education as there is always a call to action and it is always relevant. Both images work together and with the appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos to convey message that they want to continue the work they have done with Latin American students. These methods of persuasion can be both subtle or direct in their use. Something as blatant as putting a logo on an image can establish credibility and something as subtle as putting smiling students in an image can make people believe what is being said. Every appeal helps LULAC in some way conveying their message to their audience and gain support for their cause. Longerbeam 7 Works Cited Devitt, James. To look trustworthy, put on a happy  Futurity. New York University, 19 June 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Fry, Richard. U.S. high school dropout rate reaches record low, driven by improvements among Hispanics,  Pew Research Center. 02 Oct. 2014. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Education  League of United Latin American Citizens. LULAC, 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Patten, Eileen, and Richard Fry. How Millennials Today Compare with Their Grandparents 50 Years  Pew Research Center. 19 Mar. 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Image 1 Image 2