Dang 1 Si Dang Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Give Them Safe Water Water is the key to life on the Earth. Fresh water is very importance to maintain the quality of life. According to The Water Project organization, there are about 80% of illnesses in the developing countries are linked to dirty water and sanitation conditions (1). Because of that, The Water Project (TWP) established with missions are to help the people in some countries especially in Africa by providing reliable water projects to the communities. TWP and their supporters together build water project constructions for accessing to clean and safe water; they also support financial for the native people. The Water member is Christians, so they believed that everyone on the Earth has the same rights and equality. They have to share what they have had to others who does not have it. The Water Project tries to connect people around the world to support them by giving financial help or material supplies. They are using images of their works to advertise their mission on social media networks. The images in this essay will shed light their intentionally is the call of help to the people who has the abilities to support to their projects about financial and volunteers. Throughout the years, TWP has posted hundreds of images into the social media to advertise their organization. Children became the elements for their images because the picture of adorable children would hurt the heart. The advertisement presented in Figure 1 with a title is an adorable African child happy with her water. The image is not only but it is also her life and the future of a country because children are burgeon of a nation. Dang 2 The visual representation of figure 1 is emotion and logic. emotional might effect to the vibration of love to health. Logically shown that she has satisfied into water; she will have a happy life and a success future. Everyone knows that Africa is the continent which is a lack of fresh water and the color representation is black. The author used green color looks like water wrapped the image of the girl to show a fresh thing, a new thing is coming up to her life. The phrase is very special because the word is bigger than other and larger than the word Hope is a most important thing for children; hope will lead them to do good things in their future. The word in white color, it means she is very fresh, so her hope is also fresh and straightforward. She does not hope for any great things, she hopes in fresh water, and that is all with her. Another aspect of figure 1 is an extended phrase gift of safe water gives life and connects you to her future. Through relational reporting, you will see exactly how. We are ready to celebrate the hope your gift of safe water The logic presented in the phrase because a good life depends on the conditions. According to the article A Good Education that of clean water has serious effects on academic performance and attendance because the students cannot study well while they have to face with stomach pains and diarrhea from disease and hunger (2). Most of the girls in Africa are living with the poor condition; they have to get about 40 pounds of dirty water far away from their house every day (5), so it can prevent their ability to attend to school. Besides the appeal of logos and pathos, the images of the girl appeal to Kairos (the future) and Ethos (national destiny) as well (Childs, Cassie, et al. 96). leaves little time for education which is critical to changing the long-term prospects of developing nations (5). It is a critical thing can impact to the development of a country in the future. As we know, education is the best way which can change the world to be better. A child who lost an education is a minor issue for a country, but many children lost their studies is a major problem for the world. Dang 3 In recent campaigns, TWP tends to focus on the influence of poor water to the health. Children are the key element in the TWP advertisements because their targets mostly to people who became parents. The advertisement presented in Figure 2 is a specific evidence of using the images of children especially students to touch the empathetic of their target audiences. The most importance point in figure 2 is the two logic phrases and because poor water will cause of health issues. In the 21 st century, people will not approve that dirty water will be the main concern to health. Human owns the best technology system ever, and technology was invented to make human life better. In another phrase from drinking dirty water and the time lost fetching it robs entire communities of their the author wanted to show the failing of using dirty water with the future especially young generation. Besides the appealing logic (logos) there are some other visual representations in figure 2 such as emotion (pathos), time lost (Kairos) and the trust (ethos) (Childs, Cassie, et al. 96). Take a look at figure 2 again; the audiences can see the image of students is getting water in a foul canal. According to the article Water, Health and Ecosystems related to unsafe water, sanitation and hygiene result in an estimated 1.7 million deaths every (4), the number of death from drinking dirty water is more than a disaster. As we know, clean and fresh water has a blue and clear color, but water in the canal in figure 2 is a dark yellow color. Five children in school uniform are taking unsafe water; it makes the audiences who has children hurt a lot. Every day, people in the lack of water areas has to move about 4 miles to get water, so it takes much time to do that. If they had a well in their village, they could save much time to do something else (TWP 5). The audiences can believe that a well will be the biggest gift to these people. Dang 4 Using the pictures of children and students in unsafe water issue is a smart strategy of TWP. Student and children are the symbols of happy, love and future. The two symbols have made target audiences fell empathetic and mercy. TWP was excellent exploiting factors of appeal such as the emotion by the picture of the girl, the hurt by the picture of the unsafe canal and empathetic to the students who has to drink water from an unsafe river to energy to build their future. All of these elements built the image of TWP in the eyes of audiences are an organization which works for the mutual benefits. It also helps TWP compiled their goals and mission of getting the support to build the wells from the people who has the heart of love. Nearly every one of us is living in the communities with clean and fresh water, but in somewhere in Africa, there are some of the communities are facing with life in an unsafe water condition. Besides of sharing the poor living conditions of African people, TWP also tries to connect to someone who can support financial help or volunteers to build the wells. The images of the happy faces of children and poor women in Africa helped TWP do the wells with their advertisements. Bases on some elements of humanity, empathetic and mercy, TWP has gotten the touch from the supporters around the world by giving help to the water project constructions. Also, their images woke on the habit of wasting water of someone who is living in the full living condition communities. Dang 5 Works Cited Education in Africa and  The Water Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Water, Health, and  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Childs, Cassie, Sylvan Barnet, and Hugo Adam Bedau. 3:  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Boston, MA: Bedford/St. 2012: 96-98. Web. 22 Feb 2017. Dang 6 Figure 1 Figure 2