James 1 Curtis James Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 28 February 2017 Death with Dignity: An Option for Peaceful Death For patients with terminal illnesses there many options in terms of end of life care, Physician Assisted Suicide (PAS) gives these patients the opportunity to hasten their death through physician prescribed medications in which the patients self-administer. Organizations such as Death with Dignity advocate this based on their belief that all terminally ill patients should have complete control over life ending decisions. Their mission statement reads mission of the Death with Dignity National Center is to promote Death with Dignity laws based on our model legislation, the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, both to provide an option for dying individuals and to stimulate nationwide improvements in end-of-life (Death with Dignity). They are active politically and socially, promoting legislation and education favorable towards their views on human rights. To support their belief in Death with Dignity Laws this organization posts ads and images on their website which attempt to persuade the audience using rhetorical appeals which target emotions and senses such as pathos, logos, ethos, and Kairos. In advertising, controlling or manipulating the emotions of the audience can have a strong influence on how effective an ad is in reaching the intended audience. This rhetorical appeal is called pathos and organizations like Death with Dignity take advantage of this by incorporating it into ads and images on their website in various ways. The first image on their website shows an image of a terminally ill patient smiling with her dog in the background, a quote from the patient, and a link to join the movement which says The image of the smiling patient with her James 2 dog in the background attempts to make the audience feel connected to the patient by providing a positive visual of the patient seemingly having fun with a pet. The patient quote on the image says would bring me great comfort to know it is Referring to the option of Physician Assisted Suicide this quote aims to show the audience that patients want this as an option and that it would make them feel comfortable. The link to join their movement says which makes the option to join feel personal and the audience will feel like they are making a difference. The second image depicts a map of the United States in the background, the words with a silhouette of a man and woman above, a statement on changing legislature, and a link that says get The logo with the man and woman silhouette is an example of pathos because it attempts to make the audience feel represented and like they can be a part of this movement. The statement on changing legislature appeals to the emotions by using phrases like and which makes the audience feel like getting involved will directly affect their surrounding area. Both images attempt to convince the audience that by getting involved you will be changing the lives of the terminally ill patients and those around you. Logos is the rhetorical appeal that attempts to persuade the audience using logic and reasoning. The images on Death with website use this method through statements that make reasonable claims to gain supporters. In the first image the statement of a Peaceful is an oxymoron in which the text attempts to make a Physician Assisted Suicide death seem peaceful compared to the terminally ill patient dying from the disease itself. The organization assumes that the audience will think that it is more reasonable for the patient to die peacefully rather than die a painful death due to the terminal illness. Although this is a reasonable claim there is a False Dilemma in the ads intended argument (Hoffman and Wiggs James 3 54). This argument is suggesting that either the patient can die peacefully or die a painful death, when actually terminally ill patients do not always die and there is a chance that through further treatment the patient can be cured. In the second image the text for Death with Dignity in your suggests that supporting the Death with Dignity movement will benefit the community. Also, the phrase with Dignity around the lets the audience know that this organization is promoting change in U.S. legislature which will most likely effect their area. These images persuade the audience to advocate for Death with Dignity Laws using logical claims which explain the benefits of Physician Assisted Suicide and the effects on local communities. Ethos appeals to the credibility of an argument through reputation and trustworthiness. To gain support Death with Dignity uses ethos to establish a trustworthy relationship with the audience. In the first image, there is a direct quote from the patient that is being mentioned in the ad. This establishes credibility because the audience can directly see what terminally ill patients have to say about Physician Assisted Suicide. Also, the image of the patient in the background further supports this credibility by providing a visual of the patient for the audience. The second image includes a map of the United States which attempts to relate the trust and fairness of the United States legal system to the Death with Dignity movement. The phrase with Dignity around the compliments the visual by explaining the organizations intentions to implement Death with Dignity Laws across the United States. In the two images ethos was applied in the ad to boost the credibility of the Death with Dignity movement. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal that uses timeliness to persuade the audience to take action. This is an effective method for organizations that need support as soon as possible or in time for a certain event. The first image there is a link that says which urges the James 4 audience to join the movement. The use of an exclamation mark attempts to persuade the audience to click the link now by insisting a sense of urgency. The link to in the first image gives the reader the option to learn more about the patient now rather than searching the sight and learning about it later. The second image uses the words in a large font size which makes the phrase seem more urgent. After the sentence about changing legislation the words are in parenthesis which tell the audience that this is a current issue that can be changed now. This image also uses exclamation marks which insists that action should be taken now to make a difference. Using exclamation marks and select phrases the Death with Dignity organization creates an urgent atmosphere which persuades the audience to pledge their support for the movement now. The Death with Dignity organization was created in 1993 to pass the Death with Dignity Act in Oregon which makes Physician Assisted Suicide legal in that state (Death with Dignity). They aim to spread these laws across the United States through political advancements and social involvement. In a study conducted by Palliative Medicine Journal results concluded that physical and psychosocial condition of the patient in combination with care factors contributed to death with dignity from the perspective of the family (Gennip et al. 616). This explains that condition of the patient near end of life situations is important to the families of the patient. Death with Dignity attempts to avoid deteriorating situations by giving the power to the patient to end their life with dignity. In conclusion, the Death with dignity organization aims to spread Death with Laws across the United States by gaining supporters that can push the movement through their local legislation. To gain these advocates, ads and images are displayed on the organizations website to explain their mission and intentions. Incorporated into these images are pathos, logos, ethos, James 5 and Kairos which attempt to persuade the audience to join the Death with Dignity movement through emotion, logic, credibility, and timeliness. Image 1 Image 2 James 6 Works Cited Gennip, Isis E Van, H. Roeline, W. Pasman, Pam J. Kaspers, Mariska G. Oosterveld-Vlug, Dick L. Willems, Dorly Jh Deeg, and Bregje D. Onwuteaka-Philipsen. Death with dignity from the perspective of the surviving family: A survey study among family caregivers of deceased older  Palliative Medicine 27.7 (2013): 616-24. Web.  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/about/history/>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.