Tayeb 1 Allaa Tayeb Instructor Poston ENC 1102-029 26 February 2016 The Arts Versus STEM Our society relies heavily on the media thrown before us. One can understand a lot of an cause and fight just through the visuals surrounding their campaign. Some visuals or advertisements may affect the way these organizations influence people and the opposing counsel of their argument. When organizations publish media that can be misconstrued as attacking the opposition, it establishes stigmas that manipulate the public into supporting causes that refute facts and focus on fallacious arguments. In the popular debate of whether legislators should defund arts education programs in public schools to support more STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) coursework, both stakeholders have released visual media that attacks the other. This is done to disprove each argument, and reflect the goals to a and an easily exploited public. Defunding arts education could be detrimental to our future artists, writers, musicians, filmmakers, and creators of the avant-garde. At least this is what the World Alliance for Arts Education (WAAE), an organization seeking to keep the arts alive in public schools, believes. Supporters of this groups initiatives believe that, arts are perhaps more relevant to those students who demonstrate an affinity or an inclination towards them [the (Gaztamibide-Fernandez 30). The WAAE has released media that supports this belief, as well as invalidated the argument. One specific example of this is of a cartoon released by some of their supporters. In the cartoon, a scientist is seen overlooking the construction of a Tayeb 2 bomb, and then fleeing as it explodes. The words can make bombs, humanities can prevent them from going are sprawled across the cartoon, with the words and bolded and bigger than anything else. This takes a formal, yet attacking tone towards the opposing group for several reasons. This visual media incorporates the rhetorical appeal pathos, heavily. By saying that something as drastic as a chemical explosion will ensue because of science, this piece is able to appeals to the emotion. They are essentially teaching people to believe that without the humanities, chemical explosions will be a dime a dozen. This places a greater importance on the publics need to act soon and support humanities and arts programs in an effort to avoid catastrophic outcomes. This visual rhetoric is insinuating the initiatives of arts advocacy that push for interest in advocating for arts education in public schools. This image is also an example of a post hoc fallacy. It is stating that if scientists make bombs, the humanities must tell us how it should be fixed. Despite the initiatives being for an integration of the arts, instead of replacing it with other subjects, this visual rhetoric executes a new initiative; to take down the opposition. One can see how a seemingly positive organization bent on sparking change, can become negative merely through its chosen media. The STEM side of this debate also attempts to discredit the opposing side. A piece of visual media that does this is of three students. On the left and right, two students stand at podiums with the words on them. In the middle is a boy with a more vibrant podium, the acronym shown on the display, and just below the words, textbooks for each subject STEM features are shown. The two students with on their podiums, have very lifeless personas, display expressions of surprise and confusion, and are drawn with very little detail in comparison to the boy in the middle, whose clothing and podium bring him to life. The photo Tayeb 3 highlights, and somewhat stereotypes, what physical qualities are associated with higher intelligence (I.e. glasses, specific clothing, etc.). This visual piece is mandating that people who are smart are educated through a STEM system, and regular classes produce lifeless and confused students. The photo in this way is an example of ethos and logos, because it appeals to credibility and logic. By assimilating the stereotypical cultural construction of the persona, the authors of this photo are showing that his intelligence is credible. The photo is essentially saying that the boy in the middle is worth trusting because he has glasses and that makes him and what he supports- the STEM subjects- smart. Alongside the ethos and logos, this photo is an example of an Ad Hominem fallacy. One can assume that the students on the right and left of the STEM advocate, are representation of the arts. By labeling them as confused, the author of this photo is attacking the character of the opposing team by hinting that anyone not STEM educated, is of lesser intelligence. The effect of this is swaying the audience towards supporting integrating STEM education into public school curriculum. This promotes the ideals of the STEM coalition, a group advocating for the integration of STEM into more course studies to replace the arts and humanities. The STEM coalition believes that STEM offers more for prosperity in future, than does other courses- specifically the arts and humanities. This photo reinforces the idea that, technology, engineering, and mathematics are fundamentals of cultural advancement that affects attainments of a high standard of living and economic (Oner 2). The STEM coalition fights for the betterment of our nation. Many advocates believe that as our world becomes more based off technology, the need for innovators will rise to promote the success of our nation. This places subjects under the arts and humanities, on the side and deems them to be insignificant to a prosperous nation. By labeling a student educated through STEM as smarter, Tayeb 4 and better well-rounded, they are able to manipulate the audience into supporting their initiatives. Gaining the support of the public is never easy. Many organizations must campaign to get their message, purpose, and initiatives out for people to understand. One key element of this is the visual media that organizations expose to communities. Especially in the fight to prove whether the arts or STEM are more relevant in public school education, visual media is a used as a way to discredit the opposition and strengthen an mission. Tayeb 5 Works Cited Emelogu, Francis. Digital Image. The Daily Cougar. N.p., 26 June 2014. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Gaztambide-Fernandez, Ruben, Racheal Nicholls, and Alexander Arraiz- Matute. What purpose of the Arts? An Analysis of the Mission Statements of Urban Arts in High Schools in Canada and the United Arts Education Policy Review. 117.1 (2016):29-42. ERIC. Web. 26 January 2017. Learning, ThinkTank. Digital image. ThinkTank Learning ICal. N.p., 23 July 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Miksza, Peter. Education Advocacy: The Relative Effects of School-Level Influence on Resources for Arts Arts Education Policy Review. 114.1 (2013). 25-32. Education Source. Web. 26 January 2017. Oner, Ayse Tugba, Capararo, Robert m. STEM Academy Designation Synonymous with Higher Student Education & Science/ Egitim Ve Billim. 41.8 (2016): 1- Tayeb 6 17. Education Source. Web. 26 January 2017.