1 Nygil Somwar Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 25 February 2017 HEADS UP Americas most favored past time over the years has always been football. Every Sunday millions of viewers worldwide tune in to watch their favorite teams play. With that, every game is another chance for elite athletes to inspire young kids to pursue their dreams of becoming the next big NFL star. HEADS UP is an organization that specifically deals with those young athletes that are looking to play football at a pro level in the future. Their goal is to help ensure the health and safety of young athletes. (CDC.org) HEADS UP initiative provides important information on preventing, recognizing, and responding to a (CDC.org) The way this organization campaigns is by using positive energetic ads to influence young teens to be more aware of the severity of concussions and its effect on their health. Image 1 is one of the most popular ads, the main ad for their campaign and the image illustrates their goals and ideals. In image 1 easy to realize their main focus is children/youth since the picture involves kids playing sports. The first thing the human eyes spots when seeing this ad is the campaign logo and then right above that are kids that seem to be having fun or enjoying themselves. The logo was placed strategically in the front gaining all the attention, especially since our eyes work from left to right. Included in the logo are kids playing sports, which gains the attention of the young audience and holds their focus on the positive happier side of the photo. Kids mainly 2 focus on having fun and spending time doing things they enjoy. The image is using pathos to emotionally affect the young audience into feeling joy when looking at the picture at first but when they continue observing the ad it changes gears switching the approach from happiness and fun to a more serious tone. The image converts to a side panel that includes the organization and a fellow organization/partner adding an appeal to ethos. Ethos is the appeal to credibility; the logo therefore shows they are credible, having another big organization being referred just adds to their credibility. The next thing the ad wants to call attention to is the phrase better to miss one game than the whole This is probably one of the most important aspects of the ad since showing the importance of the issue. It gives the audience a sense of urgency. If young kids are viewing playing sports as having fun why would they want to minimize the amount of fun they are having. why the phrase hits home with a younger audience. The appeal to timeliness is called Kairos, think of Kairos as a type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right time (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). The colors used in image 1 are very minute and discrete to the general public. Its very effective how the organization purposely left the background blank where the kids are playing sports. because the main focus of the image is the kids and they incorporate the colors into the children involved in the activities. For example the little girl riding the bike is wearing a yellow shirt with a pink helmet. Both of those colors have a soft hue/tone and give the audience a feeling of (Chapman). The boy in the football uniform is wearing red, which is symbolic of violence but can also mean passion and drive/determination. All of the colors being presented refer to the activity of 3 the kid. Giving it an underlying meaning rather than just an action it represents various different types of emotions that children feel when playing sports. In the second image the main audience is also young children, it shows common ground with students not specifically athletes like how the first image does. But they are both ads created for the HEADS UP campaign by the CDC. The first thing that stands out about the second image is the big bold text in the top of the picture. It is a phrase that is a part of a longer quote but is underlined and enlarged because it is showing a statistic that is very alarming and they want the audience to acknowledge it. half a million calls directly to the appeal of Pathos, but the entire quote calls more to logos since it appeals to logic and reason. Although, that one phrase carries the majority of the weight of their campaign since appealing to emotion, which hits home harder to a younger audience. The second image lacks any source of credibility since it have anything to claim with a strong backing since they never included the organization. Therefore the picture lacks an appeal to Ethos. The appeal to Kairos is present with all the intensity and severity of the ad itself. It clearly informing the children how dangerous and frequently these things can happen. Making it known that brain injury is a serious issue. There are more colors being used in the second image compared to the first. The second image paints a bigger picture through the use of color and uses color as their main attraction. how they get the audiences attention and control their emotions. The background of the image is a light blue sky, and light blues are often relaxed and calming (Chapman). Making the audience calm and relaxed after reading that alarming statistic at the top of the image. Then they move onto focusing the attention to the school bus and its 4 light yellow hue. The light yellow also has a calming relaxing affect on the audience, giving them a felling of comfort and hominess. Essentially the colors in this ad are trying to subdue the audience. In conclusion, both of the images are trying to spread awareness on the severity of brain injury and the effects of concussions specifically on young athletes. The second image was a bit weaker in exploiting the age of the audience but was still efficient in explaining the importance of the campaign. They also should have included some type of logo to show the audience they are a part of the organization in turn elaborating on the cause of image. Regardless of how different both the approaches were, the aims were the same. Both images are a part of the HEADS UP campaign headed by the CDC to help ensure the health and safety of young athletes. 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. HEADS UP to Youth  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 6 Image 1 Image 2