Wang 1 Evangeline Wang Instructor Andrew De Carion ENC1102.085S17 29 January 2017 Renewable Energy versus Traditional Energy: The Resolution for Energy Supply Energy is a significant foundation of a country which is based on the consumption of natural resources. However, as scarcity of natural capitals becomes a national issue, the U.S. has to face the challenge of balancing the energy supply, environment and economy. American Petroleum Institute(API) is an organization supporting the exploitation and marketing of oil and natural gas in the U.S. American Council On Renewable Energy(ACORE), however, is an organization dedicating to the promotion of renewable energy such as solar energy, biomass fuels and so on. These two organizations seem to be in a strong disagreement over energy supply because ACORE believes renewable energy can make the society sustainable by minimizing its impacts on the environment, while API has always believed that fossil fuels are the most affordable and feasible way to satisfy the energy demands in the country. Nonetheless, even with different beliefs, these two organizations both have a common goal, which is to meet the domestic or even international need for energy. Therefore, it is possible to establish a comprehensive system which synthesizes renewable energy and traditional energy. Wang 2 Fossil fuels have been the most common resource for energy supply since the Industrial Revolution because they are easy to be exploited and refined, and they are affordable to most energy consumers. American Petroleum Institute is a loyal supporter of this kind of traditional energy. API promotes the economy by developing oil exploration, exploitation, transportation and marketing. Besides, they also play their important political role as they lobby for petroleum and negotiate with federal and state governments. Their mission statement is promote safety across the industry globally and to influence public policy in support of a strong, viable U.S. oil and natural gas Petroleum Instiute). One of major accomplishments is the of petroleum products, which has been adopted by more than 100 (American Petroleum Instiute). However, influence not only just comes from their professional and political persuasion, but also comes from the practicability of petroleum itself. Many people are concerned about the reserves of fossil fuels since many data have shown these natural resources cannot be consumed indefinitely, however, as the technology advances, more reserves have been discovered or rebuilt. In fact, with the implement of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, the oil production has actually increased over the year, rather than depleted. According to researcher Thomas Covert and his co-authors, oil and gas reserves expanded 59 and 94 percent, respectively, between 2000 and 2014. This technology-driven growth in reserves also caused increases in production. In 2014, US natural gas production was greater than ever before and oil production was at 97 percent of the peak reached in (122). With the increase of oil production, the heavy dependence Wang 3 of fossil fuels is not likely to decrease shortly as the price is currently unbeatable in the market. Covert and his co-authors also suggest that electricity sector consumes over 90 percent of total coal consumption and 30 percent of natural (126). Considering the uneven population distribution and high demand for energy, state and federal governments have to choose the most viable energy supply which can not only cover the inhabited regions but also fit the financial qualifications. Differently, ACORE mainly focuses on the sustainability of resources as well as their impacts on the environment. Their mission is business, policy and finance to accelerate the transition to a renewable energy (American Council On Renewable Energy). ACORE contributes immeasurably towards the development of renewable energy. Their educational projects and publications educate people with solid information while remaining accessible and free to the public. ACORE opposes to the over-exploitation of natural resources as well as oil drilling adopted by petroleum supporters like API, such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, because they believe these drilling methods have caused tremendous damages to residential areas and wildlife habitats. These negative effects include water contamination, noise, earthquakes and so on. For example, according to journal Professional Safety, water may be contaminated through spillage and improperly built and maintained waste (18). Therefore, renewable energy, which is generated from clean and renewable sources, seems to be a better options for countries with high energy demands. ACORE and their peers believe it is possible to replace traditional energy with clean energy in the US as many countries have put it into practice. For instance, researcher Wang 4 Brian Vad Mathiesen and his peers suggest and Norway generate all their electricity using renewable energy already, and many other countries have the set a goal to reach 100% renewable energy in the (148). Thus, ACORE believes adopting renewable energy is feasible way to supply energy in developed countries. Altogether, these two organizations have not reached a compromise because API exploits natural resources to minimize the cost of energy in the country, while ACORE strives to protect these resources and find alternatives to supply energy. Nonetheless, despite the existence of conflicts, they share a mutual goal that they both want to meet the demand of energy supply in this country. API strives to provide quality energy with low cost resources due to their low tax and investment rates, however, they also acknowledge fossil fuels are not unlimited and could have negative effects on the environment. Likewise, ACORE realized although clean energy is almost free of pollution, it still need more investment and might be difficult to be generalized in big countries comparing to fossil fuels. Thus, establishing an energy system that combines both types of energy might be a feasible option for both stakeholders to thrive in the energy market. In fact, some companies and institutes have developed a new energy synthesized from both fossil fuels and renewable sources. These renewable sources include biomass and agricultural products, wastes, even like tires. In addition, a synthetic gas called syngas produced by natural gas and other chemical components such as hydrogen, has also been used by many factories and agriculture industries. These synthetic resources share common characteristics: low-cost (comparing to Wang 5 purely renewable energy), easy to be produced and less detrimental to the environment. Economically, synthetic fuels can be competitive with fossil fuels when further policies are established. Study conducted by Thomas J. Tarka suggests that plants equipped with CCS(carbon capture and sequestration) are competitive at crude oil prices as low as $86 per barrel and have less life cycle GHG(greenhouse gas) emissions than petroleum-derived (1). Environmentally, Tarka also suggest that with CCS has a 9-15% reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions compared to that of petroleum derived This alternative does not contradict belief, which is to establish a sustainable society and protect the environment. It also means that fossil fuels will still be needed and API will still be an important role in the energy market. These two organizations have their interests in different fields, and yet they both want to motivate the development of the society. With the gradual adoption and implement of synthetic energy, it is possible for these two organizations and their peers to join this new market and work collaboratively. To make the compromise feasible, these two stakeholders have to share the energy market and work together to make the energy cleaner and cheaper. If synthetic energy becomes the main source of energy in the future, it will not only covers most(or even all) residential regions, but also causes less harmful effects to wildlife and the environment. Wang 6 Works Cited American Petroleum Institute, www.api.org/about. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. American Council On Renewable Energy, http://www.acore.org/about/mission. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Covert, Thomas, Michael Greenstone, and Christopher R. Knittel. We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives 30.1, Feb. 2016, pp. 117-138. Business Source Alumni Edition, doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. New Research On Surface Spills In Fracking  Professional Safety, vol. 58, no. 9, Spet. 2013, pp. 18-18. Academic Search Premier. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Mathiesen, B.V., et al. Smart Energy Systems For Coherent 100% Renewable Energy And Transport  Applied Energy, vol. 145, May 2015, pp. 139-154. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.apenergy.2015.01.075. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Tarka, Thomas J. low-carbon diesel fuel from domestic coal and 25th Annual Pittsburgh Coal Conf., Pittsburgh, PA. DOE/NETL, Spet. 2008. ScienceDirect. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017.