Langs 1 Chase Langs Dennis Composition II 26 February 2017 EPA vs NHRA and Their Mission Statement The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) have been battling it out since we started realizing cars cause terrible pollution in the environment. On one side you have the EPA who want to not only protect the planet from these harmful pollutants, but to protect people from ourselves and all the pollutants we throw into the atmosphere (EPA). Then there is the NHRA who want to provide a safe and friendly environment to race modified cars along with the encouragement of modifying vehicles (NHRA). The images I selected cover a wide range of feelings, while the NHRA picture makes you feel and see a father and son bonding, the EPA Seal reminds you how beautiful nature is yet it is being destroyed by people. This photo screams positivity and a joyful moment in time. With the bright colors, such as the bright yellow sun in the back, green trees, and red pickup truck, you feel a sense of warmth and love when you look at it. That sense of warmth and love is increased by the genuine love you feel when you see who we presume to be the arm around the man (who we can assume is the dad or at least a significant male role model in this life). With both of them having their heads down in the hood we can start to imagine the conversation that was going on, as most young boys and girls do they ask many questions like and it is safe to assume the boy is doing the same and the father is happy to explain because working on vehicles is a hobby for him or even a job. This is one of the Langs 2 main points to bring people together and as their website says safety, sportsmanship, and fellowship and exchange of knowledge and information among Hot Rod Looking at the logical aspect of the picture we can start to take things literally, we can assume the father is a vehicle enthusiast, it is an older truck that looks to be in great condition whether he maintained it or restored it is up to speculation but as most parents do they want to share their passions with the younger generations and that is exactly what is going on here. The boy is young and know what he is looking at but the father is thee guiding and answering his questions This picture is credible because the truck is in great condition so the father knows what he is talking about, and nothing beats parents as being the most credible source of knowledge for their own children. They know them better than anyone else. This is the seal, showing a representation of nature with its bright colors it makes you start to think of nature. The Blues represent the pure blue of the sky and ocean, something that has been slowly fading away because of pollution, from factories, mining, and the tailpipes of vehicles. There even is some sort of lake scene right in the middle of the seal, with a nice dark blue body of water, bright green land, and a blue sky. All of these nice pure colors remind us of nature and that is exactly what the EPA is trying to show. The world used to be so pure until humans came along with technology, and the EPA is trying to protect us from the pollution we create and the environment from the pollution itself (EPA). Logically we can see the seal has a nature scene right in the middle, and with the name Environmental Protection Agency it is easy to know what the EPA is involved with even if you know the specifics. Credibility wise the EPA is a federally funded organization that sees over all things involving the natural world and pollution in the world, specifically the United States (EPA). The EPA ensures that all Langs 3 Americans are protected from significant risks to human health and the environment where they live, learn and It is safe to say that they have plenty of backing to be considered legitimate and credible. I chose both of these images for specific reasons, the NHRA picture really brings out your emotions because of its purity the bright colors, interested boy, vintage truck, and father figure make everyone smile. I chose the EPA seal for more of a logical approach not only is the Environmental Protection Agency a credible, federally funded organization (EPA), but they have been around since December 2, 1970 where it was signed after environment issues could no longer be ignored (GreenAnswers). The NHRA is just as credible however, being founded by Wally Parks in 1951 (NHRA). Langs 4 Works Cited Unknon. EPA  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Unknown. Father Son  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://s-media-cache- ak0.pinimg.com/736x/2a/2c/87/2a2c87dff6cfbe81e00e5de3cc99c9a8.jpg>. Username - Dvirrueta. How Long Has the EPA Been  GreenAnswers. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://greenanswers.com/question/how-long-has-epa-been-around/>. Varios. NHRA Main  National Hot Rod Association. Various, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nhra.com/>. Various. EPA Main  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.epa.gov/>.