Prithipaul 1 Toshita Prithipaul Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102-909 27 February 2017 Promoting research to revolutionize science NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) is the most widely known space agency across the world and has been contributing to improve existing technologies to explore space. Many discoveries are made daily thanks to the team working on the various projects and these researches are shared to the public by the use of media; most of the time with the use of visual images. Recently, Trappist-1star system has been released to the public; a system containing seven bodies revolving around a dwarf star, the news was shared using images and the visual appeals. These images have the purpose of promoting NASA mission statement; encouraging outer space research but also to inform the public about the unknown activities going on around the universe. Some images display hidden messages that play on different rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos to convey information in a different way but still influencing a concept. Ethos defines the credibility and authority of the image, how the image is associated to the goal. The credibility in this image is the logo of NASA which appears on top of the rocket. It certifies that the organization conducts the launch. The poles holding the rocket in place demonstrates the strength of the rocket; it requires hard Prithipaul 2 steel to support the rocket on the ground. The assembly of the parts are well defined which implies that the rocket is well built and once launch the parts will disintegrate in the atmosphere once the control release them. The shininess of the metal part also imply that the rocket is well built and that anyone undertaking the mission in the rocket will feel safe in it. The finish of the rocket make the product feel trustworthy to be used because it shows that appropriate amount of time has been given to completely build the rocket. Pathos is associated with emotions and how the audience feels about the image. The spotlights are bringing focus on the rocket. Emphasis is laid on one object: the rocket, the angle of the image also brings this idea forward. This displays the product and gives an importance to the image, like a center piece in a shop window display. The color of the background; dark black sky with some dark blue, depicts the authority and prestige of the rocket. This enhances the rocket and gives meaning to it particularly. The absence of light around incites the audience to focus only on the rocket and feel serious about it. The yellow painted rocket brings clarity to the image since it is the only color that stands out in the image. Yellow revives the mood of people and make people feel better, here the image defines the rocket as being important and fun at the same time. Kairos is related to the timeliness of the image and the action undertaken by the subject in it. The angle at which the image has been taken also defines timeliness since it shows that the rocket is ready to be launched. From the image, it seems like the countdown can start within the next minute. The second image defines ethos by the position of the image captured. This shows the credibility of the image since this demonstrates the actual work performed by astronauts in Prithipaul 3 space. The steel structure in the front show the strength of the rocket. The head rest and shoulder rest define the safety of the user while bringing comfort to the position in which he is working. There is a light that is shining at the bottom of the image that improves the sight of the astronaut and increases the visibility of the surroundings. The number of screens also defines ethos since it demonstrates that the person is working genuinely. In this image, the emotions that come up is the feeling of work towards progress. The position at which the person is working is unusual from our daily life on earth, yet, it is common for astronauts. It shows the dedication of the astronaut towards its job and encourages progress for the future. The place in which he is working is confined, this shows the difficult environment in which the person is working. The outfit of the person describes enthusiasm and is a color that is bright and that stands out. It is so to identify the person quickly when he goes far from the rocket out in space. The angle at which the image is taken focuses on the astronaut and his work. The image makes the audience feel admiration towards the work of an astronaut. The image capture an astronaut working; the person is focusing on the screen where he is performing the required task. It shows the action of the astronaut and that he is ready to carry out the given task. This image shows how the research is conducted in space on a rocket. NASA conducts research to discover new horizons and beyond to improve science and understand the things that are not clear in space. Most of the discoveries that are made available to the public use visual appeals to the communicate the ideas in a clear way. The images bring Prithipaul 4 clarity to the article and enhance the credibility by proving that it is real. The information they wish to convey most of the time are direct but sometimes images can contain hidden messages. These can be understood by the use of rhetorical the appeals. Prithipaul 5 Work Cited NASA.