Adrian Matos1 Adrian Matos Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 01/25/17 The Change of Perspective of Performing Enhancing Substances Over Time Performing enhancing substances, PEDs, has become a widely-debated topic in sports. There is a constant debate on whether PEDE should be distributed in sports or not. Since the first development of Androgenic steroids in the 1930s, many new types of drugs have been developed to not only compete with other substances, but as well improve the overall physical attributes. In many cases those aspects of these substances have not only been proven to increase physical abilities, but also has proven to be a likely use in rehabilitation. But after further studies on these substances, the reality is that these drugs can potentially cause health risks. why sport committees have developed organizations, such as the World Anti-Doping association, to ban these substances from sports. Other case studies have shown how people are trying to use these substances without brining attention. With evidence gathered. periodically the view of PEDs has constantly been debated. But, as time passed the view on PEDs is that it continues to be a health risk and a rising pandemic in sports. Firstly, the view point of performing enhancing drugs have not changed overtime. Committees still see this as a possible health risks when used by an athlete. If anything, research overtime has most likely developed a stronger negative view on PEDs. Although, in some instances, it was debated whether possible health risks were inconclusive. In the 1960s , researcher were investigating the adverse effects of AAS, but it proved rather difficult to to Adrian Matos2 recreate abusive habits of AAS.(Hartgens, sect.3). So, it was difficult to get a precise dosage of AAS that would become a health risk. So, the most accurate data to collect from this type of scenario is reported or past documented cases involving the use of AAS. F. Hartgens wrote that in previous years, serious cardiovascular events were reported in healthy athletes. Reports claimed that athletes were developing cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation, Qt dispersion, cerebrovascular accidents, and acute heart failure. Also, Hartgens revealed from animal experiments, that AAS can produce liver disorders such as cholestasis, peliosis hepatis and hepatocellular hyperplasia. Probably another reason why the view of PEDs is so controversial is the methods of testing to see what tolls these substances have on the body. Sure, they may cause physical systems, but how is it possible to detect theses adverse changes early. Scientists are now creating ways to map out physiological phenomenon inside a person using light micropsy. NA Hassan conducted a controlled study where he took three groups. One group consisted of bodybuilders that were taking a certain dosage of AAS. The second group, were bodybuilders who were not taking AAS. The third was just a controlled group. After eight weeks, the groups were subjected to Electrocardiographs. These Echocardiographs consisted of light and electron transmission micropsy. The results, for the group of bodybuilders that were subjected to AAS, showed areas of degeneration with loss of striations and vacuolation in the Cardiac Secondly, apart from the unchanged view of PEDs as being a health risk, PEDs are gradually being seen a progressively more issue. The issue is that these substances are banned from being used, but people are not only finding ways to distribute these substances illegally, but the public opinion is being swayed to tolerate the use of PEDs. Although the World Anti-doping Agency is constantly adding procedures to handle those who are either using PEDs or distributing them, people still find ways to allocate the substances. Dr. Hans Geyer, wrote a case Adrian Matos3 report in 2002, that Nutritional Supplements contained intentially faked anabolic-androgenic steroids such as methandienone, stanozolo, also according to the same year, there is no way to determine were these substances originated from. Geyers believed that these originated from Chinese pharmaceutical based on the chemical composition. So there is no real way to for the WADA to track the amount of PEDs that are illegally being distributed all over the country. This a situation that is gradually getting out of control and continues to grow out of proportion. Another factor mention earlier is that new case studies are claiming that the health risks from the use of PEDs can be prevented. This sways athletes in taking the risks to increase their physical performance. Jay R. Hoffman wrote about another case study were the author wrote that many side effects associated with PEDs are reversible and would cease when the use of the Ped(s) is stopped. so this is telling athletes that PEDs can be used until the point when it starts to cause health problem. This issue is going to continue to get worst because athletes think that putting their health at risks is a small price for greatness. Therefore, you see athletes in professional sports risk suspension or fines, because rather than putting the hard work into place, they believe that they can take a shortcut. And these people are supposed to be role models. Adolescent teens are being told that the use of PEDs is not a form of cheating and the easiest method. So not only the use of PED is viewed as an epidemic, people are constantly being convinced that PEDs are safe to use. In Conclusion, this topic on PEDs is constantly being debated. Maybe there is a way to use PEDs to to a certain extent without the possible outcome of health risks. Maybe doping is just a way of cheating competitively and it should not even be allowed. The belvederes of this topic and will continue to become a controversial issue because there is too much inconclusive Adrian Matos4 data from research. But, at the moment these substances are prohibited, yet many people are being influenced to think that the use of PEDs is tolerable. Adrian Matos5 Work sited: 1. Hartgens, F. & Kuipers, Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in Med (2004) 34: 513. 2. Hassan, N. A., M. F. Salem, and M. A. E. L. Sayed. Doping And Effects Of Anabolic Androgenic Steroids On The Heart: Histological, Ultrastructural, And Echocardiographic Assessment In Strength  Human & Experimental Toxicology 28.5 (2009): 273-283. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Jan. 2017 3. Geyer, Hans, et al. Nutritional Supplements Cross-Contaminated And Faked With Doping  Journal Of Mass Spectrometry 43.7 (2008): 892. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. 4. Jay R., Hoffman, and Ratamess Nicholas A. Medical Issues Associated With Anabolic Steroid Use: Are They  Journal Of Sports Science And Medicine, Vol 5, Iss 2, Pp 182-193 (2006) 2 (2006): 182. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 8 Feb. 2017