Smith 1 Storm Smith Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 27 February 2017 Making the Cut Hey did you hear about the new UCONN basketball video game, yea neither did I? When you look at the various collegiate sports who do you think of- the athletes, the coaches, the games, or the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The NCAA is the corporation for collegiate sports, they are the ones who deal with the athletes for recruiting, creating how much money each team and then athlete should receive, and other things that the college itself would not handle. The NCAA has dealt with various issues with the Title IX and sex discrimination cases due to participation numbers with athletics from both male and female teams. They have been trying to settle these cases and lessen the issues with sex bias crimes and women athletics numbers have begun to increase but at a slow and steady pace. The NCAA has shown with sponsors that male athletes have better numbers and are chosen first over female athletes for endorsements such as video games, apparel, etc. The NCAA has shown with advertisements and data that the numbers of female and male athletes have increased over the years but male athletics have always dominated. They also show advertisements for their video games using mainly male sports like football, soccer, or basketball and female sports do not make the cut. These advertisements raise rhetorical appeals dealing with credibility, emotion, logic, and time to show the audience their stance on the topic that female athletes are not the ones chosen for sport endorsements. The images chosen will show how the NCAA needs to Smith 2 begin getting female athletes involved in the advertising world so they can bring in more profit and give female athletics better recognition. The mission statement is purpose is to govern competition in a fair, safe, equitable and sportsmanlike manner, and to integrate intercollegiate athletics into higher education so that the educational experience of the student-athlete is (NCAA Core Values). When dealing with issues involving sex based discriminations it brings a negative cogitation on the universities involved causing some to lose money from their contributors. There have been issues in the past where the NCAA and the Title IX law have come in disagreement due to scholarships given to athletes. The National Law Center that female athletes at the 25 institutions in Division I received a disproportionately small amount of sports-related financial aid during the 1995-96 academic (Naughton). This is also during the years where the NCAA recorded that the participation of female athletes was only breaking 100,000 while male athletics was almost at 200,000 and increasing (NCAA). Due to these cases, female athletes do not want to participate in athletics when they go to college because they know they would be wasting their time during their season, not achieving any recognition and having their grades become issues with the college itself. These issues need to be brought to the attention of people because if these situations are not fixed then who knows what could happen with collegiate sports overall. Ethos is the appeal to credibility and ethical stances. The image of the NCAA football 11 video game shows known Florida Gator football player Tim Tebow on both the covers the XBOX 360 and PS3. The use of major video games along with the NCAA logo shows the audience and those who will purchase to play the game will be choosing a game with a popular player. The credibility is shown with the fact that Tebow is enthusiastic when playing gives the Smith 3 player the same feeling when he or she will play the video game. The game also represents the NCAA logo so there is the notion that the game is similar to that of actual college football rather than just a random video game sponsor. The image of the data gives the numbers of the male, female, and total amount of student- athletes from the year 1984 to 2015. The use of statistics provided by the NCAA themselves gives reliability to the data so those who look at the chart can see actual numbers of student-athletes. You can trust the information given out because the NCAA provided this knowledge and would not want to give out false numbers. Pathos is the appeal to emotion. The use of the football players in action and their emotion while playing gives the audience a sense of enthusiasm to play the games. The blues bring a sense of happiness showing that those who play the games will be happy while playing and it shows that the NCAA football players enjoy playing for their colleges. The chart uses three main colors to show pathos because the total is in green, male athletes are in blue and female athletes are in red. The green represents the numbers are in a good standing and ranking, there are no issues with having student-athletes participate. The blue for male athletes gives them a positive look as their numbers mainly increase. The red representing the female athletes gives a vibe of negative numbers where they have smaller numbers than male and only in 2014-2015 did they get closest to the male numbers. The statistics can show that female numbers have not been at their best and that there needs to be a change in order to get female numbers increased. Logos is the appeal to logical knowledge. The fact that this picture is of male college athletes it shows my point of view that I am trying to show my audience. This goal is to have those who look at the video games see that male athletes are on the cover of these games and that the female endorsements are not a major thing. The audience needs to be aware of the situation at hand with issues between male and female athletes being endorsed and sponsored. Smith 4 This photo has data within it so the audience is given statistics about the student-athletes within the NCAA program from 1984. The audience has to think about how the numbers coincide with the topic of my paper where male athletes are the higher percentage in the total amount of athletes. People need to realize that at some universities male sports dominant over female athletics which cause women to not have the same opportunities everywhere. When companies use advertisements, they have an idea for what they want their message to say and sometimes the message is clear other times not. The video games purpose was to endorse NCAA football using a popular figure who is known to the public for his great athleticism and his community actions. They want to use Tim Tebow for his ability to pursue others into doing he right thing, he plays college football well so can you, in a video game. The image probably was successful for the purpose of the game but we need to look deeper into the issue. The endorsements given by NCAA in forms of video games, apparel, etc. are using male student-athletes as the college image and not sharing the wealth with the female student-athletes. Bringing female endorsements will not be a negative impact on the NCAA because they will still be bringing in profit. The chart showing the number of NCAA student-athletes gives the sports analyst data to show the increasing of student-athletes throughout the years. The image is suppose to be informative about the opportunities that have now led to more athletes to continue their career in college. This also gives the idea that since there are many student-athletes in colleges they will have the ability to pursue professional careers in the sports they love. The chart should be showing that even though the female population is rising male athletes still dominate the collegiate athletics. If we can show that female athletes can gain endorsements just like male athletes then we can encourage more female to continue playing sports in college Smith 5 which can potentially lead to increased number of student-athletes bringing in profits for their universities as well as the NCAA. The issue at hand is that female student-athletes may work just as hard but are still dominated by their fellow male student-athletes. If the NCAA can work out contracts with colleges, their athletes, and sponsors we can show that bringing in female student-athletes to the endorsement world will benefit not only the athletes, the colleges they attend but also the NCAA. Smith 6 Smith 7 Works Cited EA Sports. Tebow on the cover of NCAA Football Wikipedia, NCAA, XBOX360, PS3. July 13, 2010, Core NCAA.org The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values NCAA. of NCAA Student-Athletes 1984-85 to NCAA. Publication date. http://www.ncaa.org/about/respurces/research/divsion-ii-score Naughton, Jim. Between Title IX and NCAA Rules Is at Heart of Lawsuit Football and Title IX in The Chronicles of Higher Education. 1997, http://www.chronicle.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/Tension-Between-Title-IX- and/77626. Accessed 26 February 2017.