Beaulieu 1 Jasmine Beaulieu Ms. Lay ENC 1102 22 February 2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is a popular phenomenon that has been around since the time of the ancient Greeks; Aristotle and Erasistratus being some of the first to use the technique. As a whole, animal testing has become a very controversial topic, and it seems as if the controversy continues to grow as time goes on. An abundance of companies such as Revlon, Tide, and Febreeze claim that they test their products on animals to ensure that their products are safe for the consumer population; but organizations such as The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, otherwise known as the PETA, believe that the use of animals to conduct experiment and product testing is both ethically, and morally wrong. The mission of the PETA is to ensure that all animals are being treated in an ethical and humane way at all times, no matter the situation (People for the Ethical). They strongly believe that the use of animal testing is inhumane and unnecessary regardless of the circumstance; and they are trying to do everything in their power to get their point across. In an attempt to effectively convey their message to a wide population; the PETA has created ads that are able to appeal to emotion, logic, morality, and timeliness by including forms of rhetoric such as: pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos within them. Pathos is the idea of emotional appeal to convey a specific message to an (Newbold). The PETA uses the rhetoric know as pathos in both of the ads below, in hope that being able to reach the audiences emotions will aid in getting their message across. In image 1, a Beaulieu 2 picture of a mouse is the focal point of the ad. In most cases, when you see an animal such as a mouse it results in a happy or joyous feeling; but the PETA uses a picture of a mouse to evoke feelings such as sorrow and anger. They do this not by showing a picture of a typical mouse; but by showing a picture of a mouse that has been tested on, leaving it without its eyes. The PETA also used a very similar form of pathos in image 2. The second ad depicts a man who is suffering from the abrasions that animals would typically suffer from after undergoing testing. By using a human instead of an animal it provokes a question: If it is not okay to test on humans, then why is it okay to test on animals? It puts you in the shoes and really makes you think about By provoking these questions, and feelings of anger and sorrow it allows for the audience to question animal testing in its entirety, and wonder if it is really necessary and beneficial for companies to be using the technique. The rhetoric known as kairos refers to a sense of timeliness and urgency (Newbold). By using Kairos, the PETA hopes that the audience will feel as if they must act upon the situation. In image 1, there is a portion of the ad that is highlighted in red that says to a better Just the fact that the statement is highlighted in red appeals to kairos because it stands out, and your eye is drawn to it right away. But the word that are embedded in the red highlight are what truly make all of the difference. In most cases, when someone tells you to to a better it means that something is wrong and that the change needs to happen right then; and that is what the PETA is trying to do as well by putting it in this ad. Image use of kairos is very similar in the way that it provokes urgency, but it uses a different statement to do so. The words are on the relative center of image 2. The placement of the words alone allows for them to be seen right away, but the PETA went a step further by also using a different font for those words to really make them stand out. Not only do they stand out, but by telling Beaulieu 3 someone to it is implying to them that that is what they should do right now. The statements on both images are not suggesting for the audience to do something, they are telling the audience what they need to do. In rhetoric, represents credibility or an ethical (Literary Devices). Ethos is mainly thought of as the rhetoric that proves as to why what someone is saying is credible; but there is another side to ethos that many people forget about. It also appeals to ethics such as peoples morals. If an organization, such as the PETA, makes a statement that is for or against what the audience believes than that is considered ethos as well. In both of the images being discussed, the PETA implicates both uses of ethos. In image 1, the simple usage of the logo appeals to ethos because of the fact that the PETA is a very credible organization. This is because the PETA is a very well-known and trusted organization across not only the country, but some parts of the world as well. As an organization, PETA is the largest animal right organizations in the world with more than 5 million (People for the Ethical). The first image is also able to appeal to the moral values by implying that medical research is an excuse for murder. The PETA does this by putting a statement on the image that reads, you call it you can get away with The addition of this statement on the ad allows for the audience to really think about what animal testing does to the animals; and that if it is in fact the equivalent to murder, then it is without a doubt going against their beliefs and values. They PETA used a very similar technique in image 2 to appeal to morality by using words. Image 2 reads, TESTING in all capital letters. Just as in image 1, image 2 uses very strong language to get the audience thinking about the reality of animal testing. When it is plainly stated that testing most people would be taken back by that statement; and it has the ability to have them question what they believe is truly right and Beaulieu 4 wrong. Image 2 also appeals to the credibility side of ethos because they used a famous musician as the focal point of the ad. Celebrities are typically people that others look up to, so by using Dave Navarro as the subject for this ad the PETA is attempting to say that because Dave Navarro agrees with what we have to say, you should to. Both images are not only appealing to the credibility side of ethos, but the more personal moral side as well. By appealing to both sides of ethos, it allows for the PETA to better convey their message and reach out to a wider audience. Animal testing is an issue of opinion and beliefs, and that is one of the main reasons why the debate being held on the topic continues to grow. Some people attempt to justify the use of animal testing for research purposes by saying that it is a (Stumpf). But the PETA is trying to show people that they believe; that animal testing is inhumane and should not be conducted regardless of what the circumstance is. They believe that every life is valuable, and that that goes beyond just the human race. By producing advertisements that utilize the rhetorical appeals of pathos, kairos, and ethos, the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is able to more effectively persuade the audience that animal testing needs to stop. Beaulieu 5 Image 1: Image 2: Beaulieu 6 Works Cited Literary  Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Newbold, Curtis. 5 Concepts You Need to Understand to Communicate Persuasively: Ethos, Pathos, Logos, Kairos,  The Visual Communication Guy Design Writing and Teaching Resources All in One Place. N.p., 7 Aug. 2013. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA. PETA, n.d. WEB. 24 Jan. 2017. Stumpf, Elizabeth. Animal Experimentation and Testing: A Pro/Con  School Library Journal 2000: Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.