Blum 1 Taylor-Paige Blum Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Public vs. Virtual High School Obtaining a high school education in society is essential to finding any kind of job; whether one decides to continue onto higher education or immediately join the work force. Luckily due to living in the age of technology there are many different ways one can go about getting their high school diploma. The most common option is through the public school system. The Florida Department of Education states that Florida students deserve to graduate high school with knowledge and skills they need to succeed in college, careers and (fldoe.org). Another way students can complete their high school requirements is through online courses provided by Florida Virtual School FLVS is an online school in which in-state and out-of-state students can enroll in either part-time or full-time classes for a convenient and unique learning experience. Within the last decade, the FLDOE has made it necessary that all graduating high school students take at least one online course and FLVS is usually the solution to this. However, public schools are beginning to steer their students from FLVS because it is causing them to lose money. As a result of the decline in students, FLVS is seeing a shortage in revenue resulting in staffing problems. The Florida Department of Education must come together with Florida Virtual School program to initiate a two online-course per year graduation requirement for high school students in order to boost success and completion rates across the state. Blum 2 The FLDOE represents all of the public schools in the state of Florida. They create the curriculum and exit requirements for all Florida students, which include completing the 24-credit program and fulfilling the requirements of the Digital Learning Now! legislature enacted in 2001 (fldoe.org). Majority of the classes are taken in the traditional setting of a classroom with face- to-face teacher interaction. However, with the use of technology becoming very important in daily life, the Digital Learning Now! act requires that students take at least one course in an online environment in order to graduate. The reasoning behind this legislature comes from nine main ideas, some of which include transforming public schools for the digital age, utilizing virtual learning to customize education, and preparing teachers for success in the digital age Learning The overall goal of the FLDOE is to see their students succeed and thrive in their education. Florida Virtual School was designed to create a personalized, interactive learning experience for students K-12 to take courses either part-time to their public school classes or full-time from home. FLVS began in 1997 with only 77 students, but has now reached over 100,000 students in total (Findley 41). The curriculum is composed of over 150 courses and taught by real, certified teachers who offer one-on-one instruction (flvs.net). The purpose of the virtual school was to not only to help the students interact with more technology, but to be a convenient, engaging, and interactive learning tool that encourages students to strive for success. The common goal between the two stake holders in this situation would be their ambition to see their students succeed. Because graduation is such a vital certification in society, it is important that all students aim for not only graduating, but doing well in school so they stand out against the rest of their class. Graduation rates have been rising since its last decline in the 2005-2006 school year, as reported by the Florida Department of Education High Blum 3 School Cohort 2015-16 Graduation This is a good sign for the future of education; however, there are other systems that when working together could improve the rates even more than they already are while also improving the overall education. FLVS has proven their success through test scores in comparison to Florida and the rest of the country. On the 2012 Advanced Placement exam, 62% of FLVS students received qualifying scores which is 2% higher than the national average and 14% higher than the state average (Manresa 36). Additionally, on the End of Course Exams, 74% of the part-time FLVS students and 63% of the full-time students scored between a level 3 and 5, whereas the state passing rate was only 59% (Manresa 37). These scores from the FLVS students, each with at least a 10% higher score over the state average, show that the online course are helping them succeed. Given these success rates, it is possible for the two schools to come together to improve the learning experience overall. There have been times in the past where the FLDOE has tried to work with FLVS, but the negotiation did not produce a positive outcome for both parties. After the passing of Digital Learning Now! in 2001, many students would just take one course with FLVS in order to fulfill the requirements. FLVS classes are free for all in-state students as long as they comply with the criteria require by state statute, including being enrolled as Florida public school student and being in good standing with their school (Manresa 35). Thus, the students are not taking advantage of all the resources FLVS has to offer and the schools are losing money by sending their students to another institution for classes. To compensate for the money they are losing, some schools are creating their own online courses to fulfill the Digital Learning Now! act while keeping their students enrolled fully at their school. This could be hazardous to the learning because the online courses are not as highly qualified or interesting as those with FLVS. Blum 4 By simply just helping the students get by with the minimum requirements, the schools could actually be hindering their learning. On the other hand, the government is also beginning to cut back on the funds for FLVS due to the decline of students (Manresa 37). As a result, teaching staff is being cut and some teachers are even working without pay. Overall, by coming to a compromise on the curriculum for the students, both parties could overcome their differences to create a better learning experience for the students. As a compromise that satisfies the common goals between the two stakeholders the FLDOE must require their high school students to take two courses per year from FLVS in order to graduate. To make up for the loss of money from both parties, FLVS could charge a small registration fee, such as $50, at the beginning of the school year where half would go back to the school board and half towards FLVS. Not only will this compromise fulfill the requirements of the Digital Learning Now! legislature, but it will also get students acclimated to a different type of learning which in turn could boost their overall success. Textbooks have been said to to stimulate and they are only responsible for conveying ambiguous (Oral 319). After the text book has done its job of giving the facts, often teachers do not know how to continue the lesson with discussion and analysis. Given the wide variety of classes FLVS has to offer, students could choose to take online courses in areas where they feel textbooks or classroom curriculum are lacking in analysis and interpretation. As stated previously, FVLS has been proven to be very successful, more so for their part-time students. Therefore by requiring students to not just take one course, but by having two consistent courses per year, the students should be expected to see tremendous improvement in their performance. Virtual Education is a growing industry in world of technology. Public education and virtual education have both been flourishing in the past decade in their main goal of student Blum 5 success. However with the establishment of the Digital Learning Now! act students have to make a decision on how they wish to fulfill this requirement. However, by enforcing a 2 online-course per year curriculum with a small registration fee, the Florida Department of Education and Florida Virtual School will both be satisfied financially while also providing the students with a well rounded education both hands-on and online. The compromise would benefit both parties while at the same time help the students succeed more overall. Blum 6 Works Cited Learning Fldoe.org. 17 July 2012. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Findley, Mike. Florida Virtual School Paves The Way In Distance  Distance Learning 2 (2009): 41. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. High School Cohort 2015-16 Graduation Fldoe.org. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Florida Virtual School K-12 Online Fully Flvs.net. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Manresa, Mario. Florida Virtual  Distance Learning 11.1 (2014): 33-39. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Oral, Sevket Benhur. What Is Wrong With Using Textbooks In  Educational Philosophy & Theory 45.3 (2013): 318-333. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017