The question of how to deal with undocumented immigration to the United States is one that must be addressed with both an understanding of economics as well as the rights of humans. The majority of immigrants to the United States are leaving their home countries in hopes of a better life, often for their children. The difficulties faced by these immigrants are not easy. While they might simply be better off for themselves should they simply return to their home countries, their children would likely have to suffer the same lack of opportunity and squalor with which they were faced. A daughter of an immigrant recounts the worries of her mother after having been pulled over for not having worn her seat belt: anyone else just a ticket. For a single mother that is illegal have to go to court; I have to show They will find out I am I will be I have to call my Who will take care of my When faced with the economical question of how to deal with the extra strain on the American economy and resources as well as the human question of how do we provide opportunity and safety to those who desperately need it, the American government may have some difficulty coming to a compromise that will satisfy both needs. Nonetheless, it must be made, with as much careful deliberation as possible. The Immigration Legal Resource Center(ILRC) is an organization that advocates for the rights of immigrants as well as teaches them what rights they have based on constitutional and state laws in their cities and towns, allowing them to do all that they can to live the so-called American dream and provide a better life for their families. It also in advocacy with government agencies and elected officials at the federal, state, and local levels, on policies that directly impact doing its best to provide as much support to the immigrants as possible. Unfortunately, a large amount of the American public is not privy to the human aspect of the question of what to do about undocumented and illegal immigration. The ILRC hopes to change that and bring awareness and an acceptance and love for and the rights of all While the question of human rights may be an issue that can be dealt with using tact, sometimes there is need for a slightly more aggressive stance. The image above shows a rally in which an aggressive tone is reached as the people present argue clearly that those making legislation regarding immigration should understand that immigrants have just as much right to be here as any American. The vast number of the people present at the rally adds to the ethos of the photo; as their numbers increase, they begin to represent more of the American population and, thus, have more of a say in what the United States should do in regards to immigration policy. At a more notable level, with regards to pathos, the discontent with the current policy and views towards immigrants that the people in the photograph have is quite apparent. The woman in the bottom left corner of the image has a clear look of negative emotion on her face as she is complimented by the sign that takes center stage in the photo. The use of red capital letters conveys the importance that the people in the photo give to the idea that those who are anti- immigrant in America are descendants of immigrants who were very unkind to the natives of this land. Just as well, and are written in a blue script to offset the rest of the words so as to show that those who are currently immigrating to the country are the same type of people whose land was stolen from them. Thus, the logos of the picture argues that the immigrants of today have a right to be here because their ancestors were actually the original denizens of America. From a different, perhaps more numerically critical point of view, NumbersUSA attempts to acknowledge the value of human life, supporting the increase in diversity and acceptance of all legal immigrants into American society, while still arguing that the current influx of immigrants to the United States is unsustainable from a strictly resource-related and economical perspective. NumbersUSA states clearly that it nativism in the law and private actions [and believes Americans should be treated equally regardless of where they were However, it still wishes to limit the number of family visa lottery immigrants, and immigrants on work visas who do not provide any extraordinary skills. By doing so, they hope to prolong the lasting of resources for all American citizens, whether naturalized or natural-born, and improve their quality of life. Along with this economical argument, this second image conveys a different perspective from the first. The image uses the ethos of President presence at the right of the image to juxtapose his unsustainable policy of allowing all types of immigration to become legal. This cartoon uses this, not to discredit presidency but rather to simply bring light to the question of whether the country can afford the number of immigrants that are being allowed. On a similar note, the pathos in this image comes from the large amounts of people climbing over or going under the border to enter America. One viewing this image from an economical perspective may feel overwhelmed by the number of people coming into the country. Thus, the viewer is led to the logos of the image which is the contemplation of whether America can sustain the number of people entering the country sans documentation. The illustrator hopes to convey a need for change in the current approach to the law regarding immigrants. After having both sides of the story in regards to illegal immigration, the American government should attempt to understand both arguments in regards to immigration in order to provide a feasible compromise. Since 1990, the unauthorized immigrant population has risen from million to million, which has increased the strain on resources leading projections to state that resources would wane significantly in coming years. Nonetheless, each of the 11.1 million is an individual person and must not be forgotten when creating the compromise.