Sands 1 Trevor Sands Kristopher Luce Composition 1 02/27/2016 American Soccer and the Constantly Changing Opinions Throughout the past few decades, opinions on American soccer have constantly changed. For the rest of the world, soccer is accepted as the most popular sport. In America, however, it has had a less influential history and does not compete with the other major league sports. With that being said, the opinions of soccer here in our country have still transformed greatly overtime. There were several factors that manipulated the opinions ranging from the quality of the players to the style they played in. Professional soccer was not even established in the United States until 1968. Since then several leagues have been formed. For the first few years the ratings did not meet expectations. In the the North American Soccer League gained a lot of popularity, especially in New York. (Scott 2) This rise to fame was not permanent and ended several years later. People went back to thinking soccer would not make a breakthrough in America. (Scott 3) Since then the opinions have continued to change. From the MLS being established in the USA to hosting the 1994 world cup, the sport had prosperous years. Soccer has become even more prevalent in our country since 2000. In the future, soccer will only continue to flourish and have a greater impact on American society. Before Pele came to play in America, there was little demand for soccer beyond being a popular college sport. When he came to play in America in the people started paying attention and there was a hope that he might create a wave in our country. (Scott 1) Contrary to popular belief, Pele and several other great players on the New York Cosmos were not able to transform the way we looked at soccer in America. Although they had great ratings throughout Sands 2 the they began to fall in the since New York won most of the trophies. (Scott 8) When Pele retired from the New York Cosmos in 1985, the North American Soccer League folded. (Scott 3) This proved to be a surprising occurrence at a time where the sport was still on the come up. Previously to his retirement, people began saying that Americans may have found a foothold in the soccer world. The failure of the NASL proved that theory wrong and once again the opinion was that Americans did not like soccer. It was decided that they could no longer attract quality players due to the lack of competitive nature among the league. This was the view on soccer in the USA after 1985 when Pele retired. (Scott 2) It until the that soccer became relevant in America again. The next big event that changed opinions regarding American soccer was the 1994 World Cup. The world cup, similar to the olympics, is a tournament that happens every four years and holds 32 different national teams from countries across the world. In 1994, the tournament was held in nine cities across America. Home field advantage clearly benefitted team USA as they advanced to the round of 16 before losing 1-0 to Brazil. Although they lost, this was a positive result as Brazil is known to be a great team and USA usually fail to advance through the group stage . (Scott 8) America was so hyped to host the World cup that they launched the next professional soccer league, the MLS in 1993 to attract more attention. (Scott 6) Intertwining the two turned out to be a good move because once again there was hope for soccer in America. The round of 16 loss to Brazil attracted attention to the MLS at first but the ratings began to fall after a the first few years. The opinion remained that there was hope for soccer in America. The key to the success of the MLS turned out to be adopting the European style of playing rather than trying to Americanize it. The typical American sport separates teams into conferences of teams by east and west or north and south. They then have divisional and Sands 3 conference playoffs based off of each record.. Soccer in every other country did not work this way. Insead, there are twenty teams that and no separate divisions. A win is three points, a draw is one point,and a loss is none. At the end of thirty eight games the team with the most points wins. (Scott 8) When America finally did adopted the European style of soccer they began to attract more high profile players. David Beckham joined the LA Galaxy in 2007 and made himself a household name in this country. (Elliott and Harris 2) Since then, many great European players have followed in his footsteps such as Andrea Pirlo, David Villa, Frank Lampard, Steven Gerrard, Thierry Henry, Ricardo Kaka and plenty of the other greats of the game. Elliott and Harris 4) The establishment of stars in the MLS has guaranteed America a spot in the future of soccer. Not only has the MLS started landing star players; Star players from America have also started to find their way in the European leagues. For a while it was thought that only AMerican goalkeepers could succeed in Europe. However, Christian Pulisic has recently proved that theory incorrect. His recent success at Borussia Dortmund, one of the best teams in Germany, has proved that America may just possess the talent necessary to break through in the more competitive European leagues. (Elliott and Harris 5) people are now beginning to realize that America can produce stars. Another sign of increased impact on America is the massive record breaking deal Manchester United signed with Chevrolet. The fact that an American powerhouse company would link up with a powerhouse European team proves that we have found the value in soccer. This deal for $560 million in seven years is a groundbreaking deal in sports sponsorship. Other companies such as T mobile, Jeep, and New Balance are also sponsor of major European soccer clubs. (Zemanek 2) The fact of the matter is that America is now Sands 4 involved in just about every aspect of soccer. Perhaps we will produce some more stars and even some managers in the future. Soccer has most certainly come a long way in America. From the founding and the collapse of the NASL to the MLS and the World Cup. The opinions have continuously changed over time. In the future, the American league and national team will both continue to prosper and gain more popularity. Citations 1.) Elliott, Richard, and John Harris. CROSSING THE ATLANTIC FROM FOOTBALL TO SOCCER: PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS ON THE MIGRATIONS OF ENGLISH PLAYERS AND THE INTERNATIONALIZATION OF MAJOR LEAGUE  Elliott - 2011 - WorkingUSA - Wiley Online Library. N.p., 7 Dec. 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Sands 5 2.) Rowe, William J., and James E. Zemanek, Jr. Chevrolet and Manchester United: a transformational sponsorship in a traditional industry  Innovative Marketing 10.1 (2014): n. pag. EconLit. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. 3.) Scott, Ian. From NASL to MLS: Transnational Culture, Exceptionalism and Part in American Coming of  The Journal of Popular Culture 44.4 (2011): 831-53. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. 4.)