The Debate Over Animal Testing 1 The Debate Over Animal Testing Malcolm Stewart English Composition II University of South Florida The Debate Over Animal Testing 2 When new medicines are invented there needs to be ways to test them before they are released to the public. The same thing must happen when new medical techniques for surgeries start to emerge. Everything must be tested and go through the proper channels before it reaches the main stream. Certain options have been debated like testing on prisoners, with humans who are willing on people who are already ill or have a disability or with animals. The answer to this debate is most commonly animals. Animals are most often used to test many new products, like cosmetics and other beauty products, before they reach the market. Some of the companies that traditionally test on animals are switching away from testing on them in favor of making better environmental and social decisions to increase the public appeal of their company. The medical field on the other hand continues to use animals to complete their new product tests. Animal testing is an argument that can be solved by introducing new alternatives that limit the number of animals that can be tested on, promote nonanimal testing procedures, but allow some testing on animals to remain. One of the stake holders is Pfizer. This medical research company that has been proven to do its testing on animals. This group believes that animals should be where the primary medical and surgical testing is done. They have many reasons for believing animals should be subjected to medical testing. One of the reason is that testing on animals first allows for the researchers to watch for side effects of the medicines and procedures, before they decide to release it to the public. This allows for the researchers to tweak their medicines and procedures appropriately so that no one could get hurt due to the carelessness of not testing a medicine properly. Testing on animals allows for a cheaper alternative than most other methods of testing. Per Crivers.com, a lab mouse can cost between twenty-one dollars and seventy-two cents up to thirty-two dollars and eighty cents (crivers.com). Whereas per sentientdevelopments.com, the cost a twelve The Debate Over Animal Testing 3 hundredth of an inch piece of skin would forty-nine dollars to produce (sentientdevelopments.com). When researchers purchase a mouse, they get a living organism that they can run multiple test on like the circulatory, respiratory, and other body systems. The artificial skin would only allow for the testing of things that involved the skin. It is not only cheaper to test on animals, but more practical, without the ability to test medicines and procedures involvements with systems there would be a huge risk releasing these things into practice and on to the market. Another good reason for testing on animals is that there is no bias based on the human experience. When testing with human subjects the results can be skewed due to the subject not flowing instructions or them believing the placebo effect. With animals, the researcher controls everything about the day to day situations and there is nothing for the animals to report back. The other stake holder is the animal activist group is known as PETA that supports the need for animals to have rights. One of the most recognizable names in this debate, PETA or People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. This is an rights activist group known for slogans like is (PETA). They believe that medicinal testing should not be done on animals and that there are better ways to handle testing. have moved away from studying human diseases in humans. We all drank the Kool-Aid on that one, me included. The problem is that it worked, and time stopped dancing around the We need to refocus and adapt new methodologies for use in humans to understand disease biology in (Elias Zerhouni). Elias Zerhouni is a biomedical engineer who helped collaborate with campaign against medical testing on animals. The methods used are harmful to the animals and kills most of the animals subjected to testing. The methods that are often used have no ethical considerations considered before they begin their testing. The companies will test The Debate Over Animal Testing 4 needless operations on the animals and test bad drug combinations that they know will not react well due to the history of other operations. The companies that test on animals have little concern for the environmental effects of their test. They do not have a plan to replace the members of the populations that they take from an environment, causing an imbalance in the ecosystem. Peta realized a statement providing some other alternatives to testing on animals. clinical and epidemiological studies, human tissue- and cell-based research methods, cadavers, sophisticated high-fidelity human-patient simulators, and computational models have the potential to be more reliable, more precise, less expensive, and more humane alternatives to experiments on animals. Advanced microchips that use real human cells and tissues to construct fully functioning organs allow researchers to study diseases and also develop and test new drugs to treat (PETA). PETA does not want testing to be taken out if the equation before medicine and medical techniques are sent out to be used on the public. They agree with medical researchers that there should be testing involved and they do not want people to die. They also do not want animals to die for research. There is no way to completely rule with one side in a situation like this. There is too much to just decide that this is the way things must be done and that there is no other way around it. A multistep proposal might help both the stake holders reach common ground and a compromise. The first step would be to not completely ban testing on animals, but to provide certain guidelines. One of the guidelines would include a clause that limited the species of animals that can be tested on. That way no species that is already in threat of become endangered or extinct gets hurt through testing. chimps that were used in research were caught in the wild. Medical research laboratory that supported chimpanzees has facilities to promote breeding programs. Many chimps are privately owned as pets, and then bought for research programs, but The Debate Over Animal Testing 5 some were obtained after retirement from the entertainment industry. Using the chimps as laboratory subjects are just one of the factors why these animals are critically (Ortigas, 2013). This is an example if medical research making a compromise and switching to alternative methods while still being more productive. The second guideline would be the that the number of animals tested on need to be limited to a certain amount based on the project and if changes need to be made then the lab would need to go through a supervisor to evaluate this request. The final guideline would be improving the nonanimal based testing techniques to a point where there would not be as expensive and they would be more efficient for completing the testing. One method to work with would be testing on single celled organisms due to their ability to reproduce quickly. Both stakeholders would need to remain flexible for this to work. The animal rights activist would have to be willing to accept that animal testing cannot be completely ruled out and medical researchers should understand that the cost of their tests would be higher, but it would cut testing needlessly and carelessly. This would just be a small step into reaching a compromise, but a necessary step. The Debate Over Animal Testing 6 Works Cited Animal testing. (n.d.). Retrieved January 24, 2017, from Animal Testing - ProCon.org. (n.d.). Retrieved January 22, 2017, from http://animal testing.procon.org/ Charles River Laboratories Every Step of the Way. (n.d.). Retrieved January 24, 2017, from http://www.criver.com/ G. (2009, November 01). Mass produced artificial skin to replace animal testing. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from http://www.sentientdevelopments.com/2009/11/mass-produced artificial-skin-to.html Should animal testing be banned? (n.d.). Retrieved January 22, 2017, from http://www.debate.org/opinions/should-animal-testing-be-banned Top Five Reasons to Stop Animal Testing. (2016, October 13). Retrieved January 23, 2017, from http://www.peta.org/blog/top-five-reasons-stop-animal-testing/