CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 1 Can Hydrogen Fuel Cells Replace Fossil Fuels in the Future? Kaung Su Khin Zaw University of South Florida CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 2 Abstract By using two images from Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), the paper discusses about rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and logos of these images to promote its organization. The background information about the organization is provided for its credibility to support hydrogen fuel cell usage in the future. The first image includes ethos with a logo of its organization, pathos with colors such as blue and green and a symbol- water, and logos with a slogan that provides information about hydrogen fuel cells. The second image conveys benefits of hydrogen fuel cells by getting water from a hydrogen fuel cell of a car. Using pathos with emotions from faces, and background attempts to support the use of hydrogen fuel cells. Similar to the first image, it includes a logo of the organization for ethos, and uses a question about the benefits of fuel cells for pathos. Both images attempt to persuade people for using hydrogen fuel cells instead of fossil fuels in the future. Keyword: Hydrogen fuel cell, Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association. CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 3 Can Hydrogen Fuel Cells Replace Fossil Fuels in the Future? Due to higher rates of air pollution and global warming around the world, people are willing to use an alternative eco-friendly energy resource such as hydrogen fuel cells in the future to keep the environment green. According to Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), hydrogen fuel cells are the best option to replace fossil fuels in the future because they do not produce any gases harmful to the environment and their waste product is simply water. In a fuel cell, hydrogen combines with oxygen to produce heat which make engines operate. Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association is a world leading organization that produces alternative energy resources, especially hydrogen fuel cells to replace fossil fuels in the future. By stating environmental benefits of hydrogen fuel cells, the organization attempts to introduce people with these fuel cells using two images. In these images, FCHEA uses rhetorical appeals such as ethos with its logo, pathos with colors and background and logos with information about hydrogen fuel cells to promote its organization and aim. The first image is the main advertising image for hydrogen fuel cells. It presents rhetorical appeals to aid in conveying information about advantages of fuel cells. For ethos, the logo of the organization is included at the right bottom of the image and shows the credibility about information given in this image. All initial letters of its name are written in bold letters to emphasize the logo of the organization. In its logo, the symbol before the abbreviation shows that this organization focuses on energy production. The symbol represents the cycle of half blue color and half green color with the electric sign in the middle of the cycle. In other word, this symbol conveys about environmental benefits of hydrogen fuel cells such as clean and ecofriendly. For pathos, two third of the background of the image is a bright green color which makes people think that hydrogen fuel cells can bring a greener and cleaner environment. CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 4 Likewise, the blue color at the bottom shows the waste product (water) of hydrogen fuel cells but it is overlapped with the green color which represents environmental benefits of hydrogen fuel cells. In order to aid the visualization of waste, there is a splash of water which is blunt with the green and blue background. For logos, a slogan, emission, zero of its organization is written in the middle of this image with bigger white font size of capital letters to get attention from people. The white font color is clearly distinct on the background green color so people can easily notice the slogan in this image. This slogan attempts to explain about advantages of fuel cells because there is no hazardous gas emitted to the environment from fuel cells and their waste (byproducts) is water which is not harmful to the environment. The information given from the slogan is that hydrogen fuel cells are eco-friendly and there is no other alternative energy resource to compare to fuel cells. It uses a very strong word and changes the letter with the number zero to emphasize the cleanness of hydrogen fuel cell emission. Even though the use of kiros is absent in this image, it can clearly and significantly convey about benefits of hydrogen fuel cells with ethos, pathos and logos to promote the aim of its organization. However, this image is not effective enough to persuade the audience as it does not include the main theme which is a fuel so some people cannot interpret easily about a fuel cell with rhetorical appeals in this image. The second image involves three rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos and logos to support hydrogen fuel cell usage in the future. Unlike the first image, its ethos is provided with the website of its organization at the left bottom with a white color so people can easily notice the creditability of this image. If people want to know more about hydrogen fuel cells, they can watch a video about them at its website. As for logos, the image states about a question, CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 5 you know the only tailpipe emission from a fuel cell electric vehicle is which means that the emission of a hydrogen fuel cell is clean and a hydrogen fuel cell is eco-friendly to the environment. This question is stated with different font sizes with the white color in the middle of the image so it can easily be seen by the audience to obtain information about hydrogen fuel cells. In addition, a phrase above the water container conveys about the waste product of hydrogen fuel cells. These phrase and question give information about environmental benefits of hydrogen fuel cells. To provides a clear description about the waste product (water), the pathos in the second image portrays that two people are trying to fill a bottle with water from a tap of a container of a hydrogen fuel cell while they are in somewhere which drinking water cannot be obtained easily. This image attempts to demonstrate that the waste product from hydrogen fuel cells is simply water which can be, in turn, beneficial to people while they are travelling with a car which runs on hydrogen fuel cells. Using people and a real and visual object such as the car with a hydrogen fuel cell in this case probably make people believe that the hydrogen fuel cell vehicles have been invented and will be used in the future. The second image of this organization shows the main point of benefits of hydrogen fuel cells despite the absence of kiros in the image. Thus, it can effectively convey the goal of FCHEA by replacing hydrogen fuel cells in the future. To conclude, Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) desires to use hydrogen fuel cells instead of fossil fuels in the future because burning fossil fuels produces harmful gases such as carbon dioxide which causes global warming and air pollution. In order to maintain the environment green and clean, people need to reduce the use of fossil fuels for energy and try to use a hydrogen fuel cell which is the eco-friendliest alternative among other renewable and sustainable resources. The organization contributes this information and benefits CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 6 of hydrogen fuel cells through using effective images with different rhetorical appeals to simulate people for accepting hydrogen fuel cells. Both images have strong rhetorical appeals to convey information about hydrogen fuel cells in the future. Thus, using these images to promote the goal of this organization can attract people to utilize hydrogen fuel cells for energy instead of fossil fuels in the future. CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 7 Work Cited Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association, (2017). Retrieved from http://hydrogenandfuelcellday.org/ Launches Zero Emissions, Zero Compromise Outreach (2016, October 2016). Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association. Retrieved from http://hydrogenandfuelcellday.org/ Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association. (2017). Retrieved from http://www.fchea.org/post- cards-gallery/68dn5bn6ssabt0xhtseczjmu3u7pvf Image One CAN HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS REPLACE FOSSIL FUELS IN THE FUEL? 8 Image Two: