Ashley Dempsey ENC 1102 Project 2 T. Poston 26, February 2017 Right in Abortion A very controversially issues that continues to be speculated amongst all levels of society is if men should have a right or a voice in abortion. The following image depicted below is a visual representation of the controversial issue voicing a side and or point of view in the issue. This visual representation depicts various rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos and ethos along with others rhetorical appeals convey and demonstrate to the audience and or reader why men should have a right and or voice in abortion. In this first picture published by www.toomanyaborted.com , at first glance without looking to deeply behind the hidden intent or purpose of the picture there is a black and white photo of a pregnant belly and a man bent down holding it and kissing it affectionally. Although a picture is said to be worth a thousand words it is accompanied by five simple words, begins in the (www.toomanyaborted.com) Now when this image is then analyzed through one of the many rhetorical appeals it purpose in which this picture has so much importance becomes clearer. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal to the audiences emotions, this mechanism allows the writer to affectively deliver their intended message to the audience more effectively by connecting emotionally to the audience. By doing so they try and use tools such as the lighting of a picture, font size and color to emphasis and draw the readers eyes. From there try to convey things that will get an emotional response or reaction from the intended targeted audience. When looking at this picture through a pathos lens their use of a black and white picture conveys a more intense intimate vibe. For example when people get wedding pictures or maternity pictures taken, or even a childs first pictures after it is born they would get them done in black and white to emphasis how special and intimate that moment was. The use of black and white in this photo really magnifies the main focal point which is womb. The womb signifies life and the words on the picture reading begins in the Also signifies the womb as being the focal point. The use of effects on the picture such as making it black and white created a more intense intimate effect and draw attention to the womb which is the main focal point allowing the audience to feel that more effectively than if it was just any ordinary colored picture. Although the image can be viewed through a pathos lens I can also be viewed through another rhetorical appeal known as ethos. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal that allows a writer to convey credibility and or authority to the reader or audience. When analyzing this image the author intentionally incorporated the father (male figure kissing the belly). The author could just as easily displayed both parents but intentionally showed only the fathers face kissing the belly and never shows the face of the mother. By doing so this technique displays emphasis on the text saying fatherhood begins in the womb, and the while only depicting the fathers face is showing more credibility and authority to the audience that the statement Is true and or factual and the image backs it. Furthermore, just as image one uses various rhetorical appeals that can be used a various lens to theoretically, metaphorically form a looking class to better interpret hidden the hidden meaning or intended purpose of a image, the same can be done for image two. Image two is not as formal as image one but has the same ideals. Image two is a picture of a planned parenthood ad that one could see on any public transportation or bill bored throughout a city. Just planned parenthood used word choice to create a direct association. The use the statement your morning accompanied by the another statement in finer print that mentions how they offer not only a open mined environment when it comes to needing to get or receive information about contraception , but they also provide counseling if needed. This can be labeled as using pathos and ethos. Pathos because if someone was in need and was frantically searching for answers the bright green back ground and the emphasized bold lettering of your morning after could draws eye and really help them. Also if they looking for contraception this also provides them with a feeling of hope when they are feeling helpless because the ad also mentions counseling which is super beneficial for someone that feels lost and helpless. Ethos is also another rhetorical appeal used because planned parenthood I another well- known corporation, as well as their logo/ trademark. Them presenting that on their ad gives them credibility along with reassurance to someone who needs guidance and it looking for a credible place. Both these images use rhetorical appeals to effectively convey their intended importance and purpose to the targeted audience and or reader, by doing show they both demonstrate their stand point on the controversial topic of right in abortion. These images depict two different methods to effectively demonstrate their standpoint on the issue. Some may say one does a more professional job than the other one but both are affect in their own way and will get their intended message and purpose out to different people depending on how different social groups in society target it. People who have been in hectic situations and have felt helpless or are in need of help may see the planned parenthood ad as being more helpful and direct because it gets straight to the point, while as the too many aborted ad has a lot of hidden emotion and meaning to be interpreted that one that is just passing by may not have time to stop and analyze the point that is trying to be put across. Work cited www.toomanyaborted.com www.plannedparenthood.org Last name of author, First name of author. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. hetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page 27. Print Last name of author, First name of author. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. hetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page 37. Print Last name of author, First name of author. Recognizing Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. hetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page47. Print