Cremi Patel Hannah Lay ENC 1102 Feb 25,2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Rubric The misuse and lack of animal rights is an ongoing problem in the world. An average of 75 pounds of meat per person, per year, is consumed by people around the world, according to research by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Founded in 1980, People for the ethical treatment of foundations (PETA) is a nonprofit organization which believes in the protection of animals. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world, that also believes that animals are not to, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (About PETA). PETA makes powerful advertising campaigns to get its point across to people from images reigning from animal carcasses strung up from the ceiling to humans covered in blood in plastic wraps and naked females in fur to get attention. Their method of conveying people to not buy fur, adopt animals, go vegetarian and stop buying meat products is profoundly shocking. Both the images are trying to persuade their viewers to stop consuming meat products. This organization endorse this idea by creating advertisements by using different rhetorical appeals such as pathos, logos, and ethos to persuade the audience to take a stand against eating meat products. Pathos represents an appeal to the emotions and elicits feeling that already reside in the audience, and the first image portrays pathos in a way making the viewers feel depressed whereas the second image causes them to be shocked. The first image shows a woman holding a hook, surrounded by a knife and chains, covered in blood. The text in the picture tells people to relate to who they are eating. This image implies that people should put themselves in the position of the animals they are eating. Thus, when the audience looks at this picture, they most likely feel as though they are doing something that is not right, which makes them realize their actions and makes them feel guilty and depressed. The second image strikes the viewers a bit harder than the first image. The second image is a baby boy smoking and reading a book. Everybody already knows that smoking is bad for health but when a baby is shown smoking, it is obviously worse for him. By using an eye-popping image of a baby smoking, the organization can shock the viewers and cause them to feel at discomfort. This image causes the viewers to associate their strong emotions about a baby smoking towards eating meat and makes them realize how bad it is for them. Logos is the appeal to logic, which can be seen in image one with the straightforward message in the image and in the second image with the fact stated about the effects of eating meat. Logos helps make the argument stronger and without it, people would not be persuaded by the advertisements. The first image is short and to the point; with the little text in the image, there are limited challenges in understanding the logical behind the ad. Also, it displays the phrase to Relate to Who Is On Your with the words and Who Is On Your a red font. The red can also be seen in the bottom half of the plastic wrap as well as her legs. This could refer to the red blood on animals that are killed to make the food that people eat every day. The second image targets the intellect. It states that smoking, eating meat increases the risk of heart diseases and Most people already know how bad smoking is for health and that it is a common cause of cancer, so PETA assumes that the viewers will use their logic to associate smoking with how terrible meat is for them and see that they have similar effects. The advertisers want the viewers to choose a healthy lifestyle by going vegan and stop eating meats. The appeal to the creditability of the persuader is known as ethos. Both the advertisements provide a good reputation by placing on the bottom right of the paper. Since PETA is well known and trusting due to the many years it has been around, these advertisements shows creditability. According to Britannica.com, attempted to alter public attitudes toward animal rights by means of creative advertising campaigns that, while serious in their message, contained humorous and spooflike (Kort). In the first image, PETA uses a well-known Indian model and actress, Anupama Varma, which strengthens the creditability of the ad as well as grabs the attention of more people. According to Marina Julius, many celebrities publicly support animal rights causes, PETA targets young people, and often works with famous people whom younger generations (Julius). The presence of ethos within these images allows the viewers to look further into the organization and get more information regarding the topic. The advertisements highlight the vegan and vegetarianism campaigns by PETA. These specific campaigns push to fight against climate change. The campaign promotes a no-meat diet in order to save and protect the environment. According to an Oxford University study, eaters are responsible for almost twice as many dietary greenhouse-gas emissions per day as vegetarians and about two and a half times as much as (Fight Climate Change by Going Vegan). PETA is trying to change this by using impactful ads and getting people to think about going vegetarian and/or vegan. Overall, the images are efficient in displaying rhetorical appeal as well as in conveying the audience against eating meat. The use of ethos, pathos and logos in the advertisements tries to show the viewers that animals are just as important as humans and the negative effects of eating meat in its ad campaigns. These ads can shock as well as spark curiosity in the audience on why they should change their lifestyles. PETA warns the audience to stay healthy as well as to try to save the earth by controlling climate change. Work Cited About PETA. N.p., 2011. Wed. 26 Feb. 2017. Climate Change by Going PETA. N.p., n.d. Wed. 26 Feb. 2017. Julius Marina E. animal appeal: an ecofeminist exploration of Business N.p., 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://sdsu- Try to Relate to Who Is On Your Plate digital image - http://www.ecorazzi.com/2012/09/28/indian-supermodel-gets-wrapped-for-peta/ You Let Your Child Smoke. digital image- http://www.nbc12.com/story/20662212/peta-billboard-uses-smoking-baby-to-push-veganism