Gil 1 Ariana Gil Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 27 February 2017 NORML Marijuana has been known and used since 2700 BC as a method of medical treatment but was then declared illegal by the 1900s (Boerner 28). This is because during this time the Mexican revolution was taking place resulting in many Mexicans immigrating to America; many of which were frequent marijuana smokers. This frightened people and made them believe that marijuana would make them just like the Mexicans which then caused the ban of marijuana (Boerner 28). Since the illegalization, pro marijuana organizations have been forming a common one being National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) founded in 1970 (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). Their main goal is to educate the public on the benefits on medical marijuana and try to legalize the use of marijuana nationwide to reduce the arrests of marijuana smokers. NORML, as a way to promote their position, releases images advocating for the legalization of marijuana. By using the rhetorical appeals logos, pathos, Kairos, and ethos the two images are effectively representing mission. The National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) main goal is to educate the public on marijuana and to legalize the use of marijuana at a safe, convenient and affordable cost (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). The NORML organization was founded in 1970 and it successfully decriminalized offences in 11 states during the 1970s (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). They also have a sister organization called the NORML Foundation which sponsors public advertising in order to Gil 2 educate the public about effects and benefits of marijuana (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). This organization is the oldest and the largest pro-marijuana legalization organization in the united states. The NORML organization uses images in order to advocate their goal and mission and they use rhetorical appeals in order to be effective in its efforts to legalize marijuana. The purpose of the first image is to educate the public that legalizing marijuana would have positive outcomes. A rhetorical appeal that is present in this image is logos. Logos is the appeal to logic. It gives the audience reasoning and evidence because very few people respect claims that do not have any reasoning for or evidence. In this particularly, this image represents logos in the facts that it states about marijuana and the legalization of marijuana. The image states a statistical fact about the amount of deaths that have been caused by marijuana. This gives the audience a reason for the organizations position by giving the audience reason and evidence. In this first image, an element of pathos is also demonstrated and this is designed in order to make the audience feel some type of emotion when they see this advertisement. The emotion that is felt is relief due to the positive facts that the image states. The organization stated these facts in order to let the audience know that the legalization of marijuana has some positive outcomes. The image also has the color green which tends to make people feel calm and healthy. Gil 3 An element of Kairos is also present in the first image and this is used in order to give the audience of sense of urgency and timeliness and that they need to act now. In the image is specifically says time to tax and regulate which is asking for the audience to act now in helping the legalization of marijuana to happen. NORML stated all these facts about the benefits of legalizing marijuana and the time to tax and regulate kind of makes the audience want to act now in getting those benefits from legalizing marijuana. The rhetorical appeal ethos is presented in both of the images in the same way. Ethos is the appeal to credibility and it gives the audience a reason to believe that the information is accurate and truthful. In both of the images, the element of ethos is the logo of the organization or the website at the bottom of the advertisement. This also shows that this ad is from the organization itself. The second image is also used in order to advocate their goal and NORML uses rhetorical appeals to be effective in legalizing marijuana and reaching their goal. The purpose of this image in particular is to demonstrate that smoking marijuana is normal and that people like football players do it too. The goal is to slowly make marijuana more socially acceptable in saying that its normal. In this image there is an element of pathos in the way that the image was illustrated. The image has a sort of black filter around the head of the football player giving it a sense of seriousness because black tends to give people the feeling of seriousness and elegance. Gil 4 This second image has more elements of ethos other than the logo of the organization as stated before. Another element of ethos is the saying NORML to smoke because the name of the organization is incorporated into the slogan. That slogan is also commonly used by the organization its self and its seen on other advertisements. The pro football player is also another element of ethos because he seems to have played in the Super Bowl so he is a well- known player to the sports audience. In the first image, the rhetorical appeals that the organization used were logos, pathos, Kairos, and ethos which seemed to be effective in doing their job. The logos in this image is the facts stated in the image because the audience would receive a reason and evidence for claim. The image demonstrates pathos by making the audience feel relieved by the facts being given to them. The color green in the image also tends to make people feel calm and healthy and this makes the audience feel calm and open minded to the information being given to them. The statement time to tax and regulate is the element of Kairos and it makes people feel the need to help in the legalization of marijuana. Some people may agree with the facts stated in the image and the statement would further push them into acting now. The ethos in this image gave the audience a sense of trust to the information that they are receiving. With the logo of the organization at the bottom of the image, it gives ownership to NORML that the image is theirs. These rhetorical appeals work with the mission statement because they give information about marijuana which educates the public on marijuana. Some might then agree with the information and would help in the legalization of marijuana which is the goal for NORML. The second image effectively uses the rhetorical appeals ethos and pathos. The Ethos in this image is the logo of NORML printed at the bottom of the advisement and in the slogan, Gil 5 NORML to smoke which is also a commonly stated slogan within NORML. The football player is also ethos it appeals to the sports audience because he seems to have played in the super bowl making him well-known. This gives the image credibility and makes people believe that the message demonstrated in the image is truthful and from NORML themselves. The pathos worked in this image by making the audience feel serious caused by the filter and coloring of the image. This makes people really consider what is being told to them and possibly change their view points on marijuana. These rhetorical appeals worked with the mission statement of NORML by educating the public that even huge football players smoke marijuana. This advertisement is meant to help make marijuana mores socially acceptable in hopes of a law change. NORML advocates for the legalization of marijuana and have history of successful efforts in the legalization of marijuana in certain states. In order to spread information about marijuana and to publically advocate for the legalization of marijuana, NORML releases images on their behalf. These two images presented are effectively representing the goals of NORML by using the rhetorical appeals logos, pathos, Kairos and ethos. Gil 6 Work Cited Boerner, Heather. Medical Cannabis: From Legal To Illegal To (Sometimes) Legal  Physician Leadership Journal 3.6 (2016): 28-30. Business Source Premier. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Drug Enforncement Administration. Mission United States Drug Enforcement Administration. Web. 15 Feb. 2017 Accessed. ThinkProgres,. NORML, Sept 26, 2013, https://thinkprogress.org/marijuana- reform-group-takes-lead-in-super-bowl-ad-contest-de450825986a#.q2kmbrlnh. Accessed Feb. 28, 2017. Video-trading.com, NORML, http://video-trading.com/index.php?q=pot- names&t=pro-pot-campaign-gets-big-names-deep-pockets-culture- marijuana&n=9&c=100. Acessed Feb. 28, 2017 NORML. NORML Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. Web. 15 Feb. 2017 Accessed . Gil 7