Su Khin Zaw 1 Kaung Su Khin Zaw Casey Clague English Composition 1102 12 February 2017 Can Hydrogen Fuel Cells Replace Fossil Fuel in the Future? Due to an increased rate of burning fossil fuels to generate energy in power supply industries and vehicles, alternative eco-friendly energy sources are sought out by researchers because burning these fuels produces hazardous gases into the environment which cause the global warming and climate change. Among energy sources, the hydrogen fuel cell is one of the best options to replace fossil fuel usage in the future. There are two stakeholders that hold different views about hydrogen fuel cells: Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) and Tesla Motor company. FCHEA states that hydrogen fuel cells do not produce any gases harmful to the environment as its waste is simply water; the reaction of hydrogen and oxygen produces water. In a hydrogen fuel cell, hydrogen gas is combined with oxygen gas to produce heat energy which make an engine work. On the other hand, Tesla Motor company claims that hydrogen used in hydrogen fuel cells is produced through the electrolysis of water, splitting of water molecules which requires electrical energy. This process relies on burning non-renewable fossil fuels for electricity, implying that hydrogen fuel cells are not eco-friendly. As a solution, both stakeholders can come to a comprise by using electricity generated from solar energy, and wind to produce hydrogen for hydrogen fuel cells because they want to use a renewable and green energy for keeping the environment clean and safe in the future. Su Khin Zaw 2 Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) is a world leading organization that produces alternative energy resources to support the environment. It promotes products that utilize hydrogen fuel cells and conducts several researches and experiments about hydrogen fuel cells by branching out into smaller organizations around the world. It also provides information about processes to all policy makers and governments which can utilize more eco-friendly energy resources for the future. This organization also attracts the public with the benefits of using hydrogen fuel cells. It can change the whole power supply industry in ways such as introducing hydrogen gas stations in California by collaborating with the U.S Department of Energy and Toyota Automobile Company which has recently produced Miral, a car that runs on hydrogen fuel cells. According to its website, cell systems vary greatly in size and power, from portable systems for smartphone battery recharging, to combustion engine replacements for electric vehicles, to large-scale, multi-megawatt installations providing electricity directly to the utility (fchea.org). Therefore, hydrogen fuel cells can become the predominant source of energy due to its eco-friendly advantages that could benefit the society. To support the views about FCHEA, a review articles about hydrogen fuel cell research states that a fuel cell provides a combination of high because of its output energy as effective as that of fossil fuels whereas other renewable energy resources supply only 10 percent of daily energy usage. Fuel cells are regarded as an operation that most other energy conversion devices as water is produced at the end of the process. Additionally, leaders are finally paying attention to, a revived interest in hydrogen and fuel cell and there are potential benefits in investing for hydrogen fuel cells in vehicles and industries because the long-term advantages of hydrogen fuel cells outweigh the disadvantages related to their high production costs. (Sharaf, and Orham 821). Su Khin Zaw 3 Therefore, in the future, compared with other renewable energy resources, hydrogen fuel cells can replace the role of fossil fuels for power supply and vehicles. On the other hand, the second stakeholder, Tesla Motor company, a famous American motor company, argues that hydrogen fuel cells are not purely ecofriendly as the hydrogen used in fuel cells depends on the electrolysis of water. Tesla Motor company recently began manufacturing automobiles that use electric batteries and insists in using hydrogen fuel cells even though most automobile companies are trying to. Tesla co-founder, Marc Tarpenning pointed out that is the most common method. You put electricity in water and it separates it, but you are pouring energy in order to make hydrogen, and then you have to compress it and that takes energy, and then you have to transport it to wherever you actually need it, which is really difficult because hydrogen is much harder to work with than gasoline or even natural (Lambert, par.2), requiring electricity which comes from burning fossil fuels. Additionally, to support the perspectives of Tesla company, a group of fuel cell researchers investigated about issues related to hydrogen sources. A researcher has complained that going to have a fuel cell powered by a hydrocarbon, then not really advancing the ball sustainability wise (Hardman et al. Therefore, Tesla company is not willing to invest in hydrogen fuel cells in its products because the company believe that hydrogen fuel cells depend on fossil fuels indirectly. Both FCEHA and Tesla Motor Company possess a common ground which is to utilize more eco-friendly energy resources in the future. Therefore, based on the common ground, using electricity from alternative energy sources such as solar energy, and wind can be a possible and valid compromise for both organizations. In the electrolysis to split water for producing hydrogen for fuel cells, the amount of electricity generated from these energy resources is Su Khin Zaw 4 equivalent to that from burning fossil fuels. The whole process is not dependent on fossil fuels so a hydrogen fuel cell is regarded as a pure and eco-friendly alternative. To support this alternative, in Saudi Arabia, the percentage of electricity from wind energy and solar energy in different places was analyzed, concluding that hydrogen production is relatively more ecofriendly with wind energy and solar energy. The price of hydrogen gas if mass produced, would be lower than that of fossil fuels (Al-Sharafi et al.36-37). For FCHEA, hydrogen used in fuel cells can be mass-produced, resulting in lower production costs and higher environmental benefits. This can attract people to use hydrogen fuel cell products, especially automobiles. Furthermore, if Tesla Motor company invest more money into researches about hydrogen fuel cells in its vehicles and manufacture automobiles which run on fuel cells, it will benefit in a way that the demands on its products will be higher once hydrogen fuel cells and hydrogen are widely commercialized in the future. To conclude, issues such as air pollution and climate change related to use fossil fuels for energy have become increasingly noticed around the world so replacing fossil fuels with hydrogen fuel cells can tackle environmental problems encountered today. Due to the common desire of both stakeholders have, which is to maintain a cleaner environment in the future, hydrogen fuel cells should use alternative energy sources such as solar and wind energy to split water in the electrolysis process to produce hydrogen. Mass producing in this manner can benefit automobile companies, consumers, and governments worldwide. Eco-friendly hydrogen fuel cells using hydrogen generated from solar energy and wind can provide a greener and cleaner environment by replacing fossil fuel in the future. Su Khin Zaw 5 References Al-Sharafi, Abdullah. Sahin, Ahmel Z. Ayar, Tahir. Yilbas, Bekirs. analysis and optimization of solar and wind energy systems for power generation and hydrogen production in Saudi Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. Elsevier. vol.26, 2016, pp.33-49. Web Accessed 15 January 2017. Sharaf, Omar Z. Orham, Mehmet F. overview of fuel cell technology: Fundamentals and Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. Elsevier, vol. 32,13 February 2014, pp.810-853.Web. Accessed 15 January 2017. Hardman, Scott. Shiu, Eric. Steinberger-Wilcken, Robert. Turrentine, Thomas. to the Adoption of Fuel Cell Vehicles: A Qualitative Investigation into Early Adopters Transportation Research Part A. Elsevier. vol.95, January 2017, pp.166- 182.Web. Accessed 15 January 2017. Lambert, Fred. (2016, May 23), co-founder says hydrogen fuel cells are a Electrek. 23 May 2016. https://electrek.co/2016/05/23/tesla-founder-marc-tarpenning- hydrogen-fuel-cells-scam/ .Accessed 15 January 2017. Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association, http://www.fchea.org.Accessed 15 January 2017.