Buckler 1 Joseph Buckler Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Videogames and Violence in Youth Since the videogames have been a part of lives. Adolescents have had an interest in videogames since they were created, so no surprise that many children grow up with some sort of videogame. In the recent decade, videogames have become more violent, yet the appeal of children continues to grow. Many people and organizations such as Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) fear that videogames are becoming the fastest growing addiction and the most reckless endangerment of children today Other organizations, however, view videogames as having a positive impact on society, like Games for Change. Games for Change utilizes videogames as a humanitarian and educational tool. Both MAVAV and Games for Change view videogames in very different ways, but there are options to satisfy both groups. By restricting sales to youth and promoting the use of violent videogames as a tool for safety education to teach children how to react to dangerous situations, both groups can be appeased. Using games, such as Grand Theft Auto, to teach children what to do if they hear gun shots or a stranger approaches them would have a positive impact on society that both MAVAV and Games for Change could agree. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence has been around since December of 2002 with the goal of awareness of the hidden dangers associated with According to MAVAV, videogames have a variety of dangers, ranging Buckler 2 from addiction to being socially isolative and leading to violence. They claim that in every nine gamers are already addicted [to MAVAV also claims that videogames are leading to an increasing amount of youth violence all over the world, but these are not baseless accusations. According to Robert Lull and Brad Bushman, videogame players will report greater anger than nonviolent videogame Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence bases their goals on this notion and tries to raise awareness of the effects videogames can have on a person. They view videogames as the worst and most worrisome epidemic, and even compare its results to that of drug and alcohol addictions. MAVAV also asserts that the videogame industry makes its money off of promoting hatred, racism, and sexism, and even promotes gang activity with the inclusion of gangs and guilds (MAVAV). Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence is very anti-videogame and they want all videogames to be banned. On the other side of the videogame disagreement is Games for Change (GFC). GFC was founded in 2004 to encourage the use of videogames as a catalyst for positive change in society with the goal leverage entertainment and engagement for social good (Games for Games for Changes sees videogames as being an educational tool, versus MAVAV that sees it as a tool of societal dismay, and encourages people to use them as one. for Change convenes multiple stakeholders, highlights best practices, incubates games, and helps create and direct investment into new projects (Games for Games for Change also holds multiple events around the world, ranging from gaming challenges to public arcades, in an effort to spread the positive effects of gaming. Events like these positive social change and learning to new audiences and unexpected contexts (Games for There is also evidence against MAVAV that states way players treat each other in the game world and, so long as they Buckler 3 treat other human players with respect, there is no clear harm of playing (Schulzke, This evidence shows that the effects games can have on a person depend on how they play the game, so if the game is played in a positive way, it can have positive effects. MAVAV and Games for Change could reach a middle ground, however, and promote the positive effects of gaming while exposing the negatives it can have on players. Both groups care deeply about the safety and education of society, especially children, and this common ground could be the basis of a compromise between the two groups. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence would like to see videogames banned all together, however Games for Change would like to see videogames promoted as a tool for social change and education. Instead, the violent videogames that MAVAV targets should be restricted to prevent children from playing for entertainment, and instead used for education. By using them as an educational tool, they can help prevent violent attacks and prepare people for what to do in case some sort of violent attack occurs. Although restricting videogames in the past has been called unconstitutional by violating free speech protections through the sales of games to minors, setting up certain guidelines in selling to children would be doable (Ferguson, Christopher J.). The only method of preventing sales to minors in the past was the requirement of an ID or parent to buy the game, but these regulations are often very relaxed or not enforced at all. These regulations need to be enforced more, and instead should block children from playing the games outside of learning environments by requiring proof of age before playing. Marcus Schulzke states that illegal sale of violent games to minors should not count as an argument against their existence any more than the sale of alcohol to minors should lead us to accept Violent videogames, such as the Grand Theft Auto series, could also be used to teach safety to minors. GTA series is singled out as one of the worst offenders [of videogame Buckler 4 but ethnographic studies have shown that one can play these with relatively little violence (Ferguson, Christopher Grand Theft Auto could be used as an educational tool to teach children warning signs of violence. If a child hears a gunshot in game, they could be taught to run into the nearest building to their character or find a police officer, and then use this in real life if they hear gunshots. Unfortunately school shootings are becoming more common, but if children in the school were better prepared for what to do in the case of an attack (through videogames), less children would be harmed. As Dylan Arena states, good video games, although not explicitly educational in focus, provide powerful experiences that are rich fodder for subsequent Videogames are often used as educational tools, so they could easily be aimed towards teaching safety to children in dangerous settings instead of entertainment. The debate over whether or not videogames help to create violent children has been a long standing issue, and is still relevant in society. Videogames are more popular than ever and will continue to gain popularity, and many violent attacks today are similar in action to popular games, such as Grand Theft Auto. Many people, such as Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, promote the banning of videogames as a means to make the world a safer place for children. There are also organizations like Games for Change that promote videogames as a tool for education and positivity in society. Although these two groups differ in opinion, they could come together and prevent violent games from reaching children for entertainment and instead use them as educational tools to help them stay safe in potentially life threatening situations. With this compromise, the fears of MAVAV would be consoled and the educational tool that Games for Change promotes would continue to be used. Videogames are a part of our society, and no changing that, but the way videogames are used could be changed for the better of society and futures. Buckler 5 Works Cited Arena, Dylan. Games as Tillers of Theory Into Practice, vol. 54, no. 2, 2015, pp. doi:10.1080/00405841.2015.1010843. Ferguson, Christopher J. Video Games and the Supreme Court: Lessons for the Scientific Community in the Wake of Brown v. Entertainment Merchants American Psychologist, vol. 68, no. 2, 18 Feb. 2013, PyscARTICLES, doi:10.1037/a0030597. for Games for Change, www.gamesforchange.org/. Lull, Robert B., and Brad J. Bushman. in Violence: Presence Mediates the Effect of 3D Violent Video Gameplay on Angry Psychology of Popular Media Culture, vol. 5, no. 2, 22 Dec. 2016, PsycARTCILES, doi:10.1037/ppm0000062. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and MAVAV Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, www.mavav.org/. Schulzke, Marcus. the Morality of Violent Video Ethics and Information Technology, vol. 12, no. 2, 2010, pp. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi:10.1007/s10676-010-9222-x.