Asiya Ahmed Prof. Poston ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric The Council on American-Islamic Relations, CAIR, one of the most extensive advocacy and civil rights organizations, is devoted to combating anti-Muslim discrimination. Everyday, their nation-wide offices receive calls on cases of discrimination, and the civil rights staff endeavors to rectify the reports through public pressure, negotiation, mediation, or if need be, legal action. Although the organization tackles a multitude of anti-Muslim hate cases, their services are not exclusive to such, because CAIR defends the civil rights of every American; regardless of their faith. Their services are also commonly delivered free of charge. The organization is composed of chapters in every state, that provide the public with support and awareness through press conference, meeting and protests. They have spoken out in opposition of President recent executive order, and have filed federal lawsuits on behalf of individuals whose constitutional rights were violated. Ultimately, the Council on American-Islamic Relations supports the integral and equal rights and responsibilities for all. The Council on American-Islamic Relations, CAIR, demonstrates their message of equality and advocacy for Muslim Americans through copious methods, but visually, the audience is connected through rhetoric appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. Student-held rallies have become increasingly prevalent in higher institutions, many of them being personally affected by the order. The first picture shows a group of Muslim women fighting against Islamophobia at a rally. The image itself illustrates resistance and the power the people in this country have. They are conveying, with their fists up high and arms linked together, that no matter what, they are not backing down from this fight and they are doing it together - the best way. Though, the image is not as effective in its appeal to credibility, or ethos, because it is simply a photo taken from a professional camera, and does not contain a watermark. Evidently, it appeals to every fundamental rights of freedom of speech and religion. The image evokes an empowered and passionate feeling within the audience, Asiya Ahmed Prof. Poston ENC 1102 26 February 2017 representing pathos. It reinforces the notion that when we unify - when we embrace and honor our differences amongst each other, and join together - no matter the color of your skin or whether you wear a cloth around your head, we are all fighting for the same rights - human rights. Moreover, the expressions on the faces are also very serious and intense, with their brows furrowed and open capturing their chants in a still shot. It also allows the audience to think about stereotypes plaguing our society; through the logos, the appeal to logic and reason. First, the stereotype that women are in need of a saving and voice, because they are or and need defending. Second, the stereotype that Muslim women are oppressed and are not allowed to voice themselves outside of their homes, for only the men should. Distinctly, both stereotypes, that some may be unaware even exist, are destroyed by this picture of all Muslim women fighting for their rights, not allowing anyone else to dictate their lives for them. The religion of Islam deems women valuable and highly, but many people fuse their own culture with religion, so the veracity is lost and misconceptions are created just based off a select group of individuals. Deeply rooted in beliefs is conscience that everyone God created is equal and his believers have a duty to not only worship him, but maintain and advocate for human rights and equality. For instance, jihad is a word frequently misunderstood. The word mean war or violence, but the internal and external efforts to be a Good believer and strive to inform others on the teachings of islam - the teachings of peace. These women fighting for evil or violence, nor are they using violent methods, they are protesting for peace and equality - vision . Kairos, the appeal to timeliness, is shown to the Asiya Ahmed Prof. Poston ENC 1102 26 February 2017 audience by the sense of urgency that we need to fight, and the time is now. The women are visibly passionate in their expressions. Resistance is not something you simply wait for, change never happens by itself - you must fight for it now. The second image is an eye- opening image for many people. The woman pictured. in the white veil, is the first Muslim American woman to wear hijab while competing in the USA Olympics, Ibtihaj Muhammad, who competed as a fencer. This is history. This is what America looks like. The color of our skin or the clothes we wear do not define the people that we are - our character and strength do. To watch not only a Hijabi women, but a Hijabi woman of color, especially as child, smiling and waving, because talent and belong there too, definitely may change the way minority children grow up and think about themselves. The image was a screenshot taken of the USA Olympic lineup in 2016, and has the NBC logo placed in the top- right corner, thus presenting its credibility to viewers; our society deems the media and news outlets very highly and truthful in capturing news and history. It was taken real-time, as is shown by the venue they are located within and the description box reading the name at the bottom. The image allows the audience to feel a sense of pride and patriotism, because this, the diversity, is how the United States should be portrayed because this is the way it really is. If that simple idea stirs up outrage and opposition, why is this nation called Land of the White men are not the only ones that excel, or are allowed to, in education and arts; women and people of color can handle the same tasks and duties, it is their right. Without a doubt, the variety of men and women from different backgrounds and religions joining together to play the same sport and demonstrating sportsmanship amongst each other, speaks measures about a Asiya Ahmed Prof. Poston ENC 1102 26 February 2017 society. It surprises the audience because never has there been a Muslim woman in hijab at the Olympics; many, mistakenly, believe it is the religion that prohibits Muslim women from excelling in society, but that is false. In Islam, the women are given the same privileges as the men, although some duties vary depending on gender, the encourages the increasing of knowledge, regardless of sex. Although, there has not been a Hijabi Muslim in the Olympics before, there has been other Muslims that most people visibly assume, or choose to believe, belong to the faith, because they do not wear a veil. This is a wake-up call that anyone can achieve the same greatness as another, regardless of their background or religion; although, some have to work harder than others due to discrimination or any other hindrance, it can happen. CAIR advocates for that and strives to ease some of the struggles that those people face through their journey. This is proof, to never stop fighting for what you want and believe in. The Council on American-Islamic Relations, CAIR, displays their message of equality and advocacy for Muslim Americans through numerous methods, but visually, the audience is connected through rhetoric appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. The organization is the largest Muslim advocacy and civil rights organization and is composed of chapters across the country to help solve discrimination cases, and bring awareness to serious prejudicial issues.However they are not exclusive to only people of the Islamic faith, CAIR supports the equal and interdependent rights and responsibilities of all. The staff is always on call ready and willing to battle reports through negotiation, mediation, or if need be, legal action. Asiya Ahmed Prof. Poston ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Works Cited Abrams, Abigail. What Is CAIR? Muslim Civil Rights Group Struggles To Fight Islamophobia After Recent  International Business Times. N.p., 05 Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Admins, IP. What We  CAIR - Council on American-Islamic Relations - CAIR. N.p., 11 Mar. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.  CAIR - CAIR Added a New Photo. Facebook. CAIR, 5 Aug. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, Megan McIntyre, et al. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text.