1 Grant Polk ENC 1102 2/26/2017 Analysis of Captive Animal Protection Strategies to Free Belugas Held Captive For years, the animal entertainment industry has exploited various species of animals for a profit. Zoos, aquariums, and circuses snatch animals out of their natural habitats and place them in confined cages or holding tanks, often teaching these animals to perform tricks for the sake of turning a profit. The Captive Animal Protection Society (CAPS) is a non-profit organization which began in the 1950s in the UK. They are vehemently opposed to animals being captured and confined, and their goal is to end the use of animals in performances throughout the UK and Europe. They conduct undercover investigations to expose the truth about the cruelties involved in the animal entertainment industry, and address the world about animal suffering, while educating and raising awareness to inspire new generations of animal advocates. One of their campaign strategies is dedicated to exposing a very lucrative marine life entertainment chain owned by Merlin Entertainment. One of Sea exhibits involve three beluga whales, plucked from the ocean and held captive at the aquarium, while being taught to perform tricks unnatural to their species. CAPS utilize an image of the belugas to help raise awareness that these whales do not want to be held in captivity. Furthermore, CAPS conducted an undercover investigation exposing the Sea Life aquarium for the lies they tell the public, through a campaign website containing revealing videos which CAPS has dubbed, The Captive Animal Protection Society (CAPS) was first formed in 1957, when the animal entertainment industry was in its heyday. A retired schoolteacher named Irene Heaton was by the suffering that animals were subjected (https://www.captiveanimals.org/about- 2 us/our-history ) and formed the Captive Animals Protective Society. Throughout the 60s and 70s, CAPS pushed to pass a law banning the use of wild animals in performances. Although the bill did not pass, it did bring awareness about the cruelty of the animal entertainment industry. During the 70s, CAPS began demonstrations outside of circuses, which in turn, caused the general- public to become aware. Later, CAPS conducted the first ever scientific research on animals held in aquariums, in 2004. Until then, this part of the animal entertainment industry was overlooked. The findings caused the government to look further into these institutions. Local authorities and zoo inspectors closely examined the study and began to implement strict guidelines for these aquariums. Today, CAPS continues to employ a when it comes to animals in captivity, which they equate to animal cruelty. In its campaign to free three beluga whales and save them from the grips of the Sea Life aquariums, CAPS uses an image designed to engage the sympathy (http://sea- lies.org.uk/please-support-international-day-action-sea-life-free-belugas/) , thereby appealing to our emotions or pathos. In a nutshell, the image reveals the truth about beluga whales being held in captivity to perform for audiences, and the cruelty of it. The phrase, BUT NO is splashed across the photograph in quotations, which is obviously a play on words that grips at our emotions. The beluga whales look almost human in the photograph. They are peering directly at the viewer with their mouths wide open, as if they are communicating the message to the reader themselves. This further tugs at our emotions because we realize that beluga whales are highly intelligent animals, capable of communicating, and in this photo, they are expressing to the viewers they want to be held in tanks. belugas need is another phrase used on the photograph which involves the use of kairos. These words give the reader a sense of urgency, and cause them to want to do something to help the belugas right away, either by signing a petition 3 or donating money to CAPS for the cause, which there is an area conveniently placed to the right of the picture so that the viewer can show their support instantaneously. The photograph and its message further support agenda to put an end to animals in captivity. In their quest to inform the public and reveal the truth about Sea Life aquariums and the sea creatures they take from the sea in order to make a profit, CAPS has created a web page called This website uses ethos to assist in discrediting the aquariums, while at the same time convincing the audience of credible claims because of the thorough undercover investigation they completed. The website utilizes an which reveals video clips captured during an in-depth look into Sea business practices. (http://sea- lies.org.uk/video-library/) The video uses the exact same words Sea Life has issued in public statements against them, such as the following statement made by Sea Life at the time: Life believes that the highly evolved sensory abilities and complex social structures of whales and dolphins makes them unsuited to captivity and that they should never be taken from the wild for the purpose of captive display or (http://www.merlinentertainments.biz/sea-life) The video then proves the opposite holds true, with the following words flashed across the screen, prior to the undercover video, Truth: Each day, beluga whales perform circus-style tricks in the Beluga Whale Theatre at the Shanghai Sea Life Center. There is no mention of the beluga whales on the Merlin website or any other Sea Life (http://sea-lies.org.uk/video- library/) The video then exposes a taping of the actual beluga whale performance in Shanghai, with the belugas executing tricks beside their trainers, complete with music and a paying audience. The introductory video continues in this pattern, with words stated from Merlin Entertainment then a divulging of the truth with undercover video proving Merlin Entertainment and Sea Life are lying to the public Furthermore, there are several 4 voices on the undercover footage, claiming that they do not capture anything from the sea. Again, investigation proves otherwise, and they continue to discredit Sea Life with information they have found to be true. The rhetoric in these videos is used to inform the viewers of the deceptions, while also indicating that Sea business practices are unethical. CAPS is obviously trying to create the disapproval of the Sea Life practices. This, in turn, could cause a decline in business. Both images, the photograph and the video, are meant to educate the public about Sea Life and put pressure on Merlin Entertainment to stop the practice of taking sea animals out of the sea and displaying them for a profit. Ultimately, these images create a concern from the general public, and cause us to feel empathetic towards the animals in captivity (pathos), while also causing a feeling and sense of urgency to want to help (kairos). Furthermore, these images persuade us to judge the animal entertainment business in question, as both immoral and deceitful, and to trust the Captive Animal Protection findings are evidence based, and are therefore reliable (ethos). 5 Works Cited Our  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sea Lies. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sea Lies Campaign  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. SEA  Merlin Entertainments SEA LIFE. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ssssh! tell the  Sea Lies. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. MLA formatting by BibMe.org.