Harris 1 Brittany Harris Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Mothers Against Drunk Driving use of Rhetorical Appeals Drinking alcohol has been a part of American culture for many years. While this has become an increasing trend, the risks associated with drinking alcohol have become prevalent as well, such as drinking and driving. This is serious issue that this society is slowly trying to combat. Although the Minimum Drinking Age Act, implemented in 1984, has caused a drastic change in the amount of drinking and driving cases in the young community, this is still a reoccurring problem that effects this society today as a whole. For example, in 2015, drunk driving had claimed the lives of 10,265 people and injured over 200,000 people (Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Mothers Against Drunk Driving(MADD) is an organization that has realized these dreadful statistics happening each and every year and wants to make a change to decrease it. Their mission is to end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes and prevent underage  (MADD). One way in which MADD tries to achieve their mission is through the use of rhetorical appeals, ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos, in their images. These images reach out to specifically the young community and general public, to inform them of the dangerous effects of drinking and driving that not only can occur to themselves, but the devastating effect it may have on other people as well. The main purpose of ethos is to ensure the trustworthiness and credibility that a source gives off to the audience. MADD was successful in implementing this strategy in both of the images. For example, MADD itself is a successful organization because since it started in 1980, Harris 2 it has helped save the lives of over 350,000 people, drunk driving was decreased by 53 percent, and a total of 800,000 victims were served (MADD). So by including their logo, which is their acronym and a line crossing out the combination of car keys and alcohol, tell the audience how credible these pictures are. This small, yet significant element in the picture, has a strong effect on how the audience will view their images. Furthermore, specifically in image 2, there are car keys and alcohol in a hand. Including their logo not only ensures credibility, but it shows a connection between this part of the picture and logo, which can be clearly understood. Just the logo alone already tells the audience where these pictures are coming from and what the organization stands for. MADD realizes the importance of this strategy because without credibility, the audience will be less likely to grasp the information effectively. Pathos is a very effective yet simplistic approach to capturing the attention. Just by looking at a picture alone can emit certain kinds of emotions that can persuade a person without even fully understanding the rationale of it. In image 1, it mainly targets younger audiences who may drink alcohol. It tries to get them to realize that they are not only causing harm upon themselves by drinking and driving, but also inflicting emotional pain upon people who care for them. MADD accomplishes this feeling of guilt and empathy by incorporating the sentence, Saying Goodbye once was hard , in the picture. It gets them to think about other feelings and how it will affect them if they were to get killed because of drinking and driving. This image can also affect the rest of the general population as well. For example, it can be seen from the perspective of an older adult, such as the parent of the graduate. It can get some parents to revert back to the feeling they felt when they had to say goodbye to their child when they went off to college after graduating, which may help them to realize the feeling that can come about if they imagine not ever seeing them again. In image 2, it creates feeling of fear Harris 3 or intimidation. It makes the audience think about their decision of wanting to drink and drive because it can be as simple as pulling the trigger to kill themselves. People will get scared to drink and drive because some do not want to kill themselves as the picture suggests. MADD included elements that appealed to logic in their images which have deeper and intellectual meaning. In image 1, one of the first things the audience sees is high school graduates throwing the hats up in the air to form a skull. Part of mission is to prevent underage drinking. High school graduates are typically around the age of 18 and illegal to drink alcohol. According to MADD, year, underage drinking contributes to the death of approximately 4,700 young It also results in an increase of assault, sexual abuse, brain damage, and suicide rates (MADD). That is why the high school graduates in the picture were essential, so it can get them to realize what drinking and driving may result in. The words saying goodbye once was hard  correlates with the graduates going away for school and the feeling that it caused for their loved ones. The graduates in the picture seem to be happy causing them to throw their hats up, which can be the same feeling that emerges while drinking alcohol. Looking closer, the hats are forming a skull, which typically means death. Logos is also effective in image 2. This is a picture which involves a woman drinking alcohol with car keys in her hand and it compares it to her committing suicide with a gun. This picture points out how serous of an act drinking and driving is. According to American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, suicide is the 10th leading cause of death. Similarly, drunk driving is the most leading cause of death of people between the ages of 16 through 24 (Centers for Disease Control). Considering these statistics, the comparison between drunk driving and suicide is quite alarming. That is why it was presented as a dark shadow in the picture. The words casts a dark  can obviously be your own shadow as it represents the aftermath of Harris 4 drinking and driving, but it also can be seen as a spirit after one dies. Furthermore, the shadow not only can represent the woman, but also someone else dying-- a death that the woman caused because she decided to drink and drive. The reason why there is woman instead of a man in the picture is because alcohol effects women differently and can impair them much more (CDC). Kairos appeals to timeliness. MADD uses this to show the audience what it will be like it one stop drinking in driving. Both images show that time, or life, is cut short by drinking and driving. For example, image 1 shows high school graduates. Young people that view this will realize the effect of drinking and driving and how it can take the lives of young people who had so much time to live for. In image 2, it shows that time is cut short just as quickly as is pulling a trigger on a gun. Seeing this makes people not want to drink underage nor drink and drive and stop practicing it if they already do. In conclusion, drinking and driving is a serious issue that be taken lightly because of the deadly effects that it can cause. While drinking alcohol for some is a choice, choosing to drink and drive be at all. This decision alone can take own life or even someone which image 2 successfully points out. There is a significant relationship between image 1 and 2, which it informs the audience that not only does drinking and driving inflicts damage upon oneself, but it can inflict emotional pain upon someone else. MADD uses rhetorical elements, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in their images to make the public aware of this so that drunk driving can continue to decrease and be prevented in the future. Harris 5 1st Image 2nd Image Harris 6 Work Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2016). Get the 23 Feb. 2017. . Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). 2016. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Phillips, Patricia and Goldbas Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD): History and . International Journal of Childbirth Education., vol.28, no. 4, 2013. American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.