Aldhubaiban 1 Abdulrahman Aldhubaiban Professor Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Immigration in the USA The National Immigration Forum (NIF) is a non-governmental organization in the United States, which fights for the rights of immigrants. The advocacy mission is to restore the dignity of immigrants. Their vision is to ensure that the rest of the world can value America for its melting pot society. When people visit America as immigrants, they learn several things, including the culture and the language. NIF ensures that such individuals can learn from America, and help improve American society as well. Immigrants compose a large portion of doctors and engineers, and some help to make America a better place for everybody. NIF operates using three different themes including the Bibles Badges Business (BBB), New American Workforce, and Forum Action Fund (National Immigration Forum 1). NIF ensures that the immigrants understand law enforcement policies, business procedures, and religious freedom in the United States. The New American Work Force deals with the assessment of an eligibility for the entry into the United States. Furthermore, it ensures that immigrants who cross the borders can perform the functions that brought them to America, including employment, participation in community activities, and involvement in the development of the economy (National Immigration Forum 1). As immigration play a big role in the United States NIF shows two pictorial representations. Both pictures connected to create a happy visual rhetoric that advance advocacy for immigration by using rhetoric appeals. Aldhubaiban 2 NIF exhibit two pictures that support immigration issues. For the first picture it is a welcome sign shows the happiness appeared in the face of millions of Americans as they welcome immigrants. According to the NIF, Americans are friendly people, who appreciate diversity (National Immigration Forum 1). Whether an international student wants to further their studies ,or a spouse wants to join their significant other, the sign means that America welcomes everyone to their land. The idea communicated through the image is that no biases exist when America welcomes people from different parts of the world. The second picture consists of three pictures that represent the sense that immigrants show love towards America. The left part of Picture 2 exhibits people carrying the American flag .The middle part of Picture 2 shows a skilled immigrant hoping to take the country in advancement technology. The right part of Picture 2 shows a post-immigrant wearing a military uniform which signify willingness to defend the country as its their home country. NIF believes that immigration enhances the country outcomes. However, the current American government hinders the entry of immigrants by banning seven Muslim countries to enter the United States. This reflects with the organization goals so NIF promotes pictures showing the public the good deeds of immigrants. NIF pictures are carefully selected because they contain pathos, logos, Kairos, and ethos. NIF provides pictures that appeal to a happy emotion for the sake of implementing pathos to the audience. Pathos is a way to illustrate emotion in a picture. Picture 1 shows happiness and accommodation making it easy for any immigrant to feel at home while living in the United States. A picture evokes many emotions when a person looks at it; it evokes joyful feeling toward any person who is trying to enter the United States because there is a smile on the map of the United States. Also, the picture shows the United States as yellow that is a bright and warm color that signifies happiness and a warm welcome to all immigrants. Picture 2 illustrates new Aldhubaiban 3 Americans that have happily settled into their new country. The picture evokes happiness in the viewer because the characters in the picture are smiling. The flag being raised high by the new Americans shows that the new Americans are filled with pride and joy by being in the United States. The flag being raised up is significant because it adds to the happiness that is being portrayed by the picture. In an alternate scenario, if the flags were on the ground or being burned than this would evoke sadness or anger with the United States. The picture on the right shows a mother who is lovingly embracing her son. Additionally, the mother is a new American who is also a member of armed forces, which signifies that she will gladly serve her new country. Logos is an attempt to persuade the audience by stating rationale reasons. Logos could be an appeal in any kind of literature such as articles, essays, and pictures. NIF not only used emotion in their pictures to get the empathy of the audience, they also used rational reasoning to support their argument. Picture 1 is an example of logos due to the fact that the only word that is visible to the viewer is the word This explains how America is a great place for immigrants to come to the United States and become part of the melting pot of cultures that is the United States. NIF would logically use the word welcome because immigrants need to feel like they are welcome in their new country. Picture 2 illustrates the United States as a country of opportunity by showing various kinds of jobs in the picture for immigrants. The United States has been known for long time as the motherland of immigration. Nevertheless, the logic behind showing an engineer holding iron bars is that immigrants accomplish goals by hardworking. According to Pascual, than one-third or 35.5 percent of U.S. innovators through STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) were born outside the (Tech Times Aldhubaiban 4 1). This statistic illustrates that tenacity does not stop after they get into a safe land. They are trying to giveback the country that guaranteed safety to them and their families. NIF utilizes Kairos to appeal to the audience, and basically means timeliness. Kairos appeals on issues of importance at a particular time in life. Nowadays, Many people live in unstable countries that are facing war. These marginalized countries have people trying to leave them in order to have a better life. However, the current American government regulates and bans some countries. The American customs and borders regulation is in conflict with NIF aimed goals. NIF encourages the United States to allow immigrants entry, regardless of where they are from. The picture is an example of Kairos because it states the simple word which would make several immigrants feel welcome in a country where they may not be welcome. America is currently experiencing a large wave of anti-immigrant sentiment that is nationwide. Therefore, a picture such as Picture 1 is very much needed in time because several immigrant groups do not feel welcome at all in the United States. Besides the emotion, rationale, and timeliness that are apparent in the pictures. Ethos played a large role in the NIF pictures as well. Ethos shows a credibility of the information. Both pictures have the emblem of the organization, which reflects pictures are trustworthy due to the fact that NIF is a credible organization. NIF has been operating in the United States since 1982 (National Immigration Forum). This illustrates that Americans trust this organization because it would not be in business for more than thirty years if people did not find NIF to be a credible organization. Ultimately, the pictures that were selected by NIF were very effective in gaining the attention of the audience because of their use of kairos, ethos, logos, and pathos. These rhetorical appeals were carefully worked into the pictures, in order to persuade the viewer that the United Aldhubaiban 5 States is a welcoming place for immigrants. Additionally, NIF advocates for immigrants and the potential that they have to positively impact the United States. As a result, NIF implored the use of these rhetorical devices in order to help illustrate how good immigrants can be for the United States. Aldhubaiban 6 Aldhubaiban 7 Works Cited National Immigration Forum. Solutions for Immigrants and 2016, immigrationforum.org/. Accessed 21 February 2017. Pascual, Katrina. Educated, Hard-Working Immigrants Are Biggest Innovators: Study. Tech Times. N.p., 25 Feb. 2016. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.