Alexis1 Usha Alexis Dennis Mont Ros 1102 English Composition 19 February 2017 Project 2: Stakeholder Comparison While the organization of Mansato believes that GMO foods promote effective productivity of produce because GMOs can be altered in genetic material to bring about favorable traits in the produce; Label GMO Florida opposes GMO productivity due to the fact that GMO products have not been thoroughly investigated to determine any trace of prolonged side effects of GMO foods when ingested into the human body.Label GMO urges that companies at least label when the product has GMO components within it.To satify the objective of both groups GMO foods should still be administered but labeled on each product that does contain GMO substances. Those companies that label efficiently would get higher rating, than those that do not. We may think that the term GMO is a fairly new concept, yet the introduction of gentically modified foods and organisms started in the Advance research was conducted to deepen the understanding of gentically modified products throughout the years. Now, as American consumers we are faced with the fact that are incorporated into the majority of our foods. The question is, we have the right to choose whether we want to ingest foods that contain altered genomes? In this research paper, there wil be an indepth research on the actions of other countries and their measures to make sure that the issue of GMO use and procedure are disclosed to all consumers. Alexis 2 Label GMO Florida was founded on the idea of ensuring Floridians have the Right to  and be well informed on what they feed their family.Label GMO wants to make sure we are allowed to vote on complete disclosure of food whether it is  or genetically engineered in 2014. We must demand that we know the whole truth about each poduct so that we can and make the right decision on the food we want to eat.This organization also informs consumer on new updates and developments of genetically modified foods/organisms Ethos-A lab rat at was given the exact same amount of this ingredient called NK603 Roundup, which is a prominent component of GMO foods served to humans.After extensive research, the rats developed cancer and lived less than the rats the were not give this toxic ingredient. Alexis 3 Pathos-Shock and Fear is innvocated in this image.The graphic nature of this image, can cause viewers too really think if this is how a rat is affected by GMO toxins, how would this toxin affect human beings when ingested. The tumors on the rat is overwhelming in the photo. The FDA is not concerned about the risk of in fact they express that they are safe and harmless.The USA does not require genetically modified foods to be labeled. In Europe companies are required by law to label and disclose all the ingredients consumer ingest.One of the laws put in lace was the GMO Proposal and this law aims to enable the member states to ban on their territory the use of GMOs authorised under the EU legislation. (Paskalev, V. 2015) Each state has the right to ban genetically modified organisms in the market. When it comes to the consumption of the the goverenment created specific branches of legistation to regulate the products.A plethora of regulation is implimented to ensure the consumer has freedom of choice. The genetically modified product must be tested and ensured safe for the European consumer.Genetically modifying food has been said to alter the nutritional substances of that particular substance.This means essential nutrient are removed, devalues and alters the organism. While Europe stresses on regulating and labeling genetically modified foods, China continues to make a profit on the production of genetically modified organisms. The GMO industry has enriched China financially and this has added great amount of stability to China. China has turned into a GMO source, and sees bioengineered seeds as vital to a modern farming officials of China strongly support the development of genetic technology to futher advance the genetically modified food production.Billions of dollars are spent to bolster the research being done,which is very extensive. Alexis 4 On the other hand Monsato is an organization claims that it employs more than 20,000 people, which ultimately helping the us economy in providing jobs.These employees main goal is to alternate and quicker methods of cultivating crops providing more crops to the world.The organization is highly extensive, branching out in 67 other countries around the world.Monsato main task is to provide geneticaly modified seed of fruits and veggies,cotton to field growers (agriculturist ) to develop crops with more sustainabilty and strength.An abundant amount of many was spent towards research to grow more dependable and efficient crops.We employ and provide data to help farmers, both large and small, make more informed decisions on their farms. Monsato is also very charitable, contributed about 50 million to help those in need. Alexis 5 Ethos captured a beautiful field of crops, with vibrant colors to demonstrate the positivity of GMOs, and how it develops favorable crops.This picture practically mimics nature fields, while in reality it is a field of GMO products. Logos- This is a picture is a field filled with corn, this represents the productivity of Monsato, GMO organisms.Mass production main goal of monsato, the organization also stresses the fact that their crops help feed those in less fortunate countries. Pathos: Love for nature, its beauty, the ability to alter crops in favorable characteristic.