MacRae !1 Hannah MacRae Professor Gocinski ENC 1102.902 February 2017 Fighting Hunger One Giant Step At a Time Did you know 80% of people suffering from hunger and malnutrition are in countries that experience frequent natural disasters? This is where the World Food Programme comes into play. Being the first emergency responders to the scene providing food and aid to victims they have already helped reduce hunger substantially. Hunger is something that every country experiences differently, some worse than others. WFP releases powerful real life images of those suffering to help combat hunger and malnutrition. Incorporating ethos, pathos, and logos, two images effectively convey their goals and mission of ending world hunger. The World Food Programme has been combating world hunger since 1961. Being the leading humanitarian organization fighting world hunger, they are the first response to disaster scenes offering food and aid to victims suffering from natural disasters, war, and crop failure. They primarily focus on undeveloped nations experiencing severe food shortages. They distribute roughly 12.6 billion rations each year to those in need of food and other aid (Mission Statement). Also being the first United Nations organization to adopt a mission statement in 1994; their mission is to provide food and nutrition, and rebuild societies suffering from natural disasters (WFP Overview). By presenting images to the public to encourage donations they include visual rhetoric to convey hidden meanings to their audiences. MacRae !2 Ethos is the credibility present, so in other words what makes it believable and trustworthy. By incorporating ethos into work they establish a trustworthy relationship with their audience. By including it the audience knows that since supported by a reliable and legitimate organization or person then reliable. For both of my images the only ethos presented is the organizations logo, World Food Programme. Pathos is the presence of emotion incorporated within an image. By incorporating pathos you can make your audience feel whatever emotion trying to make them feel in order to guilt them into helping or donating. In my first image they incorporate pathos by including a picture of an African American child that has suffered from hunger as the background. By using this image trying to get a sympathetic emotional response from their audience. The eyes are glossy making them impossible not to look at, by making them very glossy and white it draws the readers in making it impossible to look away and ignore. The child is positioned so its to the right of the image but a very close up picture resulting in us being able to see every detail of his face. The look on his face makes the reader want to help and donate because he looks like saying others like It looks like he almost has a soft smile, to convey to the audience that he received helped and is in much better condition health and nutrition wise, but that there are still others out there just like him suffering and still so much to do and they need a lot of assistance. Some of the words like agriculture, and are bolded in blue, blue stands for trust, faith, loyalty, etc. By using blue to highlight those words I think that trying to make the audience feel like there is hope for the world to overcome hunger and malnutrition with the help of donations from the readers. The words are also in a bright white color over top of the image to stand out and catch the readers attention.The MacRae !3 second image uses pathos in a similar way by incorporating a little girl that takes up half the image. The little girl is up close and focused so that you can also see every detail there. Her eyes are also bright and glossy by they look happy. It looks like her eyes are hopeful for a better future with less people suffering from hunger around the world. She also has a smile on her face while she is feeding herself. Her facial expression gives the readers a very warm and faithful feeling because she look like suffering anymore. It makes you feel like hope and that if we can help one child be this happy and healthy we can eventually help everyone else suffering the same way. The writing on top of this image is in white to stand out over top of the bright colored photo to catch the readers attention as well. The quote that they incorporated is a Nelson Mandela quote that says is in your hands to make a better world for all those who live in Making the audience feel a kind of responsibility and dedication to those who are suffering and as fortunate. This quote persuades you to donate because making you feel like you have to help make a difference, that unfair that people can be suffering such severe food shortages while we have access to food in the United States. Logos is the use of logic within an image, such as reliable data and statistics in order to supply their audience with reliable information. By incorporating logos the organization educates the public on going on and how bad it really is. For my first image they include logos within the image by using the statistic that million people are in need of urgent food, agriculture, and nutrition and is over 40% of the By using these facts within the image you can visualize how many people in South Sudan are actually in such bad living conditions that they need immediate attention. It shows that almost half of their population MacRae !4 is impoverished and hungry, persuading people to donate towards helping them become more socially and economically stable. In image 2 they incorporate any pathos. Each rhetorical appeal is getting some sort of reaction from the audience, getting them further involved within helping to solve world hunger. They are working together to persuade the audience to make a change and help assist the World Food Programme reduce world hunger and provide aid to undeveloped nations. Both of the images portrayed successfully coincide with their mission statement of providing aid to victims of natural disasters such as food and nutrition to undeveloped nations facing severe food shortages. Each of the pictures are encouraging you to either donate money or food in hopes to make a bigger impact on reducing hunger and malnutrition. They also incorporate mages of children that were suffering from hunger looking healthy and happy showing that they are staying true to their mission statement. Both of these ads for the WFP effectively portray their mission statement and goals. In conclusion, the World Food Programme has released two very powerful images to reach out and ask for assistance from their audience in hopes to have zero hunger worldwide. In regards to their released images the World Food Programme incorporates ethos, pathos, and logos to effectively convey their mission statement and goals of eliminating worldwide hunger and encourage people to donate. MacRae !5 Works Cited Image #1 people in need of Twitter. World Food Programme. 23 February 2017. Accessed 27 February 2017. Image #2 in your Twitter. World Food Programme. 17 February 2017. Accessed 27 February 2017. WFP. 2017, https://donate.wfp.org/supporter/casematerial.do? n=gbss&cmdbid=1033610&or=ld. Accessed 27 February 2017. WFP. http://www1.wfp.org/overview. Accessed 27 February 2017.