Vanessa Morejon-Campos Hannah Lay ENC 1102 February 25, 2016 Family Equality Council Same-sex couples have been struggling to have the legal rights to adopt a child and form a family since the It is becoming more and more accepted in the U.S, especially since same-sex marriage was legalized in all 50 states in June of 2015, after the Supreme decision in the case of Obergefell v. Hodges, right to marry is a fundamental right..couples of the same sex may not be deprived of that right and that (Obergefell v. Hodges). But there are still social issues that arise, since not everyone agrees with the concept of same-sex marriage or adoption. There are many organizations that make it their mission to spread awareness, represent the LGBT community, and help change the attitudes of those in opposition, in order to create policies that all families are respected, loved, and (About Us). The organization, Family Equality Council, strives to ensure that LGBT parents are connected, supported and represented in this country. They have voices toward fairness for all for over 30 years, and continue to do so (About Us). This organization arranges events, programs, parent groups, and more in order to gain members, spread awareness and work towards their ultimate goal. Family Equality Council promotes these events through ads that use the rhetorical appeals; ethos, pathos, logos and kairos, to grasp the attention. Image 1 strives to make the audience understand that only good can come from same- sex adoption, and image 2 encourages the public to take a pledge in support of the LGBT community. The two specific advertisements made by this organization that includes these appeals can be found in the Appendix. Both of the images by Family Equality Council use ethos to persuade their audience that the information on the images is accurate and credible. In the first image, several elements of ethos are used in order to establish credibility and trust for the audience. By including more above the website, it provides the audience with the opportunity to access more information about the organization and the social topic of same-sex adoption. By including the for logo in the image, this shows the audience- that may be unaware of what Family Equality Council stands for- that this organization is in support of LGBT adoption. And are also working towards a world where all loving families are recognized, respected, protected, and (About Us). The second image also includes elements of ethos to demonstrate credibility. The image has the website, where the process to take the pledge takes place, there is also more information about the LGBT inclusive policies and the reason for the pledge. The second advertisement also includes Family Equality Council and other corporate partners at the bottom to show their credibility. The organization uses intrinsic authority and borrowed credibility to persuade the audience that the image comes from a credible source and presents accurate information. Pathos is used to evoke the feelings and appeal to their emotions. Family Equality Council uses a plethora of elements of pathos in both their images in order to grab the attention of their intended audience and help them connect with the side in support of LGBT adoptions. The use of the word in bold, in the first image, grabs the attention at first glance of the image. Having the writing, specifically the word be in the color red, serves to alarm the audience. Using the bright color orange, which has no specific gender association in society, to represent the percentage of children that get homes, shows the how positive and joyous that scenario is compared to the societal collapse. Using the color grey, which is usually associated with boring, dull, or unpleasant things; to represent the societal collapse, shows how negative that is. a small detail but, including the red heart in the for logo allows the audience to assume even further that Family Equality Council is in support of and fighting for the equality of the LGBT community and to show that only good can come from the adoption of children. The second image also includes several elements of pathos to persuade their audience of their argument, those being; the background and the use of the LGBT flag colors. The background is all red, which is the color used for the Target corporation but it can also represent the love and warmth of the supporting side of the same-sex adoption topic. In the middle of the second image, there is horizontal strip of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple which are the colors of the LGBT flag. This immediately makes the audience aware that the ad is about the LGBT community, and in support of them. The images by Family Equality Council evoke feeling of joy, love, and acceptance from the elements of pathos used, which in the end, can persuade someone to take an interest in the supporting side of the topic of same-sex adoption and join the pledge. Elements that appeal to logos appear in both images of the Family Equality Council. The first image has a pie chart, with statistics on the side. The statistics are not based on actual research that was done and tested, but it does give the audience to think about. It is a unique approach when presenting the pros and cons of LGBT adoption. The image also includes satire, by including the extreme scenario of a and the use of the word They provide the audience of the supporting side with something to laugh and agree with, and those of the opposing side with something new to take into prospective and acknowledge. The second image provides a hashtag which can be something new with social media growing more each day. Including corporate partners can broaden the audience of the image because someone that is previously engaged or interested in another corporation such as, GLSEN, will perhaps take an interest in the Family Equality Council. By appealing to the logic of the audience, the organization can get closer to their mission of ensuring that all families, regardless of sexual orientation, are supported and loved. Kairos appeals to give the audience a sense of urgency or timeliness, and that is done in the two images by the Family Equality Council organization. In the first image, the word is in bold, and in a larger font than the rest of the writing on the ad, which can give a sense of urgency and need for action or attention to the ad. The statement, more also gives a sense of urgency to the audience. In the second image, a sense of timeliness resonates with the specific date includes on the image. Making the pledge..June also gives a sense of urgency due to it being the largest and boldest font on the ad. The topic of same-sex adoption has been discussed for over 50 years, but with the Supreme Court decision of giving same-sex couples the legal rights to marry in all 50 states in 2015, Family Equality Council feels that now is the time to continue fighting even stronger than before, to spread awareness and support of all adoptions and LGBT rights, ubiquitously. This organization is fighting for the voices of the two million LGBT people interested in (LGBT Adoption Statistics) and those that cannot adopt a child due to their sexual orientation, and the Family Equality Council organization does so by organizing events, educating the public and hosting parent support groups for LGBT couples. The two images that were analyzed, are two of many that this organization makes in order to spread their message. With the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, Family Equality Council is able to grab the attention, persuade, and educate. Work Cited Adoptions, Lifelong. LGBT Adoption  LifeLong Adoptions. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://www.lifelongadoptions.com/lgbt-adoption/lgbt-adoption-statistics>. Familyequality.org. About  Family Equality Council. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Obergefell v.  Oyez, https://www.oyez.org/cases/2014/14-556. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Safe  Pinterest. Family Equality Council, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https:// www.pinterest.com/upworthy/safe-spaces/>. TAKE THE PLEDGE: #StandWithTarget on June  TAKE THE PLEDGE: #StandWithTarget on June 1. N.p., 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://target-glaad.nationbuilder.com/>. Appendix