Okpor 1 Favour Lucky Okpor Ms. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Wildlife Animals in Captivity Animals are being kept in captivity in places like zoos as a means of income in terms of entertainment for tourists but not everyone is in support of this idea of animal captivity. Organizations such as The World Association of Zoo and Aquarium that are well known for receiving over 600 million visitors annually and setting standards for increased achievements of conservation. Basically, they believe that animals should be kept in captivity in order to be cared for. Another organization that disagrees with this animal captivity act is the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, they are the largest animal rights organization in the world with more than five million members and supporters. This organization main focus is on animal rights and they are totally against animal captivity, they believe that animals should be set free and not kept in bondage in places such as zoos where they are being put for entertainment. Now, in order to solve the problem of animal captivity, both stakeholders will have to come to an agreement that will be beneficial to both parties. A good idea of a compromise would be to have a rehabilitation center that involves the treatment and care of sick, injured, and orphaned wild animals with the goal of releasing healed animals back to their natural habitats. The first (The World Association of Zoo and Aquarium) goal is to encourage and support the zoos, aquariums, and like-minded organizations of the world in animal care and welfare, environmental education, and global conservation. They promote cooperation between zoological gardens and aquariums with regards to the conservation, Okpor 2 management, and breeding of animals in human care as well as encouraging the highest standards of animal welfare and husbandry (WAZA). Again, they assist in representing zoological gardens and aquariums in other international organizations and assemblies (WAZA). Furthermore, they desire to achieve the potential of zoos and aquariums globally to make a real difference for animals, species, and habitat conservation and sustainability (WAZA). It is true that zoos started as menageries and amusement parks, but they have come a long way since the late 1800s(Russo). Currently, the law protects wild animals and they make sure zoos and aquariums offer great care for their animals, zoo keepers and vests have learned a lot about animal care as zoos evolved(Russo). As a result of the experience zoo keepers and vest have had in terms of taking care of animals, it has led to an improvement in husbandry which has increased longevity of animals in captivity(Russo). Basically, what this organization is trying to prove is that animals are not kept in captivity for any negative reasons, but rather they are kept in zoos for their protection and welfare. Organizations like this want to make sure that animals are not in the wild alone without being supervised. The second stakeholder which is the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals goal is to fight for animal rights. They focus their attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry (PETA). Again, they work on a variety of issues, especially the cruel killing of rodents, birds, and other animals who are often considered as as well as cruelty against domesticated animals. PETA works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescues, legislations, special events, celebrity involvements, and protest campaigns (PETA). Basically, this aim is to look out for animals and to prevent the abuse they believe animals face in this society. Okpor 3 Animals behind cages, starving and dying, is an awful sight. The philosopher, Immanuel Kant said in his lectures on ethics: who is cruel to animals become hard also in his dealings with However true this is, it does highlight that causing suffering in general should be viewed as a bad thing, irrespective of whether we are causing the suffering of a human or an animal(Moosa). In this 21th Century, animals are being denied their rights as living things, and organizations like these are increasing in order to fight for such acts to stop. They see the situation as inhuman for people to only care about themselves and to use animals as they please, and this is the kind of human mentality these organization is trying to correct and to create awareness for. One thing that these two stakeholders have in common is that they want to care for animals and to provide for them as much as they can though they have different ways of showing this care and kindness. For the first stakeholder, they feel that taking care of animals and looking out for them is done by putting them in zoos where they can be provided with the things they need, treating them when they are sick and giving them all the training they need in order for them to be well mannered. This is how they express their way of taking care of animals and protecting their rights as living things. The second stakeholder believes that caring of animals means not putting them in captivity, also known as a zoo. They want animals to be in their various habitants and be given the necessary things they need to be happy and healthy. Now, in order for these two stakeholders to achieve their goals, a rehabilitation program will be helpful whereby animals that are in desperate need of care and attention can be taken to rehabilitation centers. Now the question is how will these two organizations come together to make this compromise become a reality. First of all, they can start by raising capital by contributing money to build up a rehabilitation center where animals that are in serious need of Okpor 4 health care can be taken care of. When the animals are strong enough they can be sent back to their natural habitat although, not all animals can go back to their habitat. This is where the zoo comes into play in this compromise, animals that cannot go back to their natural habitat can be put in zoos where they can be taken care the more and the zoo can become their new home. It will be of great benefit to the first stakeholder because the animals that cannot go back to their natural habitat will be taken to the zoo where they can be taken care of. It will also be beneficial to the second stakeholder because animals will be allowed to go back to their habitants when they are strong enough to survive on their own. Another benefit for both stakeholders would be to have the opportunity to support the welfare of disabled animals and to publish good science to advance our understanding of wildlife population (Moore). Despite the fact that both stakeholders will be benefiting from this compromise, they will also be losing some things as well. For the first stakeholder, they would not have the chance to keep all kinds of animals in the zoo. For the second stakeholder, some animals will have to be kept in the zoo which means that they will be denied their freedom of movement. Ultimately, the situation of animal captivity is a serious one because there are people who just want to see animals happy and to be free to do what they want as living things. However, at the same time, other people will prefer them to be kept in a secure area where they can be supervised. The two stakeholders apparently want the same thing for the animals which is to care for them but the way each stakeholder expresses their kindness is what is different from the other and this is what is causing the problem between the two stakeholders. Now when the two stakeholders come together to agree on having a rehabilitation center together some animals can be sent back to their habitat and some will be transferred from the rehabilitation center to the zoo which will become their new home. It is clear that these compromise is possible to achieve with Okpor 5 the two stakeholders and it has helped this overall situation in a way that both goals are being met with the use of this compromise. Although, when there is a compromise the two parties involved will have to let go of somethings in order to make the compromise work. The overall idea is that there will still be zoos for some animals, animals that can management themselves can go back to their habitat and there is a rehabilitation center as well. Okpor 6 Annotated Bibliography Moore, Michael, et al. and Release of Marine Mammals in the United States: Risks and Marine Mammal Science 23.4 (2007): 731. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 12 Sept. 2016. Moore Michael works at the Biology Department, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution he attended the University of Michigan and he is also an American documentary filmmaker. This source was used to back up my compromise and it helped to further explain how my compromise would work in reality. Moosa, Tauriq. Animal Captivity Big Think. The Big Think, Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Moosa Tauriq is a tutor in ethics, bioethics and critical thinking at the University of Cape Town South Africa. He is currently pursuing a degree at the center for applied ethics, Stellenbosch University. I used this source as a secondary source to support my second stakeholder (PETA). This source helped to express how animals suffer in zoos and what they go through. PETA. Are Not Ours to Eat, Wear, Experiment On, Use for Entertainment, or Abuse in Any Other Blog post. About PETA: Our Mission Statement. PETA: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This is an Organization that fights for the right of animals, they fight against the existence of zoos and the activities that goes on in the zoo. This source was used as my second stakeholder and it represented the side of the issue that was against animal captivity. Okpor 7 Waza. is the Unifying Organization for the World Zoo and Aquarium WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This is an Organization that promotes the existence of zoos and they encourage animal captivity for good reasons. This source was used as my first stakeholder in this paper where they explained how animal captivity can be a good thing. Russo, Christina. The role of the zoo in education and  Sci-Ed. N.p., 15 Mar. 2013. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Christina Russo had her Ph.D. in Molecular Biophysics and has worked as a science writer and now manages a Bioinformatics team. I used this source as a secondary source for my first stakeholder. This source was used to explain that people have the wrong concept about zoos, this source also explained the advantages of keeping animals in zoos.