Verstay 1 Intermediate Draft Project II Through the means of human intervention, the giant panda has been able to survive for a generation despite their aptness for failure by design. A concern in their diet has been the topic of debate, where many have claimed that the giant pandas should end the herbivorous life they live. However, the organization WWF supports the notion of giant pandas consuming bamboo as it helps in forestation efforts of bamboo forests, conservation efforts have been raising the number of heads within the population, and at this point, they rely too much on their instinct to devour bamboo. Which is all conveyed through the two images from the organization, one in the anniversary of many years of tribute dedicated to conservation efforts, and the other highlighting the lifestyle if the giant panda while alluding to the direness of their situation as well as the preciousness of their most available resource. Verstay 2 WWF, a non-profit organization with the mission to end the degradation of the natural environment and the creatures within it. Many consider efforts as noble; a momentum in supporters grew with time, which in turn allowed the organization to thrive and make their cause ever more possible. The recognition received bestowed an influential voice in conservation endeavors. Since 1961 to this day, their statutes remain consistent with many of their consequences. One of them being the slowly increasing numbers in the giant panda population. The images honor their aspirations and adherents and the notion that pandas should retain their bamboo eating habits. Correspondingly, the text image that illustrates the five decades devoted to conservation emphasizes the credibility earned through their actions. The description also gives acknowledgement and proper attention to the donors and the followers of the organization that have allowed for such an extended lifespan for the nature fund as a whole. With the copious amount of supporters and years of expertise adds to the validity in their claim that giant pandas eating bamboo are beneficial to the forestation of bamboo forests 1). Since the information deviates from the dependable source of WWF, who perform adequate scientific investigations in their studies, the purpose of pandas eating bamboo becomes all the more crucial to the collateral ecosystem. Just as seen in the image of the pandas embracing each other, bamboo loiters in the setting. The pandas cannot stray far, for their dependence runs too deep, and with the increasing deforestation initiatives in China, some bamboo species must rely upon their greatest predator to ensure survival. A mutualism that relies privately on the dietary patterns of the giant panda. Verstay 3 To some degree to or another, both images exhibit a catering to emotion, with which the textual picture appeals to a sense of humbleness and generosity, and the cuddling panda image better brings attention to the struggles the giant pandas face as well as the importance of bamboo in their life. The withered grass that the pandas lackadaisically rest upon highlights the environmental dangers brought about via deforestation. Making the lush green of the bamboo in the background all the more significant, for it does not only satisfy as a food source but a home, a biome. Taken from an article by Sandhya Sekar, a primatologist by the name of Jessica Rothman writes that the giant pandas consume as much foliage as possible to meet the minimal nutritional requirements (1). Through solely this process have the giant panda species been able to survive their bizarre eating. Unfortunately, the bamboo alone cannot satisfy all the essential nourishment necessities, but they have become so entangled in their instincts that a sudden departure from the bamboo will lead to certain death. Contrary to the idea that pandas should change their very nature, conservation is slowly dulling the appeal of such an extreme concept. Furthermore, WWF pledges to save any natural environment, pandas are no exception. They will do all possible to save the pandas, bamboo forests, and the environment without any need of alteration to the natural state of things. Their beliefs have not only the best interests of nature but mankind along with it. The organization aspires to mediate the greatness in the state of nature so that others can appreciate and value it as much as they do, promoting a cease in the conflict between the two forces, translating to a mutualism that allows for people to live peacefully alongside nature. Verstay 4 Similarly, to the appeal in emotion, the images, specifically the text based ocular visual, present logical assessments that reinforce their side of the issue. Demonstrated through decades of prowess the organization must possess concrete soundness to have thrived as long as it has, least their credibility be void. But considering that the WWF is one of the most reputable nonprofit organizations, the facts behind them must also qualify to this standard. The probing did to uncover the mysteries for why the giant panda eats bamboo lead to the speculation that pseudogenization of its umami receptor gene T1R1 is coincident with such bamboo dietary the dopamine metabolic system is probably not that competent in the giant (Jin et al 5). Impressionable influences from either mankind or a lack of food conditions for ancestral giant pandas have led directly to the current state of the creature today. No matter the speculated origins and biological deduction from zoologist, the attachment to bamboo is indispensable. In conclusion, the organization operates to the restore the number of giant pandas via the mean of safeguarding the species from environmental danger, declining the belief in transforming the panda to something other than the bamboo chewer that it is today. Both images provided by the stakeholder advocates their credibility, sympathy, dependability, and sustainability towards the topic. By their understanding, pandas live to eat bamboo, not only for calories to sustain a compatible condition of living but to fertilize the bamboo seeds so that bamboo forests can thrive. A circle of life that brings about the property of both participants. Under this comprehension, does the organization have faith in that their tree will bear plentiful fruit, for all of man and nature can relish in. Verstay 5 Works Cited a global WWF, 26 Feb. 2017. WWF, 26 Jan. 2017. Jin, Ke, Chenyi Xue, Xiaoli Wu, Jinyi Qian, Yong Zhu, Takahiro Yonezawa, M. James C. Crabble, Ying Cao, Masami Hasegawa, Yang Zhong, and Yufang Zheng. Does the Giant Panda Eat Bamboo? A Comparative Analysis of Appetite- Reward-Related Genes among PLoS ONE. 2011, Vol. 6 Issue 7, p1- 8. University of South Florida Database. 28 Jan. 2017. WWF, 26 Feb. 2017. Sekar, Sandya. pandas survive on their bamboo-only Science. 2014. p.1. 26 Jan. 2017. www.sciencemag.org/news/2014/07/how-pandas-survive-their- bamboo-only-diet.