Pate 1 Madison Pate Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 February 27, 2017 Standardized Testing Through the Years Standardized testing has been a subject of debate for years, particularly during the past two decades. The No Child Left Behind act (NCLB) was passed during George W. presidency, bringing standardized tests into the spotlight more than ever before. Under NCLB, each state created its own standards to test students to. However, this caused several issues. The largest of these issues was that the standards between states were far from equal. For example, the curriculum in Washington could be much more difficult than the curriculum in Mississippi. As a result, the Common Core curriculum was born several years later as an effort to make sure all public schools were held to the same standard regardless of state. However, Common Core is arguably more controversial than its predecessor with more difficult tests and higher stakes. Over time, both have faced many of the same criticisms: test scores are a major source of anxiety for students and teachers alike, to the limits school curriculums, less attention and funding are given to extracurricular activities and non-test related classes, and students become expected to fit a mold. While each test curriculum has its own set of issues, the controversy of standardized testing changed all that much overall over the past decade and a half. To understand how this debate has evolved over time, it is first necessary to take a look at No Child Left Behind, its origins, its impact on standardized testing, and the controversy surrounding it. One of top priorities during his time as president was improving education standards nationwide, recognizing that the demand for skilled labor was increasing more rapidly Pate 2 than ever and that students would need to meet more rigorous standards to stand a chance in the job market. In 2002, NCLB was passed to lay the groundwork to set students up for a more successful future. plan seemed simple enough on paper; his goals were to make sure that every public school met yearly (AYP) and push for all students to become proficient in English and mathematics. Funding and resources were allocated to schools based on their AYP performance, and this resulted in some schools being significantly restructured to better meet these standards. Proponents of NCLB believed that the high-stakes nature of the plan was a necessary push for schools to improve in areas that had been neglected, particularly in low-income districts. Additionally, true to its name, NCLB was meant to provide support to students with economic disadvantages and learning disabilities, as well as minorities and students with limited English proficiency. Those who supported this act also believed the state tests to be accurate measures of student ability, feeling that vigorous testing was necessary to measure a progress. Opponents of NCLB were deeply upset that funding from other important areas, particularly social studies classes, the fine arts, and extracurricular activities, was being cut in favor of supporting standardized tests. These tests themselves were extremely controversial because they were believed to cause a lot of unnecessary anxiety in both students and teachers, making the school environment a stressful place. As of 2000, even before NCLB was implemented and brought more tests than ever, most education specialists strongly believed that children under the age of nine should not be required to take standardized tests (Kohn 60). Additionally, test scores could often determine how a school would receive financial support, and sometimes, which teachers would still be employed the next year. This pushed many educators to leave the field throughout the As a result, some aspiring teachers became afraid to pursue careers due to this stressful educational climate, especially in states in which Pate 3 teachers are underpaid to begin with. As more teachers retired or quit, it became harder to replace them with new teachers (Kohn 60). One of the greatest controversies of all surrounding NCLB is that the standards in each curriculum could vary greatly between states. Some opponents of the act believed that some state curriculums were either to the point where students could pass without being proficient in the material or where only a small number of students were passing despite having this proficiency (Rothstein 46). To repair this disparity, the Common Core curriculum was born under Barack administration. The Common Core curriculum brought teaching curriculums and standardized testing back into the spotlight as a federal issue, creating a consistent national set of standards for schools to follow. Its intended purpose was to hold every student to the same standards regardless of state and to push for more progress than what had actually been achieved under NCLB. Although the states still had the power to voluntarily adopt the curriculum and were technically not required to do so by the government, 45 states willingly adopted the curriculum by 2012 in order to receive federal funding. Supporters of the curriculum praise its inclusion of media literacy and greater incorporation of science and social studies into the standards. Additionally, they believe that the standards better prepare students for becoming involved in the increasingly competitive global market, feeling that the previous standards were too lax and did not prepare students for a life beyond secondary education. Opponents believe that the standards are too rigorous, and that the tests are even more stress-inducing than their predecessors. to the is more of a priority than ever, and many feel that this removes creativity and free-thinking from the classroom, despite the standards claiming to promote these values. Another argument against this approach is that it teaches students to memorize and repeat answers rather than actually gain a deeper understanding of the course content. With a limited Pate 4 amount of time to push these standards to ensure students pass the tests, there is less time each year to allow students to explore their own interests related to the curriculum (Duncan and Stevens 37). With all of that being said, it is worth noting that some of the biggest criticisms against Common Core and the standardized tests associated with it have not changed all that much from NCLB, despite the fact that NCLB had come into effect over a decade before Common Core swept the public schools. The high-stakes nature of the curriculum pushes students and teachers alike to their limits. Teachers are especially affected worse than ever, as failures are blamed on individual teachers rather than the school district as a whole. This added stress causes some teachers to quit very early into the profession (Bhattacharyya et al., 636). Also, many opponents criticize Common Core for pushing students into a in which they have to conform to the standards to be of value in a global market at the expense of their individual interests and passions. These opponents also believe that Common Core inherently disadvantages students who simply are not good at taking tests but have potential in other, non- testable skills (Eppley 211-212). Overall, it is clear that both No Child Left Behind and Common Core each have many flaws that should not be overlooked in the debate about standardized testing. While there have been efforts made to fix some of these problems, which have arguably been successful, many common criticisms have not changed significantly over the years. As long as standardized testing is prioritized so highly in the American educational system, there will always be a debate over whether it does more harm than good to students, educators, and anyone else involved in a public school environment. Pate 5 Works Cited Bhattacharyya, Sumita, et al. You Hear Us? Voices Raised against Standardized Testing by Novice Creative Education, 4, no. 10, 9 Sept. 2013, pp. file.scirp.org/Html/37524.html. Duncan, Betty A, and Alexandra Stevens. Standardized Testing: Help or Hindrance to Public National Social Science Journal, vol. 36, no. 2, July 2011, pp. EBSCO, Eppley, Karen. Traps of the Common Core State Journal of Adolescent &Amp; Adult Literacy, vol. 59, no. 2, Sept. 2015, pp. Academic OneFile, Kohn, Alfie. Testing And Its Education Week, vol. 20, no. 4, 27 Sept. 2000, p. 60. EBSCO, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ehost/detail/detail?sid=13fe0212-8896-40fb- 80e13d8b05d9b3e4%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4203&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3 QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=3730038&db=aph. Rothstein, Richard. Our Patience: Standardized Tests Have Their Uses. But Current Federal Law Uses Testing to Destroy The American Prospect, Feb. 2004, pp. Academic OneFile, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e80ab442- 19b2-4c78-9c36-57f7f3dfed2a%40sessionmgr4007&vid=3&hid=4111.