I. Introduction A. NFU a. The National Farmers Union, or NFU, stands to protect all farm ers that are part of their union, or about 200,000 families. On the topic of Genetically Modified Organisms or GMOs they take no stance as some of the families that stand for them use GMOs while come of them do not. But they do take a stance on GMO labelling. They believe that GMOs should be labelled in a way that is not confusing to the general public. b. The NFU has been around since 1902 and was originally created by ten farmers and now supports fishers, and ranchers across the country, with formally organized divisions in 33 . The NFU stands by three main principles, Cooperation between members to reach common goals, Legislation to represent their lobbying efforts, and at the base education as they believe that all members should be educated and being educated will lead to success in the other principles. Their main mission is advocate for the economic and social well being, and quality of life of family farmers, ranchers, fisherman, and consumers and their communities through education, cooperation, and legislation. NFU advocates sustainable production of food, fiber, feed, and B. Thesis - Overall, NFU stands on the belief that they should stand for all of the people that are part of their union, be it the farmers or the ranchers, no one left behind. This is shown in the two images that I have selected. II. Body Paragraph A. Topic Sentence The Two images try to express the idea of unity. B. Evidence a. How do you plan to discuss this evidence? The usage of the word cooperation around the farming equipment. Also the part where the second picture says when you need an expert in the field they will be there for you b. If a quote, is it credible? Why/why not? advocate for the economic and social well being, and quality of life of family farmers, ranchers, fisherman, and consumers and their communities through education, cooperation, and It is credible as it comes straight from the website c. If discussing a rhetorical appeal, give a bullet point list of what you plan to say about it and why important to your topic/thesis. i. Pathos as it says they will be there for you when you need the help ii. Ethos as they are a group that has been around for a while and have a sort of credibility C. Transition Not only do they express unity though, they also express moving forward as a unified nation or group. III. Body paragraph a. Topic Sentence The images push forward the idea of progression b. Evidence i. The use of education and Legislation in the first pic as education is pushing us forward as a country and legislation as pushing our government forward. Also With the idea of having issues and getting help, the experts in turn are helping you move forward as a person or company. ii. Logos as they are there and even have experts in the field iii. Ethos through the usage of experts and moving forward as a country. IV. Conclusion A. The NFU is looking for what is best for all of its members. B. As the NFU stands to support both farmers who use GMOs and those who do not, they do not take a side on the usage of these products, they are believers of the labelling of food products as it is on their mission statement V. Works Cited A. Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Voluntary Labeling Indicating Whether Foods Have or Have Not Been Derived from Genetically Engineered FDA. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 24 Nov. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Packman, Hannah. Access to Markets: Organic  National Farmers Union. NFU, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. NFU. About  National Farmers Union. NFU, 05 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://nfu.org/about/>. FDA. What We  What We Do. FDA, 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/WhatWeDo/default.htm>. Fox, Maggie. No Need to Label GMO Plants, FDA  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 23 Nov. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-news/theres-no-need-label-gmo-plants-fda-says- n468301>.