Project 2 Outline: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Holly Weber 1) Introduction a) Just Label It i) Context: Advocates for the implementation of a mandatory labeling system. Goals: 1. To make government aware of GMO labeling issue 2. Give consumers information about all issues concerning the use of in food. Has partnered with multiple health organizations that support Just Label initiative to implement a mandatory labeling system (secondary source here) Images were produced as part of a blog in which JLI interacts with consumers to advocate for the mandatory implementation of a labeling system. The blog addresses many important issues pertaining to GMO labeling: 1. Drastic increase in use of a weed killer likely to be carcinogenic to humans, due to development of GMO-resistant plant varieties (as shown in the images). 2. Assertion that GMO labeling will not increase food prices (primary source here) ii) History: JLI has been active in the fight for a labeling system Continually produces images meant to persuade consumers to take a stand against GMOs and advocate for the mandatory labeling of them. (primary source cited here) JLI is a web-based organization, so they rely heavily on visual rhetoric iii) Brief quote about the health of GMOs Several studies have indicated that GMOs may lead to various health problems, infertility, immune problems, accelerated aging, faulty insulin regulation, and changes in major organs and the gastrointestinal (third source) b) Thesis These two images challenge the way in which consumers view the use of GMOs, and each serve the purpose to elicit an emotional response about the health concerns and labeling issues associated with GMOs. Although the purpose of each image is the similar, the first image relies heavily on eliciting strong emotions through bold, provocative, and striking text, while the second image evokes a feeling of familiarity and comfort through the use of common phrases and visual images. 2) Figure #1 (body paragraph #1) a) Topic Sentence Through the use of the color red, bold print, and words that trigger an emotional response, the first image relies heavily on emotional appeal to persuade consumers to take a stand against GMOs. b) Evidence i) Large red letters on a plain white background and the use of the word (pathos) (1) The image includes large red letters on a plain white background, which immediately catch the eye. Many people associate the color red with a feeling of fear or anxiety. Just Label It use the red letters as a way of evoking a sense of anxiety in the viewer as they look at the image. Also, the statement uses the word which is associated with great danger and fear. As a result, the JLI image suggests to associate GMO weed killer with danger and the risk of cancer, causing the viewer to view negatively. ii) Image of the self-use weed killer bottle, and the use of the words (logos) (a) The text is placed on a small, self-use weed killer container which can be seen as implying that GMO weed killers are not only used commercially but are also available for consumer use. The self-use container is an image that is easily recognized by consumers, and subtly suggests that that it is a danger for everyone. (b) This image describes GMO weed killer as possessing a By using these words and the emotions evoked through pathos, the image is able to establish a logical reason to avoid GMOs. iii) Since the intended audience is consumers/consumer groups, these rhetorical appeals work together to emphasize that the use of GMO plants as crops have dangerous consequences that are unknown to the general public. c) Transition Although the first image appeals to the emotions and logic through a primarily negative message, the second image takes a more positive approach to persuade consumers that GMO labeling is a good idea. 3) Figure #2 (body paragraph #2) a) Topic Sentence Through the use of bright contrasting colors and large, familiar visual images, the second image relies on a positive visual appeal to persuade consumers that GMO labeling is not only desirable, but entirely feasible. b) Evidence i) Contrasting colors add a sense of excitement about GMO-free products. The label, along with the health facts that support the healthy crackers label, evoke an emotional feeling that the product is healthy (pathos). (a) Many people associate bright primary colors, such as blue and yellow, with the feeling of excitement and purity. Through the use of the contrast between the bright blue background and yellow box, JLI is able to elicit a feeling of enthusiasm about the When viewers look at this image, they are automatically drawn to the healthy crackers box, and since it is surrounded by bright and exciting colors, the viewer will associate the with positive feelings. This allows the image to cast a positive light on healthy eating, and therefore the consumption of non-GMO products, which this image associates with GMO labeling. ii) Large, familiar imagery emphasizes the logical reasoning for GMO labeling and dispels a common counter-argument. (logos) (a) The image uses 3-D star shapes to emphasizes the healthy aspects of the crackers shown in the image, such as the fact they contain and are made with This is a logical appeal to the viewer, showing that health facts labeling is and is in fact, commonly done. Consumers are familiar with this type of labeling. (b) The image also states that labeling will not increase food This contributes to the logical appeal of eating GMO-free products, and is supported by the images of the 3D star shapes of the health facts, which are already included on products and presumably do not increase food prices. c) Transition Demonstrate how the first image differs from the second image in terms of negative/positive emotional content, and lead into the conclusion and discussion of which image elicits a stronger emotional response about the importance of GMO labeling. 4) Conclusion a) Restate thesis b) Describe how the two images are similar, and also how they are different (based on the previous analysis of both images) c) The positive imagery is more powerful because it gives viewers hope by seeing an example of how easily labeling can be done and dispels a common criticism of labeling (support will come from the previous analysis, and I will use specific examples of ways in which one image was stronger than the other) d) My final sentence will wrap up the main points of both images, and the way in which they may be employed in the future Works Cited Health  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <http://responsibletechnology.org/gmo-education/health-risks/> It, Just Label. Right to  Just Label It. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.justlabelit.org/right-to-know-center/right-to-know/>. PR, Newswire. Just Label It Survey: Parents Overwhelmingly Say Label Genetically Engineered  PR Newswire US 10 Sept. 2012: Regional Business News. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Figure #1. Figure #2.