Gallagher 1 David Gallagher Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Visual Rhetorical Analysis Intermediate Draft How does the Universe work? History tells us of violent battles between gods in the skies, under the water, and below the Earth through mythology. Modern Astronomy uses a gravity-based system to calculate speeds and distances between objects, and uses collision theories to explain the current state of our galactic environment. Now, we have evidence, based on experiments, that suggest the Universe is electric in nature, and that electrically discharged plasma literally helps shape our world. Thunderbolts is the collaborative voice of the Electric Universe movement established in 2004. Its prime mission is to explore the Electric Universe paradigm They stand for truth in space exploration through careful examination of observations throughout history into modern times. They build on the ideas of past scientists and their experiments by conducting experiments of their own, comparing them to the world around us and observations recorded throughout the universe. The purpose of the following images is an experiment of rhetorical appeals. When we see figure 1, we may think of a meteoric type impact crater. Pathos is shown through the beauty of nature, but also the fear of fiery explosions. The condition of this maar appeals to ethos, as this is pristine land, relatively untouched by humans and most animals. The logos appeal questions the events that made this maar. Kairos appeals to the impending possible danger; will this event Gallagher 2 occur again here or at another location and when? Examining the evidence, we can delve into these appeals. A maar is a shallow volcanic crater with steep sides that is surrounded by tephra deposits. The tephra deposits are thickest near the crater and decrease with distance from the crater. A maar is formed when hot magma comes into contact with shallow ground water to produce a violent steam explosion. These explosions crush the overlying rocks and launch them into the air along with steam, water, ash and magmatic material. The materials usually travel straight up into the air and fall back to Earth to form the tephra deposits that surround the crater (Geology.com). (figure 1) A monogenic volcanic field in Sonora, Pinacate is one of fifty that dot the landscape from central Mexico to Colorado. What makes Pinacate special is its pristine Gallagher 3 nature, for it is largely untouched by human hands or the effects of severe erosion. Its location in the desiccated Altar Desert of Sonora is the reason it has remained pristine (Hall, thunderbolts.info). This picture was taken from Google Earth. Hall is an engineer and writer, who spent thirty years in the energy industry When viewing this miles wide, and 250 feet maar, there is large rim crater at the position This rules out the comet/impact formation theory. These rim craters have been said to be remnant of an older cinder It must be the remnant of events that followed the sequence of eruptions that made the maar (Hall, since there is no debris remaining. Hall goes on to explain that: Lightning is seen not only in thunderstorms but in snowstorms, hurricanes, intense forest fires, surface nuclear detonations and you guessed it, volcanic eruptions. Volcanic eruptions throw hot, pyroclastic material into the sky. The volume of scorching hot cloud that erupts upward is not filled by the erupting gas alone. Ground wind necessarily flows inward to fill the cloud from below (Hall, thunderbolts.info). Hall explains the ground level wind rising; explain why maar craters, in general, have characteristically small amounts of concentrated around their rims (Hall, When you look at the photo again, you can almost picture the simultaneous volcanic eruption combined with lightning, combined with rising ground level winds to create the spectacular maar on display in Pinacate. This opens the door for more lightning or electrically influenced design of features. Taking this into account, we can compare this maar to other maars on our moon and numerous other planets, moons, and asteroids in the solar system. We can now debate with an open mind about the origins of craters throughout the solar system and universe. Gallagher 4 With this new information, we reconsider rhetoric appeals. Pathos is still an image of a fiery explosion. Ethos appeals to the credibility of the image and of Andrew Hall, and also the ethical responsibility of the viewer to share this information. Logos appeals to the validity of this new explanation of the creation of this maar. Kairos now appeals less towards the impending danger of another event and more towards the urgency of the study of how and why events like this happen. Again, we will experiment with rhetorical appeals. In figure 2, we see a NASA image of the Sun, appealing to ethos. The red, orange and yellow colors represent Pathos appeals to warm emotions one may feel on a sunny day. Logos appeals to scientific happenings in the photo, including the solar flare on the bottom left. Kairos appeals to the impending danger one thinks of linked to the idea of the expansion in a few billion years. Again, we will take an in-depth look into the Sun to search for a deeper meaning. Using information provided by researchers Gallagher 5 Donald E. Scott, and Wallace Thornhill of The Thunderbolts Project, we can gain new insight on our Sun. (Figure 2) Donald E. Scott is an author who: Earned his and degree in, Electrical Engineering from the University of Connecticut, a Doctorate in Electrical Engineering at the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, was a member of the faculty of the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering at the University of Massachusettes/Amherst from 1959 until his retirement in 1998. He is a lifelong amateur astronomer (Scott, viii). In his book, Electric he compares the Solar to the Solar Gallagher 6 Above the chromosphere lies an extended glowing plasma structure that we can see during solar eclipses- the corona. Beyond the corona, an invisible plasmasphere extends many times the distance of the planet Pluto. The corona and the plasmasphere carry streams of ions and electrons that have been named the The standard model provides no reason for the existence of the corona, the plasmasphere or the solar wind. If the standard model were correct, heat and light would simply radiate away from the photosphere as from a hot stove. But many processes, other than simple radiation of heat, are occurring above the photosphere. A temperature minimum occurs just above the photosphere. The lower regions of the corona, quite high above the visible surface, are millions of degrees hotter than the surface of the Sun itself (Scott, 83-84). To reiterate, Scott implies that because the corona is hotter than the surface of the sun, the standard nuclear fusion model of the sun is incorrect. Wallace Thornhill completed a science degree at Melbourne University, majoring in physics and electronics. He began postgraduate studies with Prof. Victor upper atmosphere research group. Before entering University he had been inspired by Immanuel Velikovsky through his controversial best-selling book Worlds in Collision. He experienced first-hand the indifference and sometime hostility toward a radical challenge to mainstream science. He realized there is no future for a young heretic in academia (Thornhill-Talbott, ii). In The Electric Universe, Thornhill expands on the plasmasphere, explaining how CMEs influence the speed of particles as they travel across the The blast of particles typically reaches speeds of 400-700 kilometers per second. And though few authorities anticipated a from the Sun, the rapid acceleration of Gallagher 7 charged particles, followed by continued acceleration out past the planets, came as a surprise. Since the discovery of this acceleration it has remained one of the pre-eminent mysteries of solar behavior. Giving the benefit of the doubt to every experimental effort and to every theoretical guess, it is fair to say that solar physicists have, at best, some 50 percent of the typical solar wind acceleration. But the challenge for a model comes from its ability to account for extremes. The average coronal mass ejection will reach Earth in perhaps 24 hours. But an acid test of the nuclear Sun came in January of 2005, when a CME exploded from the Sun, to be accelerated so rapidly that it reached the Earth in only 30 minutes, leading to what NASA scientists called most intense proton storm in When the protons reached Earth they were travelling at nearly one quarter the speed of light- a theory-busting testament to the power of the electric Sun (Thornhill-Talbott, 68-69). When examining this evidence, we again reconsider rhetorical appeals. Pathos remains an appeal to emotions related to sunny days, and the life-giving warmth and light the Sun provides. Ethos appeals to the credibility of events and evaluations of Scott and Thornhill. Logos appeals to the implications of the new information. Kairos now changes from dangers of star expansion to monitoring the surface of the Sun for major CMEs. After analyzing both photos, we can conclude that there is an electrical connection between the volcanoes and lightning in the atmosphere, between the sun, solar wind, and our atmosphere, and therefore between the Sun and the ground we walk on. When we zoom out and consider these facts with other phenomena, we gain an entirely new perspective. Examining Pathos, the images now represent our connection with the Universe. Ethos appealing now to the validity of the Electric Universe movement. Logos appeals to the new paradigm of the Electric Gallagher 8 Universe and reasonable conclusion to move forward with this line of research. Kairos now removes the idea of past cataclysm and future demise, with thoughts of new beginnings and future possibilities. These images transform from relatively boring images for geologists and astronomers into a gateway of exploration for believers, leading to vast new advancements in technology that we are only beginning to understand. Gallagher 9 Works Cited The Thunderbolts Project, 2017, https://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/about/, accessed 25, February 2017 King, Hobart, and Phreatic geology.com, 2017, http://geology.com/stories/13/maar/, accessed 25 February 2017 Hall, Andrew, Maars of Pinacate, Part The Thunderbolts Project, 20 January 2017, https://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/2017/01/20/the-maars-of-pinacate-part-one/, accessed 25 February 2017 Hall, Andrew, Maars of Pinacate, Part The Thunderbolts Project, 16 February 2017, https://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/2017/02/16/the-maars-of-pinacate-part-two/, accessed 25 February 2017 Scott, Donald E., The Electric Sky, Mikamar Publishing, Portland, Oregon, 2006 Talbott, David, Thornhill, Wallace, The Electric Universe, Mikamar Publishing, 2007