Claire Embry Professor Bennington Composition two 26 February 2017 Project Two Thesis/Outline I. Intro For Decades the harsh conditions of the diamond industry were hidden. The devastating civil wars of Sierra Leone in the 1990s highlighted the diamond industry and its corruption into the society. Since the public has been brought to light in some ways about the industry the major corporations begin to get caught in the deception of the true ethics of the industry. The Two distinctly different images show the reality of the De Beers Corporation, and how the corrupt mining sites are not reflected into society with how the company promotes their diamonds. A. Body paragraph one Shortly Talk about De Beers and the influence it has over the diamond industry Present the image and its basic elements that make it appealing to the eye Talk about why certain aspects of the image were chosen (color, font, text, etc.) Discuss if including the major cities the store is located in add ethical appeal Pathos appeal shown through the women and how all women strive to be B. Body paragraph two: Talk about the second image and its main point conveyed in the image Why did they choose to use a hand cut off (what does this do to the meaning of the ad) Discuss if the cursive writing of the image ad or take away from the main point of the advertisement The statement the centering of the image has on the photo Why choose white to be the main background, what does this pure color convey to the audience C. Third body paragraph: Talk about the true conditions of the de beers sites Discuss if these images hide certain aspects of the industry and if the second image is to the most extreme. Overall does the second image of the hand cut off have a strong enough effect to change the view of the major corporation? If seen in public which advertisement would catch the viewers eye and sway their opinion about the industry D. Conclusion: Is the De Beers company unethical for hiding such a controversial aspect of their business Discuss if the advertisements used to stop blood diamonds working and if so why/in what way Compare the images one last times to restate the thesis and leave the essay with the lasting impression of the extreme reality of the industry