Truong 1 Caitlin Truong Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Legalizing Euthanasia Advertisements can be used by organizations to influence the opinion on a certain topic. They are designed with the intent to evoke a specific emotion from the viewer. They are able to do this through the colors, images, and even the time it was released to get the audience to support their cause. Assisted Suicide is the act of killing a patient who is suffering from inexplicable pain; in most cases due to a terminal disease or irreversible coma. Mercy killing is illegal in most countries around the world today, which takes away the freedom to choose. Exit International is a non-profit organization that believes in death with dignity. They are pro-euthanasia because they believe that an individual should have a right to determine to end their life. In most countries, most patients have to be likely to die within six months in order to be eligible for assisted suicide. Exit International wants to respect the wishes of those patients who do not meet that requirement by alleviating their suffering. Like many other organizations, the Exit International uses advertisements to get their point across. Their ads are generally very simple, so that the viewers can understand them easily. Truong 2 Image 1 is a photo of a terminally ill patient. It is an old woman who appears to be very weak and is breathing with the help of machines. She appears to be suffering. The statement, is so painful that it is not worth provokes a feeling of sympathy, or pathos. It was meant to make the audience feel very sad. The image is in black and white, because black is a strong neutral color that is often associated with death and mourning (Smashing Magazine). In a way the ad is saying to hurry and end her suffering, so Kairos is present because it is giving the viewer a sense of urgency. The words, this real is in red, while all the other words are in black. This is because it was meant to stand out to catch the attention. Red is also the color of blood, which again symbolizes death and suffering. Another color that is very apparent in the image is gray. Gray is another neutral color that is considered to be depressing (Smashing Magazine). This ad was mainly supposed to evoke emotions so it did not use any other rhetorical appeals other than pathos. It should have included a statistic about assisted suicide to appeal to the logic, or logos. It could also have simply included another sentence, with something along the lines of, second that passes is another second she to add an element of Kairos. Image 2 is an advertisement that is in the form of a billboard. Billboards are very simple advertisements because the viewers only see them for a short period of time, such as when they are walking or driving by in their cars. This is why they can not be complex, because their audience needs to understand their message with just a glimpse. Unlike image 1, this ad appeals to logos because it includes the statistic that, of Australians support voluntary This image also has the Exit International Logo. It is located on the bottom left corner along with Truong 3 their website which establishes ethos, or credibility. Exit International is the most well-known pro-euthanasia organization, which would make them a credible source. The viewer can visit their website which was provided to get more information, if they would like. The sentences, government Make them is a call to action for the viewer to make a difference. The main colors are white and purple. Purple is a combination of blue and red, and it takes on the attributes of both. Blue represents sadness, and red represents death similar to the way it is presented in image 1. Purple can also be a color of mourning for widows in many countries such as Thailand (Smashing Magazine). The white color of the words against the dark purple is a good contrast to make it stand out to people passing by. Image 2 does a good job of portraying ethos and logos, but it does not appeal to Kairos as much. It can easily do this by adding the word to the sentence, them This would give the call to action an even bigger sense of urgency. Because there are no pictures on the billboard, just words, it does not use the rhetorical appeal of pathos. Though both images use rhetorical appeals, I think image 1 is more effective in persuading opinions on assisted suicide. Image 2 does not have as much of an effect because it only has words and no picture, and people tend to be more visual when it comes to advertisements. Unlike image 2, image 1 is more emotionally appealing. Seeing the suffering patient, might make more viewers question their stance on legalizing assisted suicide. The elements from both images have been carefully designed. They are simple, but still has complex components to get their message across. Image 1 uses more emphasis on pathos, Truong 4 than anything else. In this case, it might be the most effective way to change a stance on this issue by appealing to their emotions. Though not much Kairos was used, there is still a sense of urgency present in both images. Image 1 could have appealed more to the sense of logic if they had included logos, such as a fact or statistic about euthanasia. It could be a statistic of how many people have currently requested euthanasia but have been denied even though they are in intolerable pain or in comas that are irreversible. Both images inform the public about the issue of legalizing assisted suicide. The advertisements have fulfilled their intended goal, and are an effective way for the Exit International organization to convince to support their cause. Word Count: 1001 Truong 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers-part-1-the-meaning- of-color/>. Dying With Dignity Physician Aided Death Assisted Suicide  Dying With Dignity Physician Aided Death Assisted Suicide States. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.finalexitnetwork.org/>. Exit  Exit International. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://exitinternational.net/>. User, Super. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://pathosethoslogos.com/>.