Name: Zhen Tian Class: ENC1102.027S17 Professor: Ms. Poston Date: 02/25/2017 To Know Tesla Better by The Advertised Images With the development of the technology and the environmental awareness, more and more people in this modern world, prefer to buy an electric vehicle. Because the electric vehicle is not only a high-tech vehicle, but also deals with many serious problems, like the air pollution, noise, and gas shortage. leadership in electric vehicle design and production satisfies the component. This component implies the use of advanced technology to address current concerns, such as environmental (Rowland 1). As the delegate of electric vehicle, Tesla has been highly concerned in the recent years. They believe that, electric vehicle is the future of the world. Just as they said, mission is to accelerate the transition to sustainable they not only have the lofty ideals but also full of confidence, instant torque, incredible power, and zero emissions, products would be cars without (About Tesla paragraph 1) In addition, Tesla not only focuses on the future, it is more and more suitable for the current society. Through combining High-tech products with infrastructure, is now attempting to address network effects in the electric car industry by building distribution, service, and charging centers and encouraging other firms to enter the (3) the electric vehicle is being widely known and accepted by most people, Model S has won multiple car of the year awards and earned an all-time top rating from Consumer (Stringham et al. 2) However, there are still many persons hesitating to accept the electric vehicles, like the automobile industry seem especially immune to the threat of new entry and upstart (Stringham et al. 1) In order to know Tesla better, we try to analyze the different rhetorical appears of two advertising images about Tesla, and how these visual arguments reflect the objective and responsibility of Tesla, to give people a new understanding. The first image is really creative. There is a lung made of flowers. The left part of the lung is withered, and the right part is full of vitality. The slogan is not just choosing a car. choosing the air you This image uses a different way to show the advantage of Tesla. We could not find the Tesla in this image, but can still get the advantage of Tesla through the and the slogan. The slogan use Logos to show a most important feature of Tesla, which is zero-emission. The logo in this image is that, if you want to breath fresh air, you need to drive Tesla instead of other fuel vehicles. Furthermore, Pathos is also an obvious rhetorical appeals for this image. The compares between two parts of the lung will shock the audiences. When people see it, they will have different feeling for these two parts. They will feel comfortable to see the right part, because everyone wants a not the As to Ethos, when connecting the vehicle with the environment, which type of car you buy is not a simple private affair. Because of ethics, everyone should protect the environment and keep the air fresh, not only for yourself, but also for the earth. more, the strong tone of the slogan also shows the Kairos appeals. That gives us a hit that, do it right now to prevent our lung perishing. In addition to the rhetorical appears, the creative image also success attracted the attention of the audience. is a novel way to make a car advertisement. more, the connects the vehicles with the environment, even with the health. That makes people have to pay attention on it, because everyone cares about yourself and your health. When talking about the vital interests of the people, it will attract the attention of people. In addition, connecting Tesla with healthy problem also means that, Tesla is a company which has social responsibility. Anything beneficial to human will be Tesla want to do. The second image represents a vision for the future of the world. It is a really bleak world. There are some oil excavators in the both sides of road. But they all shut down. It looks lifeless and scarcity of resources. Furthermore, there is only a Tesla driving on the road. There is no doubt that, Pathos is the most outstanding rhetorical appears of this images. It does shark the audiences and make people feel disappointment about the future. However, we are grateful that we can still drive vehicles in the future of the limited resources, because of Tesla. Besides Pathos, Logos is also an obvious feature of this image. After seeing this image, there are two questions you may want to ask. The first one is that, why only tesla can be used in the future? The reason is another important feature of Tesla, which is fully electric drivetrain. In the future, scarcity of resources will be the most serious problem to the world, especially to the non-renewable source, the fast development in industrial and transportation sectors the demand of energy is increasing exponentially. The population of world is increasing rapidly and the life style of the people is also getting modernized. All these facts are leading the world to a serious energy (Khan et al. 1). The shutdown of the oil excavators is the symbol of this problem. The fully electric drivetrain will avoid this problem completely. Because we have many effective ways to produce electricity, like wind power generation or solar power generation. Furthermore, this image also corresponds another purpose of Tesla, is not just an automaker, but also a technology and design company with a focus on energy (About Tesla paragraph 6) The second question is that, why the world in the future is that? Or how can we change that? The answer is using electric vehicle, Tesla, right now. This question makes us feel time pressing. It is also the rhetorical appeal of Kairos. In addition, we can also find the rhetorical appeal of Ethos in this image. Because protecting the resources of the earth and maintaining the sustainable development of the earth is responsibility. Based on moral considerations, we need to use more environmentally friendly cars. Above all, this image has rich sense of science and technology. This also accord with style of high-tech. In addition, the depiction of future world also indicates that, Tesla has been concerned about the future of the world forever. Works Cited About  About Tesla Tesla. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://www.tesla.com/about>. Khan, M Usman Saeed, et al. Proposed Applications with Implementation Techniques of the Upcoming Renewable Energy Resource, the Tesla  Journal of Physics: Conference Series, vol. 439, no. 1, Feb. 2013, p. 012040. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edb&AN=94285387&site=eds-live. Rowland, Christine. Tesla Motors, Vision Statement & Mission Statement (An Panmore Institute. N.p., 24 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stringham, Edward Peter, et al. Overcoming Barriers to Entry in an Established Industry: TESLA  California Management Review, vol. 57, no. 4, Summer2015, pp. 85-103. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1525/cmr.2015.57.4.85.