Daniela Bigott Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 2/22/2017 How do the families of child abduction cope with the return of their child and why do some victims sometimes choose to stay with their abductor? Introduction: Children around the world are abducted and taken away from their families and loved ones every day in the United States. It is not uncommon for the child abductor to ask for a hefty ransom expecting it to be met within an unreasonable timeframe. Unfortunately, within most of these cases, the ransom note fails to be met on time and the chances of the parents seeing their child again is close to zero. In other cases, child abductors take off with the child leaving no trace of their rapid departure. Like the ransom case that was just talked about, the possibility of the parents seeing their child within a couple of days is very rare. However, what if the child is found? There are presumably severe psychological setbacks that affect their homecoming and quality of their now captive-free life. Surely, time plays a big role in the development hindrances of the abducted child. It can be argued that the longer time the child is exposed to their abductor, the higher the chances are of that child to grow attached, both physically and emotionally. These all explore any psychologically and emotionally setbacks for both the child that has been abducted and the families. My research question for the semester is: how do the families of child abduction cope with the safe return of their child/children and why do some victims sometimes choose to stay with their abductor? Snow, Robert L. Child Abduction: Prevention, Investigation, And Recovery. Westport, Conn: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2008. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Retrieved from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com In this chapter of Child Abduction: Prevention, Investigation, and Recovery titled Why Some Children Stay, reasons behind why children choose to stay with their abductors are explored. One particular case that is examined is the kidnapping of Shawn Hornbeck and Ben Ownby. Both boys were abducted by the same man Michael Delvin during different years. Ben Ownby abducted in 2007, while he was 13-years old, and Shawn Hornbeck abducted in 2002 while he was 11-years old. After much speculation and a large accumulation of evidence that Delvin kidnapped Ben Ownby, the police gained a warrant to search his home. They found missing boys Ben Ownby and Shawn Hornbeck. Shawn had a new identity of Shawn Delvin, claiming to be son, which was just one out of many lies Delvin fed to everyone about Shawn. What seems to be the chilling point in this case according to the police was that during the time he was abducted by Delvin, Shawn had had contact with police and never mentioned his current situation with Delvin. He had the opportunity to speak out and seek help from law enforcement but chose to remain silent and stay. According to several psychologists, like Dr. Robert Butterworth that specializes in trauma explains how in cases like these, the child feels 100% helpless and knows that he/she does not have control over anything. Dr. Butterworth also points out that violence is a common technique used by the abductors to help them gain control and power. One of the main reasons Shawn never ran away or looked for help was because Delvin would threaten to harm and kill his family if he ever thought about leaving. Robert L. Snow worked heavily at the Indianapolis Police Department and became highly ranked serving as Department Executive Officer, Captain of Detectives, and Commander of the Homicide Branch (AmazonBooks L. With each book he writes, his main goal is to attempt to create a sense of protection with each of his readers. Knowing what he publishes are based on true events, he wants to bring awareness to these situations and hopefully expose them to those that have been affected by it or those who want to know how to avoid such events from happening to them. The book Child Abduction: Prevention, Investigation, and Recovery that is written by Snow explores in great detail an aspect of my research question, why do some victims sometimes choose to stay with their abductor? A big portion of my paper is explaining why children of child abduction choose to stay with the abductors or neglect to seek help or run away when they find an opportunity to do so. In book, he has a specific chapter dedicated to this and titled Why Some Children Stay. Within this chapter, it explores real life cases in which children choose to stay and why. Several notable psychologists are cited and give their explanation and interpretation of why a certain event happens the way it does. Greif, Geoffrey L. The Long-Term Aftermath of Child Abduction: Two Case Studies and Implications for Family  American Journal of Family Therapy, vol. 37, no. 4, Jul-Sep 2009. Academic Search Premier, doi: 10.1080/01926180902754711 This article explores two case examples that highlight the long term setbacks both the children involved in the abduction experience and how their families react and handle the situation. Most parents agree that their children seem to be afraid and paranoid at things the average child were taught not to fear, such as law enforcement or personal success. This article also highlights that time and age were big factors in the long-term aftermath symptoms of abduction. The longer the child was kept in a hostage situation and detained, the worse their aftermath symptoms were. The younger they were, the less symptoms were experienced by that child. One of the cases explored in this article is about a then 9-year old girl named Mary. She was abducted with her two younger sisters by her mom after a custody battle went south. One day mom grabbed all three daughters took off to another state. In an interview with Mary, she explains that while she knew what her mother was doing was wrong, she loved her mother and would do anything for her. mom gave all her children haircuts to change their identity, which again the article mentions is not uncommon to happen. The kids did not have clean clothes, access to clean water, were underfed which led them to be dangerously underweight, were three years behind in school, and did not have access to any type of doctor for three years. Mary, now a 21-year-old woman in college, confesses that she still finds school hard because those three years she lost can never be made up. After being found, reuniting with her estrange father was very hard. Since her mother kept telling them that her father was a bad man that wanted to kill them, Mary had a hard time trusting him. It took her a year to fully trust him again. Mary refuses to have any sort of contact from her mother. Knowing that she was fed lies for three years by her, Mary now knows what is right and what is wrong but still feels greatly affected by events that happened 12 years ago. This article does a really good job in explaining the underlying damage child abduction has the once abducted child. The article allows the reader to create a rather personal connection with one of the victims of the case when it provides snippets of interviews taken from the victims. The emotional information gathered allows the readers to put what Snow says into a real life scenario. By the way victims answered certain question, it allows us to grasp the severity of the long-term effects child abduction can have, even if abducted by an own parent. Geoffrey L. Greif is a Professor at the School of Social Work at the University of Maryland in Baltimore, Maryland and received a PhD from the Columbian School of Social Work. Grief has written several articles and books from themes such as child abduction to African American women overcoming adversity which has made him well-respected within his field. Greif has received several awards that highlight his dedication to his practice such as Educator of the Year award from the Maryland Chapter of NASW and the University of Maryland Board of Regents Excellence in Teaching Award (University of Maryland School of Social Work) This article ties in with my research topic because the focus of my topic is the aftermath of child abduction on the child and the family. This article specifically goes in detail in a particular situation where the child is still affected by her abduction almost 12 years later. My research topic also questions if parents abducting their children leave a more destructive aftermath than those children abducted by strangers and this particular article explores one side of it. Judge, Abigail M., et al. The Transitioning Families Therapeutic Reunification Model in Nonfamilial  Family Court Review, vol. 54, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 232-249. PsycINFO, doi: 10.1111/fcre.12215 This article investigates The Transitioning Families Therapeutic Reunification Model, otherwise known as TFTRM. This model was made to help families transition back to a normal life after their child has been brought home after being abducted. This model was devolved mainly by the Department of Justice in order to provide guidelines to those struggling with the homecoming of their child. Developers of the TFTRM know the hardships the child returning home has gone through so in the guidelines provided, it is pointed out that constant exposure to the family may not be as beneficial as one would think. The of the model explain that the main emotion experienced through children that have gone through trauma such as child abduction is helplessness. The only way to treat the emotion of helplessness is to adapt to it, any more action may overwhelm the child in the situation. The Department of Justice argues that the main goal of this model is to help struggling families via intervention and family therapy and empirical problem solving and techniques. These techniques include impulse control and information processing. The TFTRM is applied to one family and it can vary from a couple of days to a full year, always depending on the severity of the case. One of the most important aspect of the model is the team that works intensely with the family. The team consists of a doctoral level psychologist which is considered the team leader, a marriage and family therapist, and a clinical social worker. This team is the backbone for making the TFTRM function with outstanding results. Most all of the authors of this article are well respected doctors and psychologists that focus mainly on family therapy. The authors are all recognized for being part of prestigious organizations such as the Law & Psychiatry Service at the Massachusetts General Hospital, the National Center of Missing and Exploited Children, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the U.S. Department of Justice, just to name a few. This article perfectly ties in to my research topic because my main focus is how both the child and the families cope. I mainly want to explore how the relationship between family and child is affected after the child is returned home. This article focuses on a specific model created to assist families that are struggling to reconnect with their found child which I find useful in my quest for more research. Greif, Geoffrey L. Ambiguous Reunification: A Way for Social Workers to Conceptualize the Return of Children After Abduction and Other  Families in Society, vol. 93, no. 4, Oct-Dec. 2012, pp. 305-311, PsycINFO, doi: 10.1606/1044-3894.4241 This article focuses more on how the child feels after returning home and how families should handle the reaction. As mentioned in the article, the longer the child has been missing/away from their families, the harder it is for the family and the child to adjust to a normal life. In the reunification process between the family and child, some observe it as a very positive and joyous event while others notice the discomfort with being around their families. The main focus of the article is seeing how social workers handle families through this tiresome process. A major component of how well the child is going to recover from such trauma is time; how much time has passed between the child getting abducted and the child being returned home? According to the article, the more time the child has been away, the bigger the risk of developmental damage or regression in the child when she/he is finally returned home. Like mentioned in my other source bibliography, Geoffrey L. Greif is a Professor at the School of Social Work at the University of Maryland in Baltimore, Maryland and received a PhD from the Columbian School of Social Work. This article ties into my research topic because I want to explore why some children struggle now that they have a captive-free life. In my topic, I also want to mention how time affects the recovery which is a big topic of discussion in article. Namnyak, M., et al. Psychiatric Diagnosis or Urban  Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica, vol. 117, no. 1, Jan. 2008, pp. 4-11. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1600-0447.2007.01112.x. This article explains the very debated issues of Stockholm syndrome and whether or not it is a legitimate diagnosis applied to those that have been kidnapped. Many argue that the term has only been glorified by the media when reporting on high-profile cases. Others would argue that Stockholm syndrome is a credible psychiatric diagnosis and is heavily supported by numerous journal articles and professionals. This article developed a way to fully comprehend the severity and legitimacy of the term The term was searched along with other keywords like using the Boolean in a total of eight databases: EMBASE, PsychINFO, CINAHL, PubMED, SIGLE, Google Scholar, ISI web of Knowledge, and The Cochrane Library (Namnyak et al., 2008). Out of those eight, the term was shown as a result for three databases: PubMED showed 11 results, PsychINFO 44 and CINAHL 10 (Namnyak et al., 2008). When phrases related to child kidnapping were searched such as there were thousands of results shown. However, once the searcher added the term with the AND Boolean, the results went down to only four. Meaning there were very few published and/or credible journal articles or books on anything related to Stockholm syndrome. Out of articles and papers reviewed, only twelve focused on Stockholm syndrome specifically. However, most seemed to contradict one another making the researches question their validity. According to these findings, there is very little literature on Stockholm syndrome. And the literature that does exist seems to contradict and question one another. Thus, allowing researchers to support the claim that Stockholm syndrome is a legitimate psychiatric diagnosis difficult. While trying to find information on all six authors was close to impossible, I was able to find one thing that linked them all together. All authors work in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the Royal Free and University College Medical School in London. Their main focus is research which is why this article is solely centered on finding research/support for Stockholm syndrome. Each of these authors has the ability to use every database to their advantage to answer the overall question Stockholm syndrome real or This article connects to my research questions because part of my question address why certain children choose to stay with their abductors. I wanted to explore the possibility of Stockholm syndrome being one explanation for why children choose to stay. After reading this article, I can clearly see that my theory is debunked since there is very little research to support the claim that Stockholm syndrome is actually a real diagnosis. Goodale, Gloria. California Kidnapping Case: Why Woman Seek Help Years  The Christian Science Monitor, 2014. EBSCOhost, Retrieved from http://search.ebscohost.com This article explores why some people stay with their abductors after so many months and even years. According to the article, there are several factors such as age and the relationship established between the victim and the abductor that makes the severity of every case different. The article points out that many people question how people who have the ability to alarm authorities choose not to. This is answered by Farrah Parker who is the executive director for the City of Los Angeles Commission on the Status of Women. Parker explains that abductors develop an enslavement extends beyond physical (Goodale). Sometimes victims will believe that they are being monitored every second of the day so why they choose to avoid seeking help. On some occasions, victims sometimes become attached to the captors that makes them feel vulnerable. Charles Williams an associate professor of psychology at Drexel University in Philadelphia explains that once the abductor convinces the victim that he or she is alone and no one is looking for them, then when the abductor gains total control over the victim. Gloria Goodale is a former staff writer at The Christian Science Monitor and writes about recent events that have received extreme attention such as the San Bernardino shooting or the Super Bowl 50. many published articles include references from professionals and other credible authors in order to fully and accurately report on events. This article connects to my research questions because I specifically ask why some people, specifically children, chose to stay with their abductors. This article provides possible explanations to why they do and what factors either encourage or disprove it.