Kellman 1 Abraham Kellman ENC 1102.003 Dennis 26 January 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: Dignified death or Homicide? IMAGE 1 IMAGE 2 Kellman 2 On new day of 2014, after months of excruciating headaches, Brittany Maynard was diagnosed with brain cancer. She went through several doctors and several intense surgeries. However, the cancer came back with a vengeance and she was diagnosed with six months to live without any treatment; nevertheless, the treatments that would extend her life could work but leave her in a terrible state or they could end up failing leaving Brittany with drug resistant pain. So as a last resort she looked into something called physician assisted suicide (PAS). Brittany say this as her saving grace, but where she lived, California, at the time did not allow PAS. So, she uprooted herself and moved her whole family, changed physicians, made her husband take a leave of absence from his work and etc. all in order to qualify for death with dignity in Oregon (Maynard 1). This is what anybody in America would have to do, if they wanted PAS they would have to go to one of five states in order to receive this type of care (Figure 1). This is why image one was taken and best explains the mission and message the organization Death with Dignity has. However, image two very much opposes PAS and aligns itself well with the message of the organization Care Not Killing presents. Kellman 3 DWD is an organization that is in support of PAS legalization for the people who choose to utilize this option. While they do support it, they also believe it should be regulated. For instance, they believe that PAS should only be used by patients who are terminally ill with only six months to live and that the patients should be mentally sound (DWD). DWD is a charity non- profit organization with a yearly budget of $600,000 and has the same opinion of approximately 68% of the US population (Dugan 1). The overall message of DWD is that all eligible terminally ill patients should have the choice to die peacefully and with dignity and that is what image one depicts. Image 1 is a very opinionated and powerful photograph. It is cut into two parts the old woman and the young girl, each having their own pathos, logos, and ethos. Although this image has all of those rhetorical values, its kairos or timeliness/uniqueness is not abundantly present and the only thing presentable as kairos is the fact that a person can only die once and that is why there is such debate with the topic PAS. Anyhow, the best way to describe this image is by describing its parts separately. First the old woman, the first thing the audience notices is the fact that this woman is looking directly at the camera or audience and that she is smiling. Already this evokes an emotional response and people begin to empathize with her. Her sign also brings up happier emotions, with the warm colors and the unique font showing how much work she put into this sign. These are all working parts functioning together in order to get the audience to sympathize and support her/her side. This is the pathos for the old woman part and from the words on her sign we can tell that she is in support PAS. Kellman 4