Patel 1 Sasha Patel Taylor Poston ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Intermediate Draft 2 WWF stands for the of the most important forests to sustain diversity, benefit our climate, and support human (WWF). They eliminate deforestation threats, minimize the amount of reckless agriculture, stop illegal logging, they address road and infrastructure development, to ensure that the trees are safe. goal is to protect the natural habitat and wildlife by stopping deforestation. The images are trying to show that deforestation is a huge deal today, and instead of stopping deforestation it is being continued. The images try to persuade the viewer to notice a greater sense of loss as the of the climate, or trees, are being cut because of anthropogenic causes. The trees are referred to as the lungs of the environment because of their capability to absorb carbon dioxide and release oxygen, which helps regulate the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The images created by WWF help convince the reader to take action because of their visual and rhetorical strategies. The most prevalent rhetorical appeal that is used is pathos, or appeal to emotion. This appeal is trying to the reader and it is working. The reader looks at the image and sees how there is a big effect by the removal of trees, and how humans are the main cause of deforestation. These images are trying to make us feel guilty. The second image of the golfer with an axe, is very deep because it is showing how our needs affect our decisions. Our anthropogenic needs such as the need for land or large space for agriculture or recreational purposes such as golf fields causes us to destroy trees. We destroy so much that we cannot see the larger impacts such as climate change, soil erosion, and loss of biodiversity. So when we look at the images we realize that trees are being cut by humans for human needs, and that Patel 2 it is negatively impacting the climate. Although the images quite direct, they still get the point across. was probably at the heart of most fears for the narrators also spoke with sadness: Earlier there were dense forests and there were many (Bennett, 22). This shows us that deforestation is bad and how it is just plain sad to see the lifeless and dead landscape. The images show a feeling of guilt and loss as a sign of pathos. Another rhetorical appeal that is used is ethos, or appeal to credibility. WWF, is a world- known organization, and its logo is on both of the images. WWF works in multiple regions across the globe, such as the Virunga Mountains in East Africa, the Amazon regions in South America, and the Sumatran forests . They also work with multiple stakeholders, with their Global Forest & Trade Network division, GFTN, and alliances like on the to protect the trees. main contributions to minimize the depletion [of trees and natural as well as proposed policy options to cope with the threats like deforestation and minimize the further depletion of the basin (Meh, 9). So the World Wildlife Fund is a very big and well known organization which proves the credibility of the images, which then persuades the reader to believe anything the organization supports. The images also use the logos appeal, or logic. Underneath one of the images, a logical appeal can be seen as statics are given. The little caption underneath one of the images says a single golf course puts thousands of trees at stake. However, in southern Turkey, they are planning to build several courses (WWF). This is very logical because people can see that golf courses require a lot of land to be cleared down. We can also see that the only reason that the land is cleared is for anthropogenic use, such as golfing as seen in the image. There is a little bit of a logical appeal used in the other image as well. As the viewer sees lungs made out of trees, is gives importance to the role of the trees in the production of oxygen. Which then makes the reader logically think about how deforestation causes the greenhouse gases to stay in the atmosphere, which cause global warming. This is logos because of the reasoning that the viewer has to do, to see the importance of the loss of trees. Patel 3 In summation both the images are very thought- provoking as they showed how Citations Bennett, Olivia. Mountain  UNASYLVA-FAO- (1998): 22-30. Meh, Gilbert Geh. Deforestation in the Congo Basin rainforest, the trend in Cameroon and Democratic Republic of 