Wahba 1 Seifeldin Wahba Ms. Poston ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Human activities are driving global warming Lately, global warming has been a controversial topic between leaders of the world, scientists, and even students. And since this is a scientific topic, then every opinion should be proven with evidences, mostly scientific evidences. Some scientists claim that human activities, mainly burning fossil fuels, are the main reason causing the globe to warm. While on the other side, others argue that it is not human activities, but natural factors like solar radiance. However, whether the reason causing the climate to change is human activities or natural factors, most of the scientists agreed that carbon dioxide emissions are at a very high level in the atmosphere and that is causing the average temperature of surface to warm which may cause catastrophic crisis in the future. One of the organizations that is taking the side of human activities being the reason behind climate change is IPCC (Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change). Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change is an intergovernmental organization under the auspices of the United Nation. It was established in 1988 by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Its goals are to provide an understanding about the risks behind climate change and how the human is affecting it negatively. Another goal is to inform the world on climate change effects and issues. The IPCC assessment reports are written by hundreds of scientists from all over the world who volunteer their time and expertise to provide comprehensive and objective reports. These assessments are published every five to seven years. The first assessment report was in 1990 and the latest one was the fifth assessment reports which was in 2014. These assessment reports represent the work Wahba 2 of six years, more than 450 lead authors receiving input from more than 800 contributing authors, and more than 2500 experts reviewing the draft documents (IPCC). The authors that produce the reports are divided into three working groups Working group 1 is responsible for the physical science basis of global warming, working group 2 is responsible for the consequences and impacts of global warming, and working group 3 is responsible for scenarios and options for slowing the carbon dioxide emissions in the world. The role of IPCC is to provide scientific, technical and socio-economic information relevant to understanding the scientific basis of risk of human-induced climate change, its potential impacts and options for adaption and (Principles governing IPCC work). In addition to the written reports, IPCC usually uses informative images to inform the reader about certain information using the four rhetoric appeals. These images comply with each other to deliver a clear message to the audience which can be scientists, students, or normal people who care about the environment. Following, two images that IPCC used in their fifth assessment report. The relationship between the two images and the main argument is that they show the impacts of climate change visually and logically by giving numbers and statistics beside the pictures used to describe how people suffer from such an impact. The first image is the cover of the report published in 2014. I believe that Wahba 3 this image covered the four rhetoric appeals. It appealed to credibility by merging three real pictures from different parts of the world showing the effect of climate change on people. Furthermore, it appealed to logic by showing how some people suffer from such a crisis and how others are getting more developed. It also appealed to Kairos by referring to a current crisis which can be realized from the three merged pictures. Finally, it appealed to pathos by using a picture of a little kid suffering from floods which is one of the effects of climate change. The second image is a figure from the fifth assessment report that shows the change in the average surface temperature. This image use all rhetoric appeals. It appealed to ethos by giving numbers and statistics which give more credibility and authority to the image. In addition, it appealed to logos by comparing two eras next to each other which make the reader think logically about the situation, how it was and how it is now. Besides, it appealed to Kairos by Wahba 4 showing the timeline of the change and showing how that change is going to affect the future of the earth. Moreover, there are several logical fallacies that are being applied to the images. One of these fallacies is which means if a part of something is true then the whole thing is true. This is applied to the first image which is the front cover of the assessment report by showing that people is suffering due to the impact of climate change caused due to human activities of burning fossil fuels which result in excessive amount of carbon dioxide gas in the atmosphere. IPCC assumes that since humans are responsible for the production of carbon dioxide then the increase of the average temperature of the surface is caused because of humans. Another fallacy is where only two alternative states are the only possibilities when more possibilities exist. This fallacy is applied to the first image too as IPCC ignores all factors other than human activities that might be affecting the climate and causing it to change. The image does not show any natural factors. Furthermore, to is another fallacy being applied to the cover of the report as the cover shows a picture of a glacier which represents nature. That glacier is being used as a result of climate change and the message IPCC wants to deliver here is that since something natural is changed, then the claim that the climate is changing due to carbon dioxide emitted from burning fossil fuels is valid and justified. In conclusion, you cannot deny the fact that the climate is changing. The images IPCC used are credible and authorized and shows the real effect of climate change but it does not have to be a catastrophic issue or as terrible disaster as some scientists deal with the global warming situation. To sum up the issue, most scientists agreed that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere has increased and it affects the temperature of the atmosphere; however, that does not mean there is no other factors affecting the climate. Wahba 5 Works Cited Governing IPCC IPCC. R.K. Pachauri, L.A. Meyer, Change 2014: Synthesis IPCC, 2014, Web. IPCC: Who Are They and Why Do Their Climate Reports UCSUSA, Web.