Chiluisa 1 Gerson Chiluisa Professor Theodosiou ENC 1102 - 075 Feb 17 2017 Controversy Regarding the Funding of Planned Parenthood health including procedures like abortion is a topic that has long been controversial between many organizations and their beliefs. The Planned Parenthood Federation of America is an organization that believes in the fundamental rights one has in regards to reproductive rights (Planned Parenthood). The Society to Outlaw Planned Parenthood is an organization that believes that the services offered by Planned Parenthood are unlawful and harmful to potential life (STOPP). Although the two organizations have conflicting opinions, they agree that children should be educated about sex through family oriented teachings. STOPP believes that if parents can comfortably talk to their children about sex then there will not be a divide between them. Planned Parenthood believes that sexual education taught by families provides a safer and more nonjudgmental environment for children learning about sex. Through correct teaching practices we can resolve the issue of parents that need support and age appropriate sex health information. The views of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and The Society to Outlaw Planned Parenthood are at odds but through compromise by introducing ways that taxpayers can select what they are funding in terms of controversial programs could break the tension between the two parties. Chiluisa 2 As an organization, STOPP has been trying to captivate the opinion by spreading the idea that Planned Parenthood should not be funded by the government (Stop Planned Parenthood). STOPP believes that by spreading their message to the public, like-minded people will coincide with their view that the taxpayer funds should not go toward funding an organization that the slaughter of innocent (STOPP). Which leads STOPP to be ultimately in accordance with the law of God therefore all of their activities are necessary as a result of failed Planned Parenthood sex education programs (STOPP ). conquest goes as far as being a part of March for Life that took place in DC this year using known figures like Mike Pence to anchor sanctity of humans lives and inferring the possibility of a pro-life presidential regime. And STOPP makes it a point on the issue of sexual education to leave it to the parents to be primary the primary educators otherwise sex education programs would a gap between parents and children so that the children develop a mentality that their parents (Stop Planned Parenthood). Usually backed with biblical references and clear bias language STOPP as an organization will try to defund Planned Parenthood at every margin they deem unacquainted with Planned Parenthoods promises. On the other side, Planned Parenthood believes reproductive health is a fundamental right regardless of socioeconomic status or demographics (Planned Parenthood). Planned Parenthood not only strives to provide reproductive health care but also strives to do so while emphasizing an privacy and to receive reproductive health care (Planned Parenthood). A big misconception about Planned Parenthood is exclusive to only abortions, where majority is preventive, primary care, which helps prevent unintended pregnancies through contraception, reduce the spread of sexually transmitted infections through testing and treatment, and screen for cervical and other (Planned Parenthood) Lately Planned Parenthood has Chiluisa 3 been struggling with Title possible overturn. Title X is the family planning program and it ensures 4 million people have healthcare especially women, have low incomes or are uninsured have access to birth control, cancer screenings, STI tests, and other basic (Planned Parenthood). Without Title X possible to exacerbate communities of color who already face systemic barriers along with the rise of unplanned pregnancies and STDS because of women who are choosing to opt out of care (Planned Parenthood). Upon doing so, further progression through research and advancement of applied science can offer more opportunities for the public (Planned Parenthood). Both parties want to protect the rights of their supporters which is reflected in their mission statements. Despite these differences, both organizations can find common ground because both believe that sex education teachings should be done through parental guidance in order to facilitate a beneficial connection between sex and parents. Coincidentally, the amount of sex- related discussions between parents and their children is waning due to inability or unwillingness to provide effective and comprehensive sex-related information to their (El-Shaieb et al.). STOPP believes that by having parents directly involved with educating their children on the topics of sex that their message will be more directly transferred to their children, while if they are taught by public schools the message could be different from their ideals life (STOPP). Planned Parenthood believes that if parents are in direct control of sexual education to their children, a more positive and healthy experience can be gained regarding sexuality (Planned Parenthood). Both organizations believe that a better relationship between children and parents regarding sex could lead to less uncertainty regarding the topics. Through creating a comforting environment when learning about sex, children who are also future taxpayers will be well educated on the matter. Currently, sex is often viewed to be Chiluisa 4 considered taboo when talking about sex with own parents which can sometimes create ignorance on topics that revolve around sex, sexual health and reproduction. If children begin to be educated in an environment that feels safer and where they feel comfortable asking awkward or tough questions then they will likely begin asking these questions and getting answers and therefore being better education on sexual health. Educating children more clearly and in a comfortable environment will then lead to well-educated taxpaying adults that can make viable decisions when it comes to the various topics regarding organizations that provide reproductive health. The proposed compromise would be to generate an opportunity for individual taxpayers to approve whether or not they want their specific money to fund controversial organizations like Planned Parenthood. For instance, tax forms could have a separate area that lists what the taxpayer agrees to fund with his taxes which allows the taxpayer more personal control over his taxes and also allows organizations to be funded fairly based on the wants. This compromise can be achieved by making sure tax payers are educated on what their tax money funds. A common misconception is how organizations favor Planned Parenthood who provide reproductive healthcare use the money that is allotted to them. Many people do not know the exact use of these funds, as outlined by Planned Parenthood these funds cover contraception for 2.5 million people, cervical cancer screenings for 1 million people, breast exams for 830,000 million and STD testing for nearly 4 million people (Planned Parenthood). This shows that a substantial amount of people use Planned Parenthood for a varying range of health concerns, with this in mind one could infer that they would opt for allowing their tax money to support these programs. Because every taxpayer in the nation receives a tax form, it would not be difficult to get this opportunity to choose to taxpayers by simply adding an extra box on the form. In a world where you will always be guaranteed death and taxes, an article Chiluisa 5 from the Boston Globe, if we could choose where our taxes could outlines in their Texas experiment that people who were given extra money in their experiment allotted their taxes to specific programs of choice and prominent choices includes more to disaster relief and cancer research. (Boston Globe) With this information along with the outlook that gives taxpayers piece of mind knowing where their money goes, can induce whether or not a tax payer will want to prioritize Planned Parenthood or drop it like a bad habit. In the end STOPP would lose the opportunity to have Planned Parenthood completely defunded because this compromise would leave opportunity for Planned Parenthood to still be funded, depending on what taxpayers decide. While Planned Parenthood would lose the ability to be funded by every taxpayer and would likely lose a substantial amount of funds. Through careful consideration between the ideals of Planned Parenthood Association of America and the Society to Outlaw Planned Parenthood, I am able conclude that despite their differences in beliefs these ideals could be compromised in a way that allows the public to determine themselves what is wanted in terms of reproductive health care and public funding. Although STOPP would like to have Planned Parenthood defunded based on their own beliefs by upholding this compromise they would have a chance to have Planned Parenthood funded less by people who agree with them and do not want to personally use their taxes to fund them. Likewise, Planned Parenthood could avoid the risk of being defunded completely by public money and continue to offer their benefits to those in need. Chiluisa 6 Works Cited STOPP Stop Planned Parenthood, American Life League, www.stopp.org/. EL-SHAIEB, MUNA, and SANDY K. WURTELE. Plans To Discuss Sexuality With Their Young  American Journal Of Sexuality Education 4.2 (2009): 103. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Planned Parenthood, Planned Parenthood Federation of America Inc, 26 Jan. 2017, www.plannedparenthood.org/. Stockman, Farah. if we could choose where our taxes go? - The Boston BostonGlobe.com, John W. Henry, 30 Apr. 2013, www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/columns/2013/04/29/what-could-choose-where-our- taxes/HgUvdhYEIP1UNI3hknoe0N/story.html. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. Farah Stockman is a Pulitzer Prize winning American journalist who works at The Boston Globe and attended Harvard, graduating in 1996. Boston Globe is an American daily newspaper been around since 1872. This article is useful in that it provides support for a choice in where tax dollars go. In turn this is meant to provide a full and fluid compromise where we should possibly live in a world with choices