Spasoje Stefanovic T. J. Murray Composition II February 26, 2017 Why female athletes compete with male athletes and vice versa Equality between genders is one of the biggest issues in the world that is talked about every day. In most cases female population is the one that feels unappreciated, like they are not getting the same opportunity as man are and feel disrespectful because of that. Equality is good, we should all strive to make things as equal as possible but when it comes to competing in sport and co-ed teams, then we strive for equality because female and male bodies are not made equal and their results in any sport support that and no matter how hard we try we change those facts. For years now there have been a question should male and female athletes compete together. Some sources that this question was coming from were from desperate attempt of organization to make everything equal from both male and female athletes. There are several reasons why this question even been asked. Female and male bodies are made differently, pretty much every part of the body is different then one another. Lets start with skeleton of male and female bodies. As you can see in the picture below, the females have wider pelvis, which is making problem with alignment and movement of the extremities. Also it is putting them off balance and that is very important in any sport. Research in Washington Post but says that male athletes have grater percentage of lean muscle because of testosterone and other hormones. Some research indicates that even his individual muscle fibers are larger. Having more muscle means to have more power, speed, strength so top performance in jumping and sprinting sports and especially weightlifting and throwing events greatly exceed His heart is bigger and stronger to which means that can deliver grater amount of blood and oxygen to the muscles for which they need to perform good. Female bodies are generally more flexible which gives them great advantage in gymnastic. The reason for their flexibility is the position of their pelvis and the hormones that they have making their muscles more flexible. In the picture below you can see the results in Olympic disciplines that are totally equal but yet male athletes dominate female athletes in every discipline. For some members of the audience this numbers maybe make a huge difference but it actually is a huge difference. Every Olympic athlete knows that milliseconds can decide if you are going to win or lose or break the record or not. Olympic athletes train every day for hours and hours just to improve their time for maybe a half a second. So what are we seeing in this picture is a big difference between male and female athlete. Just the fact that large number of female athlete are trying to change the rule of allowing transgender Olympians to compete with them says a lot that they want to be competing basically with men. never felt so overpowered in my life, fought a lot of women and have never felt the strength that I felt in a fight as I did that night. I answer whether because she was born a man or not, because not a doctor. I can only say never felt so overpowered ever in my life, and I am an abnormally strong mixed martial arts fighter Tamikka Brents said this after fighting transgender MMA fighter Fallon Fox. In the book technology and sport: ethical in chapter 15 genetic design of a new talks about how male and female athletes should compete together because everyone should get equal opportunity and sex discrimination, as it says in the book, is the only thing that is stopping both athletes to compete against each other. differences are completely the reason in for this sentence in the book is that in any sport the main goal is to win/be the best so if female athlete can preform better then male athlete than she should be allowed to get an opportunity to compete with male athletes. If she loses then she should accept the fact that certain male athlete is more talented then she is. Equality is good, we should all strive to make things as equal as possible but when it comes to competing in sport and co-ed teams, then we strive for equality because female and male bodies are not made equal and their results in any sport support that and no matter how hard we try we change those facts. The evidence in this paper strongly support the argument of this paper and giving audience strong facts why female athletes compete with male athletes and vice versa.