Jason Patella Professor ENC 1102 28 January 2017 HelloMD and their advertisements In our everyday lives, we tend to do things that may not always be the best for our health. We all think about our health at different times but our health as well as others is very important in our lives and in society in general. Which is why it is not surprising to hear about whether or not a certain drug is ok for our health or not. People debated if certain pills were ok or if certain substances were ok or not for our health. Marijuana is one of those drugs that people have debated over and asked is this ok for me? Marijuana has long been thought as bad drug and has recently been found out to be more helpful than harmful, at least in certain cases. The stakeholder known as HelloMD is pushing for it to be used not only for medical purposes but also for recreational uses. They believe it has more potential benefits than negative effects. They even that cannabis [(also known as has therapeutic qualities that can improve the wellbeing of all (HelloMD). HelloMD believes that marijuana is beneficial and uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos in their advertisements to advocate their positions. First before I can talk about advertisements I have got to tell you about their background. HelloMD was formed recently in the year of 2014. big goal is to create an medical cannabis community (HelloMD staff). They have accomplished this by making a community forum so people can find questions and answers about medical marijuana. It also allows cannabis brands and patients to get together and talk about any Patella 2 questions people might have. HelloMD is also one of the first companies of its kind to exist and help people get marijuana. They have also created an app for Apple and android so that you can video chat to your doctors anywhere. They well known as #1 in Health & Wellness on (HelloMD staff). Even a rival company called NuggMD wrote a review about them. They say many bad things about them and stated turning to online reviews to determine the quality of service provided by HelloMD, one will find nothing but positive (Nugg Team). The main thing HelloMD believes in is medical advice from trained professionals is and that they want to help people get access to cannabis if it will help a person in anyway (HelloMD staff). HelloMD claims are backed up by Marurizo Bifulco in and cancer: pros and cons of an antitumour Bifulco and others talk about and present their findings on how marijuana is effective against attacking cancer cells (Bifulco 123). He and the others showed that high oral doses of THC did not increase tumor incidences in a 2-year study (133). HelloMD is a somewhat recently made company dating back to the year 2014 but they want to help people obtain cannabis and help people live better lives. Both of the two advertisements or images that HelloMD presents use Ethos which is a claim to credibility and the first image does this more than the second image but both use this appeal. The first minor thing that both pictures do is add their Logo. Now this appeals to their creditability because after seeing the picture the person viewing it can go look them up and see how creditable they are. Now the first image has applied ethos by putting the words By putting those words, it shows that they some sort of or illegal drug company. The first image also puts the word When something is secure it is safe and safety is usual a good credible thing. The second image shows ethos by showing a man in a Patella 3 white coat and well groomed. This displays ethos by showing a man who looks like a doctor and doctors are well known credible people who you can trust for information. Both pictures establish trust or ethos just in different ways. Both images also use pathos and pathos is about evoking emotion or passion out of a person and both pictures do this in different ways. Both images show a lot of pathos and it is what I believe to be the biggest appeal that they are using in their images. In picture 1 there is lots of light colors. Having nice relaxing colors gives off a relaxed feeling and is easier on your eyes so it makes the viewer feel nice. In picture 1 there is also a woman who has her eyes shut looking at peace. This picture of the woman makes the viewer feel as though by joining HelloMD you will obtain this tranquil and relaxing view as she seems to have. Picture 2 has the picture of the doctor but he is on a phone and you see a hand holding it. This creates a relaxed and personal feeling that you could have with the doctors on the site. It also creates a feeling of calmness in a sense that if you were to need help you could just take your phone and talk to your doctor at anyplace in the world (that has phone service). Both pictures create a calm and peaceful emotional feeling and use that pathos to persuade people to find out more about them. Logos is about making someone think logically and using logical arguments and both pictures do this in different ways but they do it effectively. The first picture applies two techniques at the same time when saying it is Being secure is creditable but it also a logical thing to be, because if something is secure than using it would not let your information be lost and given to others if it were hacked. Picture one also says it is an Being easy and fast is something that one logically would want because they could get it done quickly and then move on to something else. The second picture uses logos by showing the doctor on the phone and in a room. This is not only evoking an interpersonal feeling but it Patella 4 also evokes a feeling easy access and having easy access makes for a logical thing to look for because being easy allows the viewer to expend less energy doing it. Both pictures use logos to make people thing logically and use this logic to make people want to find out more about them or to join. Kairos is about evoking a sense of timeliness or urgency and has a feeling of this and both pictures do this in differently. This first picture evokes that sense of timeliness by telling people it is only a 20-minute process. Telling people about how long it will take and by making it a short amount of time to do they make people want to join. Also by saying they are open 7 days a week they make people feel as though they should sign up because they are always open and it is quick. The second picture shows a doctor on the phone which makes you feel as though you can sign up and use this anywhere and everywhere. Both pictures use Kairos to make people thing want to use and sign up and a quick and timely manner and use this urgency to make people want to join as soon as possible. HelloMD is a group with doctors and regular people alike. HelloMD wants to help people be more educated about cannabis and help people who need it get it. They have been around for a few years and other groups have also backed up what they are doing. They use many pictures and advertisements to get their point across. Both of the advertisements use all of these appeals and use some more than others but they use them to draw people in and make them more interested in the company. HelloMD uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos in their advertisements to advocate for their position of helping people gain access to cannabis. Patella 5 Works Cited Bifulco, Ma, et al. and Cancer: Pros and Cons of an Antitumour British Journal of Pharmacology, vol. 148, 2, May 2006, p. 123 135. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Cashinbis. Cashinbis, https://www.cashinbis.com/wp- HelloMD Staff. HelloMD, N.A, https://www.hellomd.com/about-us#pricing. Kindland. Kindland, http://i.knd.io/luploads/inline/2016/06/screenshot-1294527541- 169-lg.png. Nugg Team. Review: A Must-Read Before Getting Your MMJ NuggMD, 23 Dec. 2016, http://blog.getnugg.com/hellomd-review/. Patella 6 Pictures