Bryan 1 Erin Bryan Instructor Brendon Jackson ENC 1101 1/26/17 The long-term effects of human trafficking on the lives of those enslaved Human trafficking is a worldwide epidemic in which victims are forced into performing acts of labor or sex work. Comparable to present-day slavery, victims are sold into these situations and often find extreme difficulty in getting out of the cycle. With the threat of or their lives being held against them, finding refuge may appear almost impossible to victims. Although it is noted to be difficult to find accurate statistics on human trafficking due to its secretive nature, it is estimated that annually, 600,00-800,00 victims are put intro trafficking. 80% of these victims happen to be women, whilst 50% happen to be minors Human  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition)). Many survivors experience the negative mental and physical effects of being trafficked in their daily lives. Often coerced or abducted into trafficking, victims are put to work with little to no pay, long labor hours, and physical and/or mental abuse. Many offenders use a false sense of trust to lure victims into their ploys; statistically, more offenders tend to be women than men Human Trafficking: The Health of Men Forced into Labor Trafficking in the United Having said so, my research question for the semester is: what long-term effects does human trafficking have on the lives of those enslaved? Bryan 2 Vejar, Cynthia. Human  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition). N.p.: Salem, 2015. N. pag. Ers. Web. Accessed 25 January 2017. In this article, Vejar explains the profile and coercion process of many victims, which is the very start of the process of trafficking. Traffickers use un-employment as a large pin point, promising victims chances at starting anew and receiving bountiful employment via online or in- person advertisement. The largest destinations for traffickers to seek out victims are Europe and East Asia, as many unsuspecting victims may jump at the opportunity for a possible career and new life in the United States. They are lead to believe that they have a choice, but once joining, may realize that they are being held against their will. Traffickers, who exploit victims to earn money, coerce them into silence with physical abuse, poor living conditions, threats of turning them in to the government (if they are illegal), and threats of harming their families Human  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition). In many cases, traffickers and victims may be the same nationality, which traffickers use as a way to reel victims in, as well as seek out local alliances in means of threatening families. Cynthia Vejar, the author of this essay, graduated with her doctorates degree from Virginia Tech. She specialized in a behavioral modification program whilst working as a school counselor. Her field of work gives her credibility in effects of human trafficking, as she is trained in counseling at-risk youth and families. This article ties back into my topic because it gives background information in how citizens get caught up in human trafficking, as well as statistics of the victims concerning race, age, and gender and how these labels affect their individual experiences. These are both vital pieces in creating a case for my paper. Bryan 3 Ottisova, L., S. Hemmings, L. M. Howard, C. Zimmerman, and S. Oram. Prevalence and Risk of Violence and the Mental, Physical and Sexual Health Problems Associated with Human Trafficking: An Updated Systematic  Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences 25.4 (2016): 317-41. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This main purpose of this article is to dive deeper into the specifics of the mental effects that victims may experience during or after being trafficked. The authors also touch on the matters of physical and sexual health post-trafficking. According to the various authors, within victims, the most prevalent mental disorders are anxiety, depression, and PTSD (posttraumatic stress disorder). There is also a high rate of sexually transmitted diseases and infections within women who are forced into sex trafficking and are sold and/or traded for their bodies. In Moldova, 55% of documented cases of women experienced mental disorders averaging after 6 months of their return from trafficking Prevalence and Risk of Violence and the Mental, Physical and Sexual Health Problems Associated with Human Trafficking: An Updated Systematic  Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences). Within trafficked children, it is found that the most prevalent mental disorders are PTSD, affective disorders, and stress and adjustment disorders. Many of these disorders in men, women, and children root from combined physical, sexual, and mental abuse on victims. Many victims are also forced into consuming various drugs and alcohol, which not only affects their mental health, but often deteriorates their physical health as well. Within this article, multiple graphs and statistics on the physical and mental effects of human trafficking and sex trafficking are provided. Authors L. Ottisova, S. Hemmings, L.M. Howarf, and S. Oram are affiliated with College London in the Health Services and Population Research Department, whilst author C. Zimmerman is affiliated with London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine within the Department of Global Health and Development. This qualifies them to research and write accurate information on the mental effects of those Bryan 4 victimized by trafficking. This article also corresponds with my topic question because it gives multiple answers to the question itself by giving statistics on what victims experience physically and mentally after being caught up in trafficking. Shelley, Louise I. Human Trafficking : A Global Perspective.. Cambridge ; New York : Cambridge UP, 2010., 2010. Cat00847a. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. In this article, author Louise I. main purpose is to explore the harm that human trafficking has on not only victims, but their families as well. When trafficking is orchestrated by personal friends or family members, it puts a heavy and often irreplaceable dent in the trust of said people. It is common, particularly in China, for some families to trade or sell family members to traffickers to earn money or for personal reasons, sometimes with false hopes of seeing victims again (Human Trafficking: A Global Perspective). When taken from their country, it seldom occurs that women are returned to their countries of origin. In the case that they are able to escape trafficking, they often will not have the means or funds to return home. According to Shelley, in some cases, victims receive a stigma after being trafficked, and find it difficult to adjust back to their normal lives if returned. For example, in Egypt, the majority of previously trafficked women who were forced into marriage cannot be re-married. The article also speaks on the threats that victims face, such as being re-trafficked, beaten, or even murdered. Author Louise I. Shelley is a graduate of University Pennsylvania and Cornell University, receiving the award of Guggenheim fellowship for Humanities, US & Canada. She is currently a professor at George Mason University, and founder/director at Terrorism Transitional Crime and Corruption Center, which gives her a credible view and understanding of the emotional and social trauma that trafficking victims suffer. Seeing as my research question focuses on the long- term effects on victims, this book gives multiple explanations as to what they experience; seeing Bryan 5 as my other sources focus on the mental effects, this book focuses on the effects trafficking has on society and families, and victims socially. Omole, Christina. Human Trafficking: The Health of Men Forced into Labor Trafficking in the United  Thesis. ProQuest Information & Learning, n.d. Dissertation Abstracts International: Section B: The Sciences and Engineering 77.6-B(E) (2016): n. pag. PsycINFO. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source focuses on the initiatives that the community / legal force is taking to put an end to trafficking, as well as the main causes of trafficking. It also gives details on the trauma that victims experience afterwards, as well as health related issues and stigmas. According to author Christina Omole, the principal causes for trafficking are poverty, unemployment, technological advance, and globalization. Many citizens that fall under these categories are coerced into false or overseas job opportunities, desperate for financial help. Statistically, one of the most common groups of trafficking victims are immigrants, desperately seeking employment opportunities, which is the main focus of the article. Impoverished women, another high rate of victims, often fall for false ads created by traffickers looking to lure in unsuspecting women. Within men, often they are seeking jobs requiring little to no experience when being coerced into trafficking Human Trafficking: The Health of Men Forced into Labor Trafficking in the United ). In attempt to stop these acts of coercion and their negatives affects, the law decided to take action. On 10/28/10, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA) was signed into law, created to put an end or limit the amount of cases of human trafficking to any degree Human Trafficking: The Health of Men Forced into Labor Trafficking in the United ). With the decreased of human trafficking, less victims will have the chance to be mentally or physically affected, or even victimized in the first place. The United States government is actively making an effort to spread the TVPA to other governments. Bryan 6 This report was researched and written by Walden Christina Omole. Seeing as she specializes in Public Health, Omole has a credible and valid understanding of the mental and physical effects on trafficked victims. With extensive research Omole used within her research report, she was able to gather multiple credible statistics on human trafficking. This report gives information on not only the effects of human trafficking, but also the cause of it, high risk groups, and prevention acts. It also goes in depth on the different divisions of trafficking, including labor, sex, and male trafficking. All of these factors not only give valid answers to my research question, but provide background information as well. Tran, Cat Ngac Jonathan. Sold into Slavery: The Scourge of Human  The Christian Century 124.24 (2007): 22-26. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. In this article, author Jonathan Tran focuses on sex trafficking/trade and how many women in the industry are treated and become trapped in the cycle. Now a 13-billion-dollar industry, sex trafficking is more prevalent now than ever Sold into Slavery: The Scourge of Human  The Christian Century). Driven solely by making as much many as possible, traffickers will often beat and coerce women into submission in means to control them. Often drugged up, these women do not have the means or strength to defend themselves. Traffickers will also attempt to hike up prices of women and young girls, selling them for extra money if they to or truly are virgins. Many of these said women are held in brothels, where they are held captive and rented out by their captors. These women often have no means of escaping, and in the cases that they do, have nowhere to go, and little to no money to support themselves. According to the author, their extreme lack of money and resources stem from the fact that they are often forced to repay a debt to their captors. When smuggled from their homes Bryan 7 under false pretenses, they can be charged a transportation fee, which any money they earn or receive goes to. Even in terrible living conditions (multiple women fitted in small, unclean, and dangerous rooms with little to no care), they are forced to pay housing fees. In addition, all forms of identification, such as passports or forms, are stripped from these women, rendering them unidentifiable. The author uses these facts as an example of the vicious cycle these women get caught in, and how they often have nothing to fall back on. This article was researched and written by Jonathan Tran, who received his Ph. D. in Theology & Ethics from Duke University. He also attended Duke University, along with University of California at Riverside. Currently teaching at Baylor University, Tran specializes in systematic theology, theological ethics, political theory, ordinary language philosophy, bioethics, and race/identity theory. His vast experience in ethics gives him a credible view and understanding of how victims may be affected by trafficking. This source answers my research question in a way I have not yet covered, as it touches on the financial struggles victims experience and how it affects them long-term. This is a key piece of information when going in depth on how human trafficking affects victims on a long-term scale. Yakushko, Oksana. Human Trafficking: A Review for Mental Health  International Journal for the Advancement of Counselling 31.3 (2009): 158-67. PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. The main takeaway from this journal written by Oksana Yakushko is the mental health many trafficking survivors may experience and how they can be helped. According to Yakushko, it is reported that victims that were physically or mentally tortured experience the aftermath via psychosomatic reactions, psychoactive substance abuse and dependence, or psychological reactions Trafficking: A Review for Mental Health  International Bryan 8 Journal for the Advancement of Counselling). Victims may also be extremely receptive and submissive to authority, unresponsive in social situations, or even a loss of personal motivation or self-worth. Victims are also much more likely to turn to substance-abuse and self-harm in means of coping than the average person. In these cases, psychological rehabilitation is often recommended. Yakyshko notes that more often than not, victims report that they would like to receive counseling in attempt to regain a healthy mental state. Seeing as how places dedicated specifically for the counseling of trafficking, it is noted that this help can often be received from refugee assistance programs or domestic violence shelters. For the most effective results in treating victims, it is stressed that therapists should be aware of a post-trafficking adjustment, acculturation, view on mental illness, and sociopolitical background. This way, therapists or psychologists can tailor help to fit the needs. This scholarly journal was written by Oksano Yakushko, who graduated from the University of Columbia with a PhD in psychology. She now teaches psychology at Pacifica Graduate University, where she also participates as a research director in the clinical psychology program. extensive research in the field of psychology gives her an in-depth and credible understanding of psychology and the mental effects that trafficking has on victims, as well as effective sources of help. This source not only briefly touches on the mental effects that trafficking has on its victims, but explores how they can be helped. This ties into my research question, as it not only answers how they are affected, but provides precautions in which many victims take afterwards.