Outline for Project 2 Gabriel Hineman I. Introduction A. The National Rifle Association 1. With some assistance from some wise words of Wayne LaPierre, an image of a boy holding a gun provides a provoking imagine, inclined to make you feel as if you were one of the sheep who needs to become a lion to protect everyone from the wolves. 2. Another otherwise impeccable and thoroughly persuasive image is that of Governor Victor Atiyeh holding a rifle and talking about his steadfast support of the NRA and our national amendment. 3. primary goal since its creation has been the education of marksmanship and proper care/ handling of a gun. 4. A debate continues to kindle regarding the purchase and ownership of firearms causing the NRA to create more influential advertisements and pictures to convince the public that firearm ownership and following the ideals are the only ways to stay protected from the criminals with guns. Out of the two images chosen to stand for the ideals I feel the boy holding the gun does the best job employing the rhetorical appeals. II. Body Paragraphs A. Many people look up to Authority figures or those who have power, as such when an image employs the use of authority, which helps to sway the audience to their viewpoint. 1. In the photo of the child holding the Gun we see the use of ethos employed with the use of a direct quote from the President of the NRA himself, Wayne LaPierre. 2. Another interesting way to employ the use of authority it the placement of the official seal of an organization on the image, such as how the have the official seal on their photo. 3. In the picture of the old man holding a gun, after reading some of the words above the image you come to find he is actually Governor Victor Atiyeh, a person of some political power and who, many would appear to look up to. 4. Mention of some of the responsibilities of being Governor further solidifies him as a trustable authoritative figure. a) not only important to employ the use of people or things of authority to get your point across, you need to get people to feel emotion or more aptly a connection to the image. B. An important aspect of selling you point or convincing others to join you in your ideas, you need to appeal to emotion. You need to make them feel a connection to the image or better put, a connection to your organization or idea you are trying to push across. Outline for Project 2 Gabriel Hineman 1. Appeal to pathos by using a child holding a gun. The child looks so innocent, but if you look at the determination that is clearly painted across his face, you can see that he is prepared to do whatever he must to in my mind, protect himself and his loved ones from the or those that would try to harm him. 2. An interesting tie into the innocence of the child is that he is wearing a blue shirt. The color blue is usually representative of innocence or calm, yet you can clearly see that the child is holding a gun and prepared to use it. 3. The other picture displays a kind looking old man holding a rifle with a big smile plastered across his face. This man looks like he could be my grandfather, or even yours. The point is that this old man causes you to empathize with him and so whatever point he brings up seems believable as almost like family. III. Conclusion A. The use of rhetorical appeals to get a point across or persuade someone is imperative to the successfulness of said image in doing so. B. When comparing the pictures overall effectiveness, it seems that the child holding the gun with a quote from Wayne LaPierre does the best job of persuading the viewer about the organizations viewpoint and in a way, call to action. IV. Works Cited Works Cited: National Rifle Association , National Rifle Association of America , https://home.nra.org/. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. Site talking about the right to bear arms according to the second amendment. , 4 June 2013, www.pagunblog.com/2013/06/04/standing-with-the-nra-as-a-sitting- governor/imthenragovatiyeh/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Outline for Project 2 Gabriel Hineman NC, Mark. News Corpse, 5 Apr. 2013, www.newscorpse.com/ncWP/?p=dzbeaykm&paged=163. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.