Schlecker 1 Emily Schlecker Professor Bennington Project 2 Intermediate Draft (Outline) 26 February 2017 I. Introduction a. The images chosen represent the National Education Association, which is about getting rid of standardized testing and allowing students not to be so overwhelmed with testing, ad focus on the material needed for their grade level. i. Context- National Education Association is an association that is against the amount of standardized test and the amount of pressure they put on the students. standardized testing, more help for struggling (Jehlen). They believe that students should not have to be exploited by standardized test, when they need to be learning in the classrooms. ii. History: Child Left (NCLB), the law has led to a frenzy of standardized testing, transforming weeks and even months of learning time into test prep in thousands of schools across the The NEA wants what is best for the students and is working to get the school system to work with the students and allow them to learn the material needed, rather than allowing the students to move on in school and begin to fail. Schlecker 2 b. Thesis: The images provided from the NEA website tell different stories about the purposes of the NEA. The images appeal to different audiences, but they work together to get their point across. II. Body paragraph a. A photo is worth a thousand words, and those words express emotion, reasoning, purpose, and impact. In this case, it is talking about the struggles students are going through during testing. b. Evidence i. I plan to elaborate on the impact the stakeholder has had on the school system and the impacts on standardized testing. The NEA has written several articles on the topic and have many valid points on the issue. I would include the emotion struggles that student go through during testing season. I will also include information about the Child Left act that has caused many issues for students who cannot exceed in the school system. ii. I will include quotes from some of the articles that the NEA have written, like from Toxic Testing, and others of similar relevance. I also know it is a credible source because of the amount of articles written and based off their speakers that go out and talk in-front of debates and large groups of people. iii. Rhetorical appeal 1. Logos- For photo 1, the logos for this image is to express the stress children go through during exams. This image is expressing what Schlecker 3 children go though and how they feel when they know they are not good or do not know the answers to exam at hand. It is trying to bring reason to other people that exams cause emotion distress to students. 2. Pathos- For photo 1, the way the image portrays pathos is with the facial expression on the young boys face. But, the author uses Photoshop to over lay two images, one of a broken pencil and the other is a scantron. Both these images can represent different emotions and object. Like the broken pencil, it can represent the broken brain from all the test being given to them and how the test are important to their success. It can also be seen as the child feel defeated by the exam. While the scantron being in front of the child represents that the exam is more important than the students themselves. 3. Ethos- photo 1 one perform ethos 4. Kairos- Photo 1 does not have Kairos c. Transition III. Body paragraph a. Every image is different and has their own person effect on someone, and it even tells its own story. In image two the story of the student changes to a more calming and easy going portrait of a teacher and her student. b. Evidence Schlecker 4 i. I plan to discuss the differences in the two images about the story they are telling and providing evidences from the articles about how NEA advocates against the Child Left act. I will then discuss the image and how it is representing teachers against the Child Left act. ii. The quotes/ statements I will be collecting from the articles are credible because they are from an organization that is well known in the school system and for what they stand for. iii. Rhetorical appeal 1. Ethos- For photo 2, the National Education Associate put there logo in the bottom right hand corner. This shows that it is a reliable source and is a well-known organization. 2. Pathos- For photo 2, the bright colors of the image bring out an emotion of happiness and change. The red and blue colors represent power. Also the student and teacher expressions and body jesters bring out a feeling of comfort. 3. Logos- For photo 2, the logos in this image is written on the image. This photo is to show case teachers being there for the students and saying no to keeping the Child Left Act. 4. Kairos- For photo 2, the image is shown to show the school system that teachers agree with the Child Left Act. Also this images is placed during a time when testing is coming up for schools and the school system trying to changes it ways. Schlecker 5 c. Transition IV. Conclusion a. I would talk about all the different aspects in the images that pertain to the effects that the author wanted to represent. I would explain the emotional appeal and how both images used that to make the viewers feel the heartache that the children are going through. I would explain how the NEA is for the kids and wants the best for them in the situation. b. I would recommend that the school system work on the way they test students on what they have learned over the year and if they should move up in the school system. I. Work cited a. NEA To Congress: Less Standardized Testing, More Help,  NEA. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. b. Photo 2 Schlecker 6 c. photo 1 Schlecker 7 Photo 1 Photo 2 Work Cited