Medina 1 Tomas Medina Bennington Composition II 2/26/2017 Intermediate Draft Outline I. Intro a. Both pictures by the Enough Project. One a photo, the other an infographic. b. The pictures may be effective on their own to varying degrees (the second being more informative), but the overlying purpose of campaign-to get people and companies to sympathize with miners and reduce conflict-is lost without either of the two, as the images complement each other. II. First image: photo of child soldiers a. Contains no words, save for some barely visible letters on the right shirt. b. Rhetorical appeals i. The picture is emotionally striking as it depicts child soldiers smoking. ii. Logically speaking, children be smoking or handling firearms so something is clearly wrong. iii. Credibility is hard to discern; the picture appears candid and authentic, though without proper accreditation could just as well have been manipulated. This could be improved if a watermark depicting the logo and/or the name were included. c. This picture is effective at establishing that there is conflict going on and generating sympathy from the audience, but the source of this conflict remains unknown. III. Second image: Infographic on the Conflict-Gold Rush a. Almost entirely words, with some illustrations, arranged in a flowchart-like diagram. b. Rhetorical appeals i. Ethos: The logo and stakeholder name is featured prominently. The graphic is also well drawn and organized. ii. Logos: the flowchart. iii. Pathos: the first diagram mentions how enslaved miners, some as young as 8, are forced to mine gold. It also might make the audience feel guilty as the jewelry they wear may have been sourced from a conflict region. iv. Kairos: The bright orange color scheme and the exclamation mark in the logo both convey a sense of urgency. c. Indeed, this is more informative than the photo. However, by merely including illustrations, facts and figures, the issue lacks the humanization needed to get the audience to truly sympathize with the cause. IV. Greater purpose a. Enough has been quite effective at accomplishing their goals. i. campaign began in 2009. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank act was passed, which regulated mineral supply chains (Robbie Whelan) Medina 2 ii. More metals used in from soup cans to wedding rings to can be considered conflict (Whelan). iii. The current administration may suspend the Dodd-Frank regulations which were instrumental in reducing conflict mineral trading. However, major companies, including conflict-free forerunners Apple and Intel vow to maintain their standards even without a formal law (Frankel). b. That also means these standards would have no legal backbone i. Without Dodd-Frank section 1502, vast majority of the 1,300 companies that currently trace, audit and certify their supply chains would fall by the (qtd. In Franklin). ii. Perhaps with more images like those pictured, Enough can convince legislators to keep this law. V. Conclusion a. The photo is sentimental, but lacks information. The graphic is informative, but lacks sentiment i. Therefore, the pictures complement each other quite well. b. advocacy has been acknowledged by many major companies. However, if the Dodd-Frank Act is suspended, it could undermine their efforts. Medina 3 Medina 4 Work Cited The Conflict-Gold Rush. Digital image. Enoughproject.org. N.p., 26 Feb. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://enoughproject.org/files/conflict-gold-infographic.png>. Frankel, Todd C. Why Apple and Intel Want to See the Conflict Minerals Rule Rolled  The Washington Post. WP Company, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Franklin, Kelly. hazy for Dodd-Frank and conflict minerals Chemical Watch. CW Research Ltd., 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Lezhnev, Sasha. Untitled. 2009. N.p. Whelan, Robbie. Conflict-Free Mineral Exports on the  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 23 Feb. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.