Ethan Best 2/26/17 Robert Ryan Project 2: Intermediate draft In the 2016 U.S. presidential primaries, health care was a major topic. The recently implemented Affordable Care Act combined with rising health care costs had caused much controversy, and further polarized opinions. One of the most influential and important candidates in the primaries was Bernie Sanders. Though he did not win a nomination, the Democratic senator from Vermont had his message resonate with frustrated voters across the country. Sanders advocated a single-payer health care system, expanding on previous socialist ideas (Richardson, abstract). The ad campaign Sanders ran was very effective and greatly contributed to his success. It used his rhetoric of expanding universal health care as a right, and lowering health care costs (Sanders, 1) to portray Sanders as a man who fights for the masses, and one who promotes unity in America. ad campaign fully embraced these values, as well as using visual elements and rhetorical appeals to promote his health care plan effectively. The first image focuses on the savings that a family would get under health care plan as supposed to the current one. Therefore, the target audiences of this ad would be home- owners and parents. The purpose of this ad is to inform the target audience of the savings plan could bring to families with health care. The tone is neutral, as the language in the ad is used for the sole purpose of informing on the potential savings. As far as colors go, this ad uses the color scheme of official 2016 campaign logo, which is a couple different shades of blue and some red. The colors are pleasant, professional, and successfully associate the ad with Sanders. The color blue is also associated with the Democratic party, in which is a member of. The ad uses a professional, and neutral font that is easy to read and appealing. However, the appeal in this ad is not just visual, it uses rhetorical appeals effectively as well. There are rhetorical appeals all over this image, with the most prominent being logos. The facts that the ad presents on a savings under proposed health care system directly uses logos, because it is logical to support a system that saves the target audience money. Though that message is the main purpose of the ad, other rhetorical appeals can be found in this image. Ethos is found in multiple parts of the image. official campaign logo is used in the top right corner, letting the viewer know that this is an official ad from his campaign. This gives credibility because Sanders has been a Senator for over thirty years, committing his professional career to serve his country and state. official campaign website is also found at the bottom of the image, further promoting the credibility. Pathos can also be found in this image. There are images of people holding hands near the bottom of the ad, most likely a family, in an attempt to associate health care plan with unity and family values. There are also hearts near the bottom of the image, associating Sanders with love, maybe indicating that Sanders loves the American people. The second image, though seemingly similar to the first uses much more visual appeal. The purpose of this ad is to inform the target audience of the monthly premiums a family of each income bracket would pay under proposed health care plan. The target audience of this ad would be any home owner or guardian that has health care. The ad portrays the monthly premiums using an easy to follow pie chart. The chart uses different shades of blue for different income brackets, and blue is found consistently throughout the image. As previously mentioned, blue represents the Democratic party, and is also used in official logo. The fonts used in this image are immediate and stand out. The first words that pop out to the viewer are for at the top of the page. Medicare for all is the single-payer health care system that Sanders wants to implement (Geisel, abstract). They intentionally have and in capital letters to make these words pop out. The line directly beneath for is less visible and noticeable at first glance, but is also important. NO ONE gives the viewer a sense that Sanders cares about all Americans, using visual appeal as well as rhetorical. The main rhetorical appeal in this image is pathos. The phrases for and NO ONE piggyback off usual rhetoric, and create a sense that Sanders cares and works for the people. This image also includes the people holding hands, and hearts that were used in the previous image. The pie chart in this image, however, uses logos. The premiums presented are far cheaper than what families currently pay in the U.S., therefore it is logical to support a system that saves the viewer money. Ethos is also present in this image, specifically in official health care website URL at the bottom of the ad. However, the professional editing, font and color use in this image also adds to the ethos, making the ad seem official and factual. The combination of visual and rhetorical appeals in these images create an appealing, and effective ad for the target audience. The use of logos with statistics is very effective, especially in the second image. The images are very professional in their appearance, editing, and color scheme. It is apparent that these ads are from official campaign, and the use of his official logo and website certify these credibility. Overall, these ads successfully take rhetoric and plan on health care and translate them into simple and effective images that align with views and narrative. Works Cited Sanders, Bernie. Medicare for All: Leaving No One  Bernie Sanders. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Geisel, Jerry. ACA a Major Talking Point on Campaign  Business Insurance, vol. 50, no. 7, 28 Mar. 2016, p. S008. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ofm&AN=114154328&site=ehost-live. Richardson, Sarah. Before  American History, vol. 52, no. 1, Apr. 2017, pp. 34-41. EBSCOhost,search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ofm&AN=120663388&site=ehos t-live.