Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 11 September 2016 The DARK Act On July, 29th 2016 President Barack Obama signed a bill commonly referred to as the DARK (GMOInside.org) which stands for Denying Americans the Right to Know (GMOInside.org). This bill allows companies to use toll-free numbers, or scan able codes to label the use of genetically modified organisms in their products. At GMOInside it is their mission to getting genetically modified organisms and toxins out of food. They believe this bill is misleading and will only hinder the consumers from knowing what they are eating. They believe that by passing this bill it will limit people with no access to a phone to get information about a product they want to buy and it will be time consuming to check every product by phone, instead of just a simple text label. The subject of labeling foods that contain or with ingredients containing any genetically modified organisms has been a highly debated topic ever since President Barack Obama made a statement to the media in 2007 stating should know what (GMOInside.org). Since the statement was made, no definitive change has been made regarding the issue. The topic becomes further emphasized by the sheer number of crops that are grown via genetically modified organisms. Even if a consumer is a conscious buyer and knows which crops are potentially grown with them it mean that the product they buy does not include an ingredient that was. The two images work together, both shining a bad light on a well-known company name to convey the message that genetically modified organisms are damaging to the health and that they have a right to know what is in their food. Student 2 This organizations goal is to eventually have all food to be clearly labeled whether or not they have genetically modified organisms. In the first image the overall tone is libelous, the author uses a picture of President Obama and words such as  and (GMOInside.org) which may make the audience feel inclined to agree that the DARK Act is a setback. In the background of the image is a picture of a cornfield and in the foreground there is an image of Obama holding the Monsanto logo accompanied by text. The intended audience is consumers that want to know what is in the food they are eating. The image could also attract people who do not care for the President. A direct quote from Obama is used in the image stating should know what which iterates the message that the stakeholder is trying to convey. Right after that, the author states the hypocrisy of signing the bill, appealing to logic and reason. The use of Obama in this image is well timed, due to the recent election and all the recent news he has been involved in. The president is a very recognizable citizen which allows the message to capture a larger audience. The image is neat, straight forward and uses a logo of a well-known company involved. This image is accompanied by a well-known face and it states facts about the claim. Overall the author has clearly and effectively conveyed the message and his stance on the subject. Figure 2 is stylistically very different from the first. It is an illustration depicting both points of view about the topic. The targeted audience is consumers who do the actual grocery shopping such as parents and includes people who may be without phones or phones advanced enough to perform this function. Both bag items in the picture are similar in color and size but their labels differ. One label is just text stating that the product contains genetically modified organisms while the other is a bar code which can be scanned using an application on your smart phone. Putting these contrasting images side by side now shows how much simpler it is to tell if a product has Student 3 genetically modified organisms in it when the label is in text rather than the code which is only accessible by smart phone. Another possible audience is a company that labels their products that have genetically modified organisms by text. The pathos, a rhetorical device that is used to appeal to the emotions (Gayle Lee, McKee, and McIntyre 37) of the image to this audience would be how the author makes it evident that most companies are going to use the scan-able labels, the logic behind this reasoning is that a consumer is more likely to buy the product with the scan label on the chance it might not have genetically modified organisms rather than buying the package that clearly states it does. This tactic while used in an attempt to gain the consumers vote will also have the effect of clearly displaying why the company audience would choose the latter. While these two images are drastically different in imagery and diction, they are still similar in the result they are trying to accomplish. Both images on the website have a strong use of logos which contain a great deal of text to convey the message that they are against this bill. The first image appeals more to ethos by using a picture of President Obama and the Monsanto company logo. The second image compares both sides of the argument at hand, using logic and reason in their text captions. This stakeholder has taken the time to create numerous types of imagery to convey the fact that they vehemently believe that all food items containing genetically modified organisms should be clearly labeled so consumers may make an informed decision about the food items they are putting in their body. Using numerous types of imagery allowed this stakeholder to rhetorically appeal to us in many different fashions while still conveying the same message of his belief. This strategy allows the stakeholder to appeal to a much broader audience than images with one type of rhetorical appeal. In the end these are perfect examples of how this technique can be effectively used in marketing materials to persuade the consumer to side with your cause and take action. (WC: 1015) Student 4 Works Cited Fig. 1. Gmoinside.org, 9 Sept. 2016, http://gmoinside.org/wp- Fig. 2. Gmoinside.org, 9 Sept. 2016, http://gmoinside.org/wp- Gmoinside.org Getting GMOs and Toxins out of our food. 9 Sep. 2016, http://gmoinside.org/ Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Kendra, Gayle Lee, McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber, Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Student 5 Fig. 1 Fig. 2