Bhikha 1 Akshay Bhikha Adam Phillips ENC 1102 February 27, 2017 Immigration has been a hot topic in the last few years in the United States and has reached a near boiling point in 2017. Politically the two major parties of the United States have heavy interests in the issue of immigration. Specifically the GOP or the Republican party has taken a hard line stance against illegal immigration, overall the Republican party is interested in reducing the number of illegal immigrants in the United States; strengthened borders are also a primary concern which they wish to accomplish through the construction of a wall. The images include an image of the past president and the second image includes the current president, and the two images wish to undermine the previous president and simultaneously . The first image looks to undermine the past president and his efforts involved in the issue of immigration. The boost confidence in the incoming president. The art of rhetoric has many different methods to convince and connect to the audience, one of the most popular and famous methods of argument is the principle of This principle is more colloquially known as persuading through the use of emotion. Specifically the image of former President Obama the image undermines his image and reputation. The image shows the former president grimacing as well as pointing and this conveys an image of his own discomfort as well as his anxiety. Typically humans connect with and are more empathetic Bhikha 2 towards people of confidence and or positive attitude. As a result of the negative body language the former president portrays in the form of his facial cues as well as his hands his negative image is easily concluded. Furthermore since the audience has now concluded negative feelings towards the former president the GOP enforces their goals to undermine the opposing parties ability to handle issues such as immigration. The second image takes an alternative approach. The image shows a celebratory President elect Donald Trump as well as the incoming Vice President Mike Pence. In the image contrary to how the first image was portrayed the two are happy, confident, and smiling. As previously discussed the positive facial cues of his smile and the confident upright posture the two uphold, reinforce, and instill into the minds of the audience a positive image of the incoming President. The positive image connects with audiences and creates sympathy and empathy towards the incoming president. This accomplishes the goal of the GOP to promote and instill a confidence towards the elect. The two images effectively accomplish the goals of the party by tearing down the reputation of the former president whilst simultaneously instilling new confidence in the incoming president especially towards any issues such as immigration. Another Rhetorical appeal that is a staple in most arguments is the appeal of This appeal has many facets and can be interpreted in a few ways but it can be the appeal of a famous figure, celebrity, icon, or even a widely accepted cultural concept. The first image shows the former president which for the most part represents the central conflict for the GOP party. In the United States the two party system for the most parts leaves the two parties of the GOP and the Democrat party at perpetual odds. The image shows the former president, a primary figure for the Democrat party as well as a central image for the conflict that the GOP and the Democrats Bhikha 3 face. Using such a prominent figure, a figure that was the face of the United States as well as the Democratic party as a whole really creates a powerful argument for the GOP. Citizens and people in general already have feelings and recognize this figure and when the GOP uses this image to reinforce their argument it creates further credibility and creates an even more powerful argument. Similarly the President elect Donald Trump has become the face of America and is also the face of the GOP. Donald success represents not only his own success but the success of the GOP as well. The image creates a strong support and sentiment towards the GOP as a result of the use of the very familiar and famous figure. Almost all arguments also need another important facet which would be the appeal of logic or . Logos appeals may have a lot of overlap with the other appeals but it is this very important facet that usually is the bedrock upon which opinions are formed. In the first image an unhappy anxious former president is being portrayed. Logically people will question why he feels this anxiety or why he is unhappy, the natural conclusion would be that as a result of his struggles and issues as President he feels this anxiety and unhappiness. Through this same logical progression opinions towards the former president will largely become negative. The second image as previously discussed shows a celebrating president elect, and also displays the facial and body cues of confidence and happiness. As a result of this tone the image sets people are going to feel as if the elect has a lot of potential for the future and are logically going to have very largely positive feelings towards the president elect. The two images successfully navigate the audience towards the sentiments and goals of the GOP. By undermining the former president and simultaneously strengthening the incoming president the GOP are able to sway Bhikha 4 audiences towards their cause and convince audiences in their ability to solve issues such as immigration. Arguments and cultural references can become redundant or dated quickly. For this reason arguments need to be relevant for the time. The GOP used an image from former President time in office from the years 2008-2016 to strengthen their argument. The image was taken during his time in office therefore the argument the GOP wishes to make in this case is relevant for the time it is being used for. Similarly the image of the incoming president is shown soon after one of his rallies which makes the image relevant for the argument the GOP wishes to make. Another aspect of the two images that may be relevant is the color scheme. The image of the former president is put up against a blue filter which may result in a gloomy resentment which further strengthens the negative image that is instilled towards the former president. The image of the president elect is well lit and bright which can also make the argument for the bright future that the elect has in store for the nation. The GOP is one of the two primary political parties in the United States. The goals include reducing the illegal immigration flow into the United States as well as punish heavily those who infringe on these laws. Many appeals are used in images to reinforce the sentiment that the GOP is the party that can solve these issues regarding immigration such as Ethos, Logos, Pathos, kairos. Bhikha 5 Bhikha 6 Works Cited , RNC, 10 Feb. 2017, www.gop.com/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. In: Registered Science , journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0956797610362647. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Strathearn, Lane, et al. in a Smile? Maternal Brain Responses to Infant Facial Pediatrics , American Academy of Pediatrics, 1 July 2008, pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/122/1/40.short. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017.