Alfred Nyanzu Alison Missler Enc 1102 January 29 th , 2017 Birds Conservation and Protection This paper will focus on Audubon and Natural Resource Defense Council as the primary stakeholders and how their work has impacted birds and other wildlife. These stakeholders are different with different mission. For instance, the mission for Audubon is to conserve and restore natural ecosystems, focusing on birds, other wildlife, and their habitats for the benefit of humanity and the biological diversity (National Audubon society). Audubon was established in 1896 due to an outrage slaughter of millions of water birds. Protecting waterbird population was one of the sole reasons why Harriet Hemenway and Mina hall founded Audubon in Massachusetts. By 1900; Audubon has spread to other states in the United States (National Audubon society). Audubon is a nongovernmental organization. According to Audubon, represents and reflect on human diversity in it communities so as to achieve their conservation goals. With Audubon, Protecting and conserving nature and the environment requires political, cultural and social boundaries, and so the organization engages more people in protecting birds and (National Audubon society). Also, in relation to the Natural Resource Defense Council, their mission is to create solution for lasting environmental change, protecting natural resources in the United States and across the globe (Natural Resource Defense council, 2017). This is also an NGO which was founded in 1970 by a group of law students and attorneys who sparked an environmental movement by seeing to, the right of people to clean air, clean water and healthy communities (Natural Resource Defense Council, 2017). According to the their and & Wildlife program works to save the wild in the The organization strategizes by choosing places and species on which they work to deliver maximum systematic change. They do this, by protecting key pieces of larger landscape, preserve species that leverage on broad gains in biodiversity and ecosystem health (Natural Resource Defense Council,2017). Audubon and Natural Resource Defense Council can compromise or come together under one program/project that targets conservation and protection of birds from being endangered or degrading our environment. Birds in the United States, basically without proper conservations, visit dump sites and eat unhealthy stuff. They sometimes pollute our water bodies and degrade our environment with their drops (feces) after visiting dump sites. The effect of that is, our water bodies and the environment can be contaminated with all manner of disease from bird drops, which the end result affect human negatively. Also, some birds at times migrate out of the United States, return with disease that can be harmful to other birds. According to Brian species that migrate out of the United States, estimating refuge system carrying capacity is problematic and conservation of these species entails international negotiations and the cooperation of private foundations that work for conservation (1249).In this regards, Audubon and Natural Resource Defense Council can come together under the refuge system to conserve and protect birds. According to Czech, the cornerstone of the refuge system is the Refuge Improvement Act and the Endangered Species Acts (1251). Also, birds are sometimes be invaded by alien species/predator which mostly kill or endanger them. Therefore, Audubon and Natural Resource Defense Council can come together under the Endangered Species Act to formulate a plan that will require them to acquire vast land for a project in every state in the United States to protect birds from such predator or parasites that threatens birds. According to David S. Wilcove and Chen, costs for at least some endangered species will decline over time once currently neglected problems are brought under (1407). Although, both organizations are working to preserve the environment from degrading, their mission and task are different. Audubon focuses much on the conservation of birds and their biodiversity strengthens natural systems, in relation to how human experience adapt to strengthens the conservation of wildlife and the environment for the benefit of nature and all human beings (National Audubon Society).They also believe diversity and inclusion is not only a best practice for business initiatives (National Audubon Society). Their business and conservation strategies are enriched and made stronger by the contribution of the experiences, perspectives, and values of diverse individuals and communities (National Audubon Society). Brien indicated that, conservation, however, defining species on the basis of process rather than pattern is a (Amato, Nowak, Mayr and Glitzenstein, 250). .Audubon is dedicated to provide a working environment that prioritizes fairness and respect and entreat all employees equally. Also employees are encouraged to achieve their fullest potential (National Audubon Society). However, the Natural Resource Defense Council on the other hand, protects the land from mining activities that will destroy it. The organization choose places and species on which they work to deliver maximum systematic change: to protect key pieces of larger landscapes, preserve species that leverage broad gains in biodiversity and ecosystem health, or drive policy solutions that will have widespread effects, particularly relating to climate change (Land &Wildlife). The agency is also different, in connection to how they make sure there is clean air, clean water and healthy communities (Natural Resource Defense Council,2017). The similarities between both organizations are, they are which source of funding is from donors, organization of funfairs and other activities to raise income. Another similarity is, they are both working to protect the environment from degrading. In conclusion, one is of the view that, since both organizations are working to improve our environment in a different approach, it would be appropriate for both organizations to compromise. Both organizations can come together with one project or program (ESA or Refuge system) that will target the preservation and protection of birds from being endangered or degrading our environment for the society to have healthy birds. According to David S. Wilcove and Chen, the ESA law is without question, one of the strongest ever devised to protect and prohibits most public and private actions that harm endangered species (1407) The Working as a team will enhance their productivity and reliability. In terms of finances, since both rely on donor supports, working together will reduce their cost of preserving and protecting birds. Also, there will be reduction of staff to save cost which can be channeled into other activities towards the betterments of program. Work Cited 2016 National Audubon Society (www.audubon.org) 29th January 2017 2017 Natural Resource Defense Council (www.nrdc.org) 29th January 2017. Czech, Brian. Capacity of the National Wildlife Refuge System to Conserve Threatened and Endangered Animal Species in the United Conservation Biology, vol. 19, no. 4, 2005, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/3591309. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 Wilcove, David S., and Linus Y. Chen. Costs for Endangered Conservation Biology, vol. 12, no. 6, 1998, pp. 1407. www.jstor.org/stable/2989860.Web. 10 Feb. 2017 Amato, George D., et al. Hybridization and Protection of Endangered Science, vol. 253, no. 5017, 1991, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/2879045.Web.11 Feb. 2017 Work Cited 2016 National Audubon Society (www.audubon.org) 29th January 2017 2017 Natural Resource Defense Council(www.nrdc.org) 29th January 2017.