Gormley 1 Cassidy Gormley Instructor Alison Missler English Composition 1102 12 February 2017 Zoos: Safe Haven or Prison? Controversy again has struck zoos and aquariums this year through the deaths of the popular gorilla, Harambe and the orca, Tilikum. Contradicting views have been posed by many stakeholders revolving whether animals should be held in captivity. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, also known as PETA, is a large organization that fights for, defends, and promotes animal rights, noting zoos as one of the main issues. Conversely, the Lowry Park Zoo in Tampa is a zoo that has the mission connect people with the living and showcases nearly 1,200 animals (Lowry Park Zoo). The zoo has conservation programs, education programs, and exhibits. Although PETA claims zoos to be unethical, the Tampa Lowry Park Zoo has many ethical programs set up for the animals that could bridge these two stakeholders together to form a compromise. If the zoo releases the animals able to survive in the wild and PETA rewards the zoo for it, both stakeholders will be pleased. The Lowry Park Zoo has created conservation and education programs involving the animals that live there. James Borrell, a conservation biologist and TEDx speaker, wrote an article called Reasons Why Zoos Are Good for One reason he stated involved the amount of money zoos raise for conservation practices. Borrell states, are 39 animal species currently listed by the IUCN as Extinct in the Wild. These are species that would have vanished totally were it not for captive populations around the world, many of which reside in (Borrell 9). The Lowry Park Zoo has a handful of endangered species in their exhibits, Gormley 2 one being the Indian Gharial. There is less than 300 Indian Gharials left in the wild (Lowry Park Zoo). The Lowry Park Zoo educates their visitors on the status of their animals through their website. Without the help of zoos, many species would become extinct. The Lowry Park Zoo also offers many educational opportunities to their guests when they visit, such as children, teenager, camp, and school programs (Lowry Park Zoo). This delivers the zoos mission of connecting people to the wild to all of its visitors. The programs educate the visitors on the types of animals they see as well as what they can do to help preserve them. In addition, the zoo rescues injured animals and releases them back to the wild after healing. For example, a baby cub was released back into the wild fairly recently. The zoo also rescues and releases manatees, which are critical to environment (Lowry Park Zoo). All things considered, the Lowry Park Zoo is a place for conservation and education created by human interaction with the animal exhibits. In opposition, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals do not support zoos. PETA believes, teach people that it is acceptable to interfere with animals and keep them locked up in captivity, where they are bored, cramped, lonely, deprived of all control over their lives, and far from their natural (PETA). Jeffrey P. Cohn, a science writer, wrote an article about elephants that was published for the American Institute of Biological Sciences in the Oxford Journals. Cohn writes, cannot house a sufficient number of to constitute the kinship wild elephants form, let alone encourage the natural behaviors wild elephants (715). PETA, as well as others, do not believe zoos are a good place to house elephants, nor many other animals, because it is not natural. PETA does not believe zoos are educational for the public either (PETA). Michael Gross, another science based writer at Oxford, incorporated many zoo-focused experiments into his article, Can Zoos Offer Gormley 3 More Than Entertainment? Gross mentions, attractions often justify their existence with a mission to educate children and adults about important issues, like biodiversity and conservation (391). PETA believes that zoos hide the moral issue of holding animals in captivity with the educational and conservation programs they have set up. To add, PETA believes that instead of preserving local endangered animals, they look for more exotic animals that will draw a larger crowd (PETA). The organization believes that the wild animals captured and put on display in zoos are there for the entirety of their lives as well as any babies that are born there. For the above, PETA does not support zoos. Although PETA does not have much tolerance for zoos, PETA believes there are exceptions which establishes a common ground between the stakeholders. For example, PETA thinks rescuing animals as well as sending off animals to sanctuaries is ethical (PETA). As mentioned before, the Lowry Park Zoo has conservation programs set up, one being a manatee rescue and release campaign (Lowry Park Zoo). The Lowry Park Zoo also just released the baby bear back into the wild. PETA has rewarded zoos that have saved polar bears, which is a direct correlation to the Lowry Park baby bear. It is events like this that PETA rewards. Given these points, a compromise could be formed. Starting with the Lowry Park Zoo, the zoo should agree not to keep or capture animals from the wild unless they are injured or endangered. The conservation and healing of the species will take place in the zoo until the animal is able to be released. In addition, the babies born in the zoos should be able to live their life out in the wild. Borrell stated, not the zoos that are at fault a reintroduction occur if the reason a species was driven to extinction in the first place been (9). If the animal cannot survive in the wild due to becoming acclimated to life in captivity or being endangered, they will stay in the zoo. The animals that remain in the zoo will have more space Gormley 4 for larger exhibits since multiple animals will be leaving. These animals can be showcased, but cannot be used for entertainment. Gross mentions, should really have an interest in providing solid evidence to show they can offer added educational value above and beyond what biology teachers can do with modern media at (392). This is another idea that could be beneficial for the zoo, PETA, and guests. Information about the animal along with ways to help protect and conserve the species should be added to the informational displays. This will be educational and inspirational to the guests who visit. The rescue and conservation practices that the zoo will demonstrate is similar to the mission of the Clearwater Marine Aquarium. This aquarium promotes rescue, rehab, and release. The success of the aquarium is evident through the movie Dolphin Tale which is about a rescued dolphin, Winter, who is now a permanent resident at the aquarium (Clearwater Marine Aquarium). Although the Lowry Park Zoo will have fewer animals, the zoo will receive praise for being a safe haven for those animals still remaining, like at the Clearwater Marine Aquarium. PETA will also have a part in helping with the costs and awareness of the zoo programs. PETA will help pay for the expenses of the changes to the zoo (informational displays, new exhibits, etc.). Since the Lowry Park Zoo is a huge advocate for manatee awareness, PETA will also help with the cost of taking care of the injured manatees. It is $30,000 per month to feed the manatees making it the most expensive animal to provide for in the zoo (PETA). With financial aid from PETA, the zoo will be able to use their money for other conservation purposes. PETA will also spread awareness about the Lowry Park Manatee Emoji Campaign, a campaign asking IOS to create a manatee emoji to spread awareness. There are 8,723 signatures needed on the petition (Lowry Park Zoo). With help from social media, the ultimate goal of 35,000 Gormley 5 signatures could be reached. Although PETA will have some expenses to make, PETA will be satisfied with the result that animals are returning to the wild. Overall, animals held in captivity will always be controversial. PETA, a widely known stakeholder on animal rights, suggests that zoos are like prisons for animals. The Tampa Lowry Park Zoo is home to many animals and entertains/educates its guests on how to respect our wild life. If the zoo releases animals back to the wild and PETA helps with the funding, a compromise could be formed between the two stakeholders. Zoos can be guided on the right path of an amazing, educational, and safe place for animals in need with help from great organizations. Gormley 6 Works Cited Borrell, James. Eight Reasons Why Zoos Are Good For  Biologist 63.5 (2016): 9. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. CMA Inspires Passion to Respect and Protect Our Marine Life and Environment for Future  Clearwater Marine Aquarium. Clearwater Marine Aquarium, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Cohn, Jeffrey P. Do Elephants Belong In Zoos? Zoos And Animal Welfare Advocates Differ Over Elephants In Captivity. Critics Say Zoos Lack Space To House Elephants. Zoos Argue That They Are Expanding And Improving Exhibits, And That Elephants Live Better In Captivity Than In The Wild With Disease, Drought, Habitat Loss, Poaching, And Conflicts With  Bioscience 9 (2006): 714. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Gross, Michael. Can Zoos Offer More Than  Current Biology 10 (2015): 391. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Lowry Park  Lowry Park Zoo. Lowry Park Zoo, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. People For The Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.