Felix Rodriguez ENC 1102 3/1/2017 Government intervention is something that not all of Americans appreciate. It becomes even harder to intervene when it involves the education of our students. Common Core is the latest to try and standardize testing across the United States. Common Core however, has been met with strong opposition. One of the groups leading this charge is FreedomWorks. FreedomWorks is all about having the government keep their hands off state issues as much as possible. They believe that government should not have any say with the school systems as that can be delegated by the states. To rally others to their cause they have used many examples Pathos, Kairos, and occasionally Ethos. These uses of rhetorical appeal show that the government should not be allowed to control schools and the way they teach. Their mission is to make sure that the states control this process and that every child receive the education their parents set out for them rather than the Every organization starts somewhere and Freedomworks is no different. Their beginnings go all the way back to 1984 but founded under the name Sound Economy(FreedomWorks website). Later it would go through several changes due to laws in our time before it would reach the now known label of FreedomWorks. FreedomWorks has also added organizations to their group who share their beliefs to grow to a fairly large size. This organization is also a giant lobbyist for having less government and more freedom. The ones that lobby against Congress are specifically known as FreedomWorks Inc. FreedomWorks then splinters off into two other groups, FreedomWorks Foundation and FreedomWorks for America(FreedomWorks website). FreedomWorks foundation is considered a research and education organization. They tend to focus on countering the bias of universities and media by education those of the community(FreedomWorks website). FreedomWorks for America is considered a whose goal is to to assist or fight against politicians. They use their fund money to support politicians who support their views or to fight opposition. To generate support and raise awareness the group puts out flyers and social media trends to get their message heard. They uses these images as tools to evoke a wide range of responses from their public. They use various forms of rhetoric appeal to draw in and captivate their audiences. For example the image with Glenn Beck it tries to draw you in with a face you could recognize. It tries to call to your sense of ethos because you see a face you know and try and draw you in with its credibility. Credibility is a big thing when it comes to the nature of what they are doing. They are trying to challenge the government on their own policies. They consider Common Core a very threat to the way education should be handled. They are using visual rhetoric to start convincing people that Common Core is not the right way to approach this. With the second image that has to do with the old Stephen King film, of the you can see that the person who created the image was trying to use a different sense of rhetoric appeal. This image is a call to pathos or a more emotional draw. It tries to draw in the various forms of emotions people have felt during the Obama administration. More so on the right than on the left, people have felt Obama is trying to socialize many aspects of our lives. With reforms such as ObamaCare and Common Core, Obama becomes comparable to socialist leaders like Stalin or Lenin. They use the image that is commonly known the and sickle of the Russian Communist They try and paint this image that Obama is trying to bring about communism and socialism by teaching our kids in a way that would lead down that path. It also makes the stretch that they will learn how to make this socialism happen through the efforts of Common Core because the poster calls the children, The Children of the Core. Reverting back to the image with Glenn Beck, they also try to call to emotion but in a different manner. They try and form a sense of unity by trying to unite like minded people under one banner. They use the word to describe as sense of unity that rallies people to their call. The ad also calls to people telling them to be a part of history. That line is used to show people that there is importance in the actions they take. The ad also encourages people to share it on social media because the more people exposed to the message the more it can spread. The images also try and get people to understand their point of view through a more logical, also known as logos, standpoint although in a different way. The Children of the Core picture tries to show those who follow Common Core as foolish. It tries to show that anyone who follows common core is not using logic correctly to make an informed choice and that it could lead to socialism as once again regarded by the hammer and sickle. It also wants to show this type of situation as a nightmare and logic would show that people would tend to avoid nightmarish situations. The Glenn Beck image does not do this as much it tries to show encourage a logical reasoning stance by having people share the image they create that says to stop common core. It gets other people thinking, this person believes this way, maybe there is some merit to this Most social media phenomenons happen because of word of mouth or what someone reads over the internet. There is one thing that both images press very hard on and that is a sense of urgency. This appeal to Kairos, shows that they believe that if something is not done soon then there will be a point of no return. The Glenn Beck image shows this easily by having Common Core as something to be stopped now. They push hardcore the social media angle so that it can be seen by others as quickly as possible to rally more people to their cause. It takes a large political movement from the nation to stop something the government makes. The Children of the Core image does not use a timeline to push urgency but instead use the angle of completely political reconstruction to give a sense of urgency. Most Americans fear the idea of socialism despite the fact that many things in their lives are around socialism. Social security and medicare are socialist programs that any American holds dear. The image instead uses fear in a way to spur people into action to try and stop the movement as soon as people can. Visual rhetoric is an important method to express a feeling or a view to a large audience. The images used by FreedomWorks and their like minded associates helps paint a picture to those around them. Using logic, emotion, urgency and their credibility, they are able to draw viewers and audience members in and have try and show their side of a political view.