Vilardo !1 Christina Vilardo Alison Missler ENC 1102 7 February 2017 Closing the Gap on Gender Norms Gender stereotypes are present in almost every aspect of every day life and are bound to affect youth. However, these gender roles that have been pushed on children have been found to be harmful to their growth and development as individuals in society. Many modern organizations have put in work to eradicate gender stereotypes in every day settings. For instance, the popular franchise, Target, took steps in 2015 to get rid of gender labels in their aisles where they deemed it was not necessary. Labels pertaining to gender were removed from the toy section and the home bedding section. Many popular organizations, such as UNICEF, have also taken steps to promote gender equality and erase stereotypes that have been found not only in the United States but also the rest of the world. main focus is on bettering the lives of children around the globe. Both Target and UNICEF have been extremely influential, successful and popular. If Target and UNICEF were to come together and create a campaign, the children of not only the United States but also the rest of the world would benefit from the lack of gender stereotypes being portrayed in society. Target has been wildly successful in marketing to children. main purpose statement reads, fulfill the needs and fuel the potential of our in success is evident in the fact that it is the fourth most viewed retail website. Their website also boasts that twenty-six million customers shop at target loyally. Target is Vilardo !2 continuously evolving and changing to meet the needs of its devoted customers, especially to make the children comfortable who shop in their stores. In August of 2015, Target released a statement that all Target stores were going to remove gender-based labels and signage in their aisles. Many families and shoppers had relayed their frustrations to the corporation and they acknowledged the fact that in some cases, such as clothing aisles, it was necessary to have gender labels because of the size and fit of the clothes. However, the company saw no need to assign a gender-based labels to the toy and bedding aisles. Target even went on to add that their team was still working to identify more locations in their stores that were labeled when there was no need to be. Target truly evolved and changed to support the devoted customers who always supported them. There are many studies that have been done that support the information that the color of the aisle and toys and the explicit labeling based on gender have a direct influence on children when shopping. When observed the experiment found that toys that were masculine but had a feminine (pink or purple) color scheme were viewed often as toys that were for It also found that toys that were feminine but had a masculine color scheme were often viewed as either both boys and or just The results were very clear, personal interest in toys was influenced by both the gender-typing of the toy and the color label. These findings combined demonstrate the importance of both factors in shaping young (Weisgram). elimination of gender-based labels and coloring was justified by scientific experimentation that proved there was a link between masculine toys, colors, and what children reach for. Vilardo !3 main purpose is to better the lives of children globally, is mandated by the United Nations General Assembly to advocate for the protection of rights, to help meet their basic needs and to expand their opportunities to reach their full Mission UNICEF has dedicated their time and resources to making sure that children have the best chance at life that they can have. Like Target, UNICEF cares deeply about bettering the lives of children. However, UNICEF works at a global level and works on changing more aspects of lives such as providing clean drinking water, working to give girls better education, and responding to emergencies while Target works to keep customers comfortable in their stores as well as encourage other stores to follow suit. There are many campaigns that UNICEF has created that have bettered the lives of children whether it is in regard to clean drinking water for children who do not have direct access to it, ending childhood violence, and giving kids immunizations to prevent severe illnesses, just to name a few. One of projects that is currently being worked on is the Gender Action Plan (GAP) that has been in effect from 2014 and will be worked on until the end of 2017. This plan is working to eliminate gender inequality as well as get rid of stereotypes and norms that affect boys and girls socially. Something especially important that UNICEF is working toward with this GAP is the advancement of young girls in in education, specifically pursuing secondary education for girls in areas such as the Middle East, North America, and South Asia Action 15). This plan will essentially take funding and work to eliminate gender stereotypes while also promoting equality for girls and women who may not have the resources to be treated as equals in their countries. Vilardo !4 In their GAP, there is a section that reads, boys and girls experience violence due to gender norms, but often in different Equality and Gender 9). Some examples that were given were, for girls, not being prioritized given access to food and water and also domestic violence in the work place. For boys, the plan cited being pressured to join violent groups as well as bullying in schools. In many countries, women and girls are viewed as less valuable and unequal to men and boys because of these gender norms and stereotypes that have been pushed onto society. For example, many gender norms that favor men and boys. For that reason, women in society rarely take on jobs that are outside of the home. Women and girls are stereotyped as the homemakers. It is their job to stay at home and take care of the house and family while the men are meant to go out and be the bread-winners. For that purpose, men are often seen as more valuable (UNICEF EQUALITY). desire to give children their best quality of life by erasing gender norms and inequality can be matched to desire to end gender stereotypes. Creating a campaign between Target and UNICEF would not only impact the lives of children in the United States but also in the rest of the world. Since UNICEF does work on global level, this campaign would be reaching far more people than it would have if just Target were to launch it. This campaign can be something that both Target and UNICEF put resources into. For example, UNICEF and Target can put resources together from their advertising funds to create a television campaign commercial. UNICEF has many celebrity ambassadors that could endorse the campaign. The commercial could feature a very emotional and direct representation of gender inequality due to gender stereotypes. The commercial campaign would show parallels between countries in the Middle East and the United States. Images of these commercials would Vilardo !5 be located in the check out lines at Target. It has been found that customers are more willing to donate if donating will improve how they are perceived by others (Savas). The money would go toward GAP and the awareness that is brought from the commercial would help the United States by bringing gender stereotypes to a serious light. Children are the most important resource that the future has. It is the children who will shape what the world looks like long after the current generations are gone. It is important that kids are given the best quality of life. Target has proven their support to children with their removal of gender stereotypical labeling. main purpose is to improve the lives of children around the world, and one way that they are doing that is through the GAP. If UNICEF and Target were to create a campaign together, the children of not only the United States but also those of the world would benefit from the removal of gender norms. Vilardo !6 Works Cited Gender Action  UNICEF. UNICEF, 15 Apr. 2014. Accessed 07 Feb. 2017. Gender Equality and Gender  Promoting Gender Equality: An Equity-Focused Approach to Programming (n.d.): 9. UNICEF. UNICEF, June 2011. Accessed 7 Feb. 2017. Savas, Selen. Factors Affecting Donations In U.S. Retail Stores: A Conceptual  Journal Of Retailing And Consumer Services 33.(2016): 178-185. ScienceDirect. Accessed 7 Feb. 2017. Mission  UNICEF. UNICEF, 25 Apr. 2003. Accessed 07 Feb. 2017. in  Target Corporate. Target Brands, Inc., 7 Aug. 2015. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Weisgram, Erica S. Pink Gives Girls  Science Direct. Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology, Sept. 2014. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.