Theodoropoulos 1 Stefanie Theodoropoulos Professor Rouisse ENC 1102.060 26 February 2017 The Non-GMO Project In society, people are often concerned if what they are consuming is truly organic. The problem is, food is now being genetically modified to improve the yield of products. GMOs (genetically modified organisms) have taken over the food industry like a global epidemic. As per the Institute for Responsible Technology, a GMO is the result of a laboratory process in which genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal (GMO Education). An influential organization who is against the use of GMOs is the Non-GMO Project. The Non-GMO project is a nonprofit organization whose goal is to preserve, build, and provide sources of non-GMO products, and to educate consumers about GMOs (Most Trusted Seal). They believe that everyone has the right to know what is in their food and that GMO foods should be labeled. This organization continues to be a market leader and also one of the most seen labels in the supermarket. The Non-GMO Project works towards raising awareness about GMOs through consumer education and colorful marketing techniques. Image 1 works to show the impact that genetically modified foods puts on your health. By showing the skull being made out of colorful fruits and vegetables, this is informing the viewer that the normally healthy foods that you would eat are not so anymore because of GMOs. Image 1 shows all four rhetorical appeals. The first being ethos, an appeal to credibility or morality (Hoffman). Image 1 appeals to ethos in the way that the Non-GMO Theodoropoulos 2 logo and website is at the bottom of the picture. This helps the viewer know that this ad has come from a well known and trusted organization. This image also shows pathos, an appeal to the emotions (Hoffman). Image 1 appeals to pathos because it creates a sense of the feeling of death. This would make the viewer worried and paranoid because the image depicts that harm and even death could come to your life because of these GMOs. The skull in this image would remind the viewer to be careful about what they are putting into their bodies so that they do not end up being harmed by these GMOs. This image also shows logos, an appeal to logic and reason (Hoffman). Image 1 appeals to logos because written in bold lettering, the saying ARE WHAT YOU captures the eye. This reminds the viewer that you basically are made of the things that you eat and to watch what you put into your body. Underneath that, it says our right to know in our food. Pledge to choose This makes the viewer think about their rights and how they should know what the food they are eating is made of and treated with. These two statements really open up the eyes of the reader and make them think about really going on with their food. Lastly, this image shows kairos, an appeal to timeliness (Hoffman). Image 1 appeals to kairos because the sudden sense of death that it gives. The viewer would feel as if they need to act now and start watching what foods they are eating before too late. Image 1 shows both warm and cool colors. It shows an array of multiple colors depicted by all of the fruits and vegetables. The main color that is shown throughout this image is green. The color green represents new beginnings and growth, and also nature (Chapman). This image uses green to create a sense of change that needs to happen with GMOs. The viewer needs to realize that they need to have a new plan for eating and start with non-GMO choices. This image also shows reds, oranges, and yellows. This is to create a sense of passion throughout the image. Theodoropoulos 3 The color red is associated with importance, just like the red carpet (Chapman). Red is used in image 1 to help make the viewer know how important and impactful the use of GMOs is. The color orange is associated with health and vitality (Chapman). Orange is used in image 1 to emphasize the importance the GMOs have on your health. The color yellow can be associated with deceit (Chapman). Yellow is used in image 1 to make known that GMOs and GMO companies can be sneaky and deceitful with their food. They do not label and make known that their food is genetically modified. All of these colors come into play in making this image a powerful one. Image 2 shows the stuggle that non-GMO foods has to fight genetically modified foods. It shows a small apple (non-GMO) trying to defeat a big mutant apple (GMOs). Image 2 also shows all four rhetorical appeals. First being an appeal to ethos. Image 2 shows an appeal to ethos by putting the Non-GMO logo in the corner with the word and their website under it. This helps the viewer feel confident that the information they are looking at is credible and the organization is trustworthy. The word also makes the viewer feel good in that they know that the information is proven. Image 2 also shows an appeal to pathos. Looking at this image makes the viewer feel worried and protective over the small non-GMO apple. When looking that the big GMO apple, there is a sense of evil and/or scariness. This makes the viewer afraid to eat a genetically modified food and notice that non-GMOs are losing the fight. This flows in to how image 2 makes an appeal to kairos in the way that the viewer feels that they need to help the little non-GMO apple immediately before the big GMO monster kills him. It makes the viewer feel a sense of urgency and importance to help non-GMOs grow stronger before its too late. Lastly, image 2 shows an appeal to logos by stating in red in Theodoropoulos 4 your This makes the viewer think about what is really in their food. It makes an impact on the viewer and how they should think when they are making the decision to eat certain foods. Image 2 shows both warm and cool colors. The main colors used throughout this image are red, purple, and blue. The warm colors help create a sense of passion. The red color used in the apples can be associated with fire, violence, and warfare (Chapman). The image shows two apples fighting against each other and the red color enhances that feeling of violence. Red is also used in the words in your This stands out against a blue background and draws the viewers eye to it. This was a clever strategy to get the point across. The image uses cool colors to create a sense of professionalism. Purple is used in the image to create a sense of royalty and/or power (Chapman). The tentacles on the big GMO apple show power over the small non- GMO apple. The GMO apple shows great power over the small non-GMO apple and this is enhanced by the purple color of the tentacles. Image 2 also uses the color blue as the background and this creates a sense of sadness and responsibility (Chapman). When looking at this image, the viewer should feel a sense of worry and sadness for the non-GMO apple. The viewer would then feel responsible that if they do not do anything for non-GMOs, then GMOs will take over. Both images work very well to get the Non-GMO point across. As said in their mission statement, has a right to know what is in their food and deserves access to non-GMO (Mission). These two images prove that statement and help create a sense of importance to the use of GMOs. These images help the viewer understand how dangerous and impactful GMOs are and how they need to be stopped before too late. These images use the four rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to help promote the ideals and ideas. These images successfully created an appeal to credibility, emotion, logic, and Theodoropoulos 5 timeliness in the way that they were created. Using these ads and creating others like it should help the Non-GMO Project succeed in their mission by promoting the education of GMOs and continuing to make their organization be the trusted Word Count: 1400 Theodoropoulos 6 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Theodoropoulos 7 Image 1 Theodoropoulos 8 Image 2