Al- Shehhi 1 Wafaa Al Shehhi Janie Gill ENC1102.077S17 February 26, 2017 Controlling Immigration in The United States Most of the immigrants that come to the United States every day need to change their life to better because they cannot found it in their home country. There are some of organizations help this kind of people. One of these organizations is an American Friends Service Committee. It was founded in 1917. AFSC is an organization that defends for immigrants and try to do as much as possible to support immigrants. Also, they think that immigration is a good way to develop the United States economy. The American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) is a Quaker organization that advances enduring peace with equity, as a pragmatic articulation of confidence in real life. Drawing on proceeding with profound bits of knowledge and working with individuals of many foundations, they sustain the seeds of progress and regard for people life that change the systems (AFSC, n.d). Both images try to inform people that immigrants need help and they need someone to talk or take care of them. Also, both images have a lot of feeling that may touch the audiences. The people in these images try to deliver a message toward those who care about immigration issues. There are a lot of colors, composition, and words in the images. Both images use rhetorical appeals, pathos, ethos and logos, to Persuade people. Thus, two images were selected to analyze the creative rhetoric analysis, both of these images concentrate on pathos to attract the attentions. The AFSC organization effectively convinces their audience that immigration is one of the most popular topics that people should pay attention for it and help these people who take United Sates the first solution for them Al- Shehhi 2 through the use of emotional ads, which include some ethos and logos to create an effective argument. The first image (see figure 1) shows there are some people carrying banners and pictures in the demonstrations for the immigration rights. There are different people came from different places and different faiths. There are children, elderly, women, men, and security men who participate this event. The location of this demonstration was in the middle of street between buildings in the state of Washington. It is clear that some of the shops were closed because of these demonstration. Also, a great number of cars jammed because of the giant number of people present at the demonstration. Obviously, people can notice the anguish of this problem on the faces. Also, there are some people clear that they are sad and this is evidence that they have faced the immigration issue, and they left their country because of a better quality of life in the United States. Some people stand with immigrants and decide to support them to make other people realize what these immigrants feel when they face the discrimination. There are a lot of phrases and sentences in this picture. Some of these words are (I AM BECAUSE WE ARE, THIS JAWN IS YOUR JAWN THIS JAWN IS MY JAWN). To recognize that all the words that people in this protest used are in a capital letters to emphasize the importance of this dilemma, and they want people to see it clearly. The demonstrators are using these images and phrases in order to deliver the idea to the people or to people whom will they meet during their protests. The color of the image is black and white, and this shows the sadness and depression. The organization has made the image in this color to convey the idea of the suffering of immigrants to people and explain to them what immigrants face, including the passing of pain and suffering. According to the Symbolism of Black-and-White Photography article, white images have been used in place of color in order to give special emotion to particular Al- Shehhi 3 topics and (Byrne, 2015). Whereas the trees leave in the picture falling down and this shows that was in the autumn i.e. by September. Also, the fall of the leaves shows how important the issue is. There are a lot of pathos rhetorical in this image. Pathos is an appeal to emotion. First of all, there are many people hold pictures and some words and the sadness show in their faces. The image color is so sad and makes people think emotionally for those immigrants and what they face everyday. Also, the words that they hold is so emotional, like, No ban No . That show how immigrants suffer the strict immigration laws. Secondly, in the first line of the protest, people held a poster and wrote on hashtag this hashtag by the American Friends Service Committee organization. Also, there is a logo of this organization in some of the pictures that protesters hold it, so that show us there is an ethos rhetorical as well in this image. Thirdly, there is one picture shows the logos rhetorical, the percentage of immigrants that enter the United States and faced issues while they come, this percentage is 70%. The second image (see figure 2) shows us that there is a group of students are doing demonstrations for the rights, and this demonstration prepared by the American Friends Service Committee organization. Students who are in the picture indicate the age of about 13 to 16 years. Where they are carrying different pictures, logos, and flags about immigration. This demonstration was in New York; it seems between the middle of the street and Public Park in New York City. The children faces show the childlike innocence and a sense of pride because they volunteer to help people. One the other hand, some of them are filming and taking pictures for this event and sending them to friends. There are some of words and sentences that kid hold. There are a lot of pathos rhetorical was using in this picture. The organization uses the children in this demonstration to achieve the audience sympathy. The color that used in this image is more about red and green which carry a lot of meanings. Red is a very Al- Shehhi 4 emotionally intense color. It represents war, energy, strength, danger, determination, power as well as passion, desire, and love. Green has strong emotional correspondence with safety. According to the Rhetorical Situation article, is frequently translated as some variation of credibility or (Owl, n.d). The ethos rhetorical that used in the image is Obama picture, and they write beside it (Mr. President stop deportations). Also, they use the American Friends Service Committee logo in their pictures. For the logos, there is no logos was used in this image. In conclusion, there are a lot of immigrants need help from us. There are a lot of problems and wars have happened in their country, so why they are taking this way. AFSC one of the greatest organizations that defend for immigration rights. From both images, the rhetorical appeals are used. In the first and second image, the pathos rhetorical was used more than other rhetorical. For example, the colors, faces, people, children that used in these protests were very influential and may touch the audiences. Also, both images use the American Friends Service Committee logo; it means both protests start from this organization. Since the demonstrations were by the AFSC organization, the demonstration was arranged and does not affect other people. Al- Shehhi 5 Works Cited: American Friends Service Committee. (1947). History of AFSC. Retrieved from https://www.afsc.org . Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Byrne, Brianna. Symbolism of Black-and-White  EHow. Leaf Group, 13 Sept. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. blackandwhite-photography.html Owl Purdue Online Writing Lab. (27 April 2012). Rhetorical Situation. Retrieved from https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (Figure 1) (Figure 2)