Goubrial 1 Mariam Goubrial Janie Gill ENC1102 26 February 2017 Mass Incarceration on Drug Use The war on drugs has been a debated issue for years now, and organizations such as the Drug Policy Alliance have been fighting to put this war to an end. They believe that the individual should not be judged on what they put into their own bodies. They view mass incarceration on drug use is an unnecessary to solve the issue of drug abuse in society and that drug abusers should be offered therapeutic treatment to help with their addiction. On their website they have two specific advertisements to bring attention to this issue. In their images, they use logos, pathos, and ethos to convey the message that mass incarceration on drug use is unnecessary and in fact doing more harm than good. The literary device logos implies logic or reason to persuade an audience. In image one, the organization uses logos by stating a statistic credited from the UN Office of Drugs and Crime. The statistic states that in every 50 people that use drugs, only 5.5 of them are problematic drug users. They use this statistic to prove that most drug users are harmless and should not be punished for using drugs. In image 1, they state that whatever the nature of drug use, they should be protected, not This statement portrays that those who use drugs are punished because of their actions rather than being protected from the harms of drugs. This use of pathos Goubrial 2 forces the audience to sympathize the feeling of wrongdoing when drug users are punished rather than helped. In image 2, the Drug Policy Alliance is stating that the Attorney General is strengthening the war on drugs rather than protecting civilian rights. This only assumes that the Attorney General is not doing his job protecting his rights, and therefore the audience should feel angry or disappointed by this and challenge him. According to the Drug Policy Alliance, Attorney General Jeff Sessions has hardline positions in favor of mass incarceration instead of emphasizing treatment and (Drug Policy Alliance) Sessions decision on this issue will, if have not already, cause intense strains on the organizations reforming against mass incarceration. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal in which credible persuasion is given by the person involved. In image 1, the statistic utilized from the UN Office on Drugs and Crime is considered ethos. Since the UNODC is a worldwide organization, this assures their credibility to the audience. Overall, the Drug Policy Alliance uses many rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience that incarceration on drug use is unwarranted and detrimental. Their uses of logos persuades the audience with solid facts on how most drug users are harmless and therefore should be treated that same way non-problematic alcohol user is treated. Their use of ethos assures the audience that they are supported by reliable sources such as the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. Pathos also built the feeling of unjust for the audience. This use of rhetorical appeal transmits the message that the unjust use of incarceration is not the solution to drug use. Goubrial 3 Goubrial 4 Works Cited Senate Votes to Confirm Jeff Sessions for U.S. Attorney  Policy Alliance . N.p., 08 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Guiding Drug Law Reform &  Policy Alliance . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.