Tribble 1 Justyce Tribble Professor Gill ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Sierra Club Climate change is the change in global or climate patterns. The topic of climate change has been a popular topic for many as scientists, economists, environmentalists, and others are trying to find the cause of it. Climate change stake holders like the Sierra Club use their platforms to inform citizens of the United States and those outside of the country of the one of the largest culprits of climate change: the use of fossil fuels as energy sources. The Sierra Club is an environmental organization in the United States and part of its mission is to and promote the responsible use of the ecosystems and while and enlisting humanity to protect and restore the quality of the natural and human (Club, Policies). This organizations stresses the importance of why the use of fossil fuels like natural gas, coal, and oil, for energy needs to end because what harm it does to the environment. The Sierra Club uses its campaign advertisements to spread awareness of climate change and how we can possibly save the environment by using less fossil fuels and more alternative energy sources. In all of its advertisements, the Sierra Club displays images and text that further support its main arguments in regards to fossil fuel use and climate change. These advertisements appeal to the audience with the use of visual rhetoric, ethos, pathos, and logos. The Sierra Club endorses these advertisements on their website to provide an outlet for people to learn more about fossil fuels, greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, renewable energy sources, and more. Tribble 2 Part of the Sierra mission is the educate and enlist humanity to protect and restore the quality of the natural and human environment and they do this by displaying honest advertisements and campaigns that portray fossil fuels as one of the main culprits in the process of climate change while urging the increased use of alternative energy sources nation and worldwide. For example, this organization uses these tactics in two advertisements that use images and text to display how fossil fuels are causing harm to the environment. The first advertisement is a collage that has an image of a coal burning power plant and next to the picture is an image of a young boy using his inhaler. The second advertisement is land that has been damaged due to fossil fuels being dug up for energy use. In both of these advertisements, there is evidence of ethos because the Sierra Club includes its website link and logo at the bottom and in the second advertisements there is an actual representative. The links are provided so that the intended audience has the source to reference to in order to find out more information on the issues and what can be done to stop them. Ethos represents credibility or an ethical appeal which involves persuasion by the character or characters involved. In rhetoric, pathos is referred to as the emotional appeal of a piece of work that is used to persuade the intended audience. The first image evokes an emotional appeal because of the young boy using his inhaler while photographed next to a coal burning power plant. The Sierra Club uses these images in the advertisements because burning coal releases dangerous metals like mercury, lead, and arsenic into the air which increases air pollution and health dangers. The organization is trying to get its audience to realize that coal burning power plants are bad for the environment as it does pollute the air; in the advertisement it states that from coal- fired power plants is making our kids The child in the advertisement is used as a trigger to get the attention of those who are parents in general, provided Tribble 3 that all parents care for their children and show concern when it comes to their or health. This image is saying not only do coal burning power plants contribute to greenhouse gas emissions into the environment, but it also puts innocent children at a higher risk of having specific health issues. The second advertisement uses the image of damaged ground as a scare tactic to seek an emotional appeal on the audience. The display shows just how much harm digging up fossil fuels has on the land. Another rhetorical device that the Sierra Club used is logos. Logos is an appeal to logic and is known as a way of persuading an audience by reason. The first advertisement shows the obvious correlation between coal burning power plants, the environmental damage, and health issues like asthma. The Sierra Club uses this advertisement as a way of showing what it being released into the air because power plants. According to the Sierra Club official website, is our dirtiest energy source, from mining to burning to disposing of coal and urges the United States to move beyond coal (Club). Coal burning is responsible for one third of US carbon emissions, the main contributor to climate disruption, and is also making us sick (Club). The Sierra Club states in its Beyond Coal campaign that burning coal has led to as many as 13,000 premature deaths every year (Club). The same can be said for the second advertisement in regards to the use of logos. In the article executive director Michael Brune talks about how it should be in our best interest to keep fossil fuel in the ground. He says that this is a move because oil and gas have more in common as climate polluters than most people (Brune). The Sierra Club is essentially saying that the damage of fossil fuels is there, we see it, so time to act on it. Kairos is a rhetorical device that appeals to timeliness. In both advertisements the Sierra Club uses certain phrases that will get the audience to understand that now is the time to act and Tribble 4 fight against the use of fossil fuels as the main sources of energy. The first image actively tells the audience to get involved by providing a number to text with the text action for cleaner Also, the fact that they used a child in the picture will also cause a little more of a wake-up call for the audience. The Sierra Club is an environmental organization that uses its platform to inform citizens of the negative effects that comes with fossil fueled energy sources. The organization wants its audience to know that climate change is real and fossil fuels are one of the main causes of it. Advertisements are used to further support their claims and to get people to realize how serious and harmful fossil fuels are. The Sierra Club produces advertisements that utilize rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to inform and persuade people to join the fight in seizing all use of fossil fuels as energy sources. The Sierra Coal Burning Power and all Fossil Fuels advertisements effectively use these rhetorical devices to get the audience to take action. Tribble 5 Work Cited Brune, Michael. Join the Fight Protect Our Planet From Trump. 19 November 2015. 26 February 2017. Club, Sierra. Beyond Coal. 2017. 26 February 2017. Policies. 2017. 25 February 2017. Tribble 6