Osorio 1 Nicolas Osorio Composition II Dorinda Davis February 27, 2017 Head in the Game: Should College Athletes Be Paid Like Professional Athletes? By definition, professional athletes are individuals paid to entertain and perform to the best of their abilities in a certain sport and Student-athletes are participants in a competitive program that an educational institution offers. Nonetheless, Student athletes balance the life of a full-time athlete and a full-time student. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is the athletic institution that organizes and provides the monetary resources for all the athletic collegiate tournaments. Athletic programs like football, basketball, baseball and soccer have become more rigorous and time consuming. Due to these circumstances many have begun to wonder if student athletes should be compensated for dedicating their daily lives to their sport. During the past decade the NCAA has been debating the differences and similarities between professional and student athletes. Through publicity and different images, the NCAA provides their perspective towards this issue to society. These images incorporate logos, ethos and pathos to deliver a message the NCAA wants the audience to receive. These images transmit different elements in order for the audience to perceive credibility and truthful information from the propaganda. In image #1 the NCAA portrays three students in class, blurring the basketball with the logo of the NCAA and having all the students pay attention to the instructor, delivering a message of academic integrity and The Osorio 2 NCAA bylaw #1 is promote and develop educational leadership, physical fitness, athletics (NCAA). Image one clearly exemplifies the NCAA policy of having students focus on school rather than the sport they are part of. The NCAA prioritizes education over athletics, which leads to student athletes acquiring an education by earning a degree. On image #2 one of the teams, member of the association is celebrating the win of a championship of the NCAA. The NCAA championships are structured to opportunity for equity in competition to assure that individual student-athletes and institutions will not be prevented unfairly from achieving the benefits inherent in participation in intercollegiate (NCAA). This trophy serves as an official artifact that is awarded to represent one of the benefits mentioned. Therefore, these images demonstrate facts that support why student athletes should not acquire annual monetary resources, since they are satisfied with what they are given. The association uses ethos in their propaganda as a way to appeal to the audience, providing them with their criteria and perspective towards the rules of the NCAA. Different feelings appeal to the audience through these images helping the stakeholder evoke an idea that will describe the perspective. The National Collegiate Athletic Association expresses their sympathy through Image #1 by granting the student-athletes the choice of academics and athletics. The Principle of student-athlete well-being in the legislation of the NCAA describes how athletics programs shall be conducted in a manner designed to protect and enhance the physical and educational well-being of (NCAA). Demonstrating the granted choice that is given to the student athletes throughout their educational experience. The NCAA prioritizes the student athletes well-being providing them with the chance to have both an education and a collegiate athletic experience. On the other hand, Image #2 delivers a clear message of satisfaction and happiness from the student athletes by holding the trophy high. Osorio 3 The NCAA legislation reports the student athlete involvement as responsibility of each member institution to involve student-athletes in matters that affect their (NCAA). By earning the title of winners, these student athletes feel pleased with their work and are rewarded by the NCAA. Also, the color that surrounds Image #2 symbolizes the confidence the student- athletes have on each other, giving the audience a sense of unity. The positive influence of the NCAA on student-athletes provides evident support to the perspective of the NCAA against student-athletes earning an annual salary. For this reasoning, their perspective towards the discussed debate on student athletes earning an annual salary is affected. Through pathos the NCAA helps the audience perceive the emotional appeal the association tries to deliver to their student-athletes. In addition, these images supply information that aids the audience on being aware of different points the NCAA includes in their propaganda. In Image #1 the logo of the NCAA is prominent and provides a visual for the audience, recognizing a student athlete in the classroom. Also, the image contains a board full of a information, demonstrating the attendance to class of the student-athletes instead of the absence the student athletes debate for due to their hard working practices. Their attendance to class shows the explicit idea of the member institution, providing the (NCAA) they are promised. This image delivers a positive message to the audience and demonstrates the student-athletes what they are provided with. The portrayed ideals support the perspective against student athletes acquiring an annual salary for their work on their athletic program. Finally, the NCAA uses logos to deliver their rules and statistics of why student athletes should not be paid. In conclusion the National Collegiate Athletic Association successfully uses different ways to advertise their legislation and their principles. The principles expressed by ethos, logos, and Osorio 4 pathos in images #1 and #2 are those principles that the NCAA hold in high esteem and are the reasons why it is unacceptable for the NCAA to provide their student athletes with an annual salary. The association will follow their legislation and will keep promoting educational integrity and collegiate athletic participation in their propaganda. Student-athletes are provided with several tools to experience a fulfilling college experience. Nonetheless, student-athletes also represent their ideas in different forms of publicity using different rhetorical appeals and will be an ongoing the debate for the next years. Osorio 5 Image #1 NCAA. The Value of College Sports. Digital image. NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Osorio 6 Image #2 NCAA. Play Division I Sports. Digital image. Play Division I Sports. NCAA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Osorio 7 Work Cited NCAA. Legislative Services Database -  Legislative Services Database - LSDBi. NCAA, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.