Martins 1 Jozua Martins Professor de Carion Enc 1102 2/15/17 A Matter of Life or Death According to statistics, 42% of Americans have had a friend or relative who suffers from a terminal illness (NHDD). New treatments and medicines are being developed on a daily basis, but they are frequently stagnated in the clinical trial stage of testing by the United States Food and Drug Administration (F.D.A.) for a wide variety of reasons. The major concern with this is that by shutting down these new treatments the F.D.A. often terminates the last hopes that dying patients have. While in the past the FDA and Right to Try advocacy groups have not seen eye to eye on the issue of allowing terminally ill patients to experiment with research drugs, it is possible to find a solution due to the fact that they both have a common goal, saving lives. The function of the Drug Evaluation and Research Department (D.E.R.D.) is to ensure that all drugs that go into the market are safe for consumption by patients. The D.E.R.D. controls over-the-counter and prescription drugs, including any type of biological therapeutics and even generic drugs and also the main opposition to allowing the terminally ill to experiment with research drugs. (RODWIN, MARC A.). The testing process that the D.E.R.D. puts products through is not just limited to medicines but also many everyday items such as fluoride toothpaste, antiperspirants, dandruff shampoos and sunscreens due to the fact that all of these products are considered  (About the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research). The drugs that are tested by the D.E.R.D. often vary in effect from patient to patient for there are an endless amount factors that contribute to a terminal disease, and many of these factors have not even yet been discovered. These fluctuating results is the main reason for the policy of Martins 2 rigorously testing any drug that has to do with terminal illnesses. During a 2016 interview, Janet Woodcock, the director of the Drug Evaluation and Research Department, stated that drugs have when asked why terminally ill patients receive experimental drugs. (Meet the Patients and Researchers Racing to Find a Cure for ALS). This statement was made with the implication that while many dying patients are out of other options, it is still very unknown what effects the untested treatments could have on them are. The F.D.A. also holds fast to the claim that if these regulations were to change, strength, quality, and of the drugs that the market will be able to deliver would decline. (Unapproved Prescription Drugs: Drugs Marketed in the United States That Do Not Have Required FDA Approval). The reason for this is that without proper monitoring of the patients taking the drugs during their test trials, many underlying effects can be overlooked. If drugs with unnoticed side effects were given to patients, not only would it harm the patients but it would significantly stall the research progress of the disease that the drug was supposed to help cure. All of these reasons provide a seemingly impenetrable defense for the reasons behind the strict policy on administering drugs to the terminally ill, but there is always an exception to any rule. In April of 2016, Billy Ellsworth, a fifteen-year-old boy diagnosed with Muscle Distro, pleaded that the F.D.A. should allow him to continue his clinical trial of a treatment that treated his affection. Duchene muscular dystrophy is a muscle-wasting disease that mainly affects boys. Ellsworth was taking an experimental drug that the FDA had yet decided to approve or not. let me die stated the young boy to a panel of scientists who were going to vote on the future of the drug he was receiving. Ultimately, Ellsworth plea for help was not enough for the drug was discontinued on the basis that it did not Martins 3 have enough data to support its effectiveness in several other cases the decision leaving the young boy with almost no options for further treatment and a bleak future. (Harris, Richard) There have been countless cases such as this one in the past, ranging a wide variety of diseases. In response to the strict policies there has been a movement in the United States that has been coined the Right to Try with countless organizations forming to support patients afflicted by different diseases. The main advocacy group for the Right to Try in the U.S. however has been the Goldwater Institute. The Goldwater Institute was founded in the late 20th century with the mission of daily in courts, legislatures and communities to defend and strengthen the freedom guaranteed to all Americans in the constitutions of the United States and all fifty (Goldwater Institute). In regards to the Right to Try for patients who are afflicted by terminal illnesses, the Goldwater Institute describes the FDA as arbiter of life and (Goldwater Institute). The Chief Executive Officer if the Institute, Darcy Olsen, described that what her organization arguing for is the ability for patients who are suffering from terminally ill diseases, such as ALS and HIV/AIDS, to be able to take the drugs that they need to give them a last shot of survival (Olsen, Darcy). The Goldwater Institute claims that New drugs and treatments are crucial to helping benefit the health of all Americans. On their website they state that 1986 and 2000, new drugs were responsible for 40 percent of the total increase in life (Goldwater Institute). But in the eyes of Institute, the clinical trial process remains incredibly time consuming and expensive. The Institute makes the claim that due to the policies, it takes nearly ten years, and a billion dollars to bring a drug that treats the terminally ill hope onto the market ((Goldwater Institute). This is time and money that many of the terminally ill simply do not have. Martins 4 In the last few years there has been talks about finding a definite compromise between Right to Try advocacy groups and the FDA. In many States, bills have been proposed but are frequently not passed due to the concern that less regulation will allow certain side effects to have an untraceable source (Honermann, Brian) . The common ground that many of these laws propose is a very simple solution that both sides can agree on. The terminally ill will be able to take the drugs that they need to have a last chance, but before they become available to them, the F.D.A. must run a safety trial to ensure that the chemicals and methods within the treatment will not cause definite further harm to the patients. This compromise will further allow the terminally ill to take the risk that they need to survive as well as satisfy the safety goal of the F.D.A. In the past there have been several state laws that directly stated the precise safety requirements that would be needed for the treatment to pass, as well as the time period that the FDA would have to run these tests on the drug (Wald, Adrienne). It is crucial that a time limit of 2 years of testing by the FDA be included in the compromise due to the fact that time is such an important factor for the terminally ill, whose days are numbered. With this compromise being implemented there will be a brighter future for all of those affected by terminal diseases. No longer will the terminally ill have to fight a constant uphill battle to receive the medication that they need, but instead they will be allowed access all resources available to them. It is crucial that citizens in the United Sates stand up for those who are afflicted by these horrible diseases since everyone is affected by them. Martins 5 Works Cited About the Center for Drug Evaluation and  About the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Brian Honermann to Offer No Meaningful Solutions and Undermine to Laws Offer No Meaningful Solutions and Undermine Science., 2015 Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Harris, Richard Controversy Continues Over Muscular Dystrophy Drug, Despite FDA  NPR., 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Healthcare Decision Day.  The Conservation Project ., 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Goldwater Institute  About. Goldwater, 2014 Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Goldwater Institute. Everyone Deserves the Right to Try: Empowering the Terminally Ill to Take Control of their  Goldwater Institute. ., 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vice News Meet the Patients and Researchers Racing to Find a Cure for  Vice., 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Olsen, Darcy. Winning the Right to Save Your Own  Wall Street Journal - Eastern Edition 27 Nov. 2015: A15. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Rodman, Marc A.   Journal Of Health Care Law & Policy 18.1 (2015): 45-84. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 United States Food and Drug Administration Prescription Drugs: Drugs Marketed in the United States That Do Not Have Required FDA Unapproved Prescription Drugs: Drugs Marketed in the United States That Do Not Have Required FDA Approval., 2016 . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wald, Adrienne. Growing Number Of States Enact Right-To-Try Laws In Challenge To  ONS Connect 31.1 (2016): 21. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017