Youssef Shehadehagha Alrefai TJ Murry ENC 1102 29 th of January 2017 Cell Phones Are Harmful We live in a world that everyone uses their phone for everything, and they take it everywhere they go. Over the past few years we have seen a huge increase of people using their phones, which led to many consciences, such as distraction while driving, while studying, and while in class. The United States government should put some laws to restrict the usage of cell phones in some situations at certain times. Cell phones are a major distraction in classrooms. A study done by doctor Katz on removing cell phones from class rooms. The study started with a positive reinforcement when the cell phones are removed. This method resulted in a great change, were the students started engaging more, and focused more in the classroom. In this experiment for the long run the researcher have found that there is correlation between not using the cell phone in class and test grades, were students got higher grades and higher GPA in this experiment. That is why phones are distracting in classrooms and should be restricted in class rooms (Katz 340). Shehadehagha Alrefai 2 Using phones while driving can be really distracting, and can harm myriad of people. A survey was done by the University of Utah about the behavior, and ability of the participants while driving. Most participants said that they trust themselves to use their phones while driving but they do not trust others, and call it dangerous for other to use their phone ( Sanbonmatsu 22). This survey shows how people are actually scared from other people to use their phones while driving, which actually portrays how dangerous and serious actually it is to driving and use the phone. Another survey that was done by Accident Analysis and Prevention on 307 undergraduate college students. The survey contained questions about the amount of time spent using a cell phone, impulsivity, and history of motor vehicle crashes. After review the results of the survey the researchers concluded that receiving a call or a text message while driving increases the usage of the phone, which leads to a higher accident rate. For those reasons the driver should be banned from using their phone while in a motor vehicle 372). In conclusion cell phones are very distracting, especially if the user is driving or might be in a class room. Cell phones can lead to many consequences if used at the wrong times, and can influence the user and might harm others in some occasions. This is why The United States government should put some laws to restrict the usage of cell phones in some situations at certain times. Like when driving or in a class room. Shehadehagha Alrefai 3 Work cited Katz, Louise, and Warren Lambert. A Happy and Engaged Class without Cell Phones? Easier than You  Teaching of Psychology 43.4 (2016): 340-45.PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Stephen S., Lindsey M. Shain, Jennifer M. Whitehill, and Beth E. Ebel. Measuring a Conceptual Model of the Relationship between Compulsive Cell Phone Use, In-vehicle Cell Phone Use, and Motor Vehicle  Accident Analysis and Prevention 99.Part A (2017): 372-78. PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Sanbonmatsu, David M., David L. Strayer, Arwen A. Behrends, Nathan Ward, and Jason M. Watson. Why Drivers Use Cell Phones and Support Legislation to Restrict This  Accident Analysis and Prevention 92 (2016): 22-33.PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.