Juan Rodriguez Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 1/29/2017 The socio-economic impact of Southern Hip-Hop in Atlanta, Georgia. Many call it the home of Hip-Hop: Atlanta, Georgia is rich in culture and history, often involving rap music. In the and (residents of ATL) witnessed the rise of Hip-Hop music. Predominately hard hitting New York poetry and melodic Californian rhymes can be attributed to the successes in the music industry by blacks in East and West coast Hip- Hop. Southern Artist like OutKast, Lil Jon and Organized Noize felt the need to express their underrepresented culture and set the scene for southern which went on to influence a new generation of Atlanta Hip-Hop in artists like Childish Gambino, Migos and Soulja Boy. In a world where everyday problems of life in urban black ghettos contributed to the subject matter and complex politics of Hip-Hop music became much more than just music, it became hope for the hopeless (Grem 57). In this intricacy, one must pose the question: what have been the most remarkable social and economic impacts of southern hip-hop in Atlanta, GA? Grem, Darren E. south got something to Dirty South and the southernization of Hip-Hop Southern Cultures, Vol. 12, No.4, Winter 2006, p.55. DOI: 10.1354/SCU.2006.0045 In the the music recording industry was growing with hip-hop artists left and right. George Nelson once referred to it as the dollar business of hop (Grem 56). Musicians coming from New York and California epitomized rap culture and what it meant to be a young black male in America. However, the industry was missing a huge part of American culture, The South. According to Darrent Grem, OutKast (Andre 3000 & Big Boi) debuted in 1995. Their platinum-selling album addressed all facets of growing up in urban Atlanta, Georgia. With the help of Organized Noize and LaFace Record Company, OutKast reached international success and told the true story of being southern. Their sophomore and junior efforts (ATLiens & Aquemini) helped solidify their leadership in record sales, transforming OutKast into a household name amongst rappers and earning the several Grammy awards. Another prominent artist to the Southern scene rising out of Atlanta was Lil Jon & the East Side Boyz. Lil Jon led a movement in Hip-Hop knock as crunk or music to make you wild out in the (Grew 69). Crunk music gave radio stations the energy they were looking to play and made for excellent party music, a vibe that OutKast offer, giving Atlanta music versatility and radio airplay. Grem claims that it was these characteristics that made Atlanta Hip-Hop so popular and facilitated its forthcoming. Outkast, Organized Noize and Lil Jon were some artists that popularized southern rap and helped develop culture and economics in Atlanta, Georgia. Management companies created opportunities for Atlantans to get involved in the music industry and musicians were relatable because they painted stories of growing up poor in the poverty stricken south and overcoming struggles all while painting the beautiful lifestyle that being truly southern comes with. These characteristics impacted Atlanta culturally and socially by allowing the people of the south to truly express their plight. Darren Grem earned his Bachelor and degree from Furman University in South Carolina and received his Ph.D. at the University of Georgia. Grem has concentrations in 20 th Century U.S. History, Southern history and southern studies, culture, capitalism and religion. A published author, Darren E. Grem has written particularly in regards to southern culture, religion and economics. Hart, Melanie, et al. and my Exploring the relationship between Musical preferences & purple drank American Journal of Criminal Justice, Vol. 39, No.1, Jan. 2013, p.172-186. Doi: 10.1007/s12103-013-9213-7. Are listeners of Hip-Hop and Rap music more likely to commit acts of violence and use drugs? Research done by Melanie Hart shows us that there are indeed several correlations between music preference and lifestyle. Hip-Hop music often tells stories of growing up in less than fortunate situations where drug abuse and violence are the status quo. Many songs written in the and were devoted to the promotion of drugs, particularly marijuana and a mix of promethazine codeine cough syrup and sprite. The research population was a group of students from a large university in the southeastern region of the U.S. A sample group was asked about their misuse of codeine syrup and reported that much of the appeal came from in other words, lot of rappers are doing and it was the popular thing to do (Hart 5). Hart discovered that in young African Americans, listening to Rap music increased aggressive behavior and controlled substance abuse. The data came from over 2,300 students who expressed their musical preferences: Country/Western, Rap/Hip Hop, Rock/Alternative or Jazz/Other and their experience with drugs: Purple Drank, Tobacco, Alcohol, Marijuana, Cocaine and Pharmaceuticals. Results showed that listeners of Rap/Hip Hop had the highest percentage of lean and marijuana use (Hart 11). According to Melanie Hart and her research team, there seems to be miseducation of the true dangers of promethazine codeine syrup and the drink has become too popular to eradicate in the foreseeable future. Melanie Hart claims that more studies need to be done to really understand the correlation between Hip-Hop music and drugs. Southern Hip Hop figures DJ Screw and Pimp C are only the most notable out of hundreds of cases of a codeine overdose but, in reality these cases only popularized the use of the drink throughout the south. Rap superstars flaunted the quality of their dirty sprite in like rapping never sip no lean like With massive radio exposure and publicity, songs like these influence listeners to be more receptive to experimenting with illegal drugs and in her studies Hart concluded that hip hop music did influence drug abuse, specifically marijuana and promethazine. Drugs have negatively impacted Atlanta culture and have helped only to hurt its image. While bringing in a lot of money and improving the economic situations of some, it does more bad than good in society. There are 4 authors in this journal publication. Melanie Hart, credited as the primary author, holds a degree and is pursuing a from Georgia Southern University. She focuses on Criminology and Justice Studies as conducting research of drug use, school violence and threat assessment. Laura E. Agnich, Ph.D., John Stogner Ph.D., and Bryan Lee Miller are all assistant professors at Georgia Southern University specializing in several fields. Criminology, Law, Psychology, and her work has been published in several academic journals Addictive Behaviors, Deviant Behavior and Journal of School Violence. Miller, M. (2004), Dirty South: From Subculture to Pop Culture. Journal of Popular Music Studies, 16: doi:10.1111/j.0022-4146.2004.00018.x Dirty became popularized in the by journalists and rappers hailing from all areas of the south. From Louisiana to Tennessee to Georgia, the term became synonymous with several ideas: poverty stricken, slang speaking, blunt smoking and sexually explicit. Though this is the definition painted by the media, it is difficult to decipher and conceptualize what it means to be from the dirty south without having either lived in it or lived through it. There is not a single definition for dirty but there are several cultural and economic truths that become exposed when searching for its meaning. Miller explains that rap music begins in The Bronx, New York and finds its way across the country to Los Angeles, California and for years the battle was between the two. Who could rhyme better, faster, more smoothly or more gritty. There was really no interest in Southern rap and there were no recording companies in the south to sponsor and develop a musical movement. The beginnings of southern rap commence down south in rural Miami, Florida where the music group the 2 Live Crew got its start. According to Miller, 2 Live commercial success in the attracted music moguls seeking young talent to exploit for profits and, in the late with the help of its founders L.A. Reid and Babyface Edmunds, LaFace Records, a unit of Sony Music, settled in Atlanta, Georgia and within a few years were in the process of managing superstars Goodie Mob and OutKast. Atlanta was a city that was yet to be discovered and had no credibility in terms of Rap music. Founder of So So Def Recordings, Jermaine Dupri commented in 1993 from Atlanta, hard to get respect from people in New York and Matt Miller earned a Ph.D. in American Studies from Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia and is currently an adjunct faculty member at Emory. Being that Matt lives in the city, it gives him a first-hand perspective at the influence of Hip-Hop in the city and how the culture has been shaped by the rise of southern rap. His dissertation titled music and Local Identity in New Orleans, 1980-2005 is very similar in style to the research being conducted for this project. Dirty southern Rap music spoke of gangsters, drugs, racism and sex. It gave rappers a medium to express their ideas, which is often observed from the surface but to understand southern rap one must go deeper. Goodie Mob song explains the struggles of having to sell drugs in order to survive and the troubles that come with getting involved in the drug game. In a southern society where oppression and aggression between blacks and whites still exists, it is evident that white usually has the upper hand. Southern rap songs painted pictures of psychological pain and suffering that Africans were subjected to whilst enslaved in American. The stories of hate are passed down generation to generation and many African Americans carry a deep resentment to this day. Multiple southern rappers held burning confederate flags high to symbolize their dissociation with the old Jim Crowe south. Southern rap was a form of meditation and empowerment, a place where blacks could go to talk about their problems and how they felt in the communities they inhabited. When Hip-Hop artists speak of the they describe it as a representation of their lifestyles. Miller adds that though the black community is strong, the white elite are the ones who truly hold positions of power, building their corporate offices and imposing their superiority in racism of African Americans. The music often speaks for itself in terms of social divide. On the other hand, what also makes the is the inescapable truths of southern black life: Lincolns, talking about bar-b- cue, back yards, big houses, up by your (Miller, 17). What really makes rap dirty is being southern! Balaji, Murali. Construction of in Hip-Hop Music Scene: Analyzing the Role of Cultural Critical Studies in Media Communication, vol. 29, no. 4, 2012, pp. doi:10.1080/15295036.2012.665997. Cultural gatekeepers are described by Balaji as those persons who can be attributed to the success and wealth of a certain medium, in this case Hip-Hop music in Atlanta. These gatekeepers facilitated the relationships between early Atlanta rappers and large recording company corporations looking to expand to different cities to explore music. These relations helped Atlanta hip hop evolve into a mainstream source of music for the country and the world. The large music conglomerates (Warner, Universal and Sony) began to take interest in Atlanta in the and began signing acts that would earn them revenue, but the largest drawback to these multimillion dollar deals that took place was the release of intellectual property by these artists. Once the music was being published and released by these companies, artists had to take major in losses that they might not have if they were to have released music independently. Millions of dollars which could have helped develop the impoverished rural and urban areas of black Atlanta were now going into the pockets of filthy rich, white On the other hand, there was nothing that could be done to prevent these proceedings as the only options were to make independent music and be broke or actually make money by signing a recording studio deal. The only companies that had money to invest in the mainstream distribution of Hip-Hop music was in the hands of the musical robber barons and those known as were responsible for bringing big money into rap by creating subsidiary companies. Balaji depicts the way these gatekeepers such as Jermaine Dupri and his label So So Def now either wholly owned by or in joint operating agreements with major corporations such as Universal, Sony, and Warner Music (Balaji, 315). Ultimately, although the uprising of a musical movement in Atlanta was beneficial in several ways, it impacted the city negatively due to the restraints and the shortcomings large corporations brought to those cultural gatekeepers seeking to make a profit for their music. Murali Balaji is currently director of the education and curriculum with the Hindu American Association. He received in undergraduate degree at University of Minnesota and a Ph.D. in Communications from Penn State University. He directed the mass communication program at Lincoln University and the media studies and production program at Temple University. Additionally, Balaji co-founded and was the executive director for a Philadelphia talk show voice of Nichols, Jason. Crank That Thang: Contextualizing Black Masculinities and Hip-Hop Dance in the South from  Western Journal of Black Studies, vol. 38, no. 2, Summer2014, p. 84. Nichols takes a separate approach at identifying Southern Hip-Hop music by using Laban Movement Analysis, a method of categorizing human movement. As Nichols states is a Hip-Hop Kinesic Language, where members of the hip-hop community use movements and bodies to express concepts such as gender and (Nichols, 225). Several scholars have conducted research on the meanings of the lyrics of southern artists to try to understand and sympathize with the struggles of black folks. Often times, though, messages are not solely expressed through voice. Especially in black southern culture, where dancing can be traced back to African slave routines, movements and kinesics are incredibly prevalent. These movements tell researchers a story and say a lot about being a black male in the south and the masculinity behind southern African American culture. Nichols compares southern rappers to those black men in the times of slavery who were subjected to acts of torture including lynching, violence, involuntary servitude and (Nichols, 226). He states that black southern culture is one of resistance and overcoming the oppression their ancestry was subjected to for many years. Furthermore, Nichols examines these dance moves and deciphers their meanings and how they relate to society and culture. In recent years, the rise of hip hop music in Atlanta has brought with it tremendous internet-era sensations such as the infamous Soulja Boy ringtone and the Dem Franchize Boyz anthem Wit The dance moves for the song Wit as translated by Nichols, reflect a presence of It is a mainly relaxed dance that consists of swaying from side to side, snapping your fingers and holding a pose. Doing this dance was a very popular thing to do at parties, nightclubs and throughout all of the south. The growth in popularity of this music that had once been seen a ridiculous and ignorant was taking the country by storm and further promoting what it meant to be southern. The rise of songs like and Wit directly impacted Atlanta, Georgia by making it cool to be from south and even to be from Atlanta. Jason Nichols is a full time lecturer at the University of Maryland College Park and he specialized in topics such as Black and Latino identities and masculinity. He also studied at the University of Maryland and received his Ph.D. in Philosophy in 2011. Additionally, Nichols is a musician and is editor in chief of Words Beats and Life, Inc., a non-profit organization that empowers youth and community development through music. Donald Glover Challenges Stereotypes About Rappers In  Fresh Air, 1 Nov. 2016. Literature Resource Center, Accessed 6 Feb. 2017. Donald Glover (also known as Childish Gambino) is a rapper, writer, comedian and actor from Atlanta, Georgia. Glover is invited by Terry Gross to National Public Radio (NPR) to discuss his life and his TV series Glover speaks about growing up in a predominately white suburb of Atlanta and comically jokes that the white kids were excited to see someone of color in the class, stereotypically asking him about rap music and sneakers. Glover attended a performing arts school in Atlanta and New York University for dramatic writing, where he aspired to write for shows like Saturday Night Live and Mad TV. After writing for the TV series 30 Rock, he took on the moniker Childish Gambino and Glover found himself in rap music and becoming one of the most prolific rappers to come from Atlanta in years. It is interesting to see the differences and the evolution of Atlanta rap, from OutKast preaching Cadillacs and to introspective and melodic Hip-Hop. Nonetheless both groups are heavily influenced by Atlanta, Georgia and are proud members of the Atlanta takes viewers through the life of a broke young man in Atlanta who tries to escape his poverty by managing his rapper, drug dealer cousin: The show capitalizes on the lifestyle of rappers who are trying to go from the underground to commercial success and the similarities between the life of Paper Boi and other Atlanta rappers such as Yung Joc and Gucci Mane are uncanny. The reality is that often times, being a Hip-Hop musician is not indicative of being wealthy. The painted pictures of glamorous rappers in luxurious clothes and vehicles are often a used to intrigue and deceive the public into believing that they can maintain that lifestyle. For rappers trying to in Atlanta, the sure way to make easy money fast, is to sell drugs. Glover uses Atlanta as a microcosm to portray that although rappers work that lifestyle to earn their living, many resent it and wish they were not forced to live in such a way. Terry Gross is the host of Fresh Air, a radio show transmitted through NPR. Fresh Air has been airing with Gross as her head host since 1975 and has interviewed thousands, from rock stars, to publicists, to political figures to rappers. Gross began her career studying at the State University of New York at Buffalo where she earned a degree in English and a degree in Education. She is an accomplished and successful radio host with several awards including an induction into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2012.