Perez 1 Amber Perez ENC 1102 Professor TJ 25 February 2017 A Later Start Time for High Schools Who remembers those terrible mornings waking up at the crack of dawn in high school? I propose that high schools should start at a later time, 9:00am, because students getting enough sleep. I was the type of student that would hear my alarm in the morning and turn it off so I can back to bed and I can guarantee you I the only one. If all counties would decide to start school at 9:00am rather than 7:30am, more students would have better grades and be stressed out all the time from the lack of sleep. ALARM 6:00am Perez 2 To begin with, high schools starting at 7:30am is a bad idea because grades seem to suffer. Early start times causes students to fall asleep in class and miss important learning information. Some students even make it to school. In the article Delayed high school start times later than 8:30 am and impact on graduation rates and attendance rates, a study was done across the United States and they found that attendance improved by 4% when schools started later than 8:30am (McKeever 7). Z Z Z Report Card English: C Math: F Science: D Social Studies: B Report Card English: B Math: C Science: B Social Studies: A Perez 3 Starting school at a later time would result in a better report card. A study was done by the North Carolina Education Research Data Center and they found that when school is started just an hour later, students grades increased by a 2.2 percentile in math and a 1.5 percentile in reading (Edwards 55). In addition to grades suffering from an early start time, students also have high stress levels. These stress levels also lead to other problems. In Sleep Behaviors and Perceptions of sleep, Noland writes that students who are sleep deprived, are stressed. She continues to talk about how stress leads to obesity (25). Stress Thermometer Perez 4 Citation Page Edwards, Finely. Do schools begin too early? The effect of start times on student  Education Next (2012): 53-57. McKeever, Pamela Malaspina. Delayed high school start times later than 8:30 am and impact on graduation rates and attendance  Sleep Health (2017): 1-9. Noland, Heather. Sleep Behaviors and Perceptions of  Journal of School Health (2009): 224-230.