ENC 1102 Intermediate draft Kyu Yeon Han 2/26/2017 Negative effect of steroid Nowadays we can see lots of people who work out in the gym. They have several purposes for the workout. Some people want to get a beautiful body or to maintain their health for the future. However, some people who want to be pro bodybuilder used lots of supplement to gain muscle fast. In this process, they used an anabolic steroid which a group of organic compounds that are distinguished by a unique molecular arrangement of seventeen carbon atoms situated in four adjacent rings(stark 1). Steroids boosted up the muscle recovery and gaining, so when the people used this substance, they will get incredible muscle growth for the future. Also, steroids boosted up the human strength tremendously. However, this substance occurred lots of problems for the human body. Furthermore, steroids can destroy the justice of sports competition. In this paper, researcher discusses the negative health effect of anabolic steroids and the negative justice of sports competition. In 2013, the pro- bodybuilder nassir comtroney died in his house, the reasons of death was a serious heart attack, and the reason for heart attack was using lots of anabolic steroids to win the bodybuilding competition. His doctor interviewed on CNN after his funeral. The doctor had said before he came to the hospital, and when they checked the nassir heart conditions, they found that his heart bump rhythm was so irregular compared to normal people. However, he still used anabolic steroids for the competition. Finally, he died. Anabolic steroids boost the muscle growth for all body parts. However, steroids also make the organism bigger than standard organism size, so when people used an anabolic steroid increase the heart size(Rob 23). This irregular big heart size makes serious problems for the future because when the heart size is getting bigger, the pump systems work well. Heart pump systems are the most important part of the human body. However, bodybuilder never thinks about this serious effect because they only focus on the result of competition. In this reason, many bodybuilders died even if their age was young. Many people love to watch the sports competition game with their family or friends. However, they heard lots of stories who used an anabolic steroid to win the competition. Some people said that using steroids are not bad, because most of the players used secretly. However, if sports association do not ban the using anabolic steroids can occur serious justice problems because some players use anabolic steroids and some players use anabolic steroids. The results are easy to prospect. The players who used anabolic steroids can easily win the competition. This makes the sports games not reasonably and not enjoyable. All the fans of sports leave to watch the game, and the sports market will get serious financial problems for their future. The experts said that if doping association work well, the sports market lose 40percent of fans in the future(James 11). For the entire sports market, the doping association supposed to maintain their status. To sum up, anabolic steroids can make serious health problems for the human body. Also, these health problems occur the all the people who used this substance. Furthermore, the anabolic steroid can destroy the justice of sports competition, and the results make serious decreasing of sports market for the future. These negative effects can solve if the players use anabolic steroids. The results will save many life and an increase of sports market for the future. References Beamish, Rob. Steroids : A New Look at Performance-Enhancing Drugs. Santa Barbara, Calif. : Praeger, c2011., 2011. EBSCOhost, Stark, Sharon W., R.N., A.P.R.N., D.N.Sc., et al.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, January. EBSCOhost, James, V. H. T. and J. R. Pasqualini. Hormonal Steroids : Proceedings of the Sixth International Congress on Hormonal Steroids. Kent : Elsevier Science, 2013., 2013. EBSCOhost,