Robert Hall Hall 1 Professor Davis ENC 1102 2/25/2017 Mercy for Animals Against Factory Farming Most never consider where food actually comes from. They just pick up a pre-packaged, bloodless chicken breast from their local grocery chain and continue about their day. Mercy for Animals is looking to change that. The fact is that much of what we eat comes from factory farming, and the ethics of the process are being directly challenged by Mercy for Animals. Their do effectively employ a variety of rhetorical appeals in order to convince the public that factory farming should be eradicated. As awareness increases, factory farming has come under fire at an increasing rate. Far from the traditional farm setting one might imagine, with cows grazing on a wide-open plain of green grass, modern farms have animals compressed within a couple feet or less of each other and are sometimes restricted from any movement at all for the duration of their lives. Moreover, these farms are not only common but account for 78% of all cattle and 99.5% of all chicken raised in the United States (Zacharias). Mercy for Animals was established in 1999 as a non- profit with the goal of preventing cruelty to farm animals and the promotion of compassionate food choices. Their methods of action include conducting undercover investigations, corporate outreach, and legal advocacy, although much of their efforts are directed to public education and lobbying. Their group boasts impressive statistics as well, claiming 1 billion animals spared annually thanks to their efforts. However, with such a large infrastructure to dismantle, the organization is in a constant battle against factory farms. Hall 2 A major concern often raised over factory farming is the absurd compact area in which these farms keep their animals. In fact of egg-laying hens spend their lives in battery cages each chicken may be given an amount of floor space equivalent to less than a sheet of letter-size (Farm Sanctuary). Mercy for Animals highlights this concern through the first image that depicts a pig in a cage that is beneath the seats of a commercial airplane. Above and below the image I text that reads: being trapped in an airplane seat your entire By comparing the caging of animals to being trapped in an airplane seat, Mercy for Animals the author is appealing to the ethics. Compact economy airliner seats are a discomfort that most people are familiar with and can relate to. In this way the author effectively shifts our mindset to put us in the position of a caged animal, encouraging empathy from the viewer. The image is strengthened further through the choice to include an actual photograph of pigs caged in very dreary conditions. This strengthens the ethos but also elicits an emotional response from the viewer. The purpose would not be lost if the bottom portion was deleted, but the inclusion darkens the tone of the image significantly and appeals directly to the emotions of the viewer. The second image by Mercy for animals down on emotional appeal by depicting a cow being kicked by a worker with the tagline: Got Misery? Right from the beginning the creator parodies the milk industries famous ad campaign which immediately connects the viewer to the subject matter without any further examination of the image. This also imparts a perspective shift in the viewer because milk is often associated with youth and innocence in American culture (Fritz). On further inspection, the image contains a real photograph of animal abuse, which elicits a feeling of anger and sadness in the viewer. Beneath Hall 3 the photo, the creator claims that a dairy farm was caught punching, beating, and stabbing cows which builds on this emotional foundation of rage and sadness. On the surface this is a strong appeal to ethics. However, the actions of a specific individual, however unjust, are not necessarily the norm of the organization. Without the inclusion of statistics or more evidence, the viewer can make no logical assumptions about the organization as a whole. Therefore the argument is unsubstantiated and falls apart. Overall the image is effective in its purpose. While the image contains some logical fallacies, the shocking imaging and strong emotional pull entice the reader to investigate the cause more. In conclusion the rhetorical appeals presented by Mercy for Animals in these images are effective implemented, if not fully substantiated. The inclusion of real photographs of animal abuse is disturbing and brings out a powerful emotional response from viewers. However, some may find the images too disturbing to view, and may miss the message of the images even if they agree with the overall goals of the organization. Moreover, although it may weaken their appeal to emotion, the creators could have included statistical data or research in order to better their argument and build credibility. Hall 4 Works Cited Farm  Farm Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.farmsanctuary.org/learn/factory-farming/chickens/>. Fritz, Bill. Milk in Movies: Why Do Characters Drink  YouTube. YouTube, 04 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iKDtmV5xSv0>. Mercy For Animals. N.p., 05 Jan. 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.mercyforanimals.org/about>. Zacharias, Nil. Time to End Factory  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 19 Oct. 2011. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/nil-zacharias/its-time-to-end-factory-