Whitcomb 1 Nathan Whitcomb Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 1/29/17 To Sweeten or Not To Sweeten? In the past few decades, an increase in use of high-fructose corn syrup has appeared to trigger an obesity epidemic. High fructose corn syrup (or HFCS), is a sweetener widely used in the food industry to sweeten foods and drinks. Made from processed corn, HFCS is similar to table sugar however has higher levels of fructose. Its popularity comes from the fact that compared to sugar, it is easier to process and cheaper to produce (White 1716S). Due to the obesity epidemic, HFCS has come under scrutiny under suspicion that its increased use in sodas is a main contributor to the epidemic (Bray et al. 537). One stakeholder favoring HFCS is the Corn Refiners Association. Originating in 1844, they assert that HFCS is not to blame for the increase in obesity rates but rather that calories gained from consuming HFCS is the same as calories from any other food (Corn Refiners Association). On the other hand, another stakeholder in the matter is the Citizens for Health organization. Founded in 1992, they believe that HFCS needs to be seriously regulated in a manner similar to how trans fats are treated (Citizens for Health) due to its effects on the human body. While these two stakeholders are on opposite sides of the spectrum, a compromise is necessary in order to reverse the ever-increasing rates of obesity. The Corn Refiners Association and Citizens for Health should come together in favor of a soda tax in an effort to decrease the rates of obesity in the United States. Whitcomb 2 The first stakeholder in this conflict, the Corn Refiners Association, originated in 1844 as the Wm. Colgate & Company wheat starch plant, which was the dedicated corn starch plant in the (Corn Refiners Association). Their mission is to provide education on corn to schools, journalists, agriculture businesses, and the government. They claim that high fructose corn syrup is not to blame for the epidemic, but rather that obesity is simply from more calories than and that obesity is overall unrelated to high fructose corn syrup. Studies such as the one released by Klurfield et al. agree with their claim. In their study on the effects of HFCS with regards to the obesity epidemic, they concluded that is not a unique cause of (Klurfield et al. 771) due to lack of evidence. The second stakeholder involved in this conflict is the organization Citizens for Health. Founded in 1992, Citizens for Health is an organization that has been an active stakeholder in many issues regarding food and health. Their philosophy is that they that sound health is the vital foundation of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and is itself a fundamental human right (Citizens for Some debates they have successfully swayed in their favor include conflicts on organic foods, ingredient labeling, and pesticides (i.e. where pesticides can be sprayed). Their stance on HFCS related to obesity is contrary to that of the Corn Refiners Association. The Citizens of Health asserts that HFCS is a main contributor to obesity and is a main reason for the obesity epidemic in America. Going further, they assert that HFCS be regulated in a manner similar to how trans fats are treated because of its effects on the human body. Their assertion that HFCS is a contributor to obesity is one that has also been supported in studies such as the one released by Bray et al. In their paper, they state that is a distinct likelihood that the increased consumption of HFCS in beverages may be linked to the increase in (Bray et al. 542). Whitcomb 3 There appear to be several reasons why the two stakeholders have not yet come to a compromise. Probably the biggest reason is that their stances directly conflict each other. The Corn Refiners Association believes that HFCS is not a contributor to obesity, while Citizens for Health does. For the Corn Refiners Association, the effect that HFCS on the body is similar to sugar but for Citizens of Health, HFCS is similar to trans fat. Due to their stances being the complete opposite of each other, it will be difficult for both sides to compromise. If the Corn Refiners Association were to yield, they run the risk that HFCS is seen to the public as a contributor to obesity. If the Citizens for Health were to yield, not only might they fall short of their goal but they also risk damage to their image. Since Citizens for Health is an organization that asserts they are fighting for the general health, if they were to compromise they risk being seen as soft and ineffective. For the two stakeholders, the amount of difference between the two also extends to the commonalities they share. That is, they share very much. One is a business, one is an organization that advocates on health issues. One is defending their product while the other claims to be fighting for the general health. While they share very many commonalities between them, there is still a compromise available. In order to curb increasing obesity and help reverse the obesity epidemic, the Corn Refiners Association and the Citizens for Health work together in pushing a soda tax. As sodas are one of the most popular forms of beverage and also contain large amounts of HFCS, pushing for a tax would help curb consumption rates of HFCS. Additionally, such a compromise punish each image but rather would help both organizations be seen as health conscious to the general public. For 10% soda tax with a 100% pass-through (the consumer pays 100% of the tax), Wang et al. state that largest predicted decrease in Whitcomb 4 consumption of regular soda is (433). Such a decrease in consumption would be so huge that such a large tax be necessary, especially if combined with increased public health campaigns from both stakeholders. Due to an obesity epidemic within the United States high fructose corn syrup has become a controversial topic due to increases in obesity correlating with increases in use of HFCS. Stakeholders in the matter such as the Corn Refiners Association and Citizens for Health hold completely different opinions on the topic. If the matter is to be resolved however, action must be taken and a compromise must be made for our greater health. The two stakeholders must come together and push for a soda tax in an effort to curb obesity rates. Such a tax would be effective especially in combination with public health campaigns started by ex-First Lady Michelle Obama. While both stakeholders (and even the general public) may not agree with the compromise, it is a necessary step in lowering the rates of obesity in the United States. Works Cited About High Fructose Corn Syrup. Corn Refiners Association. www.corn.org/products/sweeteners/high-fructose-corn-syrup/. Accessed 1/29/17 Bray, George A., Samara Joy Nielsen, and Barry M Popkin. Consumption of high-fructose corn syrup in beverages may play a role in the epidemic of obesity. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 79(4): 537-543. April 2004. High Fructose Corn Syrup is Deemed New Trans Citizens for Health. https://www.citizens.org/high-fructose-corn-syrup-deemed-new-trans-fat/. Accessed 2/12/17. Whitcomb 5 Klurfield, DM., Foreyt, J., Angelopoulos, TJ., Rippe, JM. Lack of evidence for high fructose corn syrup as the cause of the obesity epidemic. International Journal of Obesity 37:771- 773. Published 18 September 2012. doi:10.1038/ijo.2012.157 Wang, Emily Y., The impact of soda taxes on consumer welfare: implications of storability and taste heterogeneity. RAND Journal of Economics 46(2):409-441. doi:10.1111/1756- 2171.12090. Published Summer 2015.