Harding 1 Kaamera Harding Instructor: Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 1/29/2017 The effects of captivity on the natural behaviors of wild animals In recent years, there has been increased concern on the issues regarding the welfare of animals. From the revival of the veganism movement to the continued fight against animal testing; animal safety and welfare has become a hot topic in pop culture today. However, one issue that has been debated on throughout the years is the subject of animals in captivity. On one side of the spectrum people feel that wild animals should be in their natural habitat and not confined to cages in institutions such as Zoos for the rest of their life. On the other end, people feel that Zoos are vital to the rehabilitation of animals. When this issue started to rear its head, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) was created to hold Zoos accountable for the care of their animals by requiring them to develop enrichment programs to simulate the natural environment of animals that cannot be released back into the wild. Although there are many polices in place to ensure the safety of animals in captivity I decided to look at animals in captivity and the effects it has on their behavior; socially and biologically. My research question for the rest of this semester is: does captivity effect the natural behavior of wild Harding 2 Salas, Marina, et al. Behavior and Hair Cortisol Levels in Captive Dorcas Gazelles (Gazella Dorcas) as Animal-Based Welfare Zoo Biology, vol. 35, no. 6, 2016, pp. doi:10.1002/zoo.21323. In this experiment, research created to focus on the effects captivity had on the stress levels in groups of Gazella Dorcas; a species of antelope. This was tested by taking hair samples of each individual in the group and testing it for levels of Cortisol, which is a steroid hormone linked to chronic stress. They observed the frequency of negative and positive interactions of the antelopes in the four groups. The results showed that a lack of space within the zoo provoked increased negative behaviors in groups of all males, which in turn raised stress levels (Salas, et al.) This research article was a collaborative effort done by a group of professors and post graduate students at The Autonomous University of Barcelona in Spain. Marina Salas is a postgraduate student with interests in animal production and food science. This research paper closely relates to my research topic because provides evidence that captivity does indeed have an effect on the behaviors of wild animals; specifically, their social and biological behaviors. Mcphee, M Elsbeth. in Captivity Increases Behavioral Variance: Considerations for Captive Breeding and Reintroduction Biological Conservation, vol. 115, no. 1, 2004, pp. doi:10.1016/s0006-3207(03)00095-8. This research was focused on the long-term effect that captivity has on a whole species. One concern was that captive animals lose a range of behaviors as a result of a predictable and unchanging (Mcphee 2004). Mcphee made two predictions on how behavior Harding 3 will change: there will be a direct change in predatorial response behaviors and there will be a high variation of behavioral traits between generations. The individuals used in this study were collected from three groups of mice from the Ocala National Forest from 1952-2000: one group is 35 generations since being removed from the wild, another 14 generations and the other 2 generations removed (Mcphee 2004). The study found that the longer each group was removed from the wild the higher the variation of behavioral traits between generations. More Specifically each group lost a set of behaviors across generations. M Elsbeth McPhee holds a Ph.D. in Conservation Biology and Ecosystem Management and is an assistant professor in Environmental Studies and Biology. She has a long list of publications that relate to evolutionary and conservation biology, behavioral ecology and behavioral responses to environments specifically captive versus wild comparisons (uwosh.edu Elsbeth McPhee: Curriculum This paper connects to my research question because it provides evidence that the captivity of different groups of mice caused them to lose behaviors gradually across generations. Altman, Joanne D., et al. and Behavioral Effects of Gorge and Fast Feeding in Captive Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science, vol. 8, no. 1, June 2005, pp. doi: This Research was focused how captive animals develop behaviors and conditions that are not common in their natural habitat (Altman 2005). The common problem of lion in captivity is that they are prone to inactivity, obesity, stereotypy which is constant reputation of an action without a purpose (Altman 2005). The researches implemented a gorge and fast feeding schedule Harding 4 that closely resembles naturalistic patterns (Altman 2005). The results of this study were that changing the feeding strategy to one like one they would encounter in the wild proved to show increased activity and less agnostic behaviors (Altman 2005). Joanne D. Altman is the director of Undergraduate Research and Creative Works at High Point University. She holds a Doctorate in Psychology from Temple University and a Post- Doctoral degree from John Hopkins University. This paper connects to my research question because it provides evidence that the difference in feeding plans for captive animals is crucial in regards to the differences in behavior from the wild to captivity. Kohari, Daisuke, et al. Restriction Effects on Activity Motivation of a Captive Lion (Panthera Leo Journal of Veterinary Behavior: Clinical Applications and Research, vol. 17, 2017, pp. doi:10.1016/j.jveb.2016.11.002. In this experiment the researchers were studying how confinement effects the locomotive behaviors of zoo animals. The subjects for this study were 4 Indian lions; one uncastrated male and 3 females. (Kohari 2017). They had two captive conditions; the first was confinement in a bed chamber all day and the other was a released condition, with access to the exhibition. They counted and recorded the behaviors of each group. They found that the movements were different each day and involved abnormal pacing and restlessness. (Kohari 2017). Daisuke Kohari is an assistant professor at the Ibaraki University within the Biological & Animal Production Science Department. His research interest includes animal welfare and behavior, emotional responses in animals. He also holds a PhD in Agriculture from Tohoko University. This paper relates to my topic because it illustrates that different types of captivity influences the behavior of animals. Harding 5 Brummer, Stacey P., et al. Effect of Enclosure Type on the Behavior and Heart Rate of Captive Applied Animal Behaviour Science, vol. 125, no. 3-4, 2010, pp. doi:10.1016/j.applanim.2010.04.012. The focus of this study is the effect the size of an enclosure has on the heart rate of a captive coyote (Brummer 2010). They found that in the larger enclosures, the coyotes exhibited similar behaviors and heart rate as their wild counterparts (Brummer 2010). The coyotes in the smaller enclosures demonstrated significant amounts of stereotypic behaviors (Brummer 2010). Stacy P. Brummer is a researcher that works at the USDA animal and plant health inspection service. She works alongside two other researches; Eric M. Gese and John A. Shivik, who both have a PhD in Wildlife biology. This paper relates to my research question because it proves that captivity has a biological effect on wild animals. Clubb, Ros, and Georgia Mason. Welfare: Captivity Effects on Wide-Ranging Nature, vol. 425, no. 6957, Feb. 2003, pp. doi:10.1038/425473a. Its proven that certain animals are able to thrive in captivity, such as ring tailed lemurs however other like Asian elephants and polar bears are prone to problems like poor health, repetitive behavior, and breeding difficulties (Clubb 2003). This research study devoted its time investigating why this difference occurs between animals. Caged carnivores were the subjects of this study. They discovered that the reason for this variation stems from the constraints put on certain animals that put a limit on them practicing natural behaviors (Clubb 2003). Dr. Ros Clubb earned a PhD in Zoology at Oxford University in the United Kingdom. She works as a Scientific Officer in the Wildlife department of RSPCA; an animal welfare organization located in Southwater England. Clubb has many published research papers focused Harding 6 on the issue of captive animals. This paper relates to my research question because it discusses the effects that captivity has on animals.