If you follow sports, then you know a major problem with majority of the sports are injuries. In majority of contact sports the main type of injuries are concussions or some sort of head injury. The reason behind my topic was to find something that will help gain better knowledge on the most serious and possibly life threatening injuries this sport is heavily involved with. Head injuries in sports affect more than half of the athletes involved. These athletes take blow to blow to the head and the outcome of all the damage is usually some sort of head injuries. Unlike injuries to many other parts of the body, head injuries be nonchalantly treated. These injuries must be treated quickly and with plenty of attention. Even the smallest type of head injury can result in a long term psychological problem. In this paper, I will be able to explain how to identify a head injury, how to treat and manage an it, and the post-head injury effects an athlete may face. Guay, Julie L. The Era Of Sport Concussion: Evolution Of Knowledge, Practice, And The Role Of  American Psychologist 71.9 (2016): 875-887. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. In the article, Julie Guay explained that sport concussions had become a serious topic in the world. Over the last few decades research has been conducted to find ways to treat the injuries and prevent concussions from occurring during a sporting event. It has led to educating people on concussions and how to prevent them from mismanaging the injury. There have been many changes made and new developments due to the increase in research. Although alternatives have been made to prevent concussion injuries, there has still been a dramatic increase in funding to further the research for more developments to come. Lastly, she also discusses ways of discipline within psychology that will play a significant role in the care. Julie Guay is a graduate from Illinois school of professional psychology. While there she focused on being a neuropsychologist who works with many different patients of all ages. She focuses on brain activity before and after a head injury. She has done many research activities and dealt with many patients who suffered some sort of mental issue due to a concussion. She believes that although much has been done to treat concussions, there is much more that needs to be done. Doucette, Mitchell L., et al. The Massachusetts School Sports Concussions Law: A Qualitative Study Of Local Implementation  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 44.3 (2016): 503-513. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In this article, Mitchell Doucette explains much of what the state of Massachusetts are trying to do to combat concussions. He explains many of the methods they are going to in the different levels of sports starting with youth sports. The focus is explaining decisions on concussions during the implementation process, which is the basic strategizing for concussions. They plan to do specific things like using school athletic trainers, doctors, and a concussion protocol. Mitchell Doucette is an attorney in Massachusetts who focuses mainly on injury law. Through his years of injury law, he has come across many cases of people (especially youth athletes) with some sort of serious head injuries. His goal was to get together with the major powers in his area and find a way to combat the frequency of the head injuries. Doucette explains the combat process many are beginning to take. He explains how serious the issue is beginning to be and what is being done about it. He believes the addition of many helpful sources will slow down the rate of concussions, and help them to gain more knowledge on the serious issue. McKeever, Catherine K., and Philip Schatz. Current Issues in The Identification, Assessment, And Management of Concussions in Sports-Related  Applied Neuropsychology 10.1 (2003): 4-11. Academic Search Premier In this article, Catherine Mckeever and Philip Schatz argues that there is much that needs to be done to help prevent concussions. In their research, they found out that one major issue is that female athletes have a much higher chance of getting a head injury than male athletes. To fix the problem many things should be done. they believe athletes with signs of these injuries should be monitored more and that everyone involved with the sport, from athlete to the parents and coaches, should be educated on concussions and the effects they have. Catherine Mckeever and Philip Schatz are both neuropsychologist who focus on sports related injuries. After doing much research they both decided that much more work from doctors should be done to further the advancement of concussion treatment. They believe that the best thing to do now is to educate the people involved while them and other doctors get to the basis of concussions, and the problems that come with them. McIntosh, Andrew S. Helmets and Head Protection for The Athlete as A Means to Prevent  International Sportmed Journal 4.1 (2003): 1-9. Academic Search Premier. In this article, Andrew McIntosh argues that helmets are key to preventing head injuries in sports but more still needs to be done with helmets. Helmets now prevent a player from feeling much of the impact but due to material limitations helmets can only prevent a narrow range of impact. Because of that McIntosh believes much needs to be done from high powers for helmets to be made of better materials that can prevent more impact than what it does now. As of now the athletes job to make sure that he or she is properly wearing their helmets and using them the right way to help prevent head injuries that may still occur. Dr. Andrew McIntosh received advanced education and experience in epilepsy, Autism, ADHD testing and other behavioral/developmental disorders. Much of his research focused on early autism diagnosis, and strokes in young people. He has an understanding in pediatric neurological problems and childhood migraine treatment. He has been awarded membership in The American Academy of Neurology, The Child Neurology Society and The American Academy of Pediatrics. He is a member of the Medical Staff at Hospital of Orange County. Notebaert, Andrew J.1, Current Trends in Athletic Training Practice for Concussion Assessment and  Journal of Athletic Training (National Athletic Association) 40.4 (2005): 320-325. In this article, Andrew Notebaert focuses on the trends athletic trainers use to identify and treat concussions and other head injuries. In his research, he found out that to assess concussion, 95% reported using the clinical examination, 85% used symptom checklists, 48% used the Standardized Assessment of Concussion, 18% used neuropsychological testing, and 16% used the Balance Error Scoring System. That shows that there is no exact way to handle a concussion once it happens. To see many athletic trainers doing a different thing proves that something needs to be done to find an immediate solution or at least have a go to plan once an athlete experiences a concussion. He argues that only a small percentage of certified athletic trainers currently follow the guidelines proposed by the National Athletic Association. Andrew Notebaert is an assistant professor at the university of Mississippi medical center. His education consist of of Iowa PhD, Science Education (2009), University of Iowa MS, Exercise Science (2000), State University of New York at Buffalo BS, Exercise Science Before becoming a professor, he worked as an athletic trainer mainly for football. His interest includes doing research on sports related injuries. Ling, Helen, John Hardy, and Henrik Zetterberg. Neurological Consequences Of Traumatic Brain Injuries In  Molecular And Cellular Neuroscience 66.Part B (2015): 114-122. ScienceDirect. In this article the authors explain one of the major problems of serious head injuries. One of the main head injuries and most life threatening is chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). Acute symptoms of this are nausea and dizziness, but it were to be catastrophic it may lead to death. They argue that many people will feel the symptoms they receive come from just a headache, but if the headache came from some sort of compact then it needs to be examined immediately. They also explain the many diseases that come with the head injuries and the psychological effects that come with it like memory lost, feeling as if there are voices speaking to you, etc. The authors are all molecular and cellular neuroscientist that does a lot of work on sports related head injuries. They came across much of the valuable information being discovered today that deals with psychological problems due to concussions. They all believe that there is so much more work to be done to fully prevent the head injuries but much could be done now especially getting immediate help if you feel dizziness or nauseous after an impact to the head.