Santa 1 Lorena Santa Jackson ENC 1101 27 January 2017 Non-violent strategies to reduce human-animal conflict Human-animal conflict has been around from the time of cavemen. As the human population grows, the proximity of humans and animals grows smaller and smaller. From destroyed crops to livestock predation tensions between the humans and animals have been increasing overtime to the point where humans have been retaliating with lethal force to the conflict. Examples of such methods include: guns, poison, and cruel trapping mechanisms. While these strategies temporarily prevent any damage on the human side, in the long run, the killing of species especially older animals disrupts the parameters of the ecosystems as well us runs the risk of causing the dramatic decrease of the biodiversity of the environment. To curb these consequences, alternate non-violent strategies have been made to prevent casualties on both sides and stop any unnecessary strife and violence. My research question for this semester of ENC 1101 is how effective are non-violent strategies of mitigating human-animal conflict towards conservation efforts? Santa 2 Ndlovu M, Devereux E, Chieffe M, Asklof K. Russo A. Responses of African elephants towards a bee threat: Its application in mitigating conflict. S Afr J Sci. 2016;112(1/2), Art. #2015-0058, 5 pages. http://dx.doi.org/10.17159/ sajs.2016/20150058 In the study of African elephants towards a bee threat: Its application in mitigating by Ndlovu et al., an experiment was conducted on a population of elephants in the southern section of Kruger National Park. The purpose of this study was to find if bees were an effective mitigating tactic for human elephant conflict (HEC). The elephants were given five different treatments: control noise, buzzing bee noise, control noise with honey scent, honey scent, and bee noise with honey scent. The most effective treatment out of all five was the bee noise with the honey scent. The bee noise with the honey scent triggered 15 out of 21 elephants to run away from the source while the others only elicited cautionary behaviors. According to the research paper, the reaction to each treatment was attributed to the equal resilience on both sound and scent as cues for assessing their surroundings and the varying degrees of perceived danger associated with each (Ndlovu et al. 54). This suggests that elephants need to be exposed to olfactory and auditory stimulus for the to inhibit wild elephant conflict. This strategy was shown to be effective in areas of Kenya, South Africa, and Mozambique. In addition to decreasing HEC, apiculture (beekeeping) serves as a way to conserve the way of life of many African cultures as harvesting honey is practiced in several cultures in Africa. Dr. Mduduzi Ndlovu is a professor at the University of the Free State and has published several papers on African wildlife and efforts of conservation African Journal of He has degrees in Zoology, Conservation Biology, Ornithology, and Natural Sciences. Santa 3 Dr. Ndlovu is also affiliated with the School of Animal, Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa. In this project, Emma Devereux, Melissa Chieffe, Alicia Russo, and Kendra Asklof assisted in the research process. Having their names on the line and their affiliation with Dr. Ndlovu proves their qualifications for their part in writing this paper. This article is connected to my research topic because it shows the effectiveness of a non-violent strategy as it pertains to alternative conservation tecniques. Bauer, Hans, Hans de Iongh, and Etotepe Sogbohossou. Assessment And Mitigation Of Human- Lion Conflict In West And Central  Mammalia: International Journal Of The Systematics, Biology And Ecology Of Mammals 4 (2010): 363. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ According to the study And Mitigation Of Human-Lion Conflict In West And Central depredation of livestock is one of the biggest reasons for the conflict between lions and humans in Africa. This has led to the killing of lions through Problem Animal Control, shooting the lion, poisoning the prey of the lion, and snaring. Several tactics of mitigating were deployed in six locations: Waza National Park and Benoue National Park in Cameroon, National Park in Niger, Pendjari National Park in Benin, Zakouma National Park in Chad, and Northern Guinea to test the effectiveness of mitigation. Improved enclosures were set up in Waza National Park and Pendjari National Park which resulted in a significant drop in depredation (t=2.88 p<0.05). Zakuoma enlisted cattle dogs and herdsmen to further protect cattle and made settlements in a circular shape to surround cattle. Using these strategies, predators were successfully deterred when their presence was known. National Park used park boundaries and found that they were suitable in keeping the cattle in with few or no herdsmen to watch over Santa 4 them. However, in Benoue corridors for cattle were found to be more susceptible to cattle thieves and herdsmen returned to original protected areas and used more dispersed herding movements. Guinea successfully used disturbance to scare away predators similar to methods used to deter elephants. Dr Hans Bauer has been working on lion conservation for 25 years. His research is mostly on interdisciplinary problem-oriented conservation science as well as integrating social and natural science for wildlife conflict resolution (Wildcru.org Hans Proffessor Dr. Hans de longh is an associative in the department of Conservation Biology. been a regional counselor for Western Europe of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature since 2008 and is a member of the IUCN Sirenia and Cat Specialists groups as well as the Steering Committee of the IUCN Species Survival Commission (Universiteit Leiden de Longh). Dr. Etotepe Sogbohossou has a PhD in Conservation Biology, A Master of Science in Management of Natural Resources, and an Agricultural Engineering Degree. The authors in this research are all knowledgeable and experienced in the field of conservation and have all published many scholarly articles that qualify their proficiency in writing about this topic. This study is helps answer my research question through its demonstration of how alternative non-violent strategies both mitigate and assist in conservation efforts. Marker, Laurie L., and Lorraine K. Boast. Human-Wildlife Conflict 10 Years Later: Lessons Learned And Their Application To Cheetah  Human Dimensions Of Wildlife 20.4 (2015): 302. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Santa 5 Not even the fastest animal can run away from human conflict. From habitat loss to the loss of prey, cheetahs have come closer to unprotected areas where farmers reside and have instigated conflict for predating on livestock. Conservation efforts have been done to prevent further eradication of the cheetah however, according to Marker et al. to effectively sustain these efforts approaches need to focus on mollifying deep attitudes instilled in humans about predators. During this study, Dr. Laurie Marker looked at livestock-wildlife training programs have been developed to educate children, current farmers, and agricultural professionals. These programs promote tolerance of predators, non-violent predator control, and healthy management of wild game populations. In addition to these programs, schools have been integrating environmental teachings in the curriculum as perceptions towards predators are formed during childhood. Other techniques used to mitigate human- cheetah conflict are the construction of bomas and deployment of livestock guarding dogs. Bomas are fenced in areas used to keep in cattle. Yet, they are often poorly constructed which is why a better campaign has been put into action to reinforce bomas so that livestock can be better protected. Partnered with livestock guarding dogs (LGD), the depredation of livestock is drastically decreased with 73% of farmers with reporting less livestock loss. Dr Laurie Marker holds a Doctorate of Philosophy in Biology, and is the founder and executive Director of the Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF). She has been working with cheetahs since 1974 and has published many peer-reviewed works on the biology and conservation of cheetahs and big cats (cheetah.org Laurie L. Marker, DPhil.). Lorraine Boast has a Bachelor of Sciences in Biological Sciences and a Master of Science in Medical Immunology. She has done research in reserve management and small mammals and also worked for Cheetah Conservation Botswana for five years. The research done in this paper delves deeper into conservation strategies Santa 6 than just compensating for loss and wildlife rehabilitation. Alternatives for mitigating conflict not only include short-term solutions but changing the perception of these creatures to promote long-term coexistence. Schumann, Mandy, Laurence H. Watson, and Bonnie D. Schumann. Attitudes Of Namibian Commercial Farmers Toward Large Carnivores: The Influence Of Conservancy  South African Journal Of Wildlife Research 2 (2008): 123. BioOne Online Journals. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ A conservancy is a piece of legally protected land that residents manage cooperatively and promote conservation. These were implemented and studied in the North-Central part of Namibia. and studied to find the influences that they had on: attitude towards large carnivores, livestock husbandry, and large carnivore removals. According to Schumann et al. it was found that those who had conservancies were more tolerant to large carnivores than people who did not have a conservancy. Very little animal husbandry techniques were used, 65% of participants in both reported that they lost livestock due to predation. Less than 50% of those who participated in the study indicated that they removed livestock from their land. However, those that had conservancies removed predators less than those who did. The tolerance of predators was attributed to participants having conservancies are more likely to used livestock management to decrease animal conflict. In addition to higher tolerance, farmers with conservancies were more likely to use animal husbandry which significantly lowered livestock loss. Laurence Watson has published works in the African Journal of Wildlife Research and the African Journal of Ecology. With the assistance of Bonnie Schuman and Mandy Schumann who wrote Guide to Integrated Livestock and Predator they all composed a Santa 7 thorough article on the influence of conservancies which can serve as an alternate, non-lethal tactic to mitigate animal conflict (researchgate.net Laurence H. Watson). The article Attitudes Of Namibian Commercial Farmers Toward Large Carnivores: The Influence Of Conservancy is related to my topic because it proves that non-violent tactics can be effective towards mitigating human-animal conflict. Jackson, Rodney M., and Rinchen Wangchuk. A Community-Based Approach To Mitigating Livestock Depredation By Snow  Human Dimensions Of Wildlife 9.4 (2004): 307. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. The Himalayan mountains are home to snow leopards and humans alike. In the study A Community-Based Approach To Mitigating Livestock Depredation By Snow  it was found that animal husbandry is growing in the farms of Ladakh, India. This means that the fields where the natural prey of the snow leopard grazes diminishes. Due to the shortage of natural prey, the snow leopard is forced to go after the livestock of farmers as they are more abundant and easier hunt since the pens they are kept in are poorly constructed. According to Rodney Jackson and Rinchen Wangchuk the aforementioned detail, grazing in high-risk areas, and lax guarding are what contribute to the depratadtion of livestock which is what causes snow leopard conflict. To mitigate this, the authors implemented several initiates including the improvement of livestock pens and reconstructing pens no bigger than the ones they are trying to replace to cultivate the natural fields of native prey. The study concluded that improvement of pens and the promotion of environmental stewardship effectively decreased the predation of livestock and an estimated five snow leopards are protected for every improved livestock pen. Santa 8 The study A Community-Based Approach To Mitigating Livestock Depredation By Snow  conducted by Rodney Jackson and Rinchen Wangchuk is connected to my source because it provides an effective way to reduce livestock predation which in turn mitigates conflict between people and wildlife. Dr. Rodney Jackson has written and co-authored many works on snow leopard research and conservation. He has more than 30 years of experience and has bolstered the Snow Leopard Conservancy with his work in the field with rural farmers and herders (snowleopardconservancy.org Dr. Rodney Jackson). Rinchen Wangchuck was the Founder- Director of the Snow Leopard Conservancy trust. He was a pioneer in developing community- based conservation initiatives including the Himalayan Homestay Program which is a touristic program that is devoted to community-based conservation (snowleopardconservancy.org Rinchen Wangchuk). Kissui, B. M. Livestock Predation By Lions, Leopards, Spotted Hyenas, And Their Vulnerability To Retaliatory Killing In The Maasai Steppe,  Animal Conservation 11.5 (2008): 422. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In the study Livestock Predation By Lions, Leopards, Spotted Hyenas, And Their Vulnerability To Retaliatory Killing In The Maasai Steppe,  Dr. Bernard Kissui conducted a study to compare the vulnerability of lions, leopards, and spotted hyenas to retaliatory killings from livestock predation in the Maasai steppe, Tanzania. He hypothesized that species that killed the most livestock would suffer the most retaliatory killings and that vulnerability to retaliation would depend on time of day of livestock After recruiting and training fifteen people to maintain a detailed record of attacks on livestock he found that the majority of the attacks (53%) were by hyenas but lions were found to be the most vulnerable and were killed Santa 9 more than hyenas or leopards (85 lions, 71 hyenas, and 11 leopards killed). According to the author, the more frequent killing of lions could be attributed to the way lions defend their kills which leaves them more open to confrontations, lions kill more cattle which are more valuable to Maasai pastoralists than goats or sheep, and the traditional Ala-mayo which is a ritual lion hunt conducted by morani warriors as a rite of passage to adulthood. Although Ala-mayo is illegal in Tanzania, the predation of livestock (especially cattle) provoke the Maasai to retaliate and hunt the lions down. Maasai only kill hyenas and leopards when the opportunity is available using poison as an effective strategy for hyenas. Although this article does not provide an alternative non-violent strategy to mitigating conflict, the study conducted by Dr. Bernard Kissui can be used to answer my research topic as a comparison for tactics used to decrease livestock predation back then (2004-2005) versus more modern strategies to mitigate human-animal conflict. Dr. Bernard Kissui has a Bachelor of Science from the University of Tanzania and a PhD in Ecology and Evolution and Behavior from the University of Minnesota. Dr. Kissui is affiliated with the African Wildlife Foundation and has been working with the people of Maasai steppe to educate and develop alternative strategies to mitigate livestock predation and conflict (fieldstudies.org Bernard Kissui PhD).