1 Milica Devura ENC 1102 Davis 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft When it comes to the fight over animal testing in the cosmetics world, there is one specific store that is making an active approach to help end it. Lush Cosmetics is a widely-known industry that hand makes and sells cosmetic products. They believe in vegan, all natural, handmade products that help with the improvement of hair and skin. Lush Cosmetics is a very popular, on the rise industry. Their most popular products are their bath bombs, in which they take great pride in. One thing about this company is that they not only take pride in the way they make their products, but they also take pride in their position when it comes to the argument about animal testing. Lush avidly advertises their opinions on animal testing by putting it all over their packaging. They are openly against the use of animal testing, and both images capture this opinion. Using phrases like Animal and the petition gives off a strong and urgent message to the audience. Lush was founded in the United Kingdom by Mark Constantine and Liz Weir in November of 1995. They make creams, soaps, shampoos, shower gels, lotions, moisturizers, scrubs, masks and other cosmetics for the face, hair, and body, and everything is either vegan or vegetarian. The company is very creative when it comes to their products, making solid shampoo Devura 2 and conditioner, and what they call which are solid toothpaste tablets. They also produce bath bombs, which have become very popular. The bath bombs are mostly spherical, and are filled with sodium bicarbonate along with other essential oils and natural ingredients that make the ball fizz and dissolve once in contact with water. Lush also puts the workers that actually make the products on the packaging to make the products more personal. The rhetorical appeals that are represented in the images provided are very prominent in the message. The images are trying to convey a strong message that animal testing is cruel and wrong. The second image is especially strong because it shows a human in the place of where the animal would be, therefore making people feel empathetic. Ethos is represented by the tone of this ad. It helps show the seriousness of the situation, and the trustworthiness of the picture is shown by the doctor in the photo performing the tests on the human. Pathos is present by showing animals fighting. This helps the viewers understand that the animals are to help end animal testing. Lush uses rabbits to help represent the power and hope. Also, having an actual human in the place where an animal would makes people feel empathy for the person in that position, therefore extending empathy for the animals that go through all the cruel punishment. The images represent logos in the pictures by sending a message meaning that the animals, even though cannot do anything in real life, are fighting to help end animal testing. The other message that this is sending is that animals go through many cruel and dangerous tests that could kill them. The red writing in animal gives a sense of urgency to help stop animal testing, therefore representing kairos. the petition also indicates the timeliness of kairos. It gives a sense of urgency also because it is in red and all capital letters. Devura 3 As a whole we should follow in the footsteps of Lush cosmetics and continue our movement to use such products to prove that the people care about animals rights because we understand that this cruelty is wrong and we can move forward without hurting animals. They indicate on all of their packaging that they are in the fight to end animal testing in the United States. As long as we do little things like watch what products we buy from and some people go as far as even watching what they eat, moving forward, our generation has proven to be the one that has progressed in a positive way to live a healthier and prospering life. We can continue as a whole to look out for our future and live positive as not hurt others including animals. The companies like Lush are part of this movement and will continue to strive in the progress of a better future for America. Animal testing is seen as immoral and wrong, but it was once a normal and accepted method of testing cosmetic products. It was seen as cheaper, more convenient, and more efficient. Now that our generation is noticing the horrific cruelty that is done to these animals and want to do something about it we can truly put a stop to it by discontinuing the usage of such products. Devura 4 http://www.lushusa.com/about-animal-introduction.html https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zGNrPADQA2U Devura 5 Works Cited Donnellan, Laura. Animal Testing In Cosmetics: Recent Developments In The European Union And The United  Law 2 (2007): 251. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. G. Lawton, Quest for Valid Alternatives: Minimizing Animal & Industry , 19 (1997). Web. 29 January 2017 LUSH COSMETICS, THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES AND HUMANE SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL LAUNCH GLOBAL CAMPAIGN TO END COSMETICS TESTING ON  News Service 2012: Academic OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.