Friese 1 Meghan Friese Brenden Jackson Composition I February 18, 2017 The Great Barrier Reef has been in constant decline for as long as researchers have studied it. Its extensive ecosystem and ability to enable life has drawn many diverse sea creatures to the coral reef. The main ability the reef gives to its surrounding creatures is life. The reef is off the coast of northeastern Australia and covers nearly 132,974 square miles. The expansive reef is home to over 600 various types of soft and hard coral (Bowen). The astonishing area covered by the reef makes it a candidate for the largest living structure on Earth. The impressiveness of this habitat, enabler of life, and living chain of coral is what drew me to research more about it. While learning about the extensive history of the reef I began to question its origins as well as its effects it has on our world. What exactly does the reef offer to its surrounding environments, and how has it changed throughout time? James, and Margarita Bowen. The Great Barrier Reef. [Electronic : History, Science, Heritage. n.p.:Cambridge, UK ; New York : Cambridge University Press, 2002., 2002. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The Great Barrier Reef by James and Margarita Bowen discusses in depth about the Great Barrier Reef as an ecosystem. The book takes archeological studies and historical contexts into consideration when explaining the earlier days of the reef. Bowen describes the creation of the reef as the collection of dead coral built upon itself in order to house newer organisms. The Friese 2 cycle of the reef continues as more coral dies and is molded into the wall. The book delves more into the history of the reef and the impact that not only the history had on the reef, but also the present day complications. The book takes us back to when the reef was a main attribute to the ecosystem surrounding it. Life flourished in the ocean due to the reef and its ecosystem that it created. The book also talks about the different historical events, such as the discovery of the reef, and changes that have led to today when the reef is dying and bleaching. Another great subject the book includes is the biological inhabitants that the reef provides a home for. It talks about the research that has been done on the reef and the research continuing on today. The book, The Great Barrier Reef, Is a scholarly article published by the University of Cambridge.This book is a reliable source because of its many attributes from other reliable sources. The author, James Bowen, Studied environmental subjects in the United States, Canada, and Australia. He has published numerous articles and books on ecological subjects. James spent over a decade pursuing his interest in the Great Barrier Reef. He used, in his studies, archived research as well as underwater and field research to ensure his studies were accurate. It is important to understand how the reef was created and its various biological foundations that it provides to the ocean. The book by James Bowen takes the reefs history into a context resembling that of a life. He discusses the beginning of the reef and continues on to the modern ruins that have been created by the decaying coral. In order to understand what is happening to the Great Barrier Reef, we must know about its past. Brodie, Jon, and Richard G. Pearson. Ecosystem Health Of The Great Barrier Reef: Time For Effective Management Friese 3 Ecosystem health of the Great Barrier Reef: Time for effective management action based on evidence, is a scholarly article written by Jon Brodie and Richard G. Pearson. The article argues how the Great Barrier Reef is not only affected by humans, but also how the reef affects humans. Brodie and Pearson mention that the effects of the reef happens in both environmental and fiscal ways. Human impact is one of the main focus on the article. From the very beginning of human contact with the reef, the reef has been progressively declining. Not only are people nearby the reef effecting it, but people thousands of miles away are also. Pollution has been a main cause of deterioration and bleaching. This article, however, also mentions the numerous jobs that the reef provides and what those participating in those jobs are doing to save the reef. Researchers are very important in the movement to salvage the reef. If the reef were to die, the researchers would be out of jobs. Hundreds of jobs are also set up for maintaining the reef, exploring the reef, and excursions to the reef. Without the reef, the economy surrounding it would be negatively impacted. The various attributes that the Great Barrier Reef has on its surrounding environment is a main theme when discussing the reef. Not only does this include ecological, but it also includes economical. The Great Barrier Reef provides a needed environment for sea creatures, and also provides numerous jobs for humans. The Great Barrier Reef and its obvious ecological decline has led to numerous jobs being created. The subject of the reef has also led to the controversial topic of human prints on the Earth. People working on the reef focus on environmental impact that humans have had on the reef. They study the effects and implicate ways to reduce pollution and the reefs slow decline. Richard G. Pearson has written numerous articles focusing on climate change and extinction. His works include biodiversity, conservation, ecology, zoology, and climate change. Jon Brodie has been involved in many research projects involving water and the Friese 4 ecosystems both affected by the water and affecting the water. He has been a chief scientist in research projects pertaining to tropical water and climate change. Natalie Stoeckl a,n , Marina Farr a , Silva Larson a , Vanessa M. Adams b,c , Ida Kubiszewski d , Michelle Esparon a Robert Costanza d. Ecosystem Services. Vol. 10. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web. A new approach to the problem of overlapping values: A case study in Great Barrier Reef, From the book Ecosystem Services, Brings up the importance of beliefs in direct correlation to aid for the environment. There are many people out there that do not believe in climate change. Many like to take the backseat to ecological and environmental problems. They believe that nature will correct itself. The various authors of this article support the idea that the reef is beyond natural repair. In order to fight climate change and the effects it has on the reef, we must also fight ourselves and the impacts we have made on the reef. They highlight the statistics of successful rehabilitation of our ecosystems along with the belief that we effect our environment. It weighs out the pros and cons of jobs being created to support the dying reef. One aspect of this article that I find interesting is the amount of people against helping the Great Barrier Reef. Many believe that the financial burden of aiding the environment outweighs the otherwise benefits. An aspect I believe is important to highlight in my paper would be humans outlook on the Great Barrier Reef. This is an idea that has to be understood in order to conceptualize why the reef is dying and why are we letting it die or why are we helping it. There are those that are avid supporters of helping the environment get on its These people are seemingly Friese 5 concerned and surprised that such a large epitome of life can be dying and bleaching. There are also those that believe problems that do not immediately affect them are nonexistent or not important. Natalie Stoeckl is an economist with an interest in environmental priorities. She attending school in the United States, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and Australia. Marina Farr completed her PhD in economics at James Cook University, Silva Larson also graduated from James Cook university with a focus in environmental sciences. Vanessa M. Adams graduated from the university of Queensland school of biological sciences. Prof Ida Kubiszewski is an Associate Professor at Crawford School of Public Policy at The Australian National University. Michelle Esparon Graduated from James Cook where she now works as a researcher. Robert Costanza is a ecological economist and Professor of Public Policy at the Crawford School. Scott A. Wooldridge. Marine Pollution Bulletin. Vol. 58. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web. The article by Scott A. Wooldridge talks about the bleaching of the Great Barrier Reef. Water quality and coral bleaching thresholds: Formalising the linkage for the inshore reefs of the Great Barrier Reef, Australia, From the Marine Pollution Bulletin recognizes the premature death of the reef and considers the different causes that has led to the tragic circumstances. The article, however, also talks about hopeful processes that may be implemented to save the reef. Woolridge discusses the various regulations that can be put into effect to help the reef. These include minimizing waste as well as the reduction of pesticides in the surrounding area. As of now, the reef is dying due to its stress response to the water quality or bleaching. The main problem associated with the bleaching of the reef is water temperature. Pollution has caused the water in the reefs area to become too warm for the coral to survive. Scott A. Woolridge describes Friese 6 the process of bleaching, what may have caused it, and what is being done to save the reef. The article focusses on the scientific processes involved in the dying Great Barrier Reef. The topic requiring the most attention about the Great Barrier Reef is what is occurring to the reef. For quite some time, the reef has been deteriorating through a natural process called bleaching. However, the cause for this process to occur has not been natural. Bleaching of coral occurs when water temperatures are too warm for the creature to survive. This results in the coral expelling the algae inside of it in end transforming it into a white color. Over the previous century, the Great Barrier Reef has become, for the majority, bleached. This has resulted in the production of oxygen to greatly diminish and for a lot of sea creatures to perish. Scott Wooldridge is considered an expert in oceanography. He has been the author of numerous books about the ecological effects climate change has on the Ocean, specifically living organisms. Maynard, Jeffrey A., et al. Great Barrier Reef No-Take Areas Include A Range Of Disturbance  Conservation Letters 9.3 (2016): 191-199. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Great Barrier Reef No-Take Areas Include A Range Of Disturbance  discusses in depth the 2004 relocation of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. Since the notable declining of the reef, scientist have been attempting to subside the deterioration using various methods. In 2004, scientists began to wonder if disturbing the reef for research affected it more so negatively then leaving it alone would. They then began a study on whether the amount of creatures and various types of creatures impacted the reef and the previous mapping done of the reef. Various sights were not used in mapping the reef. In order to gather data, scientist studied both the areas mapped out as well as the areas left alone. The data found was contradictory in the sense that the Friese 7 coral built up a resilience in the area that was touched by humans. However, the coral was flourishing more in the areas not touched. In order to understand how the reef has changed over time, it is important to study how humans impact it. This article was interesting because it showed the influence of humans over a short period of time. Even with the small impact humans made by mapping the reef, it seemed there presence in the area made a notable difference. This research was completed by numerous scientist that were part of relocating the reefs marine park. Exposure to disturbance is not taken into consideration very often. This research completed gives a better understanding of how a small disturbance can impact an area. Dale, Allan P., et al. Research Article: Risk Analysis Of The Governance System Affecting Outcomes In The Great Barrier  Journal Of Environmental Management 183.Part 3 (2016): 712-721. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Research Article: Risk Analysis Of The Governance System Affecting Outcomes In The Great Barrier  brings to light the place in the fight to save the reef. Many implications have been added to governmental policy in order to lessen the deterioration of the reef. The Long Term Sustainability plan is the main focus for the Australian government right now. This plan involves many smaller components. To lessen the impact humans have on the reef, the government in focusing on how they can help. Water quality, greenhouse gasses, and human disturbance are all areas that are being focused on. However, while the intentions are good, they are struggling in implementing these plans. Environmental problems in relation to the government typically takes a backseat to other forms of politics. Friese 8 A way to understand how the reef is progressing in its declination is to take into consideration how attempts are being made to fix the reef. Governmental bodies are attempting to lessen environmental impact from humans such as pollution. This tells us that human impact has greatly diminished the life of the Great Barrier Reef. Allen P. Dale is the professor of Tropical Regional Development at James Cook University, He is Chair of Regional Development Australia Far North Queensland and Torres Strait, and has also been the CEO of the Wet Tropics Regional NRM Body before returning to this international research role.