1 Grant Polk ENC 1102 Project 1 Feb. 12, 2017 Animal Captivity For The Sake of Entertainment Human beings possess a natural curiosity about wild and rare animals. We want to observe them up close, watch how they move, study their interaction with one another, and in many cases, we long to witness these animals perform. We do not take into consideration the fact that these animals are often taken from their true habitat, away from the very natural elements they need for survival. Many have questioned whether-or-not it is reasonable for wild animals to be captured and placed in captivity for the rest of their lives, in order to satisfy our curiosity to know more about them, while also exploiting their ability to learn and perform tricks. Animal advocate groups such as the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA) proclaim that animals in captivity is actually beneficial to both humans and the (WAZA.org). WAZA promotes responsible ownership, by accrediting aquariums, through high standards in animal care and safety. Their leading concern is for the ethical and fair treatment of the animals while held captive in zoos and aquariums. Yet animal activist groups, like the Captive Protection Society (CAPS) are vehemently opposed to the captivity of animals under any circumstances, and their mission is to the truth about the cruelty and the sad life of animals kept at zoos and (Captiveanimals.org). Both WAZA and CAPS have the best interests in mind, and therefore need to meet halfway on a path towards a solution. WAZA could change some of its policies, and only endorse those aquariums that do not participate in training the animals to do tricks for a profit. On the other hand, CAPS needs to understand that releasing these well-trained animals back into the wild would actually cause the animals more 2 Grant Polk harm than good. Aquatic and zoo animal sanctuaries exist, and through financial support, accreditation and endorsement by both WAZA and CAPS, these sanctuaries could be a critical step towards finding a less restrictive place for these animals so that they may live in a larger habitat, well-suited to their species for the rest of their lives, without the monotony of having to learn and perform tricks. The World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA), whose motto is for encourage and support zoos, aquariums and other like-minded organizations throughout the world, and they are at the forefront of animal welfare. They claim that caring for animals in zoos and aquariums are continuous with caring for them in the wild. In fact, two new strategies, released by WAZA in 2015, have been researched and approved by leading academics and organizations in the field of conservation. WAZA maintains that these two strategies are essential to the successful operations of aquariums and zoos globally. to is one of the strategies, which includes 7 steps to conservation leadership. Caring for Wildlife is the second strategy, and entails a scientific approach to caring for animals and ensuring their welfare. Within these strategies, WAZA encourages zoos and aquariums to and prioritize species which allow you to deliver conservation victories that clearly demonstrate the impact the animals in zoos and aquariums have on our ability to save their wild Furthermore, the stringent guidelines imposed by WAZA ensure the welfare of the animals by including proper nutrition guidelines, exhibit design standards, and staff training. Many of their conservation success stories are revealed in their book, a Future for Wildlife: Zoos and Aquariums Committed to Biodiversity by Gerald Dick and Markus Gusset, who are both conservation biologists with WAZA. 3 Grant Polk In light of conservation successes, it is widely believed that there are instances when animals in captivity are a necessity in order to ensure their survival. These instances would include situations where wild animals are injured or in danger, and are in obvious need of care. On the other hand, there is compelling evidence verifying that keeping animals in captivity over a long period of time is detrimental to their physical and psychological well-being. In fact, animal experts from the Captive Protection Society (CAPS) insist that keeping animals in captivity for a lengthy amount of time actually drives them insane. Their study, entitled Deep (Captiveanimals.org), found that 90 percent of the animals held in aquariums and zoo-like environments exhibit some form of self-harming behavior as well as neurotic behavior. When compared to other animals of the same species seen in the wild, these types of behaviors are simply not observed. Their stance on animals in captivity is that wild animals belong in their natural habitat, and that no manmade environments are suitable for these creatures. Furthermore, CAPS insist that these institutions proclaiming they are educating the masses about the species involved, through their shows, is not considered to be a valid point. Rather, philosophy is that animals cannot, and should not be manipulated to perform for our entertainment, and time we educate ourselves and especially our children that this is not a realistic goal for these wild animals. According to another investigation, whales and dolphins have been trained to perform tricks for food instead of behaving naturally. When not performing, they are often kept in holding tanks smaller than show pools. Confining individuals together can result in stress and aggression with no possible (uswhales.org) Regardless of whether we believe animals being held in captivity is right or wrong, it is important CAPS and WAZA realize that both of their main concern is the well-being of the animals in captivity. As stated above, I would encourage WAZA to begin compromising by enforcing 4 Grant Polk more stringent regulations on these income-generating aquariums which are accredited by them. WAZA would need to put pressure on the aquariums to slowly phase out the animal shows, where many animals are forced to perform tricks and show off other non-animalistic behaviors, several times a day. On the other hand, CAPS would need to compromise too. The notion that these animals held in captivity should simply be released back into the wild could actually be a detriment to the animal, and CAPS should understand that this would not be in the best interest. In fact, according to uswhales.org, few dolphins and orcas have been released back into the wild after captivity (uswhales.org). Rather, CAPS and WAZA could assist animals in captivity by recognizing, sponsoring, and endorsing aquatic and zoologic animal sanctuary projects. Both CAPS and WAZA would further their cause, giving many of these animals a place to live their lives to the fullest, without the stress of having to perform tricks for an audience. 5 Grant Polk Works Cited Waza. WAZA is the unifying organization for the world zoo and aquarium  WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. End  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Waza. WAZA  WAZA Strategies : WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Willimson, Cathy. WDC, Whale and Dolphin  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., 26 Feb. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. MLA formatting by BibMe.org.