Jason Patella Adam Carter ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Marijuana in Florida The legalization of marijuana has become a very controversial topic in the past few years. Florida recently made marijuana legal in November 8 2016, for medical purposes but only for people with certain conditions (Ballotpedia). Some groups such as HelloMD say it is helpful and should be made completely legal, other groups such as Smart Approaches to Marijuana (SAM) say it is very harmful and should be made illegal. HelloMD sees a lot of potential benefits and believes the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. In contrast SAM believes the exact opposite, they think there are more disadvantages than advantages. Both sides of this argument are valid but it would be unfair, counterproductive, and not very good to have things just one way or the other. So, SAM and HelloMD as well as others on both sides of the argument of whether recreational marijuana should be legal or not needs to come to a compromise. In order to satisfy both HelloMD and conflict with Marijuana being legal or illegal in Florida, a good compromise for them is to decriminalize marijuana and possibly making the people go through some sort of rehabilitation program. The first stakeholder I will be talking about the group called HelloMD, who want marijuana to be legalized in its entirety. goal is to create a of medicinal cannabis meaning they want to create people who think marijuana is a good idea (HelloMD Staff). HelloMD is a huge community of doctors who are trained in medical marijuana usage as well as a place where people who are curious and have questions about Patella 2 medical marijuana can come ask. HelloMD released an article on their website showing the positive and negative effects of marijuana. They then gave their opinion on marijuana by putting a bottom line section where they say that marijuana is healthy and safe treatment option for a wide selection of anxiety and mood (HelloMD Staff). HelloMD has gathered their own pros and cons for marijuana. Some of these pros or advantages include marijuana is good for coping with pain, using it does not make you more likely to go to the doctor, it may make you more creative, and can help regulate blood sugar and weight gain (HelloMD staff). Some of the cons or disadvantages they found include smoking marijuana daily can increase the risk of respiratory illness, smoking can damage lungs, it raises heart rate, and excess use might disrupt learning (HelloMD staff). According to Marurizo Bifulco in and cancer: pros and cons of an antitumour he and others talk about how marijuana is very effective against attacking cancer cells (Bifulco 123). He also later goes in length about how administration of high oral doses of THC did not increase tumor incidences in a 2-year study which is promising (133). So HelloMD believes benefits out weight the negative effects and seeks to make it legal in its entirety. The second stakeholder I will be talking about is the group called SAM: Smart Approaches to Marijuana, they are against any kind of legalization of marijuana. SAM is afraid the more we legalize marijuana, people can come and capitalize on addiction just like the tobacco industry has on smokers. SAM talks about this by saying people got addicted on tobacco and alcohol products and because these people stop using them, they have to keep giving money to the companies that make these products. In a sense, they feel those companies control those people and they are afraid the marijuana industry can have that same effect due to marijuana being addictive as well. SAM has even found that 1 in every 10 people who start using Patella 3 marijuana will become highly addicted to it (SAM). According to Schauer, et al., in the article in the Relationship of Marijuana and Tobacco by Frequency of Use: A Qualitative Study with Adults Aged 18 they had a subject say I smoke marijuana, like I automatically have to smoke a cigarette right after (Schauer 409). They did a study that showed a lot of them really liked to use one close after the use of the other (409). What this shows that if marijuana is legalized people who use not only one bad substance would than more likely use many which would be bad for health. So, SAM sees marijuana as another new kind of tobacco industry and wants it to stay illegal. At first glance most would think these two groups might not have anything in common, but they do even though they are on different sides of the argument. Both groups want to do what is best for people they just have different views of how to do that. Each group also wants the people who are on their side of the argument to get what they want. However, HelloMD sees mostly the positive benefits, while in contrast SAM see more negative benefits. According to Kevin Hill, in his book The Unbiased Truth About The Most Popular he says one wants to see increased access to marijuana for young (Hill 84). So, both groups can also agree on not wanting younger people to get access to marijuana. Both groups are on different sides of the arguments but they do have some similarities such as trying to help people, even if their ideas on helping is different. Now, while there is both positives and negatives to marijuana legalization there can be a middle ground, or a compromise that has some positive benefits as well as a very minimum negative benefit. My compromise is for there to be decriminalization of marijuana and make a rehabilitation program for marijuana users. One of big points SAM is willing to compromise on is lessening the punishment for those possessing a small amount of marijuana. Decriminalization Patella 4 and legalization and not the same thing, decriminalization lessens the punishment, while it is still being illegal and legalization makes it so there are no penalties for doing something. So, what could be done is designate what small amount would be not a major crime such as 20 grams or so. Then make it so it is not legal to have that amount but that if that amount or lower is found just fine them with a small ticket like a parking ticket and possible confiscate what they have. Also, if they possess more than the amount stated make it a bigger offense. Also, just like have they have an alcoholics anonymous program or how certain groups are willing to help you quit tobacco smoking for free, there should also be a new program introduced to help people who wish to quit marijuana and for free. That way people will be able to quit if they want but they have to go if they feel like they have a problem with it. Now according to Kevin Hill, he talks about some positive and negative benefits to legalizing recreational marijuana in its entirety. One negative aspect he talks about is legalizing it to everyone that would make a black market occur that would sell marijuana to everyone including kids (87 88). Now there are stories of people who can buy cigarettes or alcohol who then go give them to their younger friends who be able to buy them legally. Now more likely than not if marijuana becomes legalized and sold in stores people will do the same thing they always have done and give them to their underage friends. That might not create a black market but it would still make it hands into underage users more easily. Now one huge advantage he talks about is excise tax. He says that alcohol and tobacco have huge excess taxes and that if marijuana had it as well it could go to funding programs that could help with substance abuse (78 79). He also says legalization, by replacing marijuana prohibition with a system of taxation and regulation, has the potential to save the United States $7.7 billion per year in state and federal funds that are currently spent to enforce (79). This compromise of decriminalizing Patella 5 marijuana and making a rehabilitation program has more benefits with the least number of disadvantages. In conclusion, my solution is just one of many possible solutions. HelloMD wants marijuana completely legalized and SAM HelloMD thinks marijuana will be very beneficial for everyone, while SAM is afraid of creating another giant tobacco industry and sees more potential downsides than upsides. My compromise is to let reactional marijuana be decriminalized and make a rehabilitation program free for those who want to utilize it. No one likes caving in completely to the other side but no one also likes arguing forever so if both give a little then, we will be closer to a solution that makes everyone relatively happy. Patella 6 Works Cited Ballotpedia. Medical Marijuana Legalization, Amendment 2 Ballotpedia, Bifulco, Ma, et al. and Cancer: Pros and Cons of an Antitumour British Journal of Pharmacology, vol. 148, 2, May 2006, p. 123 135. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. HelloMD Staff. Marijuana Every Day: The Pros and HelloMD, 23 Feb. 2016, https://www.hellomd.com/health-wellness/using-marijuana-every-day-the-pros-and-cons. Hill, Kevin P. The Unbiased Truth About The Most Popular n.p.: Center City, Minnesota : Hazelden Publishing, 2015., 2015. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. (Pages 73, 78, 84, 88) SAM. and SAM, https://learnaboutsam.org/the-issues/marijuana-and-health/. Schauer, Gillian L., et al. Differences In The Relationship Of Marijuana And Tobacco By Frequency Of Use: A Qualitative Study With Adults Aged  Psychology Of Addictive Behaviors 30.3 (2016): 406-414. PsycARTICLES. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.