Lauren Landvogt Adam Carter ENC 1102 14 February 2017 The Existence of Zoos in America For many years people have developed a fondness for the exotic creatures that cannot be kept as house pets. These animals are the inhabitants of zoos across the nation. It is often debated whether or not zoos should continue to exist. On one side of this controversial debate is an organization, or better yet, a well-known zoo in America; The Saint Louis Zoo. The Saint Louis website has a mission statement that reads that their goal is to conserve animals and their habitats through animal management, research, recreation, and educational programs that encourage the support and enrich the experience of the (Why Zoos Matter). On the other side of the debate is the Captive protection society. Often referred to as CAPS, the mission statement of this organization reads believe that wild animals belong in their natural habitat and should not be caged for our (Zoos). To appease both the St. Louis Zoo and the Captive Protection Society we must implement The Association of Zoos and Aquariums strategic plan around the nation to provide animals more naturalistic habitats and allow humans to continue learning about animals through observation. An organization devoted to focusing on both the interests of the human community, as well as the animal community, is the St. Louis Zoo. According to the official website of the St. Louis Zoo, the history of the organization dates back to 1904 at The Fair. It started out as a flight cage funded by the Smithsonian that people could go through (Why Zoos Matter). The community in Saint Louis loved the cage so much that they requested the exhibit remain in the city. The city bought the exhibit and it was the foundation of the St. Louis Zoo today. The website goes on to elaborate about how civic leaders established the Zoological Society six years after the Fair. The civic leaders who were invested in created a zoo in the city had many objectives in mind. The objectives of the early leaders, as stated directly from the website, include: To establish and to co-operate with the City of St. Louis in maintaining a Zoological Park for the instruction and recreation of the people, to exhibit wild animals under favorable conditions, to encourage Zoological Research, to increase public interest in wild animals, to secure better protection of wild animal life by educational methods. Referring back to the current mission statement of the St. Louis, their focus has definitely shifted to concentrate more on the wellbeing of the animals and less on the interest of the general public. According to the website, the St. Louis Zoo was one of the first zoos to remove the cages and try to develop more naturalistic habitats. Even today, the zoo remains in the fight for animal rights and encourages conservation of different species. According to the article Adorable Venomous Vipers Born at St. Louis the zoo has put in major efforts to rescue an endangered viper species (Barber 2013). The endangered vipers are just one case of many that the St Louis Zoo has been involved with. Another thing to note about the St. Louis Zoo is that it does not charge visitors to enter the zoo. The only source of income for the zoo is made from concessions and from a train that visitors can pay to ride (Why Zoos Matter). This fact about the zoo illustrates that the zoos efforts are more concentrated on the well-being. The St. Louis Zoo is a prominent organization that supports both the interests of the animals and the interests of the public equally. An organization completely against the existence of zoos is Captive Protection Society. Their core belief is that we, as humans, do not have the right to cage animals for our own entertainment. Captive Protection Society was formed in 1957 by a woman named Irene Heaton (Zoos). website is updated frequently with new cases of animals in captivity that are being abused. They have participated in many successful campaigns that have resulted in positive changes in zoo environments. These positive changes have led to a better quality of life for several exotic creatures. CAPS believe that environments such as zoos contribute to the mental and physical distress of the exotic creatures (Zoos). The official website of the organization states that signs of distress among animals include pacing or rocking back and forth (Zoos). Several studies have been completed to reaffirm this statement on the CAPS website. There was a study conducted that is labeled analysis of captive tigers (Panthera tigris): A water pool makes the that discusses how enclosed habitats can affect animals, such as tigers, negatively (Biolatti et al.). The tigers were notably agitated and displayed some of the pacing behaviors mentioned by CAPS (Biolatti et al.). The organization CAPS is a well-known voice in the fight for animal rights and for the expulsion of zoos everywhere. In order to satisfy both the St. Louis Zoo and the Captive Protection Society we must implement The Association of Zoos and Aquariums strategic plan in all zoos around the nation to provide animals more naturalistic habitats and allow humans to continue learning about animals through observation. This compromise will satisfy both organization because when it comes down to it, both organization share a common goal; and that is to secure the wellbeing of the zoo animals. Their mission statement reads: Association of Zoos & Aquariums provides its members with the services, high standards, best practices and program coordination to be leaders in animal welfare, public engagement, and the conservation of (AZA). The strategic plan includes: promoting conservation efforts and animal habitats, enhancing member services, educating the public, and promoting a robust economic model (AZA). strategic plan will ensure a better quality of life for animals while still allowing people to observe and learn from the wildlife as long as they contribute to efforts to support the wildlife. This compromise would appease the St. Louis Zoo because they would not be losing revenue and the public would still be allowed to visit the creatures. The wishes of the CAPS organization would be fulfilled because the animals would no longer forced to live in cages. They would instead reside in environments and people would no longer be utilizing the zoo animals for their entertainment. plan emphasizes turning zoos into sanctuary-like environments to detach from the original concept of zoos being used for entertainment purposes (AZA). Promoting plan essentially takes away the entertainment factor that zoos satisfy. It pushes the public to get involved and support the well-being of these exotic creatures rather than use them for selfish reasons. This factor of the plan satisfies the argument pertaining to the stakeholder CAPS. Implementing plan will ensure a compromise between both stakeholders involved in the debate on the existence of zoos. Works Cited Barber, Elizabeth. Nine adorable venomous vipers born at St. Louis  The Christian Science Monitor 2013: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Biolatti, Cristina, et al. Behavioural Analysis Of Captive Tigers (Panthera Tigris): A Water Pool Makes The  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 174.(2016): 173-180. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Saint Louis  Why Zoos Matter : Saint Louis Zoo. Saint Luis Zoo, 2003. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. We Believe in a Better Future for All Living  Association of Zoos & Aquariums: AZA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.