Gregory Portner !1 Gregory Portner Adam Carter ENC 1102 January 26th 2017 Lowering the Drinking Age in the United States Alcohol has been around for hundredths of years, and is mostly consumed in social situations around the world. The United States of America has one of the highest drinking ages, along with 12 other nations around the world 2017). The United States changed its legal drinking age from 18 to 21 by passing the National Minimum Drinking Age Act in 1984, which forced every state to change their legal drinking age to 21, or they would lose 10% of their federal highway funding. There are multiple stakeholders in this debate over the legal drinking age such as governmental officials, the National Highway Safety Administration, parents, adults from the ages 18-21, college presidents and chancellors, and Mother Against Drunk Driving, However, two of these stakeholders are the driving factors for this debate: college/university presidents represented under the Amethyst Initiative, and Mother Against Drunk Driving also referred to as the MADD. The first stakeholders are college presidents, represented under the Amethyst Initiative have a mission statement that state that college presidents new ideas about the best ways to prepare young adults to make responsible decisions about (Amethyst Initiative 2008). They believe that the current drinking age should be lowered as it encourages a binge drinking culture on college campuses (Amethyst Initiative 2008). On the other hand, the Mother Against Drunk Driving association mission statement states: end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these Gregory Portner !2 violent crimes, and prevent underage (MADD 2017). A comprise that would benefit both the Mother Against Drunk Driving and the Amethyst Initiative would be implementing drinking laws similar to Switzerland by legalizing the consumption of beer and wine at 18 and liquors/spirits at 21. The first important stakeholder is the Amethyst Initiative, which believe the current drinking age encourages a binge drinking culture on college campuses. As a result, over 130 college presidents started a petition called Amethyst Initiative to spark a public debate about lowering the drinking age (Amethyst Initiative 2008). Colleges as small as Davis and Elkins College and University as big as Colorado, signed the petition because they believe it is unfair that adults at the age of 18 have the right to vote, sign contracts, serve as jury member, enlist in the military, are told they are not mature enough to have a (Amethyst Initiative 2008). College students are not going to stop drinking before 21 and as the petition says, college make ethical compromises that erode respect for the by purchasing fake leaving 18-20-year-olds with the risk of being charged with a felony if they are caught (Amethyst Initiative 2008). Furthermore, as Henry Wechsler and Toben Nelson, both experts in public health, pointed out that even after the drinking age was changed to 21, alcohol usage among 18-20 year old greatly declined, but there was no change in the percentage of college students who drink illegally (Wechsler and Nelson, 2010). As a result, college president believes that because it is illegal for college students to drink before 21, they do not drink as often but when they do drink, they binge drink. Furthermore, the article points out higher minimum legal drinking age was associated with lower rates of alcohol consumption and other alcohol- related (Wechsler and Nelson, 2010). The Amethyst Initiative agrees that college students Gregory Portner !3 should have the right to have a beer at the age of 18 because it will help reduce and hopefully eliminate what is know as the college binge drinking experience. On the other hand, Mother Against Drunk Driving support the National Minimum Drinking Age Act, which statically has shown an enormous decrease in fatal car crashes among the 18-21-year-olds (NHSA 2014). The National High Safety Administration website has multiple graphs and statistics on their website showing that from 1984 to 2007, the percentage of fatal car crashes due to alcohol for 18-21-year-olds went from 45% to almost 20% (NHSA 2014). Additionally, it also shows that most of the fatal car crashes due to alcohol come from the ages above 21, the current legal age of alcohol consumption (NHSA 2014). Furthermore, the MADD website has factual evidence showing that from 1982 the average amount of drunk driving accident has decreased from 21,113 to 9,967 fatalities in 2014 (MADD 2017). The MADD association believes that the only way to end drunk driving is to support the officers who catch drunk drivers and enforce that everyone who gets caught drunk driving has to has to blow below a .08 BAC before being able to start a car (MADD 2017). Moreover, the government also believes that by lowering the drinking age, it will leave high school students more vulnerable not only to death and injury also risky sexual behavior, increased risk of physical or sexual assault, and violence (Saylor 2011). There are statistics and research publicized proving that the 21 minimum legal drinking age has shown an enormous decrease in fatal car crashes and alcohol-involved assault and violence among the population under 21. The government believes that if the drinking age were to be lowered, the population under 21 would worsen the binge drinking culture as would be no law punishing the irresponsible use of alcohol (Saylor 2011). Overall, because the NHSA has statistics and studies showing that a 21-year-old minimum Gregory Portner !4 drinking age has reduced alcohol-related accidents, they do not believe it would benefit the nation to lower the drinking age. Both stakeholders agree that their biggest concern pertains to the safety of young adults from the ages for 18-20. Mother Against Drunk Driving do not want to see drunk driving fatalities and college presidents do not want to see college students binge drink. Safety is both of their main concern. Both stakeholders have their reasons to believe that lowering the drinking age could either hurt or resolve the binge drinking population in America. It has been shown through studies and reviews of interventions that aimed to decrease alcohol in college populations have found that alcohol education and awareness programs are not effective when used alone and often fail even when used in combination with other (Saylor 2011). As a result, a new comprise must be thought to satisfy both stockholders. It is understood that drunk driving accidents among American college students is a problem but as Fennell, Reginald said, we need new laws that would prevent drunk drivers from operating motor vehicles, not laws that prohibit legal adults (those aged 18 years and older) from drinking alcohol, although I would not be opposed to a system similar to that of some European countries where the age is even (2007). As a comprise, I propose America uses similar drinking laws to Switzerland by lowering the minimum drinking age of beer and wine to 18 and liquor/spirits remain 21. American college students need to learn how to enjoy a beer or a glass of wine before being exposed to the college binge drinking culture. This would reduce the amount of changes for Minor In Possession and give young adults a chance to be treated like adults. Instead of cracking down on the consumption of alcohol among the youth and spending millions of dollars from stopping 18-year olds from drinking a beer, the Gregory Portner !5 government should spend more money on checkpoints, drunk driving educational classes, to prohibit drinking and driving. This compromise would both benefit the National Highway Safety Administration, the government, and college presidents by giving young adults the right to legally enjoy a beer, instead of chugging liquor not to get charged with a MIP or fake ID felony. America is one of the only countries in the world with a drinking age as high as 21 but is also one of the only countries with a binge drinking culture. After the 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act in 1984 was put in place, states without a 21-year-old minimum drinking age would lose 10% of their federal highway funding leaving 18 year-olds to drink illegally. Both Amethyst Initiative, representing college presidents, and Mother Against Drunk Driving want a safe and responsible drinking culture in America but both stakeholders have different views on how to attain that goal. As a result, I propose to use a Switzerland laws as a template to shape future drinking retraction in America, because as shown throughout the country, the binge drinking culture does not exist. Both sides do not want drunk driving fatalities or a binge drinking culture and the only way to achieve a mutual goal is by changing the laws of the legal drinking age. Gregory Portner !6 Work Cited WebMD, Sept. 2007, http://www.theamethystinitiative.org/statement/A. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. WebMD, Sept. 2017, http://www.madd.org/about-us/mission/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS). 2014. Washington D.C. https://www-fars.nhtsa.dot.gov/Crashes/CrashesAlcohol.aspx. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) in 190 Countries. 2016. Santa Monica, CA. http://drinkingage.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=004294. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among  American Journal Of Public Health 100.6 (2010): 986-992. Business Source Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Fennell, Reginald. Drinking Is  And Nothing You Can Do About : The Problem With The 21-Year-Old Minimum Drinking  Journal Of American College Health 56.3 (2007): 213-216. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Saylor, Drew K.1. Heavy Drinking On College Campuses: No Reason To Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age Of  Journal Of American College Health 59.4 (2011): 330-333. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.