Pervaiz 1 Mariam Pervaiz Adam Carter ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Prostitution: Naughty or Nice? Prostitution is one of the oldest professions known to man. It dates back to the third millennium B.C. in the ancient region of Mesopotamia. The sex trade evolved and grew right alongside the growth and development of human culture. According to The Oxford dictionary, the definition of a prostitute is a person, typically a woman, who engages in sexual activity for payment. Prostitution is such a highly controversial topic that it has the entire globe entertained on the issues of legalization versus abolishment. There are several organizations that believe prostitution is not something that is just going to disappear by abolishment. Instead, these organizations believe that prostitution should be legalized so the profession could be safer for women. On the other hand, there are several organizations that believe prostitution should not even be considered a profession and be terminated because women are treated like objects and are unsafe. Organizations such as The Sex Workers Outreach Program (SWOP) support the legalization of prostitution and organizations such as The Support Project support the abolishment of it. The Sex Workers Outreach Program (SWOP) and The Support Project have completely different views and ways of approaching the idea of prostitution, but if the organizations come together, they could propose a compromise. Prostitution can be regulated by the state government by opening brothels instead of it being a legal business run by pimps along city streets. Pervaiz 2 An organization that supports the idea of legalizing prostitution is SWOP, otherwise known as The Sex Workers Outreach Program. They are a national, nonviolent social justice organization that is devoted to the necessary human rights of the people involved in the sex industry. They focus on ending violence and stigma by educating the community and raising awareness through advocacy. The Sex Workers Outreach Program was founded in the Bay area in 2003. They coordinated the International Day to End Violence Against Sex Workers, a global event that still raises awareness. According to the SWOP homepage, they promote decriminalization as the best way of decreasing harm and promoting agency among people involved in the sex industry and are dedicated to the respect, safety, and autonomy of all sex workers, and seek to amplify the voices of those who are left out of discourse around the issues they discuss. Since the day SWOP was organized, they have had hundreds of activists engaged in local chapters and projects that have been aimed to educated the public and policy-makers on the direct harms against sex workers and their communities. The main idea for any organization supporting the legalization of prostitution is the safety concerns for women and anyone involved in sex work. According to Samantha Majic, an Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science, many sex worker supporters know that there can be serious coercions in prostitution and highly reject human trafficking, but the harms that may happen in prostitution are not characteristic to it, but its criminal status, which makes it hard for prostitutes to work together, develop fair labor standards, and call the police if they are in danger (369). sex workers have been harmed because they do not have any legal (Majic 369). Organizations such as the Sex Workers Outreach Project who are for the legalization of prostitution only want to see the improvement in the sex industry and the safety of all women involved. Although, there Pervaiz 3 are many people who support organizations such as SWOP, there are people who have completely opposite views on it. There are many organizations across the U.S. who are for the abolishment of prostitution, for example, The Support Project. According to The Support Project home page, the organization is a feminist, voluntary organization that raises awareness of the effect of male violence against women. A lot of their key work is finding the links between different forms of male violence and promoting responses to the abuse of women and children. This organization understands the definition of prostitution as the demand for men to buy sex (The Support Project). The organization blames the act of prostitution on men because if they were not prepared to buy sex, then prostitution would not be such a global problem. The organization does not view prostitution as a profession, nor do they see women as sex workers, but as victims. The Support Project see that the legalization of prostitution would also legitimize exploitation. They believe that women are led into prostitution by a series of factors. Some of the factors that are the leading cause for prostitution is abuse, violence, poverty, mental ill health, trauma, child sexual abuse, previous sexual violence, and drug and alcohol abuse. This organization sees a major problem in prostitution because it leads to human/sex trafficking. According to Janet Halley, Royall Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, necessarily constitutes a form of trafficking because it necessarily reproduces and enforces subordination of women by (349). The feminist views in this organization sees that legalization of prostitution is not going to help the fact that women are constantly being abused, raped, and kidnapped for human and sex trafficking. are prostituted in order to be degraded and subjugated to cruel and brutal treatment without human limits; it is the opportunity to do this that is exchanged when women are bought and sold for (Halley 349). Several Pervaiz 4 organizations that support the abolishment of prostitution also support the idea of prostitution not being acceptable because of the unfair treatment of women. The main goal for the Support Project is not only for the abolishment of prostitution, but for the safety and care of the women who are involved. Among all the several organizations who are for and against prostitution, common ground can be found in between them, which can lead to a compromise. Both organizations, The Sex Workers Outreach Program and The Support Project, can agree that prostitution comes with some consequences and risks which can be rape, violence, abuse, human/sex trafficking, and STDs. Both organizations also have a common goal, which is the safety of all women involved in prostitution. The Sex Worker Outreach Program and The Support Project both raise awareness and educate the population about the issues at hand involving prostitution. In the end, both organizations do not want rape, violence, human/trafficking, abuse, and STDs toward women. Based off of common ground, a compromise can be made if both organizations come together. Instead of completely abolishing and legalizing prostitution, state governments should regulate it and make it illegal along city streets. Most people know that nothing will be solved if the government terminated prostitution all together. Already, prostitution is considered illegal almost everywhere in the U.S. but that does not stop anyone from continuing the practice. Now, if states were to regulate prostitution, the practice can prove to be a lot safer for women. For example, only a few counties in Nevada have made prostitution legal using brothels. According to Maryann Seals, author of Worker Rights and Health Protection for Prostitutes: A Comparison of The Netherlands, Germany, and Nevada, conducted within the brothels is legal, but all other forms of prostitution, solicitation, pandering, and living from the Pervaiz 5 earnings of a prostitute remain criminal (791). By using brothels, women have shelter from the streets and do not have to worry about Johns and pimps. Brothels makes prostitution safer by health regulations, health testing, addition of rules such as the use of condoms, and prevention of abuse and violence. It was discovered by researchers that brothels main concern for safety was an advantage to prostitutes in Nevada (Seals 793). use many safety precautions including alarm buttons in all rooms, listening devices, and management surveillance found the brothels were free of drug use, violence, minors, disease, and trafficking and concluded that the brothels provide a safe and hygienic avenue for (793). Nevada ended up proving that regulation of prostitution was at an advantage for the women. To start the compromise, states must first act upon the vote of prostitution. The organizations must come together and promote the compromise across the nation in order for the politicians to be engaged and get the vote going. Both organizations can agree to the fact that the safety and choices come first. If The Sex Workers Outreach Program and The Support Project come together in support of the safety of women then this compromise can be met which in the future can lead to less violence, abuse, rape, human/sex trafficking, and STDS. Although there are many organizations that are pitted against each other concerning prostitution, such as The Sex Workers Outreach program and The Support Project, they can happen to find common ground that can be proved to be useful in finding a compromise. Again, both organizations only wish for the security and protection of women. If government regulation through brothels exists throughout the U.S., then women will end up being safe in the practice. In the end, violence, rape, abuse, STDs, and any other dangers involved in prostitution will end up decreasing over time, which is beneficial to everyone. Pervaiz 6 Works Cited Fanni, Zac . History Of Prostitution: How Old Is The Sex Sabotagetimes.com, sabotagetimes.com/sex/a-history-of-prostitution-how-old-is-the-sex-trade. Halley, Janet. the International to the Local in Feminist Legal Responses to Rape, Prostitution/Sex Work, and Sex Trafficking: Four Studies in Contemporary Governance Harvard Journal of Law and Gender, vol. 29, no. 2, 2006, pp. 335 424. Alternative Press Index. Majic, Samantha. of Women, Politics & Journal of Women, Politics, and Policy, vol. 36, no. 4, 18 Nov. 2015, pp. www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/1554477X.2015.1082889. Project, Support. Support Project - Support Project Home, www.womenssupportproject.co.uk/content/home/1/. Seals, Maryann. Rights and Health Protection for Prostitutes: A Comparison of The Netherlands, Germany, and Health Care for Women International, vol. 36, no. 7, 2013, pp. doi:10.1080/07399332.2013.850085. Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project, www.new.swopusa.org/.