Weiner 1 Emily Weiner Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.012 27 February 2017 Portrayal of Mental Health Through Images One in five Americans will experience mental illness in their lives (About NAMI). Mental health is a prevalent problem in the United States. Many organizations are actively working to improve conditions for those who suffer from mental health issues, to educate the population, to raise awareness, and to promote the early recognition of mental illness. One of the most recognized groups is The National Alliance on Mental Illness. The National Alliance on Mental Illness uses images to convey their message on mental health. Using ethos, pathos, and logos, the two images chosen effectively portray mission to their audience. The National Alliance on Mental Illness is a national organization that promotes the wellbeing of those who suffer from mental illnesses (NAMI). They provide services to those with mental health issues and educate the population on what mental health means and what mental illnesses are. Mental illness has been a topic of controversy for a long time. Many misconceptions exist when it comes to mental illnesses, and the only way to reverse these misconceptions is through education. The images chosen are produced by NAMI and their mission is to help those with mental illnesses and educate the population. In image one ethos is used to add credibility to the image. The image uses the word repeatedly. The large print of the word draws the attention. This is Weiner 2 supposed to reassure the audience that what reading is accurate. The unnecessary repetition of the word has the same effect on the reader. The white color of the words symbolizes truth. The color white is associated with purity. This association leads the to unconsciously believe that the information is accurate because when something that is pure it be deceitful. It is important for the readers to believe that the images are creditable when reeducating the population and rising awareness. Pathos is used in image one to grabs the attention by appealing to their emotions. The curvy font chosen for words changes the tone that the facts are read in. The somber tone that the font creates allows the reader to emotionally connect with the image. The cartooned depiction of people holding hands shows the reader how common mental illness. It makes reader aware of how many people they must know that suffer from mental illness. This raises sympathy for those who suffer from mental illness. The depiction of the people holding hands has a separate meaning for those whom have a mental illness. It shows those people that they are not alone. The blue color of background of the largest fact presented makes the reader empathic. Seriousness or sadness often symbolizes blue; this is what the color makes the reader feel. Logos is used in Image One a few ways. One of those ways is through the order of the facts shown. If it is true that 44 million adults experience mental illness each year (Image One), then the two facts presented next follow logically. If a large quantity of people throughout the world experience a mental illness it is not hard to believe that the amount of American that experience mental health problem and have serious mental health illnesses is high. Another way Image one Weiner 3 logos is represented is through the depictions of the people holding hands. This is a clear representation of the facts presented. It reinforces the logical notion of the facts. It is important for the image to make logical sense, because it is being used to inform an audience. Image two uses ethos in many ways. One example is, some of the cartoon images of people are dressed in professional attire. This professional attire is used to add credibility to the piece. A good portion of the image consists of different shades of blue. Blue is often used as a tool to represent credibility. The picture depicts the entire United States, this represents how the organization is nationwide. The idea that something is nationwide adds a sense of consistency to the image. Most of the colors used in the image are muted. The muted colors show that image has a serious tone. Another tool used in image two is pathos. Each of the people pictured have different ethnicities and different clothing, but they all are frowning. They are depicted in dull colors and surrounded by different kinds of mental illnesses. The blue clouds in the background of the image represents the clouds that people with mental illness have over their heads. These factors come together to evoke sadness, relatability, and sympathy. The image states million (Image in the center of the United States this means that 2 million American suffer from one of the major mental illnesses listed. The different ethnicities of the people placed throughout the drawing of the united states represents how everyone gender and ethnicity, all over the USA are affect by mental illness. It is important to shows the readers how mental illness affects everyone to gain an emotional connection to the image. Image two Weiner 4 Logos are used in the image in several ways. The image is representational, meaning people must put together words and symbols to understand the true meaning of the image. Although it specifically say that two million American of all different genders and ethnicities suffer from mental illnesses such as major depression, PTSD, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia all over America, you can logically piece it together. The different people, and the different mental illnesses that surround the words all lie in an outline of the united states lead to this conclusion. According to the image, its logical to think that two million suffer from major mental illnesses. NAMI intended to uses both images to help people who suffer from mental illnesses not feel alone and to educate the population on mental illnesses. Image one achieves what it was created to do. The facts paired with the visual representation of the people holding hands educates people about mental illnesses, creates sympathy for those who do not have mental illnesses, and makes those who suffer from mental illnesses not feel so alone. The second image gives a visual representation of different people who suffer from mental illnesses. Although they achieved the goal of making those who suffer not feel so alone, by showing people of different genders and races that have these conditions all over the USA, they could have had a clearer representation for educational purposes. If they clearly stated million Americans suffer from major mental the message would have been clearer. Overall, the images are effective. Mental health is an important topic in the United States that needs to be addressed. The National Alliance on Mental Illness provides resources for people with mental illness, and educates the population on mental illness among other things. NAMI uses images to convey their message on mental health. Using ethos, pathos, and logos, the two images chosen effectively portray mission to their audience. The mission of the images is to help those with Weiner 5 mental illnesses and educate the population. The first images accomplished this fully, but the second could be improved to be clearer. Overall, the images do a good job at conveying their intended messages. IMAGE 1: IMAGE 2: Weiner 6 Works Cited National Alliance on Mental Illness www.nami.org/About-NAMI NAMI.org, 2015, www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-By-theNumbers Accessed 27 February 2017 NACO.org, NAMI, 2015, http://www.naco.org/blog/ten-ways-engage-people- affected-mental-illness-your-community Accessed 27 February 2017