Frank 1 Emma Frank Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 012 27 February, 2017 A Rhetorical Appeal to Education In the year 2009, a group of students attending Princeton University came together and discussed the importance of educational equality among students. This discussion eventually led to the founding chapter of the organization Students for Education Reform in 2011. Comprised of seventy-five chapters across twenty-two states, SFER, fights for educational rights through the participation in projects, campaigns, and protests (Our People: The organization has been active on social media accounts, updating viewers of national issues occurring in the education system. Students for Education Reform has released images to illustrate their views on educational rights. By utilizing ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos within these pictures, the message of maximizing a academic career is successfully delivered by this organization. SFER is full of ambitious college students and strong advocates of academic reform. Though the organization is relatively young, the group has grown to more than a thousand members in about six years Members have voiced their opinions in projects such as the Shut Us campaign, the Would MLK project, and the it rally (Our Power Campaigns & Events). Each of these projects has focused on helping to increase teacher salary, close racial gaps, and improve communication within school systems Campaigns & This grass root organization has tackled on national problems in hopes of bettering a educational experience. Frank 2 One image released by Students for Education Reform is an image that utilizes the ethos appeal. Ethos is defined as a rhetorical appeal that establishes credibility within an image or advertisement. Students for Education Reform released an image that includes the face of Dr. Martin Luther King. MLK was an active and well-respected advocate of the 20 th century who fought for civil rights. By including, Martin Luther King, the picture released has credibility based on the individual illustrated. Along with Dr. Martin Luther King, a symbol representing Students for Education Reform is intertwined into the picture. The small red house, representing SFER allows for credibility to be established due to the legitimacy the organization holds. Logos or the logical appeal is included within the image, which is understood as a technique that provides accurate evidence to viewers. Logos in the picture is found through the explanation of Dr. Martin Luther King, stating that he fought for This simple description of MLK allows for the image to appeal to audience members by including an accurate piece of information as to what this figure did for society (Figure 1). Pathos, or the rhetorical device that appeals to emotion can be found within Figure 1. The emotion can be illustrated through the low levels of saturation on Dr. Martin Luther Face contrasted with a dark background. Black-and-white imaging techniques is utilized to create a somber and serious tone. The depressing atmosphere allows for viewers to remember the loss of a great man who died fighting for the equality of others. Figure 1 Frank 3 Lastly, this first image released by Students for Education Reform utilizes the rhetorical appeal kairos. Kairos is defined as a technique that focuses on illustrating time and increasing levels of urgency. The quote: still have this pinpoints how vital change is needed within the education system- a change that needs to occur now. The use of unifies all audience members as one, and the reference to the speech have a establishes a sense of familiarity (Figure 1).This sense of familiarity and unification causes audience members to work together in changing current policies within the education system (Figure 1). Students for Education Reform released another image that utilizes ethos: the appeal of credibility and pathos: the appeal of emotion. First, regarding ethos, a bold, red house that represents the organization serves as a tactic to validate the image produced. Pathos can be found in the image through the scene of individuals sitting- most likely protesting on a rainy street. The figures in the picture are surrounded by a blue hazy film, one that establishes a serious and somewhat somber mood. Though the image is simple, the contrast in colors: a red house against a blue tint, evokes a powerful dichotomy of the past and present. Based on context clues such as the facial hair features, clothes and the NBC camera, the image appears to be taken several years ago. Conversely, the red house which represents a modern organization, symbolizes the present. This juxtaposition of time allows for the audience to see a collaboration of how past experiences are similar to ones currently happening (Figure 2). Thus, this understanding of mutualism between Figure 2 Frank 4 past and present experiences can help to create a more beneficial future. Lastly, emotion derives from the word which is a powerful and poignant word defined as something being vital and necessary for life (Figure 2). Through a selection of connotative diction and contrasting colors, the image utilizes ethos and pathos to portray its message of education reform (Figure 2). Image two uses kairos, the appeal of time to deliver its message. For starters, while the word does evoke emotion it also establishes a sense of urgency. Within the quote, the word is also included which further defines the need for immediate change (Figure 2). By including quotes that highlight the dire needs for educational changes, students are called to action and motivated to participate in those very changes. Relating back to the first image provided by Students for Education Reform, the picture distributed successfully encourages the public to go out and participate in making educational rights equal. The targeted population is not specific or skewed because the credibility of Martin Luther King is universally understood. This image utilizes all four appeals, Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, making it even more widely known by audience members (Figure 1). There were no attacks on a specific policy or individual, rather techniques were used to unify viewers under a remorseful situation and simply encourage them to make an educational difference. Students for Education Reform released another image that worked to highlight the importance of fixing issues within the education system. Like the first image, image two targets a broad population of individuals. This broadness can first be exemplified through the picture of an event that occurred several years ago. People at that time who witnessed or even heard about this event may recognize it in this image. By including a hashtag, the younger population is targeted based on their knowledge of internet lingo. The common ground produced by this image: a need for change in the education system, unifies older and younger generations. Thus, the message of Frank 5 reforming problems within the education system is delivered successfully by using several different appeals and unifying contrasting audience members (Figure 2). Students for Education Reform is a national organization that fights to fix problems in the education system. Participating in projects and campaigns, this group, comprised of college students and advocates of education reform has voiced their opinions for over six years. Two images released by Students for Education Reform, with the appeals. Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, encourage the targeted audiences to go out and participate in bettering the education system in order to maximize a academic career. Frank 6 Citation Figure 1. SFER California. dream is not Twitter, Students for Education Reform California. Accessed 20 February 2017, Figure 2. SFER National. the 20th century, all the way to now, students are aligned for Twitter, Students for Education Reform California. Accessed 20 February 2017, https://twitter.com/SFERnational/media Our Power. Campaigns & Accessed 15 February 2017. https://www.studentsforedreform.org/campaigns/ Our People. Accessed 15 February 2017. https://www.studentsforedreform.org/our- people/