1 Adam Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeals: Green Vegan The environment has always been an issue at hand, especially when it comes to greenhouse gases and CO2 emissions. Green Vegan is a stakeholder that recognizes these issues at the source - the meat industry. Green Vegan advocates for the end of animal agriculture due to its detrimental role in the destruction of ecosystems and pollution. On their website, they display an array of images in order to persuade the viewer to their side of the argument. a viewer looks at something, visual rhetoric is in play. They are able to look at the way things are designed and make judgments based on the designs. There are two images on Green website that fit the framework of rhetorical appeals the most. In the image, one can see that the goal is to show the CO2 emissions and how these emissions are continuing with animal agriculture. In the second image, the main goal of the photo appears to be ethos because of the distress drawn across the women face in the photo as well as flames igniting in the 2 background. Vegan is able to interpret their arguments and relevance of these two images by using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. Ethos is an appeal to ethics, it is used to convince someone of the character or credibility of the persuader. A celebrity would be a good example of providing ethos. In the first image, Green Vegan fails to identify an appeal to ethos. It would have been apparent if the logo of the source they received it from was on the photo, for instance, the United States Environmental Protections Agency - or something along those lines. In the second image, a Shell logo is present. Shell has set standards in regards to the environment: emissions of greenhouse gases, using less energy more efficiently, burning off less gas during oil production, preventing spills, using less fresh water, and conserving biodiversity (Shell Global). Both images contained the rhetorical appeal of pathos. is vital tool of persuasion in arguments. It is a style of convincing individuals with an argument drawn out through an emotional response. In the first image, it is harder to distinguish the appeal to pathos. Nevertheless, the image does evokes a sense of sadness indirectly because it is showing the Earth being polluted by CO2 emissions. The argument Green Vegan is trying to interpret in the first image is the CO2 emissions that are caused by animal agriculture. In the second image, pathos is extremely evident. The distressed look on the women carrying an empty water bucket could compel the viewer to feel sad and worried. It appears as if she is out of water. One of Green Vegans arguments is the pollution of water caused by the meat industry. By showing an empty water bucket they are able to capture this argument within the photo. In addition, the 3 flames that appear to be burning forests in the back could stimulate fear and sadness in the viewer. The argument Green Vegan is trying to get across is that animal agriculture pollutes water and destroys forest land. They are able to capture their arguments by using the rhetorical appeals of ethos and within the images. The additional two appeals that are present are logos and kairos. concentration on the message. is also referred to as to it pinpoints internal consistency and clarity within the argument. individuals are persuaded simply by facts. In the first image logos is distinguishable in the writing representing Green argument that the meat industry is responsible for the emission. It has been proven that CO2 emissions are caused by animal agriculture, thus, being an excellent rhetorical feature to use (Mcdermott 53). On the other hand, Green Vegan could have strengthened the rhetorical feature by stating a statistic of how much CO2 is emitted yearly by the meat industry. A statistic would have been a more superior way to supported their argument. In addition, the use of a red and white stripped gas pipe appeals to logos because those colors are usually associated with the American Flag. It could potentially be trying to symbolize the burning of America because of the harmful emissions of the meat industry. In the second image, logos is represented in the Shell logo. The Shell logo is also an appeal to ethos as stated in the previous paragraph. To strengthen their appeal to logos in the image, Green Vegan could have added a statistic about Shell. For instance, discussing how they have set standards for the environment. This would assist Green Vegan in delivering the argument that others should take action as well. Kairos refers to the timeliness of the argument. In the second image, a black hole appears to be present in the left corner. It is an erie theory that once in a black hole things are lost forever and can not be retrieved basically signifying the end, thus, it could be representing without the end to animal 4 agriculture Earth will be lost forever. Both images fail to represent the direct rhetoric of kairos, however, the viewer does get a sense of urgency while looking at the images. Both contain extremely drastic events - CO2 emissions, a black hole, forest fires, and a distressed women carrying an empty water container. Unequivocally, the argument of acting now could have been improved by simply stating, something similar. A simple statement would ultimately confirm to the viewer that there is urgency in the topic and they need to act now. The environment is not something that should be taken lightly, it is vital for survival. Green Vegan advocates for a vegan diet in order to achieve a healthy stable environment. Hence, Green Vegan pinpoints the culprit of deterioration of the environment to be animal agriculture. By the use of the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos Green Vegan is able to validate their arguments. The rhetorical appeal of pathos stood out the most. On the other hand, some of their rhetorical appeals could have been enhanced. By strengthening the other rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos and kairos Green Vegan could have significantly improved their argument. On the contrary, they still are able to capture the viewer and get their argument across. 5 Works Cited  Dr. Williams : USC Upstate : English Program / Ethos-Pathos-Logos-The-3-Rhetorical-Appeals. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. MCDERMOTT, MAT. Assessing The Meat Impact On  Hinduism Today 39.1 (2017): 52-57. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Shell  Shell Global. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Who We  Green Vegans. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.