Shayhorn 1 Zachary Shayhorn Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 Composition II February 26, 2017 The Propaganda In the United States, there are a multitude of government agencies that practice mass surveillance of the everyday citizen for national security purposes. Many citizens, however, see this as a great affront to their right to privacy. The National Security Agency is a fore runner in mass surveillance and continuously gather information on all United States citizens in order to determine possible national security threats. The NSA rarely presents any form of propaganda or other media based ads and pictures to defend their position on the topic, however the ones they do are fairly straightforward in their message. The two pictures analyzed in this paper appeal to all of the rhetorical appeals through various manors, Logos and Ethos are presented by the large arsenal of advanced technologies, Pathos through their use of front line soldiers and Kairos through the gestures such as arrows and urgent hand movements with people dressed for immediate duty. These images are used by the NSA in order to show to the average American that they are an organization for good, one to be looked to in times of peace and war to keep the citizenry safe from attacks. The National Security Agency, NSA for short, is the government agency charged with the protection of United States communications and other information systems against any and all attempts to of network warfare. The NSA takes part in nearly all government involvement in internet and advancement of technology, this includes the controversial cybersecurity and the Shayhorn 2 overall protection of any and all government and soldier communications. This organization also has a hand in gathering information of possible national and international threats (NSA). The main reason that the NSA is seen as such a large threat to citizens and their rights as citizens of the United States is the massive preemptive surveillance that they perform on all of America. The main focus of NSA surveillance is domestic, targeting possible threats from within the United States however, their reach also branches out to all USA occupied areas. While the goal is to find, and stop potential domestic terrorists including any and all radical extremists and because and extremist groups today use the power of the Internet, especially social media, to spread their messages of hate and intolerance, and to recruit new the NSA needs to be able to track all communications between the citizen body in order to properly defend against these threats (NSA). This may seem strange as we put a lot of trust in our government they argue that they must use mass surveillance, and though it seems a bit farfetched, through this mass surveillance the NSA collects a lot of rather private information that is being communicated between two people. However, the NSA assures citizens that this information will never see the light of day and that only machines designed to search for key words will ever view this information. This, of course, is constructed to keep us safe from any harm that may that may be waiting in the shadows for us. This type of surveillance is an instance of what Bryce Clayton Newell in his article Massive Metadata Machine: Liberty, Power, and Secret Mass Surveillance in the U.S. and calls positive liberty, because regular citizens are not being hounded or coerced out of our rights (Newell 508). This positive liberty is, according to Newell, exactly what need to keep the citizen body safe while preserving freedom and dignity. The NSA rarely portrays itself in any ad marketing, preferring to simply do their job Shayhorn 3 to protect the nation. However, when the NSA does send out some sort of propaganda its purpose is to earn the trust of the American citizens. The NSA is big on presenting themselves and their actions as the logical choice in the fight against terrorism. Therefore, they heavily rely on the appeal of Logos in nearly all of their advertisements. The before mentioned Logos is the attempt at the audience by the use of arguments that they will perceive as (Rhetoric Matters). In the first image a room is lit from the light of a plethora of computer screens displaying what looks like maps news and statistics with one being the logo of the NSA. This show of technology is meant to convince the observer that the NSA has the sophisticated technology that is needed to locate one possible threat from millions of non-threats. They are presenting themselves as the logical choice to allow to practice mass surveillance in the name of safety, a type of anyone can do it, they mentality. Paired with this ability to find the potential hazards the portrayal of the soldiers in the first image is meant to imply that they NSA can do more than just find them they can also act on what they find. The second image retains similar elements from the first image, for example, the portrayal of the city at dusk when all the citizens are going home after a work is meant to incite a feeling of similarity and kinship with others who are performing a similar action to the everyday person. Humans naturally trust those who are like themselves and therefore by the NSA portraying themselves as normal humans they give the observer a subconscious reason to trust them. The appeal to the rhetorical appeal to Ethos is extremely straight forward in both of these images. According to the book Rhetoric Matters is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Rhetoric Matters 25). The general appeal to Ethos is shared between Shayhorn 4 these images. The use of soldiers and, in the first image, government offices, is used with the intent to provide trust and credibility to the images. Most people who were raised in the United States were raised to respect soldiers and their effort in the name of our country, the NSA is attempting to ride the coat tails of this trust in order to make their images more credible. There is very little emotion in either of the images presented here as that is not the goal of the pictures. The pictures are meant to present a logical and credible organization that the common man can trust with the surveillance of the American people. However, what little appeals to Pathos there are in these images come from the soldiers in the second images. As stated previously these images are meant to make the everyday US citizen feel trust toward the NSA as a whole by presenting affiliation with the trustworthy figures of the soldiers. Neither of these images are in any way attempting to incite immediate action from those who will see them. Because of this neither of them express Kairos, the appeal to timeliness/action in quick succession, in referring to the observer. The images instead represent Kairos in context with Logos. In the analysis of Logos, it is said that the images attempt to present a logical reason as to why the NSA is good at their job, it is also logical to not only be the most advanced organization but also the one that is quickest to act when it is necessary. The slash across the screen of image one is used in the same way it would be used in a comic or cartoon, it represents a quick succession of events. The information gathered in the first part of image one is represented as being nearly immediately transferred into action in the second part of the image. This image is saying that the enactment of the information is done in a very timely manner. The images presented by the NSA are meant to gain the trust of the average everyday citizen of all ages in the United States. The NSA succeeds in appealing to all of the rhetorical Shayhorn 5 appeals with these simple but fairly effective forms of propaganda. Both of these images also do something that very few other ads can say that they have accomplished, they have avoided all noticeable logical fallacies. Overall the NSA has succeeded in showing the average American that they are an organization for good, one to be looked to in times of peace and war to keep the citizenry safe from attacks. Shayhorn 6 Works Cited: Security www.nsa.gov Newell, Bryce Clayton. Massive Metadata Machine: Liberty, Power, and Secret Mass Surveillance in the U.S. and I/S: A Journal of Law and Policy for the Information Society 10(2),481-522 (2014) Web. Hoffman, Alyson Wiggs, Kimber. University of South Florida 2016 I thank my patron god Bullshiticus for all his aid he has granted me in the making of this paper.