Cyr !1 Renee Cyr English 1102 Adam Philips 23 February 2017 Images Against Fur Farming Fur farming is a controversial topic that is all over the world today. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), the largest rights organizations in the world, is one group who firmly stands against fur farming. According to the PETA website, its members believe that animals should not be eaten, worn, experimented on, or used for entertainment. The organization PETA puts out a large amount of propaganda against fur farming. Two images specifically, from PETA, are designed to persuade audience not to buy or wear animal fur. Their end goal is to stop the cruelty to animals in fur farms. PETA encourages others to stop wearing animal fur by appealing to ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, in its advertisements. With nearly five million members of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, it has become one of the largest organizations that support animals rights today An organization of this size focuses on many aspects of rights. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals targeting areas where animals suffer the most: factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade, and entertainment (Maroufi 1). Members of PETA believe that it is unethical to put animals in fur farms, they have rights too and since they cannot give consent to be used for their fur, members of PETA are their voice. Therefore, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals brings attention to what really goes on in fur farms, to inform the public of animal cruelty. These are filthy places where animals are caged up for the entirety of their lives. Because Cyr !2 fur farms are constructed to maximize profit, animals suffer the consequences In the process of cutting costs, animals live in rows of cages, fed unsafe meat, and unprotected from weather conditions. These conditions strip any rights of any living thing, leaving it to go insane. Therefore, it is number one goal to protect animals at all costs. In the hope that animals have to endure that suffering, PETA members create propaganda against fur farming with image one and two. Image 1 Image 2 Cyr !3 In ancient Greek times, ethos was initially an element of a speech that reflected on the author (Sproat). But here, ethos depicts more of the credibility. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals want their advertisements to include ethos because it makes their arguments more trustworthy to people who see them. Alecia Beth Moore is in the first image which accounts for its credibility. She is an American singer-song writer and is better known as Pink, her stage name. Furthermore, logo on the bottom of each image adds to its ethos appeal. PETA is a well-known organization and with their recognizable logo just make the images more reputable. The second image also has a famous person to add credibility. Brian McFadden is also a singer-song writer but in Ireland. McFadden is one of the lead singers on a boy band in Ireland called Westlife. As stated before, both images use ethos to portray its credibility to the audience. Not only is credibility of an image important but also the emotions the audience feel when looking at it. Pathos is another Greek word to describe the elements used to bring out emotions (Sproat). Happiness is shown in image one because Pink is smiling. Pink is happy for choosing not to wear fur and is enough in her own skin so others should be too. Pink believes so much in fight that animals should not be worn, that she would go This gives off bold feelings that Pink is comfortable enough in her own skin so people have to wear skin. Unlike image one, image two uses more sympathetic feelings to pursued their audience. Winston, Brian dog, associates with the emotions of all animal lovers. No one wants to hurt their own dog or other pet to wear its fur. The words, your makes the image more personal. Image two compels people to think of their beloved animal at home. This brings out their compassionate emotions for their Cyr !4 own pet; but furthermore brings out their love of all animals, including Brain cute dog. Both images use a surplus of pathos to get the attention. It is logically important for PETA to make attention grabbing advertisements in order to spread their movement. Logos is referred to as how logical or reasonable a text is (Sproat). Image one and two both seem to appeal to logos. Logically if Pink would wear nothing rather than wear fur, so should the audience. Because she is a well known person and possibly a role model to some, the audience should follow in her footsteps to not wear fur. It is reasonable to say that it is cruel to kill animals for their fur if you are already comfortable in your own. Pink would rather go to extreme measures to wear nothing before ever wearing fur. Along with image one, the second image also appeals to logos. The text states that if you wear your own fur wear any (Rose). Logically owners do not want their dog or other pets to be put in fur farms to be used and killed for their fur. Therefore, it is reasonable that if someone cares enough about one animal, they should not wear another fur. Within the text of both images, there is an appeal to logos. Not only is it important for the advertisements to make sense to its audience but also try to get others to act on the issue. Kairos another rhetorical appeal used by PETA that is about timeliness (Sproat). Once people see their advertisements, kairos is the part when they will take action. In the image there is not much kairos present. However, since Pink is a popular in society, she makes argument stance on the issue becomes relevant just because Pink is in the advertisement. It is more obvious in image two that kairos exists. There is a call to action when it explicitly says the in the text (Rose). members want other people and inactive members to act now by uniting with Cyr !5 their organization to get rid of fur farms in Ireland. Image one and two are coaxing their audience to against fur farming by not wearing animal fur. With advertisements, they are able to utilize four rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to create a strong argument against wearing fur. By using ethos, the organization and its images were able to be portrayed as credible and a reliable source to trust. Pathos was applied to pull out the emotions and make the advertisements more individualized. Next, logos was looked at to persuade others by giving reasonable claims. Lastly, kairos was the action and timeliness telling its audience what to do today. PETA needs to use these advertisements to reach out to their audience and urge them to help out with their movement to stop wearing animal fur. Even with the help of these images relaying their message, fur farming is still a huge issue that PETA is dealing with today. Cyr !6 Works Cited Color Psychology, What Do Colors Mean and  Digital Skratch. Digital Skratch. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Rather Go Naked than Wear . Digital image. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Maroufi, Chogollah. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Rose, Ruth. You Wear Your Dog. Please Wear Any  Digital image. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, Dana Lynn Driscoll, and Allen Brizee. Rhetorical  Purdue OWL. 27 Apr. 2012. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.