Ayrton Ciancimino English Composition II Maria Theodosiou February 25, 2017 Sea Shepherd Campaigns: A Visual Analysis The issue of ocean conservation is one of much debate in recent times. A number of groups and organizations have been founded to help preserve the ocean and combat others who wish to harm it. On the opposing side are groups such as fisheries, hunting groups, and industries. One such group that stands for the conservation is Sea Shepherd, an internationally recognized organization that urges for the protection of the oceans and commonly takes up campaigns to combat such activities as whaling, shark finning, and bad fishing practices. The group has released a number of visual pieces which they use to persuade their audiences to join their cause through the use of ethos, logos, and pathos. Sea Shepherd, is an organization that that seeks to preserve the ocean and inhabitants. It is considered worlds leading direct-action ocean conservation organization (Sea The group undergoes a number of campaigns in the field to combat practices that they deem improper and harmful to the health. Major campaigns that the organization runs are anti-whaling and anti-finning campaigns, and campaigns that fight bad fishing practices. All of these constitute the organizations mission that they wish to fulfill, a better and safer ocean. The first of the visuals, is a poster image made to promote Sea Shepherds anti-whaling campaigns. The visual works in attempts to gain support for the cause, which seeks to put an end to the harmful practice of whale hunting which has endangered many species of whale. The image depicts a whale fitted with a number of military grade weapons such as missile launchers and rockets. The image states that they can protect themselves, we will do it for them. (visual This quote further adds to the idea that the organization wishes to stop hunting on these animals and poses the whales as defenseless and helpless animals in need of support. The image tries to elicit emotion from the audience in order to gain support. This is he pathos of the visual. The image urges for the viewer to have sympathy for the defenseless whales that are being hunted and to see the need to help them. The image also has a bit of light humor in it, with the whimsical image of the heavily armed whale being used to catch the attention and to pull them in, with the quote holding most of the sympathy inducing power. The picture contains ethos in the Sea Shepherd logo stamped on, showing that this is a cause worth fighting for as deemed by the organization. The image does not contain much logos, save for that it points towards the fact that whales do not have the defense mechanisms needed to protect themselves, therefore people must step in to help. This idea of defenselessness also ties into the Kairos of the visual by showing that if support for the cause is not issued and these whales are not protected from hunting, that they may have the potential to become endangered or even extinct. The second visual by Sea Shepherd comes from their campaigns to stop finning practices on sharks. Finning is a form of shark hunting. It is the act of cutting off shark fins to be used for products such as shark fin soup, a popular dish in Asia, the primary area where finning practices take place. The main issue in finning lies in that fisherman will capture the sharks and simply cut of the fin while the shark is still and discard the rest of the shark which is mostly unusable. This practice leaves the still living shark, which is unable to swim without its fin, to sink to the seafloor to slowly die, making finning an incredibly wasteful and inhumane practice. The visual seeks to gather advocacy against such practice through the use of its own rhetoric. The image depicts a Chinese wedding scene, complete with the bride and groom standing next to their wedding cake. The joyous wedding occasion however is juxtaposed by the scattered and bloodied carcasses of finned sharks. The red of the blood stains the white dress of the bride. A single text box states that 60 sharks are killed for every Chinese and that people must give up shark fin soup to give sharks a chance (visual The red stained dress of the bride can also symbolize the blood that stains all who are involved. Even if one is not he fisherman directly killing the fish, the consumers of shark products are just as guilty and should be held just as responsible for the issue at hand. The image primarily relies on its use of pathos to elicit a sense of disgust for the practice and shame for letting the act continue. As with the first, the Sea Shepherd logo stands to be the source of credibility and ethos. This visual does however pull in more logos than the first visual, with the quote giving numerical evidence of about how many sharks are killed per wedding. This is of course an astounding number, and the visual hopes that this evidence will sway the audience. The timeliness of the image lies in that if the audience does not act now, more and more sharks may be victimized by finning practices, with many dying wedding by wedding. Overall, Sea Shepherds use of visuals allows for an effective impact on audiences to support the cause and seek to work towards ocean conservation. The images also further promote the anti-whaling and anti-finning campaigns. Through the usage of visual rhetoric, Sea Shepherd is able to accomplish their goals. Visual 1 Visual 2 Works Cited Copyranter. The Hardcore Ads of the Sea Shepherd. 11 February 2013. Website. 25 February 2017. Sea Shepherd. 2017. Website. 25 February 2017.