Project 2 Outline Intro The two images are from the NCPA and the images are showing the view on the stance when it comes to if college athletes should get paid or not. The NCPA stance on if college athletes should get paid or not is that the college athletes should get paid. The first image is a person dressed up in a suit and then a mask in a locker room, with words on the top of the image saying the $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes. The second image is of a college holding up a sign that says College Athlete Anything it also says account username where people can send money to him. Both of the images convey an appeal to the viewers to get on the side of the NCPA and how the college athletes should get paid Body 1 Both images both have a person to help convey their message that they are trying to express. In the first image uses the person in the image as a form a pathos to give the viewer an emotion of fear for the college athletes because the person in the photo is wearing a mask. In the second image the person as a form of pathos to give the viewer an emotion of concern because the person in the second image is holding a sign is very similar to people who are homeless who hold signs when asking for money. In the first image uses the person in the image as a form of ethos because the person is wearing a suit and when someone is wearing a suit can show credibility. In the second image uses the person in the image as a form ethos because the person in the photo is a college athletes so he knows firsthand the hardships the college athletes have to deal with. There is not much logos pertaining to the person in both images because there is no logic that the person in each photo is trying to convey Body 2 Both images both uses worlds in the picture to help give a message to the viewer about what the NCPA is trying to fight for which is for college athletes getting paid. In the first image uses the words in the image as a form of pathos by saying the college athletes are getting robbed makes the viewer want to find out more on how the college athletes are getting robbed. In the second image uses the words in the image as pathos to makes the viewer feel sad for the college athlete because the sign is basically saying the college athlete is broke and is begging for the money, which people do not really want to see someone that you asking for money like that. In the first image uses the words in the image in form of ethos by making it look like a headline on a newspaper article or magazine article and usually newspapers and magazine articles can be credible from all the background the writer takes to make their article credible. In the second image, there is no form of ethos in the picture from the words in the picture because to the viewer does not that person who says that he is a broke college athlete really is a broke college athlete. In both images the words use logos by trying to convince the viewer that the college athletes are losing money from somewhere from being robbed or not receiving any money Body 3 The timing of both images is very convenient for the NCPA because in college sports the topic of college athletes is a big issue. The use of kairos in the first picture is convenient because the NCPA is having a metaphoric fight against the NCAA for college athletes getting paid. The use of kairos in the second picture is convienient for the NCPA because in the photo the person is standing in front of a ESPN telecast program, which helps bring more light to the issue. Conclusion Both of the images use many ways for the viewer to get on the side of the NCPA when it comes to if college athletes should get paid while they play for their college. Image 1: Image 2: References Ziller, T. (2016, October 17). SBNation. Retrieved from www,sbnation.com: http://www.sbnation.com/college-basketball/2016/10/17/13297796/nigel-hayes-protest- ncaa-paid-athletes National Collage Players Association, NCPA, 20 Mar. 2013, www.ncpanow.org/news/articles/the-6-billion-heist-robbing-college-athletes-under-the- guise-of-amateurism. Accessed 20 Mar. 2013. Montopoli, Brian. Study: College athletes denied $6.2 billion over four  www.cbsnews.com, 20 Mar. 2013, www.cbsnews.com/news/study-college-athletes- denied-62-billion-over-four-years/. Accessed 20 Mar. 2013.