McClure 1 Sydney McClure Maria Theodosiou Composition II February 22, 2017 Viewpoint on STEM vs STEAM The STEM program has been around for a long time. Recently, there has been a debate that an A for should be integrated into STEM, to make STEAM. According to T.J article, Engaging Students In STEM he states, term refers to teaching and learning in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and (246-247). The art program at the University of Florida, UF, created two separate images to show the difference between STEM education and STEAM education. Both pictures serve the same purpose, but show different ways of presenting the information. The audience that the university is trying to reach would be parents. Since most people in school are kids, the pictures are designed for parents to help them see how their children could be learning. To do this, they use three, out of four, rhetorical appeals in both pictures: ethos, pathos, and logos. The pictures show kairos, but one could argue that the second picture does. The art program at UF wants to gain more students and encourage the STEM program to become STEAM. To help with this, the pictures that they created use the rhetorical appeals to convince their audience that STEAM education can help improve STEM education and student growth. McClure 2 According to Allyson book, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, ethos is the appeal to credibility (27). The ethos used in both pictures, are the sources that are listed at the bottom of each picture. When UF cited the sources that they got their information from, they instantly proved the credibility of their picture. It is noticeable that the second picture has more sources than the first one. This, however, mean that the first image is less credible; it means that the second picture needed more sources because it contains more information. The use of ethos helps the author persuade the audience that his side is the right side because of the credibility and authority that he is presenting. If one was to look at each source that was cited, it would be clear that each source is reliable because the authors are highly respected sources that know their topic well. If one of the sources was from Wikipedia, that source would instantly lose its credibility, since anyone can change the information. art program was careful to pick sources that were both reliable and experienced in their field. This automatically makes the audience believe that what they are seeing in reliable. Using sources from universities and other educational programs shows parents that the information presented has been researched thoroughly, and that the information does relate to the possibility of how their children are being educated. While ethos is the appeal to credibility, pathos is the appeal to emotions (Hoffman 37). In the case of analyzing the two pictures, the pathos used is connected to the colors that were chosen. When looking at the pictures, one would notice that the STEAM section in both pictures are colorful while there are hardly any colors on the STEM side. Art is connected to color, but that the only reason why there are only colors on the STEAM side. According to article, Guide To The Psychology Of Color In Logo colors are proven to convey different emotions (Guest). On the STEM side in the second picture, the background is grey. Grey is used McClure 3 to convey practical, neutral, and timeliness emotions (Guest). This is appropriate since all the topics in STEM is focused on logic and science related fields. The background on the STEAM side is white. This makes the other colors stand out, not to mention at the top, all of the colors are presented. When all the colors are presented, like in both pictures, all the emotions that are tied to the different colors are combined, making the audience overall feel happy and calm. Ralph article Teaching The Arts Across The Curriculum: Meanings, Policy And proves that colors bring out creativity, which then improves brain function, when he states, also suggests that through an arts process, creative connections can be developed that are at the heart of cognitive (2). art program wanted their audience to feel happy and confident when they look at the STEAM side, why all the colors were picked. The color difference automatically draws the attention to the STEAM side. Having the attention drawn to the STEAM side makes it more appealing and interesting than the STEM side. Due to this, the audience will feel more connected to the STEAM side. Not only will the colors make the audience feel more connected to the STEAM side, but so will the information that is presented. The third rhetorical appeal, logos, is the appeal to logic (Hoffman 32). In this situation, the statistics that are displayed, appeal to parents in a big way. When most parents look at what school they want their child to go to, they research the schools to see which one has the best educational system. Parents are naturally hardwired to raise their child for success and to prepare them for the world. why parents look at what schools can give their child a better future. art program preys on this in the second picture. One of the biggest examples of this is at the top of the STEAM side. The picture shows that students who studied in the arts for four years, gained more points in their SAT scores than those who studied for less than a year. The picture not only says that people who study in the arts get better SAT scores, but also McClure 4 states that when art is connected to STEM related subjects, the learning in both fields deepens. John Maeda states a similar belief in his article entitled: to STEAM: Art in K-12 Is Key to Building a Strong In this article, Maeda says, we know that the challenges the next generation faces will demand creative solutions, but I would argue that STEM alone will not get us (Maeda). Based on this claim, if the audience takes that information and looks at the STEM side, they will see the statistics and facts presented as being better if art was added to the program. The three rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, and logos, can be in both pictures. The fourth appeal, kairos, however, is harder to find. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness (Hoffman 41). One could argue that in the second picture, kairos can be found at the bottom in the STEM section. The bottom shows the statistics of the U.S. STEM rankings, and the percentage of college graduates with STEM degrees. The statistics show that the U.S. is lacking in both categories. It could be argued that this information is a form of kairos, because meant to encourage the audience to act now, so that the U.S. rankings can improve before other countries have a chance to improve as well. Comparing the two pictures, the second picture has a lot of the same information included in the first picture; however, the information is conveyed differently. The first picture focuses more on the brain functions related to both sections, while the second picture includes how the different educational styles affect the brain. All the rhetorical appeals that are used, help art program encourage the audience that adding the into STEM is beneficial to student growth. The parents being encouraged to admit their children into STEAM related programs, will make it so that more students are being involved in art. More art students could eventually cause an increase in students being admitted into art program. That would help accomplish their goal in gaining more McClure 5 students, while the whole time, encouraging STEM to become STEAM. why these pictures are so important to UF. Creating these pictures not only helps the possibility to gain more students, but it also helps encourage the integration from STEM to STEAM. McClure 6 Works Cited Guest. A Guide To The Psychology Of Color In Logo  Skyje. 9 Jan. 2012. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://skyje.com/color-in-logo-design/>. Kennedy, T. J, and M. R.L, Odell. Engaging Students In STEM  Science Education International 25.3 (2014): 246-258. Education Source. Web. 17 Jan. 2017. Buck, Ralph, and Barbara Snook. Teaching The Arts Across The Curriculum: Meanings, Policy And  International Journal Of Education & The Arts 17.29-32 (2016): 1-21. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Maeda, John. STEM to STEAM: Art in K-12 Is Key to Building a Strong  Edutopia, 02 Oct. 2012. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. McClure 7 McClure 8