Yost !1 Mike Yost Professor Heiser ENC 1102 1 March 2017 The NRA and their views on gun control Gun control is one of the hottest topics in the United States at this point in time. The NRA (National Rifles Association) is the leading organization that fights against gun control, and for citizens rights to bear arms. In order to fight against those for gun control, the NRA puts out many advertisements, articles, and events in order to help people realize that gun control might not be the smartest decision. Two of the biggest forms of advertisement to inform the people that is given out by the NRA is image number one and image number two. Both images show that guns should be legal to citizens of the United States while also showing rhetorical appeals in both images. Image one is an advertisement by the NRA of a picture with a little boy with a gun in his hand and a quote from the president. Wayne LaPierre (NRA President) states that history the presence of a gun in the hands of a good person makes us all safer. The whole flock is safer when the wolves cant tell the difference between the lions and the which refers to wolves as criminals and average american citizens as the lions and lambs. Saying this means that criminals be able to know if they are dealing with a citizen who may be carrying a gun or a citizen without a gun. This might make the criminals with the gun to rethink attacking another citizen who might or might not be carrying a gun. There are also many rhetorical appeals in this image as well including ethos, pathos, and logos. The image includes Yost !2 ethos because it is from the NRA which is a very credible organization and also because the quote in the image is from the president of the NRA. Pathos can be found in the image as well because if parents saw this it might effect them emotionally because of the child holding the gun. So instead of seeing it and ignoring what is says or stands for, because of the boy holding the gun parents will feel like they must see what it is because of their emotions. By using reasoning when reading the quote, you can understand what the president means in the quote he uses. By using all of these rhetorical appeals, the NRA does a great job capturing their audiences attention and leaves a huge impact on their audience. The second image that the NRA has put out is a written statement with a picture of a gun on it. The image says now and forever hold your By saying speak now the NRA means to vote now against gun control, and forever to hold your piece refers to forever holding your peace but they switch peace with pierce and when the NRA says piece they are referring to a gun. This pulls in the audience because of how they use the change in words with and and also because it makes the audience feel like if they speak on the matter now that they wont have another chance again. Which is sort of gives the audience a sense of urgency. The NRA adds many rhetorical pieces into this image as well. These rhetorical appeals include kairos, logos, and ethos. Kairos is involved in this image because the image says forever hold your piece. Which means for rest of the audiences life they will have to deal with the fact that they speak against gun control when they had the chance to. Which can pull in the audience and make them think twice about what they do. Another rhetorical appeal that is in the image is logos which is the appeal to logic and reason. This is added into the image because the audience has to use reason to understand that they used and not The audience Yost !3 also needs to use logic to decide whether or not they want to act upon the matter or not. Another rhetorical appeal used is ethos which is the credibility of the image. The image is credible because its backed up by the NRA which is the biggest organization that is against gun control in the country. Both of these images do a massive amount to help people believe that they should be against laws for gun control. The NRA pushes hard against such gun laws being put into our society, because the people who make up the NRA are avid gun supporters and loves guns. These people also think that the government would be stripping away our 2nd amendment rights if these laws did happen to come in to play at any given time. The second amendment states that all US citizens have the right to bear arms, which means all citizens can protect themselves with guns in a reasonable sense. The NRA was founded by William Church and George Wingate in November 16, 1871. Overtime the goal of the NRA has changed massively with new laws occurring in the country. In todays world the NRA is focusing on making sure the citizens of the United States lose their second amendment rights. Yet when the NRA was founded they need to worry about that so that a main concern. They were just all about guns and people who were interested in guns and they came together as a group. As of today the NRA currently has 5 million members and has made over 300 million dollars in revenue. The NRA also has a museum in Virginia that focuses on the history of guns. In conclusion, both of these images put out by the NRA do a great job on convincing the audience to think about fighting against gun control. Each image gives great rhetorical appeals and is backed up by a very credible organization that has been around for 145 years. Yost !4 Image 1 Image 2 Yost !5 Works Cited NRA  NRA.ORG. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Drake, Bruce. 5 facts about the NRA and guns in  Pew Research Center. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. LaPierre, Wayne (Executive Vice President and  NRA On the Record. N.p., 24 May 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.