Jimmy Jones Intermediate Draft 2/25/2017 Professor Lay When looking for advertisements involving the National Collegiate Athletic Association or NCAA, their advertisements have extensive rhetoric examples. The NCAA is national organization that works directly with colleges creating opportunities for college students to play their respective sport and the highest collegiate level. As a result of the NCAA being extremely popular in a thriving sports market they have numerous advertisements on television and the internet. Both of my advertisements involve the NCAA and basketball, the second most popular sport in college behind football. Each advertisement uses all four strategies; ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The NCAA has a sponsor in Gatorade as show in my first advertisement. The advertisement shows the college basketball players in action from shooting at the net to making a pass. It is easy for the ad to grab the attention of the audience based on the thrill of what is going to happen next and who their hero is going to be. When the title is read by the audience they immediately read the Gatorade name and logo. It gives the advertisement some credibility to go along with the already present NCAA. In a pathos sense, the players actions go with the hero heading. Having the will emerge a heading gives the audience a chance to picture their player on their team making a shot or making a pass to become a hero. It gets the audience thinking from the get-go. Since it has direct involvement with the audience people are more opportune to react and use their imagination while reading and observing the advertisement. The NCAA is a group that uses ads like this one to get the audience excited and keep the fans at the edge of their seat during, before, and after the season. This particular advertisement also has logos and kairos examples within. The people viewing the ad are given a different look at a team sport by singling out a specific person and taking a different look at basketball which is usually thought of as a team sport. There also is a hint of kairos in the athletes on the ad moving and making some kind of basketball related action. This first advertisement is a great example of how the NCAA uses their sponsors to better the careers of current players and increase excitement for fans forever. The second advertisement is targeted specifically for the audience and people in the United States to watch the March Madness basketball tournament that determines the national champion for the NCAA. The tournament is aired on television by CBS, TBS, and TNT giving the tournament media credibility and while at the same time giving the game a professional feel or atmosphere. The advertisement displays qualities of logos and pathos in the fans having the sense that their team or any team they are watching are getting the professional treatment aswell as themselves. The NCAA does a great job in advertising directly to the people who are going to be interested and wanting these feelings by having a picture of a fellow fan cheering on his respected team watching the March Madness tournament. Also in the advertisement it has the specific date when the tournament starts so the fans and families of the players wont miss a minute of the action. This displays the kairos rhetorical quality in giving a specific time so the fans can cheer on their team hopefully straight to the championship. The NCAA is all about creating a great environment for any event hosted by themselves. The NCAA continues to organize great events such as the March Madness tournament and uses the rhetorical strategies to get and keep the audience excited and engaged with the upcoming NCAA activities. Conclusion Works Cited MLA