Rodhouse 1 Nicholas Rodhouse Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 Febuary 26, 2017 Cybersecurity and its underlying infrastructure are vulnerable to a wide range of risk stemming from both physical and cyber threats and (dhs.gov) says the department of homeland security. To understand these images, you must first understand cybersecurity. security, also referred to as information technology security, focuses on protecting computers, networks, programs, and data from unintended or unauthorized access, change, or (umuc.edu) The amplitude of possible hackers and thieves out there using the web as a tool is breathtaking. These people have to be in your backyard, but instead can be all the way Rodhouse 2 across the world. DHS says that range of traditional crimes are now being perpetrated through (dhs.gov) As the internet is being used more and more through daily lives, naturally more crimes have arose through the beloved internet. Some of these crimes are, but not limited to pornography and child exploitation conspiracies, banking and financial fraud, intellectual property violations all of which have substantial human and economic (dhs.org) The DHS realizes the potential for all of crimes and, as a major stakeholder, decided to team up with the CIA to increase cybersecurity and put a stop to this madness. These images both affect the pathos, logos and kairos to instigate their attention. Showing secure people behind shields, locks, and other icons is one of the most common marketing gimmicks for security firms. The department of homeland security uses a series of these icons, connected by software to depict a safe and secure person metaphorical inside their software. They use this technique to appeal to the pathos and logos. This make the audience feel safe and secure under their software, which appeals to their values and beliefs; the belief that they should be protected, when surfing the web. This also makes the audience wonder just what it is that they are being protected from. Manifesting some sort of fear towards what it is that could be on the other side of that shield, and in some cases manifesting empathy as well. Empathy for the people are not being protected from the cyber-criminals out there, who are destroying our safety. It only seems logical that Americans become more reliant on modern technology, we also become more vulnerable to (dhs.org) Besides the interconnected icons on the top of the image, below it is people who are safely interacting with each other. This is a depiction of the overall goal of the department of homeland securities job. This, as well as the icons, appeals to the logos. Logically, who does not want to safely Rodhouse 3 interact without the fear of criminals lurking around every corner. This would be an ideologically perfect world, which is somewhat possible through the cybersecurity used by our nation. In order to keep this web of secure interactions afoot, we must advance and better secure our programming in order to keep hackers out. This is where the issue comes into play; with people pushing for anarchy and absolute freedom over the internet and others, like the department of homeland security, pushing for more security an everlasting debate has occurred on which is more appropriate at this time. This is the reason that the department of homeland security uses images like this to push for more security over our internet. Images like this and others, are used to push for the protection and insurance of data shared over the web. The other image above shows three computers sending information into a dangerous, red cloud. This appeals to pathos. We see this information being transported into a bad, unsecure place. The department of homeland security uses this image to direct fear into their audience by showing them the potential of sharing information with bad sources. The red in this image represents all the dubious possibilities on the other side of the web. This makes the audience feel unsecure if they are not being watched over for by the department of homeland security. This feeling of insecurity appeals to the values and beliefs. The belief that they should be able to safely roam the web. It also appeals to their values, by making them feel empathetic for those who have lost money, identities, and other valuable information through hackers over the web. This image also appeals to the logic or logos of audience. Logically no one wants their information to be stolen over the internet; and logically everyone wants to feel safe and protected. This image shows three computers instead of one being hacked. This shows the audience how things like this happen to a number of people, not just every once in a while. These attacks are so serious that the FBI says that of dollars are lost every year Rodhouse 4 repairing systems hit by such attacks. Some take down vital systems, disrupting and sometimes disabling the work of hospitals, banks, and 9-1-1 services around the (fbi.gov) If people knew these facts they would know just of logical it is to have cybersecurity programs. This would cause a greater sense of urgency in the audience of these images. With technology increasing at an all-time high, so must our security of IT. These images use futuristic designs to alert its audience into thinking this must be done soon. The futuristic designs portray the idea that: this is the way things must be and will be, which makes the audience feel like they must act right away.This appeals to the Kairos. Therefore, the audience wants this security to expand immediately, which it must. With the department of homeland security wide-range of partnerships across federal agencies; state and municipal administrations and first responders; critical infrastructure sectors; Internet security researchers; universities; national laboratories and international organizations, CSD works to strengthen capabilities to communicate, share, visualize, analyze and protect information. (dhs.org) The department of homeland security is expanding their research in cybersecurity at an unbelievable rate. These images appeal to two types of people. The first image appeals to people, who want to feel secure, because that is what the image portrays. The second image is used to inflict fear on its audience. This image appeals to more frightful people. Using both of these images allows the department of homeland security to cover both sides of the spectrum, when using propaganda to expand their cybersecurity program. Rodhouse 5 Cyber-threats lurk around every corner of the web. They can steal identity, money, and many other valuable commodities. In order to combat this the department of homeland security has partnered up with other organizations; like the FBI, CIA, and many others. Their intentions are to stop these cyber-predators and make the internet a safer, more secure place. Their mission is contribute to enhancing the security and resilience of the critical information infrastructure and the (dhs.org) The department of homeland security is and will be the driving factor to destroy cyber-threats. Rodhouse 6 Works Cited Cyber  FBI. FBI, 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cyber Security  Cyber Security Division Homeland Security. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Introduction To Cyber  About Cyber Security UMUC. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.