Heng 1 Student: Heng Zhang Instructor: Casey Clague Class: ENC 1102.076 Date: 2/12/2017 Air Pollution in China Air pollution is one of the most serious issues that people have to face in China. Due to burning fossil fuels in factories and power plants and oil combustion by vehicles, the quality of air becomes worse and worse in many cities, especially in Beijing. Why the air pollution will become so worse that people have to worry about their health in China? Because some factories and power plants still use fossil fuels as their resource, and many people want to buy their own vehicles instead of taking public transports. Exhaust gas from these factories, power plants and vehicles is the main factors that makes air pollution become much more terrible than before. For example, sometimes people who live in Beijing have to endure bad haze, the quality of air is really terrible in these days. When people go outside, they must wear their masks to ensure that they breathe the terrible air directly. Sometimes when people go outside, they even know which direction they should choose, because Beijing is surrounded by heavy haze in these unusual days. Many citizens become angry, because they think if the quality of air be improved, their life will be harmed seriously. But some factories still use fossil fuels, because they think use fossil fuels is cheaper than use new energy, they care about the serious result of using too much fossil fuels, they just care about how much money can be saved if they use fossil fuels. This paper will focus on the different views on air pollution between China National Chemical Corporation in Beijing and local citizens. The Heng 2 possible compromise between these two is CO2 mitigation. Nowadays, haze has become the most word that people talk about in their daily life in China. If people solve the serious problem about haze, the air pollution will continue influencing every city in China. Why the situation of haze been improved yet? According to Wei-jie Guan, the reason is still relies heavily on coal consumption, which accounts for 64% of domestic energy consumption (worldwide average level (Guan et al. 2016, p. 1940) Because of using so much fossil fuels that harmful substance is released into the air, it changes the original pure ingredients of the air and makes the air become dirty. At the first time when the air pollution become a serious threat, people care too much about this, they just continue their daily life without solve the slight air pollution. Of course they are wrong, nowadays, the air pollution is getting worse and worse, and it also become harder for people to improve the recent quality of the air. In some of the cities, like Beijing, haze threaten health, and it even cause deaths. According to a study from article, pollution is responsible for killing 1.6 million Chinese a year, about one sixth of all the premature deaths in the (Kaplan, 2015, pp. 4) The number is so bad, but real happened. Citizens have to worry about their life, they really want to improve the terrible haze. Although a lot of citizens wear masks when they go outside, sometimes their masks stop hazardous substances from go into their lungs. According to Guan, some diseases are caused by air pollution, like asthma, COPD and lung cancer. About these three diseases, he also points out the reasons why they are caused by air pollution. For example, ambient ozone, nitrogen dioxide, and sulphur dioxide levels were associated with increased hospital admission for (Guan et al. 2016, p. 1942) If asthma become Heng 3 worse, it will result in death. Other two diseases will also result in death, if patients be treated at the first time. When local citizens are worrying about their safety, the China National Chemical Corporation still burning fossil fuels, because money is much more important to them. According to Covert, he thinks new energy like solar and wind power unlikely to play a major role in base-load electrical capacity or in replacing petroleum-fueled internal combustion (Covert et al. 2016, p. 135) Many people know that the price of using fossil fuels is much cheaper than using new energy, so in order to save as much money as possible, the factory still chooses to use fossil fuels as their resource where their energy come from. Of course they just care about how much money could be saved, they care about too much of hazardous gas that will be released into the air. Although burning fossil fuels do harm to the air, according to Jane, she thinks fossil fuels also have some advantages. For example, fossil fuels are reliable, affordable and safe. (Jane, 2015) In article, he also points out that fuels provide substantial economic benefits, but in recent decades, a series of concerns have arisen about their environmental (Covert et al. 2016, p. 117) Fossil fuels are not very bad if people ignore the result of burning fossil fuels, they help factories to save their money so that they can produce more products. Recently people prefer to use fossil fuels, instead, they ignore the disadvantages of fossil fuels. However, due to the serious haze, factories continue to ignore the dangerous result of using fossil fuels. Although China National Chemical Corporation and local citizens have different views of air pollution, their purpose are the same. China National Chemical Corporation uses fossil fuels, because they care how many benefits they could get. Local citizens fight against the factory Heng 4 because they care about their benefits, like their healthy life. China National Chemical Corporation continue to burn fossil fuels, while local citizens still need to worry about their health and life. Some citizens even hang the banners on the buildings in order to fight against the factories that still release hazardous substances into the air. However, there still have a solution if factories still choose to use fossil fuels. With the development of technology, the hazardous substances that come from burning fossil fuels can be changed before they are released into the air. According to Li, she/he find a way to regulate SO2 and CO2, she/he points out that regulation provides a reference and model for regulating other air pollutants and for reaping the ancillary carbon benefits in (Li et al. 2017, p. 976) For this method, Li also points out that existence of a technical conflict between air pollutant abatement and CO2 mitigation is not (Li et al. 2017, p. 983) Although the method is not very easy to be did, there will also be a solution in the future. With this method is found, citizens need to worry about their health and life in the future. Heng 5 References Covert, T., Greenstone, M., & Knittel, C. R. (2016). We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 30(1), 117-138. doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117. Guan, W., Zheng, X., Chung, K. F., & Zhong, N. (2016). Impact of air pollution on the burden of chronic respiratory diseases in China: time for urgent action. The Lancet, (10054), 1939. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31597-5 Jane Sun and Disadvantages of Coal fired for Power Plants Linkedin Retrieved from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/advantages-disadvantages-coal-fired- power-plants-boiler-sun-jinfang Kaplan Sarah. (2015). pollution in China is killing 1.6 million people a year, researchers The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/08/14/air-pollution-in- Li, X., Qiao, Y., & Shi, L. (2017). aggregate effect of air pollution regulation on CO2 mitigation in manufacturing industry: an econometric Journal Of Cleaner Production, 142(Part 2), 976-984.