ANALYSIS OF IMAGES 1 The analysis of the use of rhetorical appeals in Earthworks images and how they convey Earthworks mission Ashley Taepakdee University of South Florida ANALYSIS OF IMAGES 2 The analysis of the use of rhetorical appeals in Earthworks images and how they convey Earthworks mission With the growing oil and gas industry, Earthworks was created to combat the negative effects these corporations caused local communities and the environment. Earthworks is a non- profit organization which was formed by the merger of the Mineral Policy Center and the Oil & Gas Accountability Project (Hydraulic Fracturing 101). These organizations were put in place to bring together communities to drive legislation to protect the environment through improving corporate decisions, influencing investments and holding large corporations accountable for their actions. Together these organizations make up Earthworks, which strives to the health, environmental, economic, social and cultural impacts of mining and energy extraction through work informed by sound Fracturing 101). One major issue addressed by Earthworks is hydraulic fracking. Earthworks believes that hydraulic fracking and the corporations that utilize this method are destroying the environment and the hearth of the communities around these sites. In their hopes to educate the public and get people to join their cause, Earthworks employs various rhetorical appeals in their images. Earthworks utilizes logos the most by presenting facts and statistics in the first image and uses pathos in their second image with the image of a cracked road. Other appeals Earthworks utilizes in their images is Kairos and ethos. Overall, these appeals help to further their mission of getting people to speak out against hydraulic fracking and its negative effects on communities and the environment. The first image is of the fracking process and the chemicals and resources needed to extract the natural gas and oil. It tries to convey all the waste that comes with fracking and how it leaves a lot of chemicals in the soil and groundwater. The picture is trying to show the audience how hydraulic fracking is a waste of resources and is damaging to the environment. In this ANALYSIS OF IMAGES 3 image, ethos is expressed by stating the information is from Earthworks.org and they are a credible source. It also shows credibility by showing the entirety of the fracking process, which makes the audience feel that Earthworks has an understanding of the process and therefore can show the statistics on them. This image uses simple drawings and colors to show a more lighthearted, version of the fracking process. It helps to draw the audience in and they are more inclined to read the statistics. One of the statistics states that the amount of water used in fracking could equal approximately the annual water consumption of 40-80 cities with a population of 50,000. This creates a feeling of awe and disdain on how so much water is used for this process, yet there are still cities with water shortages. It puts the resource waste into perspective and makes the audience think about the negative effects of fracking. Another statistic shows that fracking can cause groundwater contamination and air quality degradation. The purpose of this tactic is to stimulate shock in the reader and to emphasize the wasteful use of many resources. This image has many statistics that utilize logos. The figures illustrate how many tons of chemicals are in fracking fluid, how much water is needed for fracking each year, the risks of fracking, the amount of resources needed for each well, and the process of fracking. All of these contribute to the message that fracking should be stopped, that it is a waste of resources, and potentially detrimental to surrounding communities. Kairos is utilized, in this image, by using the data to lead to a sense of urgency. This comes from the realization that these resources can be used for the needs of other people. Also, the bolded title gives the audience the perception of impending doom if no action is taken soon. The underlying message is that this process can cause harm in the future and therefore needs to be dealt with as soon as possible. Some of the drawbacks of this image is that its methods, to interest the audience and draw them in to read the statistics, is weak and therefore if the audience does not read the statistics, most of ANALYSIS OF IMAGES 4 the message of the image is lost. The light hearted colors and simple drawings do entice the reader, but the bold words are mostly on the right of the image, breaking the flow of information if read this way. This is because bold words establish priority and are seen as more important in a block of text (use of bold type in text). They emphasis statements and redirect the flow of the information. Also, if the image fails to draw in the reader not much information can be obtained by just the image itself. In the second image, there is a broken road and bold white letters stating Shaky shown. This image is from Earthworks and is trying to depict the negative effects of hydraulic fracking. The three logos at the bottom of the image appeal to ethos and give the picture a greater sense of credibility. The three companies endorsing the photo is Earthworks, Clean Water Action, and Center for Biological Diversity. All of these organizations are reputable sources and contribute to the legitimacy of the image. This image utilizes pathos by showing the cracked road, which causes the audience to feel sadness and distress. A cracked road is a sign of natural disaster and depicts an earthquake. These natural disasters can lead to drastic damage to homes, people, and infrastructure and when shown with an association with fracking can cause the audience to detest this practice. This association can be seen with the images of fracking under the road and the words acidizing, and increased earthquake risk in This image attempts to influence the audience to realize that fracking can harm them and the environment. It utilizes Kairos when it states Shaky because this can insinuate that the ground the audience is standing on could break at any point in time. It causes them to feel insecure and unsafe in their own community. This unease can only be remedied by getting rid of fracking or changing the process to make it more environmentally friendly. The use of mostly grays and blacks in the image allow the main statement to stand out because it is yellow. The use ANALYSIS OF IMAGES 5 of this warm bright color enhances the words on it and causes the audience to draw their attention to it (Kaminska, 2014). Also, the grayish tone to the images of fracking on the bottom give a sense of darkness and a sense of disgust for the dirty process. Logos is not used in this image and would have helped its effectiveness if it had been included. The image may evoke strong emotions in the audience, however the information is lacking. By limiting the words, the audience may not clearly understand what the image is for or what it is speaking out against. It does tell the audience in a semi-covert way that fracking causes earthquakes, but they do not know how or why. Without this added knowledge the audience cannot effectively carry out Earthworks mission of exposing the detrimental effects of fracking and compose policies against this practice. Both these images utilizes rhetorical appeals to get the audience to realize the disastrous effects of the process of fracking. This process is first depicted in a lighter matter using simple drawings and colors with mostly statistics and facts (logos) evoking the feeling of disdain in this process, while the second image utilizes pathos more to depict the same feeling. By causing the audience to not only be scared of the effects of fracking, but also to sympathize with local communities and environments affected by this, these images help to further the mission of Earthworks. However, both images have flaws. The first one utilizes too many facts and does not attract the reader very well. The second image is lacking in information and may confuse the audience on what its purpose is. Maybe if shown in conjunction these two images would be more affective. All in all, these images do show Earthworks perspective on hydraulic fracking and gives the audience a sense of responsibility towards the environment and helping to stop this practice. ANALYSIS OF IMAGES 6 ANALYSIS OF IMAGES 7 References Hydraulic Fracturing 101. (n.d.). Retrieved February 27, 2017, from Kaminska, P. (2014, October 14). The impact of color in advertising, marketing, and design. Retrieved February 27, 2017, from https://www.blurgroup.com/blogs/group/the-impact- of-colour-in-advertising-marketing-and-design/ Uses of bold type in text. Retrieved February 27, 2017, from https://www.fonts.com/content/learning/fontology/level-2/text-typography/bold-type-in- text