Fukuda 1 Mayo Fukuda Professor Mr. Luce ENC 1101 Composition 27 February, 2017 The Conversation of Water Scarcity on Food Production 9.7 million is the anticipated world population by 2050. The world population keep increasing and the demand of foods is becoming higher simultaneously. What food production needs is water, the limited resource people need to conserve for the future generations. Many people take advantage of having enough water nowadays, but this is the time for being aware how serious water scarcity on food production is in order to tackle the problem. The conversation on the solutions towards this topic has not changed dramatically within a decade. The water scarcity on food production is a fundamental issue for the world citizens. All creatures on the Earth use water in order to survive and prosper their lives, however, the demand of water has been increasing. If people continue using this limited resource without thinking about the future, many people may suffer from not only water shortage but also food shortage. From the article published in 2012 by Dr. Bradley, about 10% of hydrological flows is related to livestock production in the world. This seems quite big number, but the meat production will not become a killer of the use of water compared to the amount of water needs for other nutritions. What people need to do is that maintaining different types of livestock production. This article introduced new perspective of seeing how meat production can be continued with reducing the impacts of water. However, the fact that livestock production takes a lot of water does not change. According to the article: Water Resource Use In Livestock Production: A Review Of there will be double about of Fukuda 2 the demand of animal-source food by 2050. More demand of meat production means more water is needed in the process of growing livestocks. The researchers also suggested the needs of separating blue and green water to make people better understanding of the situation. The blue water is fresh water and the green water is fresh water in the soil. The green water is the one people need to care for the future use. The conversation around this topic indicated that it is impossible for only the researchers to fix this problem, so the researchers focus people to understand the current situation by showing the assessments and let them make some kind of action towards the problem. In the article published in 2009 written by Ms. Gordon and other researchers, the improvements of water efficiency is required in order to reduce the water pollution. Moreover, knowing how water can be managed well and the values of ecosystem services. For instance, water used for agriculture goes to the ocean eventually and the goal is to make the environment which can be beneficial for agriculture and submarine. Comparing to the article published in 2015 by Noemi Mancosu, her article also mentions about the importance of water efficiency in water irrigation system and farming system. Because the agriculture takes 90% of water in the world, it is significant to use them efficiently. The discussion on the solutions to this issue have not changed since it takes long time to improve the situation. Fukuda 3 Works Cited Gordon, Line J., C. Max Finlayson, and Malin Falkenmark. Managing Water In Agriculture For Food Production And Other Ecosystem  Agricultural Water Management 97. Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture (2010): 512-519. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Noemi, Mancosu, et al. Water Scarcity and Future Challenges for Food  Water, Vol 7, Iss 3, Pp 975-992 (2015) 3 (2015): 975. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Ran, Y., et al. Review Article: Assessing Water Resource Use In Livestock Production: A Review Of  Livestock Science 187.(2016): 68-79. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Ridoutt, Bradley G., et al. Meat Consumption and Water Scarcity: Beware of  Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 28, no. Working towards a more sustainable agri-food industry: Main findings from the Food LCA 2010 conference in Bari, Italy, 01 June 2012, pp. 127-133. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jclepro 2011.10.027.