Michael Kang Professor Gocinski ENC1102.04 02/21/16 XeNOphobia When making an argument or using the method of persuasion, images are useful in a sense that they are complex, and elaborate ideas that text alone could not. The use of images rather than words also harbor the ability to be simplistic and raw visually, making them ideal for displaying ideas that contain deep subliminal meaning. This method of propaganda in current media is popular because of the fact it can brew reactions from all over the spectrum, due to the fact that images can be interpreted in many different ways. The organization Council for the Welfare of combined this ability with text to display the problem of Xenophobia that is currently engulfing the paranoid citizens of America. The first image contains a group of people that display the fact that all of them are immigrants, and that they also take part in making America a better place to live. Each of the people displayed in the single image show that immigrants can be beneficial to America because of the fact that these people have jobs that contribute to the development of the United States economically. The second image displays a strong message, conveying the power the government has, and how people are watching this problem happening as if nothing is wrong. Both images espouse all the rhetorical appeals; these appeals include ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. All of these appeals used in literature can be used to guide the audience and have them view at an image with their emotional side, which these images do perfectly. Due to the fact that these images from Council for the Welfare of contain all rhetorical appeals, it is safe to say that they both display effectiveness. The organization that is involved with publishing both of the images is Council for the Welfare of This organization is an independent national charity program that exists in order to campaign the justice of immigration within the United States. The Movement Against Xenophobia was created in 2013 to go against anti-immigration movement and anti-immigration policies from mainstream media and politicians. This organization states specifically in their mission statement campaign seeks to challenge the negative rhetoric against immigrants, celebrate them, and provide them with a platform to share their Based off of this goal that this nonprofit association has, it is safe to say that this institution was created in order to espouse the positives illegal immigrants have towards America economically and politically. Although illegal immigration may be illegal within the United States, this organization overall believes that beneficial to economy and that everyone should have equal opportunities. They believe that America is known for its diversity; therefore, it should not prohibit illegal foreigners from coming to this country. Lastly, they believe that dignity and peace can be made if we respect one another, despite the differences we may have between one another. Ethos is displayed heavily in both images that were released by this organization and can be described as the appeal to ethics. The images both also contain credible background because they were both released from a non-profit organization Council for the Welfare of with the hashtag #IamanImmigrant. Both images are in a poster-like-theme, which is a form of propaganda. Another reason why these images depicts and expresses an appeal to ethos is due to the fact that the images both contain pictures of people that live in every day society, that we overlook. The population within the United States contains many people who are immigrants, quoting what kind of occupations that they contain, how they contribute to the United States, and where originally form. This explains to the audience that many people are immigrants and should be socially acceptable in American society. Pathos can be defined as the appeal to emotion, which can also be definitely seen within these two photos. The first photo displays a sense of pathos due to the fact that the man that is depicted in the picture is smiling, which expresses happiness within the picture. The man can be seen proud for his country, and loves his job saving lives through his occupation as a firefighter. The audience looking at this image can easily relate to this man, due to the fact that there are many jobs out there that include saving peoples lives, whether through being a firefighter for a living, a nurse, a police officer. This picture does an amazing job with making the viewer feel empathetic to the person displayed in the picture. This is because the viewer will look at the photo and be thankful that there are immigrants out there that love their jobs and are humbly altruistic. Lastly, the picture contains people that can be viewed as heroes in society. Although many people see heroes as supernatural individuals that can do things that are humanely impossible such as fly in the air and have laser vision, these ordinary people that live in Americas society can be viewed as heroic because their occupations involve helping others and saving lives; which is truly altruistic. Besides pathos, logos can be also seen in both images. Logos is defined as an appeal to logic. Logos is appeared in both of the images due to the fact that in the first image, the overall statement is that illegal immigrants that come from many countries in the world contain a wide spectrum of occupations within the United States because there are multiple images like the first one, each that contain different people with different occupations. The picture states that not only do legal residents of America contain these hard jobs, but so do immigrants. The other picture that displays the brain surgeon that came to America as an immigrant displays that immigrants can get those type of jobs. Doctors and those who have jobs that involve performing surgery or anything medical are looked up to. Both pictures contain logos and clearly display this type of rhetoric in different ways. The specific elements that are contained in the first photo to make the audience think are the different variety of ethnicities and jobs that these different everyday people have. This makes the audience think how beneficial immigrants coming from all over the world can have towards the wellbeing of America. The second photo is similar to the picture containing many people due to the fact that the man also has a very great job despite the fact he came into the United States illegally. Lastly, pictures depict some way shape or form kairos to the audience; kairos can be defined as the appeal to timeliness. The audience is introduced with kairos in both of these images because both pictures were released in the past few years, during the time in which illegal immigration was a big issue. To this day, this problem is still discussed. Our current president, Donald Trump, is a perfect example of a president who has been recently trying to reform the immigration policy within the United States. These pictures are strong in a sense that illegal immigration is going to be an issue that will be talked about within the next few decades. These images are also powerful due to the fact that it shows the emotional appeal of having immigrants come into the country. These images were released during the opportune moment within history. Viewers that see these pictures will be thinking and looking at issue from a different perspective in huge amounts because of social media and television distributing these controversial images to the public. The effectiveness of both pictures are strong due to the fact that the organization that released the pictures displayed all four rhetorical appeals that gives the image emotional appeal. Both images tries to show the audience that illegal immigrants are not bad for America. This picture depicts random people that reside in the United States displaying their ethnical background, and how they contribute to the economy. Some of the people included are dedicated bus drivers, doctors, fire fighters, and journalists. This image is to convey the message that America is doing what best known for; harboring people from all around the world. Each of the people that were listed are from different countries, which displays the diversity America has. The picture is trying to make the watcher feel satisfied, and safe that there are people that do their jobs with a passion. This organization hit their goals in both of their images. Because of these reasons, it is safe to say that this stakeholder accomplished its job with their message to their audience. Although xenophobia is a huge problem within the United States, there are organizations like Council for the Welfare of that want to help the problem by creating images to show that illegal immigrants are indeed healthy for the economic and political well-being of the United States. The stakeholder keeps its mission statement in mind, and expresses what they are passionate about through visual rhetoric. The two images that this association displayed on the media gives an example of what they stand for. They do a good job in displaying all four rhetorical appeals; these include logos, pathos, ethos and kairos. With these appeals espoused throughout all the images released, the effectiveness of the propaganda is strong. Works Cited Kairos: Definition and  Literary Terms. N.p., 19 July 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.  About the movement against xenophobia MAX I Am An Immigrant. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Join the #IAmAnImmigrant  I Am An Immigrant. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.