Busaidi 1 Abdulrahim Al Busaidi ENC 1102 Ms. Collins 12 February 2017 The Integration of Technology in Education Technology has advanced the generation to become one of the most successful generations ever as it had a huge impact on the people and the organizations all around the world. Technology made human lives much easier and accessible. Due to this fact, most people tend to integrate technology into their entire foundations to make it more comprehensible for them. Education is considered to be one of the main factors in creating a successful society. Therefore, incorporating technology to education might enhance the chances of the society to become more successful and wealthy. Multiple participants will be affected by this change. They must be aware of the consequences that it might bring. Consequently, is technology going to develop the way that college students reach out to education or is it going to add more issues to this process? Technology is well known for the huge benefits that it can create. Arguably, we cannot just ignore the setbacks that might occur if we incorporate it to education. Organizations that revolves around education always tend to want to introduce the technologies to their systems to make the process much more compassionate. To illustrate, universities always need to keep track of every student that attends the university therefore, they need to have copies of their record files. Paper files might get lost or damaged easily. Consequently, making an online record will be much more secure and there will be less chances of it being damaged. Multiple stakeholders are going to be Busaidi 2 affected by this change. College students, teachers and board members are all in stake in this situation. Most teenage students use technology on a daily basis. Adapting to it would not be a big issue for them. But, most students never had enhanced technologies during their time in school. As they continue moving on to universities, the system differs in a much bigger scale as the system contains much more technology. Therefore, this huge jump might include some minor issues. On the other hand, teachers mostly care if the system provides decent education. mostly accept any systematic changes that will help to increase the chances of the system to become much more efficient. Jung Won, Shannon & Wolf stated and Lowther (2010) surveyed 1,382 public school teachers and found that teachers who believed that technology positively affected learning were more likely to use technology in (107). This quote shows that the teachers and the students do not have any major issues with the addition of any technological system change. Instead it is beneficial for the both of them. The teachers become more provoked to introduce the students to the new methods of learning education. At the same time, students would love to see more new electrifying features introduced to their learning circle. The real issue is between the board members and the teachers. Both stakeholders strive to achieve the same goal but there are boundaries that set them back from each other. Board members are the ones who decide whether the technology will bring fulfillment to the process of the education. They consider multiple factors while they plan the whole process of integrating technology. Costs and installation processes are very essential at this point. They expect they new system to work as soon as it is installed. On the other hand, teachers are the ones who are going to use the new system the most. Busaidi 3 Donald G. Knezek states, results of their work -- be it new proposals, new knowledge or solutions, persuasive advocacy (in a variety of interactive media formats), or creative ideas and expression -- in ways that previous generations could only (1). This quote proves that teachers are able to work harder on their own to make sure their students get the information spot-on. At the same time, they put some effort and discover new methods to share the needed material to their students. Both those stakeholders want to achieve similar goals, but getting used to the system might take a very long time and it will be time consuming. However, board members do not want any delays, which will affect the learning of the students. They believe that they put in a lot of commitment and effort to bring in the best technological system out there. Board members will try to avoid any postponements because it takes a lot of time to install the system itself. Building the system will not only delay educational learning, but also it will delay the whole organization flow. The best way to resolve this issue is to create a tutorial course for the entire organization, which will be for a specific amount of days, preferably a week. During this week the teachers will learn and find out more about the instructions of the new technological system. Once a day they will learn about a specific feature in the system. Based on their learning, they will be tested by the end of the course. The results of the quiz will demonstrate the knowledge of the teacher in the new system. Board members can then later decide whether they should extend the length of the tutorial course or end it there. This process might be time consuming, but it will surely avoid any future issues that might occur. Teachers try to use technology to its most, they try to create their own ways to deliver information. Khambari, Luan, Nida & Ayub mentions that, had Busaidi 4 used their laptops to structure their resources on their own. The results showed that laptop is a powerful tool that could enable teachers to create teaching resources that are geared to the (558). Their quote illustrates how the teachers will find numerous ways just to deliver the information to the students. While at the same time, creating more uniquely methods to deliver information, making easier for the students to learn from and accessible for them to gain. To conclude, education is still the number one factor to evolve our generation and society. Technology was intended to make our lives much more easier, assist us in our daily life and make us induce education in a much higher pace. I said earlier, the learning process can best be defined as an exchange. That exchange requires both parties to actively participate in order to get the most out of the exchange for (Benjamin, 1). Both parties should invest more time in on finding ways of success while using the new technological system other than worrying about the consequence it might bring with it. While striving for a goal, there will be barriers, but it is not that hard to avoid them if all stakeholders work together and try to resolve the issues. Benjamin mentions that, is a great aid in my learning. Not only does much of it allow the professor or students to communicate knowledge and ideas in new and exciting ways, it also eases the ability to then access that information for later (1). Students are the ones who are inducing the education and the stakeholders must guarantee their satisfaction while they are use the new enhanced technological system, as well as to create a better learning environment. Busaidi 5 Work Cited Boss, Suzie. Technology Integration: What Experts  RSS. N.p., 2011. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. Center for  Center for Teaching. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. Hur, Jung Won, David Shannon, and Sara Wolf. An Investigation of Relationships Between Internal and External Factors Affecting Technology Integration in  Journal of Digital Learning in Teacher Education 32.3 (2016): 105-14. Web. Khambari, Mas Nida Md., Wong Su Luan, and Ahmad Fauzi Mohd Ayub. Technology in Mathematics Teaching: The Pros and  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 8 (2010): 555-60. Web. Weber, Scott. Addressing Technology Pros and  Journal of the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners J Amer Acad Nurse Practitioners 17.11 (2005): n. pag. Web.