Okpor 1 Favour Lucky Okpor Ms. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 26 February 2017 view on Animal Captivity Animals are being abused in different ways such as being kept in zoos for making profit off the tourists that comes over to watch them and animal skin is used a lot in the fashion industry to make cloths like bags and furs. PETA- People for Ethical Treatment of Animals is a nonprofit organization that fights for animal right and they try to stop the act of animal abuse through the use of multiple campaigns with the help of celebrities. For the first image it shows a woman who represented a fish that was kept in a restricted area. For the second image it shows a young healthy looking man who was holding a big chain and in the picture it says stop the elephant cruelty. The images used in this paper illustrates that animals are suffering and do not like the restricted areas they are being kept in. This Organization was founded in march 1980, by Newkirk and fellow animal activist Alex Pacheco, the Organization first caught the attention in the summer of 1981during what became known as the silver spring money case. This was a widely Publicized dispute about experiments conducted on 17 macaque monkeys inside the institute of Behavioral Research in Silver spring, Maryland. PETA focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest period of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories and in the entertainment industry (PETA). They also on a variety of other issues, including the cruel killing of rodents, birds and other animals who are often considered as well as cruelty to domesticated animals (PETA) and their goal is to Okpor 2 stop animal cruelty and to ensure that animal rights is being observed. The target audience this Organization is trying to reach out to are those people who work in zoos, aquariums and people that support the use of animal skin for fashion purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . For the first image it shows a woman that was looking very sad and depressed. There was also a big hand over the image that the lady was looking up to in such a fearful way. The meaning of all of these is to express to the audience that animals like being in a confided, they have feelings just like we humans and should not be treated differently. It uses logos, ethos and pathos to send across their message to people; that is for people to shy against animal captivity and to stop going to places like the aquariums where fishes are being kept for amusement. According to (Weida and Stolley) Ethos can be explained by generating common ground with the target audience this can also mean that ethos has a lot to do with credibility of the image. In the first picture PETA made use of a beautiful young celebrity named Joanna Krupa who is a polish American model, actress and an animal rights activists. Working with someone who is an animal rights activist gives more credibility to the image and the message the image is trying to send across to people. Again using a celebrity that has a huge fan base will be of advantage to PETA because people tend to listen more to the celebrities they like and admire. Pathos which has to do with the quality that evokes pity and sadness from the audience, in the image the words that were being used in the picture Lonely. A long way from And the face that shows the suffering and the depression animals go through. These are the little elements that were used to get to the audience emotionally and make them have sympathy for those animals that are victims of captivity. Logos this means to convince an audience with supporting materials like statistics, historical and literal analogies. In the image the logos is the Okpor 3 Organization PETA because it represents the authority that talks about the issue so whatever PETA says about animal captivity can be used as a fact in any situation. For the second image it shows a man that was held up with a chain around his neck and was dragging the chain that looked like it was attached to something that would not like him go. The message this image is trying to send across to their target audience is the cruel treatment of elephants in captivity. Clad in nothing but chains, the celebrity appears in one ad with the tagline Animals belong in chains: Stop Thai Elephant and in another urging the public to boycott zoos (Dian Hasan). In this image they made good use of ethos when they featured Patrick Ribbsaeter who is a super model that has worked with major brands like Armani, Gucci and Calvin Klein. Now having someone like Patrick who is a sexy looking model doing this campaign will attract a lot of audience to listen to the message he is trying to send across especially the female audience. Another element of ethos would be PETA themselves because they are the Organization that tries to create awareness of the problem animals are facing and the sole purpose of the organization is to make sure that animals are not being treated as slaves. The element of pathos that was used in this image was the saying Animals belong in And another saying that states the Elephant Also looking at the models face you will notice that he is trying to set himself from the chains and the message behind this is that elephants are privately owned. Most are used as tourist attractions in elephant camps, where they are forced to perform circus tricks and give rides(Dian). Logos is being represented by the Organization PETA because they have a lot of information to give to the audience and going to their website there are some facts and historical analogies that can be used to back up their stand in this issue. Okpor 4 Despite the fact that this organization tries to use rhetorical appeals to reach out to their audience there are still some logical fallacies that can be indicated in their ad campaigns. PETA throws in red herring- that is, an argument that has little if anything to do with the issue at hand- in the following assertion: researchers believe that vegetarianism is the only way to feed a growing human population (Matt Abbott). A population Reference Bureau report stated, everyone adopted a vegetarian diet and no food were wasted current food production would theoretically feed 10 billion people, more than the projected population for the year 2050. The reasoning in the assertion, however, prove that vegetarianism is the only way to fee a growing human population (Matt). In conclusion these images have helped to express what the Organization PETA is all about with the use of famous celebrities down to the use of rhetorical appeals to get to their target audience to act in a certain way. The Organization has good intension towards animals but whenever they create a campaign there is always an element of logical fallacies present in their advertisement such as red herring and ad hominem. In their campaigns they tend to attack those people that are into the use of animal skin for fashion or people that uses animals for entertainment purpose. These are some of the problems that can make their argument invalid. Okpor 5 Okpor 6 Okpor 7 Work cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Kort, E.D. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Encyclopedia Britannica, Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc., 1 Feb. 2017, www.britannica.com/topic/People-for-the- Ethical-Treatment-of-Animals. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Online, Catholic. Fallacies, and a Controversial Ad Campaign - Featured Online, www.catholic.org/featured/headline.php?ID=1502. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Stacy, and Karl Stolley. Rhetorical Strategies FOR The OWL at Purdue, 13 July 2007. Web.23 October 2016