Diana Cisneros Professor Kevin Ip ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Should Orcas be Kept in Captivity? Zoos and aquariums thrive from the masses of people who wish to see wild animals up close. A growing consciousness among the American and global populace in the recent years recently pushed SeaWorld to end the breeding and performances of orca whales. Now, marine animal welfare groups want SeaWorld to end orca whale captivity once and for all. The Whale and Dolphin Conservation (WDC) and SeaWorld both share common goals like marine research and the conservation of marine species. Unlike SeaWorld, the WDC actively works with governments and encourages people to end the mistreatment of marine cetaceans, orcas included. SeaWorld generates its revenue with the presentation of large marine mammals like orcas and dolphins. WDC speaks out against corporations like SeaWorld, corporations that profit from captive orcas, because the WDC believes orcas have rights like humans. Both stakeholders pride themselves on educating the public. The WDC and SeaWorld both emphasize the need for conservation and research on the orca species and an alternative to captivity, like a whale sanctuary, would allow both stakeholders to agree on a solution to the issue of whale captivity. Many high-profile animal rights groups have come out against SeaWorld in the past decade. The Whale and Dolphin Conservation, or WDC for short, fights for orcas, but also every other marine cetacean. Their various projects include putting an end to the slaughter of dolphins in Japan, as well as the fighting the whaling industry. The WDC believes that dolphins and whales should be given their own rights, like humans, and therefore keeping them captive in a small pool is inherently inhumane. The reason being corresponds to the scientific data gathered in the past decades in regards to cetacean intelligence. Killer whales, or orcas, live in pods and share close familial bonds with their family members. An orca pod can span generations and is led by the eldest female orca. Using echolocation, orcas communicate with their pod and can find food. The Encephalization quotient (EQ), places dolphins and orcas as the mammals to humans in with scores of 5.3 and 2.9 respectively. Humans place at a 7.4-7.8, and although a gap exists, orcas have been documented as being social, empathetic animals (Anderson et al.). Take the case of the killer whale off Vancouver Island called Luna. Luna was separated from his pod and most people felt he survive, but the whale did survive and sought out the affection of the human populace. One could argue that marine parks use of orcas stems from the fact that these creatures are social and their intelligence allows them to learn at a faster rate than other creatures. Not to mention the profits these animals once brought in prior to the Blackfish controversy. The WDC knows returning captive orcas to the wild is unfeasible, because most of these creatures grew up in captivity. Therefore, the WDC, per their website, suggests creation of more naturalistic sea pen in response to SeaWorld halting their orca breeding program (WDC). Blueprints and plans have even been drawn in hopes for an actual marine sanctuary to be built soon, which would be the first of its kind. Along with Merlin Entertainment, the WDC has already begun to establish sanctuaries for smaller ceteaceans, such as bottlenose dolphins and beluga whales. Currently, the WDC is part of an expert panel trying to make orca sanctuaries possible, if SeaWorld decides to keep their word. SeaWorld provides family entertainment with their orca and dolphin shows. They provide research for marine biologist and educate about the need to conserve the marine ecosystem and the various species inhabiting the waters. SeaWorld Cares highlights the philanthropic work and their ten-million-dollar pledge to fund killer whale research in partnership with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF). The partnership focuses on the increase of the availability of prey, improving the killer whale habitat, and overall strengthening the understanding of the creatures through intensive research (SeaWorld). Orcas are elusive in the wild and can travel hundreds of miles in a day. Some scientists fear that orca research will curtail if SeaWorld gets rid their breeding program. SeaWorld claims to have conducted over one thousand studies on the animals held captive, not just orcas. Many marine biologists do not have access to orcas in the wild and studying them in marine parks is their only choice. Heidi Harley, a comparative psychologist currently aiding SeaWorld San Diego, comments, the climate changes and the ocean changes it would be nice to know how flexible these animals are (Grimm). Although some studies done by SeaWorld on orcas have been refuted, SeaWorld stays close to its research and education values, therefore getting rid of their orcas seem plausible for the company. With SeaWorld, having banned Orca breeding and slowly phasing out their orca shows, the WDC no doubt feels a sense of accomplishment. The issue of whale captivity still hangs in the air. SeaWorld promised the audience and its critics a more natural encounter with the orcas, possibly plans for a larger tank in which the whales can feel more at home, although nothing has yet made headlines. Wildlife sanctuaries exist for elephants, rhinos, and monkeys, but none currently exists for marine mammals like dolphins and whales. A marine sanctuary in partnership with SeaWorld would still draw in revenue, but would allow the whales to be observed in a habitat made to accommodate their size. Naomi A. Rose, a marine mammal scientist, claims the idea of creating an ocean pen for these creatures is not and creating a center or possible viewing area can benefit SeaWorld and its partners. Rose also argues that not only would this keep trainers safe, but marine sanctuaries could possibly help captive orcas live longer lives like their wild counterparts, whose life span ranges from 60-80 years (Rose). SeaWorld, on prior occasions, claimed the lifespan of orcas in general to be around the 20 to 30- year range. A marine sanctuary would allow SeaWorld to keep the orcas, and therefore conduct any research as needed. SeaWorld would still be able to educate the public, but have the orcas in a more suitable environment for their large size. An orca sanctuary would no doubt improve image. The WDC, as mentioned before, is currently working with others conservation groups to bring such a sanctuary to life. Munchkin, Inc. has pledged money to the project, and locations are currently being scouted. There is a high chance SeaWorld will refuse to let go of its remaining orcas, but the WDC holds hope. Science lead up to the conclusion that maybe such smart, large mammals be kept in a tank. Their intelligence, although beneath ours, is still higher than other animals. A marine sanctuary puts an end to orca captivity, but still allows for research and education. These orcas cannot be returned to the wild, but can at least live out the rest of their lives in a more natural environment. The WDC will accomplish one of their goals in regards to ending orca captivity, while SeaWorld could still profit from such a sanctuary by creating a center or viewing area. Such an idea will take time and effort by both stakeholders, but it is in their best interest to agree to such a solution. The road is long for both the WDC and SeaWorld, but now a solution is not so farfetched. Works cited 1. Anderson, Robert, Robyn Waayers, and Andrew Knight. Orca Behavior and Subsequent Aggression Associated with Oceanarium  Animals (2076-2615) (2016): n. pag. MDPI, 01 Aug. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. 2. Grimm, David. As SeaWorld stops breeding orcas, what are the impacts for  Science AAAS. Science Magazine, 17 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 3. Rose, Naomi A. A win-win solution for captive orcas and marine theme  CNN. Cable News Network, 28 Oct. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/24/opinion/blackfish-captive-orcas-solutions/>. 4. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &.  Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://seaworldcares.com/research/>. 5. SeaWorld to end orca breeding  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., 17 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://us.whales.org/news/2016/03/seaworld-to-end- orca-breeding-programme>. .