Cushing 1 Richard Brigham Cushing Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 2/27/17 The Future of Space Exploration Space exploration missions have grown increasingly more advanced as time goes on. Humanity has gone from launching unmanned probes into space to planning manned explorations of mars within the next few years. As more people look to space, our space exploration efforts will become even more advanced. and reliability will require that special attention be given to incorporating innovative technologies and interfaces for future space (Krishen 7) As the missions grow more and more complex, more advanced technology will be required to complete these missions. R&T areas considered important for future human mission include advanced human support, renewable resources and utilization of planetary resources, space transportation, automation and robotics, space power, information processing and communications systems, sensors, and (Krishen 1). These technologies can immediately be repurposed towards the general benefit. Have the benefits and requirement of space exploration changed over time? More than fifty years of human activity in space have produced societal benefits that improve the quality of life on Earth. The first satellites, designed to study the space environment and test initial capabilities in Earth orbit, contributed critical knowledge and capabilities for developing satellite telecommunications, global positioning, and advances in weather forecasting. Space exploration initiated the Cushing 2 economic development of space that today, year after year, delivers high returns for invested funds in space. The challenges of space exploration have sparked new scientific and technological knowledge of inherent value to humankind, leading to better understanding of our Universe and the solar system in which we live. Knowledge, coupled with ingenuity, provides people around the globe with solutions as well as useful products and services. Knowledge acquired from space exploration has also introduced new perspectives on our individual and collective place in the Universe. (ISECG 5) The benefits of space exploration can be seen almost every day. are numerous cases of societal benefits linked to new knowledge and technology from space exploration. Space exploration has contributed to many diverse aspects of everyday life, from solar panels to implantable heart monitors, from cancer therapy to light-weight materials, and from water- purification systems to improved computing systems and to a global search-and-rescue (ISECG 5). The requirements for space exploration missions lead to advances in science and technology, which increases industrial capabilities, which causes substantial impact to the economic progress of space-faring nations. Several economies are significantly based around their space exploration program. often ask, If you like spin-off products, why not just invest in those technologies straightaway, instead of waiting for them to happen as spin-offs? The answer: it just work that way. say a thermodynamicist, the expert on heat, and I ask you to build me a better oven. You might Cushing 3 invent a convection oven, or an oven more insulated or that permits easier access to its contents. But no matter how much money I give you, you will not invent a microwave oven. Because that came from another place. It came from investments in communications, in radar. The microwave oven is traceable to the war effort, not to a thermos dynamicist. Neil deGrasse Tyson, Space Chronicle, W.W.Norton & Company, 2012, (ISECG 12) The requirements for continued space exploration missions have also grown as time has gone by. order to achieve highly ambitious space exploration goals to explore robotically and with humans the inner solar system, space agencies must improve and expand their efforts to inform and raise the awareness of the public about what they are doing, and particular, the younger generation will be a prerequisite for a sustainable long-term exploration program: as they will enable it and carry most of the associated financial ( Ehrenfreund 1) Public interest is essential in maintaining long-term international space exploration missions. However, the world at large is mostly ignorant of space exploration activities and in particular does not identify any personal benefit to them from it. Societal requirements are not the only requirements in concern to space exploration, there are also the current limitations of how far we can progress in space exploration. are only four realistic proposals for initial human exploration beyond low Earth orbit: a cis-lunar habitat, asteroid redirect, Mars flyby, and a short lunar surface we recommend that the international community pursue cooperative development of a cis-lunar habitat. This goal is feasible in a low resources environment, is technically feasible, contributes directly to the goal of reaching Mars, and provides significant potential for international (Borowitz). These missions are the only ones currently Cushing 4 feasible according to Borowitz, specifically the cis-lunar habitat, based on: technical/economic feasibility, contribution to the eventual goal of exploring Mars, potential for international cooperation, global readiness for the mission, and political feasibility. In conclusion, both the requirements and the benefits of space exploration have increased over time. The requirements for the increasingly more complex missions have become more and more demanding, and not just in regards to the need for more advanced technology either. The benefits of space exploration have also increased though; bringing increased prosperity across space-faring nations. Even if future space exploration missions continue to need increased requirements, the benefits outweigh the costs in the end. There is no activity on Earth that matches the unique challenges of space exploration. The first fifty years of space activity have generated benefits for people around the globe. This past record gives strong reason for confidence that renewed investments in space exploration will have similarly positive impacts for future generations. (ISECG 25)