Al-Shukaili 1 Mohammed Al-Shukaili Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102.03 29 January 2017 Fossil Fuel are some materials were created millions of years ago because of the pressure and temperature factors in the ground. For example, gas, oil, and coal which they are the three primary forms of fossil fuels. Fossil fuels -as a primary source of power in the meantime- have both advantage and disadvantage on the planet. Greenpeace organization and Oil Change International organization have two opposite perspectives about the use of fossil fuel in the current era. Greenpeace stands against the use of fossil fuel where OCI see that using fossil fuel is necessary to meet the needs of people. Greenpeace contends that fossil fuel emission causes many environmental imbalances, where OCI organization support their argument by saying that fossil fuel is cheap, clean and an important source of power that is hard to be replaced. Although, Greenpeace and Oil Change International have two opposite perspectives, reducing the damage of fossil fuel and come up with alternative clean energy sources Change International claim that fossil fuel has the capability to produce an enormous amount of power, and it is inflammable. According to the Oil Change International organization, amount of fossil fuel usually produces a high amount of energy. Also, fossil fuels are portable and can be conveniently used in engines that are in locomotion e.g. in motor (About OCI). The organization supports their position by saying that the fossil fuel has unique advantages than the other energy sources, such as accessibility and availability. On the other Al-Shukaili 2 hand, the wind and solar sources are required a complicated and costly process to make the energy useable. The organization states that fossil fuel consists of hydrogen and carbon. Therefore, they are very stable, unlike nuclear power which is created by making the nuclear molecules unstable. As Moberg, Fredrik, and Patrik mentioned in their article Ecosystem services of the tropical seascape: interactions, substitutions and  That the fossil fuels energy is easy to be stored for a long to the Oil Change International, fossil fuels are the most available sources of energy these days. There are large stores of these fuels in the earth. However, they are well-being exhausted to get drained one day. OCI detailed that fossil fuels station can be set up in any places because of the accessibility of the substance around the world. The expensive of the other energy sources make the world depend on fossil fuel based to OCI website. Moreover, the organization believes that the fossil fuels are easy to be stored and transported from place to another. This makes it extremely helpful and easy for use by commercial ventures that are far from the mine. The repercussions of petroleum, a fossil fuel are utilized to create makeups. These industries help relieve and refresh the economic systems of the countries all over the world organization has an opposite perspective about the use of fossil fuels as a primary source of power. Greenpeace believes that fossil fuels are the cause of environmental threats. According to Greenpeace organization, fossil fuel is one of the main cause of environmental pollution around the world. The website stated that by creating carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels the likelihood of greenhouse effect increase, which disturbs the ecological systems significantly. Greenpeace asserts that fossil fuel burning has contributed to global warming, which causes the melting of polar tops and ascent of ocean level. Also, Greenpeace bolsters its claim by saying that burning fossil fills expand air contamination. Air Al-Shukaili 3 contamination is a risk to human life since it causes respiratory diseases. Moreover, another reason that Greenpeace stands against the use of fossil fuel is that the fossil fuel is not renewable energy. In this manner their mines will be drained sooner rather than later and in this way commercial ventures vehicles that have been utilizing the fossil energies will arrive at a stop unless they switch to the renewable source like hydropower to power them. Therefore, as a result of all these reasons, Greenpeace stand against the use of fossil fuel as a main source of power . However, it can be eliminated where the amount used does not affect or harm the environment. Both stakeholders should come up with a binding agreement to reduce the use of fossil fuels, so the number does not affect the people and the environment. At the same time, the amount meets the basic needs of individuals. That can be achieved first by determining the amount of emission that the planet can hold out without damaging the environment. Moreover, the goal can be achieved by creating engines that have higher efficiency reduce the emission, but that all might not be able to solve all the issue. Therefore, there is some more effective solution that helps to solve fossil fuel problem, for example, using clean alternative sources of energy such as solar, the wind and nuclear energies. Some of these sources are difficult to be a main source of energy, but some of them can meet the needs of the world from energy in this time. For instance, the wind and solar energy are expensive sources of energy and it is hard to rely on them because they are not available everywhere. Many scholars believe that nuclear power is the best solution this time because it is very clean and cheap. In addition, nuclear can produce a high energy from a small tiny atom. As it is stated in the article uranium fuel pellet creates as much energy as one ton of coal or 17,000 cubic feet of natural This mean by using nuclear power as the main source of energy the world will save a lot of money. Therefore, Both organizations can admit Al-Shukaili 4 their goals. As discussed previously, Greenpeace stand against polluting the environment, where Oil Change International goal is to meets the world needs from the energy. The two goals can be achieved by using the nuclear energy as the main source of in mind the end goal to make the arrangement workable these associations ought to cooperate to present how hurtful is keeping fossil powers as a main source of power. They ought to know how the emission of fossil fuel causes the harming of the earth and human wellbeing. They should realize that the air contamination which happens because of fossil fuel emission is a serious natural risk, particularly with regards to climate change. Air pollution is the main reason of acid deposition which happens because of the sulfur dioxide. Acid deposition causes a destruction of the environmental system. Therefore, after knowing these threats, the two organization should come together find out a way, so the fossil fuel energy does not affect the environment and meets the need of world for everything into account, decreasing the use of fossil powers and the use of other non-renewable energy sources will advantage both associations. Organization that believe of using fossil fuel as a main source of energy will save money and keep the planet healthier. On the other hand, the organization that believe in not use fossil fuel will be capable of protecting the environment and health. Everybody ought to stand with any individual who anticipates making the world a suitable place to live in where there is pure air and less environmental Al-Shukaili 5 Work Cited Lorenzini, Paul. second Look at Nuclear Science and Technology. Vol. 21 Issue 3 (2005): p3-38. Opposing Viewpoints in Context. USF library. Jan 27, 2017. Joan, Pye. The Problem with Fossil Putting The Aase For Nuclear Energy in The Conserve Energy Future. What are Renewable Energy Sources. Web. Jan 27, 2017. Oil Change International. Global Commission on Climate: fossil fuels Web. Jan 28, 2017. Moniz, Ernest. we Still Need Nuclear Foreign affairs. Vol. 90 Issue 6 (2011): p83-94. Business Source Premier. USF library. Jan 28, 2017. Moberg, Fredrik, and Patrik Ecosystem services of the tropical seascape: interactions, substitutions and  Ocean & Coastal Management 46.1 (2003): 27-46. Web. Feb 12, 2017. Oil and gas: keep it in the  Greenpeace International. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.