Student 1 Student Professor N. Lewis ENC 1102 2 February 2017 Selling Tesla (Final Draft) Alternative energy is a hot topic in political circles as well as in various Environmental Protection interest groups. Most scientists believe fossil fuels are destroying the planet; evidence has been presented through the greenhouse effect, and the smog-choked skies in China are a real world example that anyone can see. With the recent election of President Donald Trump, the issue of alternative energy has gained a lot more screen time because of appointment of a climate change denier to the Environmental Protection Agency. The Dakota Access Pipeline gets airtime on every major news network in part because of the injustice to Native Americans and their sacred grounds, but also because of how detrimental an oil spill can be. While there are many different forms of alternative energy such as wind or geothermal, Tesla and Tesla Motors are one of the strongest industry developers of Solar Power and intend to make it the future of clean energy. Through use of clever visual rhetoric on the web, they use images of a concept home to help you imagine your future with Tesla. How does Tesla sell the average consumer on a solar powered life? Student 2 In Figure 1, we see a concept home powered by patented Powerwall. The Tesla Powerwall units are used to store solar energy that can be collected from many different sources including Tesla new solar shingles. There are a few different items this image communicates; you can see how discreet and compact the Powerwall is. Generally speaking, solar energy systems are comprised of massive, garish solar panels and receiver units with a mess of wires and cables protruding in every which way. The simplicity of design of the Powerwall is sleek and discreet, with all components comprised with the unit. The image also creates visual emphasis by its placement of the Powerwall. The bright white color and placement near the center of the image draws emphasis here, making it focal point or of the image (Gerdes et al. 334). The image also suggests that the home is very secluded. Mountains can be seen in the background, as well as a clear cloudless sky. The time of day is dusk. All of this is meant to invoke a pioneer or frontier feeling. This is meant to appeal to individuals interested in living off the grid in self-sufficiency; this refers to a zero reliance on company supplied electricity. For example, in many parts of Florida people use Florida Power and Lighting, or T.E.C.O. With a Tesla Energy system, you could lower or eliminate your bill to these companies. The frontier feeling also has a dual meaning in that it suggests that Tesla is on the frontier of clean alternative energy, and that the system is absolutely cutting edge. Tesla applies the rhetorical appeals in several ways in this first image. batteries integrate with solar to harness the abundant power of the sun and reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. Homeowners, businesses and utilities use Tesla energy products to reliably increase their use of renewable energy and foster a clean energy (Tesla) As the quote suggests, the unit can be used to power the home in tandem with standard energy resources while simultaneously reducing reliance. This is an effort to appeal to Logos, as it is Student 3 logical to save yourself money by gathering power from somewhere that is free: the sun. There is no sense in paying a company for power when you can get it for free. According to the eText a writer employs data or statistics within a text, you can probably assume that he or she is attempting to appeal to the logic and reason of the reader (Lane et al. Tesla applies Logos by including detailed specs and statistics about the device such as a 90% round trip efficiency, indicating that the unit can successfully actualize 90% of the energy it collects and applies. Pathos is applied through the image in several ways; the very modern design of the home is likely meant to evoke a sense of luxury. At the same time however, the system is meant to save the consumer money through a lack of reliance on standard energy. Through that dichotomy, it is meant to signify that the unit is very sensible; it should appeal to people looking to save money, as well as wealthier individuals. The design of the home is all meant to be futuristic and therefore the unit appears to be advanced for its time, which may invoke Kairos by inducing its viewers to get with the times and buy now rather than later. Figure 2 is a new angle from the front of the same home we saw in Figure 1. In this image, we can see the solar roof tiles that go with the Powerwall, and we can also see a second Powerwall in the garage. The inclusion of two units is likely meant to show affordability, and show the ability to space the units out over a whole home. That unit is utilizing its collected solar power to charge the Tesla car also located in the garage. Presenting the car in the image brings products full circle; if the viewer is interested in a solar powered home, they should complete it with a solar powered car. Through a very small inclusion, Tesla can advertise all its products in one image. The bright red color is also meant to draw the eye. As Tesla Energy is meant to provide power to the home, all of the lights are on to signify that it can do just that. Again, the viewer observes a very solitary home that is entirely self-sufficient, with a backdrop Student 4 that might remind you of Manifest Destiny. This doubles as an off-the-grid home, but also invokes the sense that Tesla is at the frontier of clean energy change that will eventually be present in all homes. The rhetorical appeals are applied similarly in this image. Ethos is applied through the presentation of the car. Tesla is trying to say that they already have a very successful product in their automobiles, and that the Energy system will be no different. This is meant to establish the authority on all things clean energy. A 10 year warranty also goes with the Powerwall system, further establishing Ethos by showing that Tesla builds there products to last, and that they trust their product. The car is also useful in presenting Logos, as it would be logical to own both of products if you already own one. Therefore if you own the car, you can complete your lifestyle by getting Tesla into your home. If you own the Energy system, the viewer might as well get the car too. To tie it all together, Tesla effectively sells the Energy system through use of stylized concept art, as well as application of rhetorical appeals. Not only do they attempt to sell you the Energy system, they sneakily include one of their automobiles to help you envision a Tesla powered lifestyle. Tesla is effectively selling Home energy, an automobile, and clean energy in two simple images. Word Count: 1194 Student 5 Figures Figure 1: Figure 2: Student 6 References: Author Unknown. Tesla Energy. 2016. Web. Gerdes, Julie et al. Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 334. E-text. Lane, Emily et. al. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 23-24. E-text.