I. Introduction: a. Stakeholder: The Department of Education, the Office of Educational Technology i. Context: The Department of Education has a special office dedicated to the use of technology, called the Office of Educational Technology Its goal is to find new strategies in trying to implement technology, and yet, also educating people and teachers on the use of technology This office strongly encourages the ideal of technology in the classroom ii. History: President George W Bush furthered this advancement by passing the No Child Left Behind Law, which mainly focused on elementary and secondary schooling This Act increased the budget for education vastly b. Thesis: i. These two images draw on the ideal that technology is meant for children of all ages, and they also provide an idea that children who are introduced and grow with technology, will progress to greater possibilities in the future. Both visuals use persuasion through the logical deduction of the growth of the child, and furthers the idea of how important the technology is. II. Body Paragraphs: a. One: i. Topic Sentence: Through the use of emotion, visual one elicits a sense of excitement and success while the children use technology to better themselves academically. ii. Evidence: In image one, you can see how the children are all portrayed as happy or excited or amazed by all the images In image two, you can see how some of the students look puzzled and awestruck by the technology, and the others look extremely happy In both images, they use the emotions from the childrens face to further develop the sense of technology in schools is worth while iii. Transition: Paragraph one allows the images to be related, and paragraph two is going to contrast the images. Allowing the reader to see the two different perspectives on the image. Paragraph one is the emotion behind the technology, and paragraph two is the effect of technology b. Two: i. Topic Sentence: Through the use of logic, visual two conveys how technology helps children to further their academic abilities. By emphasizing that the boys are working deeply on their science project illustrates that technology furthers academic abilities. ii. Evidence: In image two, you can see how the use of technology allows the students to create something that most likely have been able to have been created without the use of technology In image one, the one child is extremely happy and has his hand raised in victory, thus furthering the belief that technology is easy accessible to the students III. Conclusion: a. These images could greatly be affected by the appeal of Kairos b. If these images were shown in a different light then it could have the appeal that if you act now, then the children will miss out on important opportunities regarding technology IV. Works Cited  Office of Educational Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Seven Pathways of Educational  Office of Educational Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Image One: https://tech.ed.gov/stories/seven-pathways-of-educational-environments/ Image Two: