Hendel 1 Rachel Hendel Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 20 February 2017 Dignity in Dying The campaign for Dignity in Dying is a United Kingdom based organization that believes assisted suicide should be legalized. Assisted dying allows each person to control their death if they decide that their suffering is unbearable. They personally believe that in the United Kingdom, people given six months or less to live, should be given the opportunity to control their death. It is not considered suicide because these people will inevitably pass away. Therefore, they should be able to decide the timing and manner of their death. The Dignity in Dying organization stresses that the patient be able to make the final decision, not having any doctors or physicians have any control. They stress this greatly to ensure that they are not supporting a law that allows for any individual to take away life. This law that they are attempting to pass also takes in the consideration of healthcare professionals, by allowing for those who do not want to support assisted suicide, to be able to choose to not be involved. It will also come with a waiting period, so the patient has time to reflect upon their decision. Not only that, but it will allow them to die at home, if they please (Dignity in Dying). This organization works towards raising awareness for their in progress law regarding euthanasia through the use of campaign advertisements. Image 1 shows a man in a hospital bed being accompanied by both government and healthcare officials. The Campaign for Dignity in Dying logo at the bottom left hand corner acts as ethos, better known as when the author attempts to persuade the audience of something by Hendel 2 demonstrating their own credibility, or even evoking that of others (Rhetoric Matters). By incorporating their logo, it lets the audience know that this advertisement is the works of an established euthanasian organization. The pathos, or better known as the appeal to emotion (Rhetoric Really Matters), is demonstrated through the dialogue. The man who is clearly awfully ill is holding a sign that indicates he would like to have the right to choose whether he stays alive miserably, or to end his life with dignity. The sign that the government and healthcare officials are holding indicates that they should have the right to choose what the patient does. This appeals to pathos in that it makes the audience realize how ridiculous it is to allow for others to determine how a person should live, especially when they are not the ones that are in pain. Not only that, but it makes the audience feel sympathetic towards the patient, due to the fact that they are miserable and are not able to make the final decision regarding their life. While this advertisement does not include any statistics or facts, it still does incorporate logos, or better known as the appeal to logic (Rhetoric Really Matters). Logos is shown through the dialogue between the patient and the government and healthcare officials. As previously stated, the conversation basically states that they officials should have control over the lives. This is clearly extremely illogical, considering the fact that no one should have any control over anyone lives, but only their own. Kairos, or the appeal to timeliness (Rhetoric Really Matters), is also present in this advertisement. The Kairos appeal is shown through the timeliness of the life. Image 2 shows a newspaper obituary of a man who was terminally ill. Even though the logo of the Campaign for Dignity in Dying is not present in this advertisement, the colors of pink and blue used by the organization is incorporated into the ad, therefore acting as the ethos. The pathos is developed through the newspaper headline. The headline reads: could have died at Hendel 3 home with his wife and family beside This appeals to the emotion of the audience in that it makes the audience feel sad and perhaps pity towards the man discussed in the newspaper article. By saying could have died at home with his wife and family beside it makes the audience feel as if his death was more miserable than it actually needed to be, considering the fact that it could have been more comforting in his home, with his family to properly say goodbye to him. Pathos is also represented in this advertisement through the line was discovered dead at the bottom of the stairs after he had attempted to end his This makes the audience feel rather guilty about assisted dying not being legal, considering the fact that if it were legal, it would not result in people throwing themselves down the stairs. People are so miserable that they are willing to painfully end their lives. Logos is represented through the caption below the newspaper article incorporated by Dignity for Dying. The caption reads: a change in the law on assisted dying no more people will die, but fewer people will By incorporating this caption, it aids the audience in realizing that despite whether or not assisted dying becomes legal, these people will pass away within the next six months anyways. By making assisted dying legal, it allows for people to end their lives when and how it is best suited for them. Therefore, the same amount of people are dying, and less people are unnecessarily suffering through their illness. Kairos is represented in this advertisement through the timeliness of the life discussed in the article. Overall, both of these images convey focus on the reasons as to why assisted dying should be legalized. Both of these advertisements include the rhetoric appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Pathos was definitely the strongest appeal, considering the fact that assisted dying of terminally ill patients is a sensitive topic. While ethos and logos were quite prevalent, it took a bit more analyzing than pathos did. The entirety of both of the advertisements had a Hendel 4 general sense of kairos, since they are pertaining to the lives of those who only have six months or less to live. Overall, the advertisements do convey the message that assisted dying should be legalized in a respectable manner. Word Count:1027 Image 1 Hendel 5 Image 2 Hendel 6 Works Cited Account, Dignity In DyingVerified. Media Tweets by Dignity in Dying  Twitter. Twitter, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Dignity in submission to the Health and Care Policy  Socialist Health Association. N.p., 12 Feb. 2017. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.