Ashley Allan Fight for 15 Against the Federal Minimum Wage With 13.5% of Americans in poverty in the United States in 2015, and many of these citizens working to support their families, a solution to get more workers and their families living above the poverty line is necessary (Proctor et al., 2016). The Fight for 15 organization believes that all workers deserve to make wage of $15 an hour. Several thousand workers across the country have started fighting for their belief that the federal minimum wage in the United States should be raised to $15. The group is often seen protesting outside of work places that pay their workers near the current federal minimum wage of $7.25. Two images by and of Fight for 15 use rhetorical appeals to try and relate to an audience of higher wage workers and gain their sympathy. The most noticeable appeal used by their images is pathos with the ways that the images attempt to relate this audience to the low wage workers, such as the diverse population of people fighting or workers that need to support their families. Fight for 15 is a nationwide organization that believes that all workers in the United States deserve to make at least $15 an hour to have a decent standard of living. They especially fight for the workers living in poverty as they try to support themselves, including the 43.1% of workers in fast food that are living at least twice below the official poverty line (Shierholz, 2014). The United States Department of Labor even agrees with Fight for 15 while denying the idea that raising the federal minimum wage would negatively affect the economy and employment rates, and declares wages sharply reduce employee turnover which can reduce employment and training (United, 2015). Originally the movement was only in New York City with a few hundred workers striking fast food jobs, but now Fight for 15 has spread across the world to several hundred cities with thousands of members with jobs such as fast food workers, home health aides, child care teachers, airport workers, adjunct professors, and retail employees (Fight). Many images from the group attempt to relate the lives of higher- wage workers to the organization members, such as by using common ground of family and being the main source of income for a household, or by showing the diverse group of workers that are fighting all around the world. The first main priority is to show the main audience, high-wage workers, that there is indeed common ground between them and fast food workers with the use of facts. In this image, the main focus is red, bold statistics on fast food workers in the United States. The use of the bold, red text is to show importance of the statistics. The red also stands out significantly compared to the simple black and white background, drawing even more attention to the percentages and facts. The facts given are used to invoke sympathy from higher-wage workers, such as by mentioning the percentage of fast food workers that have children or are the main earners for their families. When showing that they are still humans with families and jobs, despite what they are currently earning for wages, it shows the basic common ground that many people working in places like fast food have in common with people in higher-wage jobs. The feeling of sympathy gained from this image and its statistics is an example of how Fight for 15 uses pathos in their images to invoke emotion and help people with seemingly different lives and jobs be able to relate to one another. By giving statistics in the image, the organization is also using logos to further relate the people who are living out of poverty to the workers that do live in poverty, and show just how many people are truly affected by the extremely low federal minimum wage. A third rhetorical appeal used by the factual image is kairos, by stating of us are fierce and ready to fight for This statement implies that the fight to change the minimum wage to $15 is urgent and they are all ready to fight now and for however long they need to before the wage increases. While the first image uses statistics to show the audience that they have common ground with fast food workers, the second image attempts to relate to a much larger audience by using more diversity and sympathy. In this image, there is a diverse crowd of people with signs saying are worth in all capital letters, with a large emphasis on the word then the Fight for 15 organization name smaller and at the bottom. The main message are worth is all white text against a red background the red is used to show the urgency of their situation, that being in poverty and in a low-wage job makes others see them as less worthy of respect and making a decent living wage. The large crowd of people holding the signs is extremely diverse with age, race, and gender, showing that not only one specific group of people that wants the minimum wage to be raised to $15. An American flag is also being held by a person in the crowd, which can summon feelings of patriotism from other proud Americans in the United States. By holding the flag in this crowd of protesters, it shows that they still feel love for their country, but they only wish to better it for all of the people who are residing within its borders. The appeal of pathos is heavily used in this image, with signs to discuss worthiness, the diversity of the people fighting, and the patriotism given from the American flag. Ethos is another rhetorical appeal used in this image, with the signs having the Fight for 15 organization name on there, to show that they are an organized group that is supported by a well- known, worldwide movement. Within just a few years, the worldwide movement Fight for 15 has effected several cities and countries that pay workers unfair wages, and they plan to stop until they find justice for the workers in low-wage jobs that struggle to support themselves and their families. To spread information and gain support for their organization, the group uses images with strong rhetorical appeals to gain sympathy from audiences that directly affected by the low wages. The main appeal used is pathos, because by invoking emotions and sympathy from their audiences they are more likely to show that all humans deserve to make a decent living wage, no matter what their job is. Of the two images analyzed, they are both extremely effective in their own ways the first gains sympathy by using statistics to reveal the basic common ground that fast food workers have with people in higher-wage jobs, while the second image shows the diversity of people that are fighting for what they believe is right. Overall, the more effective of the two is the second image because the diverse crowd with signs discussing worthiness and the sense of patriotism would connect with more types of people. References Proctor, B.D., Semega, J.L., and Kollar, M.A. (2016). Income and Poverty in the United States: 2015. United States Census Bureau, P60-256(RV). https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2016/demo/p60-256.pdf Fight for $15. (2017). Fight for $15. http://fightfor15.org/ Shierholz, Heidi. (2014). Low Wages and Few Benefits Mean Many Restaurant Workers Make Ends Meet. Economic Policy Institute, 383. http://www.epi.org/publication/restaurant-workers/ United States Department of Labor. (2015). Minimum Wage Mythbusters. Department of Labor. https://www.dol.gov/featured/minimum-wage/mythbuster (1) (2)