Lopez 1 Marcos Lopez Ms. Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 27 February 2017 NRA Propaganda: Getting in Your Head The National Rifle Association is longest-standing civil rights organization. Together with our more than five million members, proud defenders of patriots and diligent protectors of the Second ). Since its founding, the NRA has promoted the ownership and use of firearms. As a staunch defender of second amendment rights, the NRA had a lot to say about the presidential election that took place in November of 2016. Two images, screenshots from a TV ad that the NRA paid for very effectively used pathos, ethos, and kairos to advocate the election of Donald Trump and the defeat of Hillary Clinton. Ethos is the appeal to authority. The ethos present in this image is the very big and bright NRA logo that is placed in stark contrast with the rest of the ad. The bright red, white, and blue colors give the viewer the sense that the NRA stands for America and American values. The colors of the NRA logo make the viewer feel good about the NRA and the work it does. Furthermore, there is a very strong contrast between the colors of the logo and the colors of the rest of the image. This is to make the logo really stand out to the viewer. Lopez 2 Pathos is the appeal to emotions, and it is by far the most prominent and powerful appeal present in this image. The use of pathos is spot on. The dark night, caution tape and the presence of police give the viewer the sense that something bad has happened. The dark colors of the night have always been associated with bad things that evoke a feeling of unsettlement. The caution tape and the police bustling around tell the viewer that something terrible has happened: a crime has occurred. Furthermore, the angle from which the image was shot is low to the ground. This is absolutely intentional. The angle makes the viewer feel like he is a victim who is lying on the ground. By combining all of these different elements, the ad unsettles the viewer and makes him fearful that he could be the victim of a horrendous crime. Lastly, kairos is also present in the text of the ad combined with the use of pathos. The ad tells the viewer, for Donald Trump now or this could be By putting the viewer in such a dark scenario and making the viewer feel fearful and unsettled, the NRA implies that the situation could be avoided if Donald Trump becomes the President of the United States. This implication gives the reader a sense of urgency because it makes him feel that he can do something about the situation right now. Using ethos, pathos, and kairos, the image does its job very well. The image makes the viewer feel unsettled and fearful with effective use of pathos. The dark night filled with police and caution tape, combined with the low camera angle, puts the viewer in the place of a helpless victim. The NRA uses ethos by giving the viewer a sense of the goodness of the NRA with a visually pleasing logo that tells the viewer that the NRA is American and holds American values. Finally, the viewer feels a sense of urgency with the effective use of kairos, present in the proposition that if he does not vote for Trump, this will happen to him. The image makes the Lopez 3 viewer want to avoid that situation and then proposes a way that the viewer can avoid the situation: by voting for Donald Trump. This second image uses all of the same rhetorical appeals as the first, but there are a few differences in how each appeal is used. The use of ethos in this image is the same as in the first image. The bright and colorful NRA logo stands in stark contrast to the color scheme of the rest of the image, which is dark and foreboding. The bright colors of the logo give the viewer a sense that the NRA can be trusted: it is American and it wants to protect you. It is the first thing that draws the eye, and not a coincidence. The use of pathos is very prominent in this image. The dark colors of the image are intended to give the whole scene a dark feeling. The viewer get a good feeling when he first looks at this image, and the choice of color here is very intentional. Furthermore, the woman and her stance are supposed to make the viewer fearful. It is obvious that there is some kind of home invasion occurring, and she is calling the police, hoping that they will be there in time. Her face is filled with fear. She is scared, helpless, and backed into a corner. The viewer, when looking at the woman, feels the same way. Something bad is happening and the viewer knows it. Lastly, the use of kairos is much more prominent than in the first image. In the first image, the viewer sees the aftermath of a crime, so the sense of urgency is somewhat lost. However, in this second image, the image portrays a crime in progress, which gives the viewer Lopez 4 an immediate sense of urgency. Whereas the first image shows what has happened, the second image shows what is about to happen, and that makes it all the more effective at making the viewer feel like he has to do something. The image tells the viewer that he has to do something right now, and that if he waits it will be too late. Conveniently, the image also gives the viewer a way that he can help avoid this situation. It suggests that voting for Donald Trump will prevent the horrendous crime that would occur otherwise. The effective use of ethos, pathos, and kairos in this image make it very effective. It accomplishes its goal with flying colors. By creating a dark and terrifying scene with colors and the emotions of the woman, the image uses pathos to make the viewer fearful and unsettled. By contrasting the bright colors of the NRA logo with the dark background of the rest of the image, the image makes the viewer feel that the NRA is good, whereas the rest of the image is bad. Simple color schemes and placement of a logo tell the viewer that the NRA is trustworthy when it comes to his safety and well being. Lastly, the image demonstrates impeccable use of kairos by putting the viewer in the middle of a crime that is currently happening. This sense of urgency created by the appeal of kairos makes the viewer want to avoid that situation, and the image proposes a solution that would prevent that situation from occurring. Overall, the image does a very good job at doing what it set out to do, which is getting the viewer to vote for Donald Trump. With the use of ethos, pathos, and kairos, the images put forth by the NRA in its TV ad accomplish the goal to make the viewer feel unsafe and fearful at the prospect of a Hillary Clinton presidency. By making the viewer feel fearful, and then proposing a solution to the issue presented in the images, the NRA does a good job at bolstering support for Donald Lopez 5 Trump. Considering this TV ad was published before the election, we see that perhaps it did in fact help Donald Trump win the presidency. Lopez 6 Works Cited Let Hillary Clinton Leave You uploaded by NRA, 20 September 2017, NRA. Out , NRA, 20 September 2017, NRA. Scene in the NRA, 20 September 2017. National Rifle Association of America Home Rifle Association NRA Website Gateway. NRA, Accessed 27 February 2017.