Christopher Becker Ms. Collins Enc1102 1 February 2017 Government surveillance post 9/11 has seen an explosion of new technologies emerge which have completely change the arena in which surveillance domestic and abroad takes place. The potential consequences of these changes in regards to personal liberty and privacy many times are either glossed over or intentionally pursued by agencies(Binney; Dawinder). Such glossing over has caused a rise in whistleblowing at the agencies and companies implicated in mass surveillance due to fear of a growing totalitarian state (Snowden). NSA insider William Binney called this powerful than anything the soviet union or nazi germany In the interest of national security as well as upholding the constitution an end to the blanket domestic spy programs must happen in favor of a move toward more targeted meth- ods. This compromise allows intelligence agencies to function via signals intelligence, while si- multaneously upholding the constitution as is desired by agencies such as the American Civil Liberty Union or ACLU. Intelligence agencies operate based upon information gathered from various sources in- cluding but not limited to informants and something known as signals intelligence. (Binney) Sig- nals intelligence is the gathering of communications between two parties. Intelligence agencies have numerous ways to collect this information, however with the rise of the digital age the amount of information passing through the internet was soon eyed as a gold mine of potentially actionable intelligence. Shortly after 9/11 and the passing of the patriot act the National Security program was approved by the bush administration (Binney). This pro- gram was originally intended to collect meta data such as call length and parties involved of do- mestic to foreign communications, however it was used on americans domestically as well. (Henderson). This was done through a tapping into of AT&T and Verisons phone networks (Bin- ney). However these programs were soon superseded by programs such as the data collection program PRISM and the analytics program XKEYSCORE (Binney; Snowden). All of these pro- grams as well as previous programs of intelligence agencies such as a ww2 pro- gram, and a surveillance program directed at civil rights activists have been carried out under the reasoning of national security. (Binney; Snowden; CIA) The American civil liberties union have made and continue to make several court cases in opposition to portions of the surveillance state. The main concerns expressed by lawyers from the ACLU is that the surveillance the government does is oftentimes in violation of the first, fourth and fifth amendments to the constitution of the united states (Defcon 21). The first amendment, or right to free speech is seen as being violated by surveillance programs because of the stifling effect it has upon dialogue (Dawinder). The fourth and fifth amendments cover un- lawful searching and testifying against yourself. These amendments are violated by the govern- ments ability to view your communications without warrant. (Henderson; Defcon 21) Additional- ly the ACLU and the Electronic Freedom Foundation or EFF have both came out in opposition to the NSA mandating some companies put backdoors in their encryption due to it weakening en- cryption standards. (Defcon 22; Binney) Encryption or cryptography technology was originally extremely secretive and deemed illegal to export by governmental agencies (Defcon 22). However despite knowing about the use- fulness of encryption the government was hesitant to allow its use by the public due to fear of what whistleblower William Binney referred to as (Binney). This phrase refers to a era when everything will be sent through encryption. Fearing this Intelligence agencies inten- tionally stifled technology such as HTTPS in favor of unencrypted HTTP in efforts to keep ac- cess to signals intelligence (Defcon 22). In fact the British intelligence agency GCHQ was caught in the Snowden leaks celebrating the lack of HTTPS encryption (Defcon22). A similar issue happened with phone messages and calls due to a device known as an ISMI catcher. This device Mimics a cellphone tower and tricks the phone into sending it information which it can decrypt read then send to an actual cellphone tower leaving the victim unaware of what has oc- cured (Defcon 22). This removes the governments need for cellphone company compliance in their operations. ISMI catcher technology was originally deployed in Afghanistan before being adapted to domestic use (Defcon 22). The ACLU has brought numerous court cases due to ISMI catcher devices. Reasons for these cases include the indiscriminate nature of the device as well as the way in which that information is used. One such case the ACLU determined that information obtained through ISMI catcher devices were cited in court as being from a confidential (norman 150). Backdoor access to encryption however, is not a universal thing amongst companies. Apple and their iMessage program uses device specific 256bit at several layers so that even apple cannot read the contents of your messages (Defcon 22). strategy has been to collect everything and worry about the law later. (Def- This sentence very poignantly highlights the current state of affairs within the intelli- gence services of the united states. Citizens have been observed to curtail their internet searches and communication (Dawinder). In an effort to combat this The NSA should publicly announce a shift towards less broad surveillance techniques. While this may seem as a hinderance to signals intelligence it would not be an end to it and would ensure that Americans rights are not violated. The people and their defenders the ACLU want privacy, autonomy and security as granted by our nations founding documents. The government wants, security and the ability to effectively pro- tect the country. Unfortunately the spying currently occurring can sometimes lead to unforeseen consequences that neither party wants such as economic loss of domestic companies such as AT&T due to their allowing of these government policies(donohue 2). Or the limiting of peoples autonomy and intellectual freedoms via self censorship (Dawinder). Both of which could have implications in limiting intellectual breakthroughs and could stifle the growth of the country in the technological age. Given the History of the situation; the stakeholders and the desires thereof, changes in the surveillance laws currently in place are imperative for the United States to contin- ue smoothly functioning as a democracy. Currently as it stands the United States surveillance system is as William Binney said powerful than anything the soviet union or nazi germany (Binney). This statement along highlights the need to end domestic spying without an ex- plicit warrant of what device and what looking for, lest we sink into a tyrannical state of existence. However; in the interest of national security overseas spying should still be allowed; ISMI type devices attached to drones should still be flown as they were originally intended; however such devices should, in interest of the 1st, 4th and 5th amendments, never be used do- mestically. Works Cited: ACLU/DEFCON 21 ACLU Presents NSA panel discussion. retrieved from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UngjWrUo9sE ACLU/DFCON 22 Chris Soghoian the Surveillence 2014 Binney, Williams Future of Interveiwed by Richard Grove 2015 Henderson, Nathan. patriot acts impact on the governments ability to conduct electronic surveillance of ongoing domestic Duke Law Journal vol 52. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Declassified internal document; 16th may 1973. retrieved from: https://www.cia.gov/open/Family%20Jewels.pdf Donohue, Laura. technology, Consumer privacy, and U.S. National Georgetown University Law Center. Dawinder S. Sidhu, Chilling Effect of Government Surveillance Programs on the Use of the Internet by Muslim University of Maryland Law journal. vol2 issue 2 article 10. Norman, Jason. the sting out of the stingray: the dangers of cell-site simulator use ad the role of the FCC in protecting privacy & Federal Communications Law Journal vol 68. Snowden, Edward interviewed by glen greenwald