Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington Gender Gap Project 2 Outlet I. Introduction A. Stakeholder: ACLU a. Context Image one Image two The ACLU works to ensure everyone receives the right earning despite his or her gender, age, or racial background while advocating the passage of a new stricter law. b. History The ACLU was founded as a group civil liberties activists in 1920 to ensure that the Bill of Rights will provide justice and protection to every American. Women in the United States are paid 80 cents for every dollar paid to men. The wage pay varies by state but can be seen in nearly every industry Women and the Wage Gap, 2016). Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington B. Thesis: The mission to secure equal pay is achieved through the two images provided via the website. Serving the common purpose of informing the audience about the current gender discrimination in paychecks, each image contains insights regarding different level of directness towards the gender pay gap issue. II. Body A. Topic Sentence: While promoting the illustration of gender pay gap as momentous that should be updated and strengthened, image one addresses the issue through indirect interpretation based on insights of context and symbolism. a. Evidence Context and symbolism being and worn by both the woman and man in the image, hinting that both figures might possibly have a similar position, and the different sized piggy banks, representing different income, or the wage gap between the two genders. Further explain the context meaning: suits were used to represent professional and credible positions in business, or credibility/ethos. Different sized piggy banks are logic analysis in logos. The color back and white create sadness and sympathy for pathos. b. Quote the day he signed it, President Kennedy called the act a first  which our determination that when women enter the labor force they will find equality in their pay  provided by the ACLU. This quote, coming from the primary source, highlights the different sized Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington piggy banks, and reconnects the inequality to the historical event that affirmed that pay equality between men and women, the signing of the Equal Pay Act into a law. This comparison brings up the passage of a new law regarding prohibition of gender-based discrimination in workplace. c. Transition Point to how image two directly approach the issue, unlike image one. B. Topic Sentence: In compare to image one, statistics used by the ACLU to support the will to end discrimination in paychecks is used in image two with direct interpretation. a. Evidence: Image two directly addresses the pay gap by having the image mainly focused on money. The dollar bill and coins represented the credibility of the government (ethos), where the line cents for every dollar men is logic evidence known as logos, pointing it that women mathematically get paid less than men. b. Quote to the U.S. Census Bureau, in 2013, women who worked full time earned, on average, only 78 cents for every dollar men written on website. This relevant numbers was used for image two, showing how direct the image is. (Equal Pay for Equal Work, 2017) c. Transition Elaborate on how image 2 connect to the mission. Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington III. Conclusion A. Agreement on how both images support each other in defining the goals through levels of directness. B. In order to determine which image is a better representation, one should consider the directness of the object and its appeals. Since image two is more direct and straightforward, it appeals to a bigger audience. C. These images could best be used on a website or a presentation. IV. Works Cited (2016). Women and the Wage Gap. Washington, DC: National Partnership for Women & Family. Equal Pay for Equal Work. (2017). Retrieved from American Civil Liberties Union: https://www.aclu.org/equal-pay-equal-work-pass-paycheck-fairness-act