Johnson 1 Anjelica Johnson Mr. Phillips Project 2 Intermediate February 26, 2017 Technology has become such an essential part of society, as it plays a significant role and is a prime source in the world of education. The Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media believes that technology plays an important role in a development, especially if used effectively. The center wants to give technology meaning by explaining that technology enhances cognitive and social abilities. Image one shows a man talking with a group of kids, and it portrays that the children are having fun and enjoying what they are doing and learning. Image two is an event the organization held and it shows the audience what the organization does to help explore childhood development. Furthermore, the center is dedicated to helping children thrive in the digital age and promoting effective learning and development; they accomplish this through these two images messages and purposes by using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Johnson 2 The first rhetorical appeal is an appeal to ethos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). The man in image one is assumed to be red Rogers the founder of the center. This is an example of intrinsic authority, the authority that comes from the rhetor, not only because he is the founder but also because he turned his degree in music into a job in television. When he did this he launched community-owned, public television station. Image two is a picture from a conference the organization held. This would be an example of borrowed credibility because on its own the picture has no credibility, but with associated with the Fred Rogers Center is it borrowing credibility from the center. The second rhetorical appeal is an appeal to logos. According to Rhetoric Really Matter, like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (32). The logos in image one is to help kids learn. The Fred Forward Conference brings together researchers, educators, etc. to explore current and emerging issues impacting the healthy development of children. The logos in image two is that the conference is used to explore different techniques to help the development of children. Johnson 3 The third rhetorical appeal is an appeal to pathos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, appeal to emotion, or pathos, is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (37). A study done by the department of psychology at Edge Hill University says that has been suggested that there is a reciprocal interaction between color and emotion, which particular feelings being associated with color, and the combination of cognition that affect all bringing memories, feelings, and emotions to the Image one gives off a sense of enjoyment as you look at the children and see that they are laughing. Even though the photo is in black and white, the balance a black and white photograph provides makes this image appear to be timeless. Image two is in color which can emphasize the realness of the picture and the event itself. Image two also has a warm tone because of the bright colors used which gives off a sense of joy or tenderness. The fourth rhetorical appeal is an appeal to kairos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (41). Neither image one nor image two have the traditional examples of kairos. Even though they do not have the words or text that are usually associated with kairos, the lack of it is still a message. It suggests that technology is not something that is just for the moment. Instead, it is something that will last forever. Technology is not going to go away so the best way to deal with it is to embrace it and become a part of the new era. Technology has become a key part of this generation and as a society need to take advantage of it. One of the main focuses of the Fred Rogers Center, as well as other organizations, has been to find the balance between human interactions and technology use. It has been shown that adult-child relationships are essential to the benefits that Johnson 4 technology can give to everyone, not just children. A interaction with media and technology strengthens the relationships between the child and their self, the child and others, and the child and the world. These images reinforce these messages through the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Johnson 5 Works Cited Debbie J. Pope, Hannah Butler, and Pamela Qualter, Understanding and Color- Emotion Associations in Children Aged 7-8 Child Development Research, vol. 2012, Article ID 975670, 9 pages, 2012. doi:10.1155/2012/975670 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Finger, Peter, and Walt Seng. digital media & learning - Fred Rogers center for early learning & Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media. Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media, Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 26, 2017.