Running head: VACCINATION ADVERTISEMENTS 1 Rhetorical Analysis of Vaccination Advertisements Cristina V. Shawver U30946798 University of South Florida Running head: VACCINATION ADVERTISEMENTS 2 The topic of vaccinations given to children has been a debate that many stakeholders have an opinion on. Specifically, two organizations, the Centers for Disease Control and the National Vaccination Information Center, have opposing views and have created advertising images to state their beliefs. The CDC partners with Americans to fight and control disease from being spread, therefore, they support and encourage the utilization of vaccines (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 2014). The NVIC works to do the same as the CDC, fight injury and illness, but advocates against vaccines (National Vaccine Information Center The CDC and NVIC utilize rhetorically effective images that evoke emotion, establish credibility, supply information, and display urgency to move the audience toward or away from being vaccinated. The image created by the CDC has many elements that attempt to convince the audience that vaccines are vital to a healthy life. Upon first glance, the advertisement displays a genial, close knit family hugging each other and smiling. This allows for the audience to feel as the family appears in the image: happy. To tie this together, the text reads yourself and your loved ones. wait, The use of the family and the text together attempts to move the audience toward using vaccines to protect loved ones. Also, the color choice of the background is clean allowing for these two elements to stand out. When analyzing the emotion that colors evoke when shown, the color purple awareness to a higher level of This means that the purple in this image provokes contemplation in the mind of the audience as they may think about the risks of waiting to vaccinate. Cleverly, the Running head: VACCINATION ADVERTISEMENTS 3 CDC creates a visually appealing image that not only has a clean presentation, but also persuades the audience through its appeal to all four rhetorical appeals. As stated, the CDC image displays all four rhetorical appeals together to move people to action. To start with their credibility, the CDC is a recognized research organization that has invested billions into discovering cures for diseases and illnesses. Including their logo on the image and encouraging others to learn more immediately establishes credibility because of how reputable the CDC is. Also, the image conveys logos because it gives a new perspective of the need for a healthy family. If this image displayed only one person, instead of a family, it would not show the new perspective that entire families should be vaccinated. To add to the other appeals, the image also evokes the emotion of the audience by displaying a close knit family who should not be put at risk for disease. This urges the audience to feel as if it is their duty to be vaccinated and protect those whom they love. The text on the image wait, appeals to kairos because it suggests that people should quickly vaccinate before complications arise. All four appeals: ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos complement each other to persuade the audience to believe that vaccinations are vital and bring them toward taking action on that belief. The NVIC has a similar image to the CDC with differences in style. A large portion of the image shows a young boy in pain as a doctor administers a vaccine to him. This image catches the attention of the audience immediately, because of his painful expression. The text reads, from University of Minnesota- Major study confirms Flu Running head: VACCINATION ADVERTISEMENTS 4 Vaccine had no effect on reducing student The text compliments the image because it says and shows that there is no need for a child to be given the flu vaccine. Also, the contrast of the purple shirt and white background allows the boy to stand out even more. When looking at the psychology of colors, white creates an aura of and This can make the audience feel negatively about giving their child vaccines, therefore stopping them from doing so. As discussed, the visual aspects of this image combine with ethos, logos, and pathos to make a rhetorically effective advertisement that draws the audience towards action. In the image by the NVIC, ethos, logos, and pathos are all combined to convey the belief of this organization that people should not vaccinate their children. Their credibility is found in their organization as, 1982, the NVIC has been the leading consumer voice in the vaccine safety and informed consent debate, providing clear, consistent and responsible framing of the most critical issues involved in the science, policy, law and ethics of mass Ethos is also found within the text which explicitly states a major study done by the University of Minnesota, a credible place of research. The image has pathos in the photo of the boy who looks in pain. It suggests that this vaccine is pointless because it has no effect to cure any illness and only causes discomfort. This image especially targets the parent audience because no parent wants their child to feel pain. Finally, the image appeals to logos because it supplies information that the flu shot did not reduce the amount of times a student was absent from sickness. This information is new to the audience, and allows them to think about the risks. While both organizations agree that Americans should be happy, healthy, and live long, both advocate for different things in the vaccination debate. Each of their respective advertisements exhibit the differences in their beliefs, as the NVIC wants to stop vaccines and Running head: VACCINATION ADVERTISEMENTS 5 the CDC wants people to continue getting them. The use of certain colors, text, image, and layout make the audience feel a certain way about a topic. The CDC decided to use all four rhetorical appeals, putting an equal weight on each one to make their advertisement effective. Differently than the CDC, the NVIC used only ethos, logos, and pathos. Also by using a heavier emphasis on emotion, their image is different because it allows the audience to have more sympathy. In the end, both organizations use images that effectively use style and the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos and kairos to move the audience toward receiving vaccines or not. Running head: VACCINATION ADVERTISEMENTS 6 References Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mission, Role and Pledge. (2014, April 14). Retrieved February 24, 2017. Wait. Vaccinate! [Digital (n.d.). Retrieved February 24, 2017. National Vaccine Information Center. How We Inform the Public - About Us - NVIC. (n.d.). Retrieved February 24, 2017. Report From Minnesota University [Digital (n.d.). Retrieved February 24, 2017. Psychological Properties Of Colours - Colour Affects. (n.d.). Retrieved February 24, 2017.