Student 1 Student Nancy Lewis ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Striving for Bodybuilding Greatness The 5% Mission The physical culture of bodybuilding has attracted continuous followers since the 1900s. Idols such as Eugene Sandow, the father of bodybuilding and whom the Mr. Olympia statue is modelled after, to Arnold Schwarzenegger and Lou Ferrigno who inspire millions to begin their quest to achieve body transformation. Whether it be for competition or their own personal goals, bodybuilders adapt a lifestyle of exercise and diet in order to reach physical greatness. Along with implementation of legal supplements in modern bodybuilding comes a plethora of professional and well-renowned bodybuilders who advocate for the use of supplements. Some even choose to create their own physical fitness brand and produce their own personal line of supplements. Rich Piana is an invested stakeholder in the bodybuilding world who chose to follow this path, and firmly believes that legal supplements can help propel you to reach your goals as evident through his past history along with his company mission statement. His website, rich-piana.com includes several images that present various rhetorical strategies to enhance the idea that his product line of supplements are all-natural, and will help any individual who has a strong mindset achieve their physical fitness goal and drastically enhance their muscular development and increase mass. Rich Piana is a bodybuilder with a history of anabolic steroid use in his earlier competitive career. However, Piana is currently 45 and has moved forward from just simply Student 2 competitive bodybuilding to a marketing manager of his own supplement brand called 5% Nutrition. The entire company is built around 5% an ideology that the percentage represents the amount of people that are willing to do whatever needs to be done in order to their dreams, accomplish their goals, and to live the type of life they want to (rich-piana.com). The goal of Piana and his 5% team is evident on his website, Rich- Piana.com. Clearly visible on the home page is their mission statement, which reads: 5% Nutrition mission is to provide the best possible supplements for the best possible results to help you be the best possible version of you. Leading ingredients backed by research combined with high end quality, formulated and manufactured in a cutting-edge, technologically advanced Scattered across the site is a myriad of images that utilizes a large amount of rhetorical strategies in order to strengthen the argument created by Piana. One of these images is presented in Figure 1, depicting one of the companies many supplement products, Food Egg White The primary visual message produced with the use of this image is wish to promote this product. The use of male as muscular and strong as this one feeds on the dreams and wishes of on looking consumers. Every novice bodybuilder dreams of curling 50 pound dumbbells, and is considered a staple goal in the bodybuilding community. Pictured here is a male curling 55 pounds, 5 pounds above the This complements initial mission statement by inadvertently projecting the message that his personal products can propel an individual beyond the average benchmark, and help them be great and surpass his/her peers. Student 3 Piana successfully instills the use of rhetorical appeals in order to further promote his product. Logos, the appeal to logic and reason is ever present in this image (Hoffman). The use of the phrases and are key to promote the idea that the product is all-natural. These words are paired along with the words which are a known source of high natural protein. All this combined helps create a sense of realism in this product. According to the picture, the only thing in this product is pure egg whites which are a great source of protein to complement a healthy diet. Piana is promoting the claim that only logical the consumption of will help bodybuilders of all sizes obtain their goals. Pathos is also used in this image, the presentation of the male pictured evokes an emotional response. He is seen lifting a very heavy weight, whilst intensely focused and pumped up. A consumer viewing this image may feel as though challenged by this male depicted. Possibly, by buying this product they too can get intensely involved in their own workout and achieve muscular gains. Supplements are a main portion of company, however it does not comprise the entirety of the website. Included in the website are also personal meal plans. A meal plan is a strict diet followed by a bodybuilder in order to achieve set macronutrients (proteins, fats, and carbs) along with caloric intake in a day. This is highly important and has always held a revered place in the bodybuilding world. Exercise and lifting is important, however it is almost impossible to obtain own physique goals without a proper diet. The second image analyzed is the introductory photo included on the beginning page of personal meal plan. Through the inclusion of what is known as the printed with the company logo and containing what is assumed to be some type of product by the company, the message is clear that if the product is taken, along with the use of meal plans, one can possibly be as muscular as the male depicted. Student 4 Ethos is present in this image because of the depiction of Piana himself, conveying the idea that he uses his own products and follows the meal plans provided in order to obtain results (Hoffman). Therefore, if a consumer were to use them, they place trust in the fact that if it worked for Piana, it can work for the consumer viewing this image. Likewise, the rhetorical appeal Kairos is present in this image. There is a sense of urgency within this image, the words instill a sense of ambition and drive within a consumer and they may wish to start their journey to achieving peak physical condition immediately. The present text communicates a welcoming tone to those new to meal plans, avoiding intimidation and embracing one who were knew to exploring the page for the first time. Throughout rich-piana.com Piana carefully utilizes images in order to promote his mission statement that his products were meant for bodybuilders who strive to be the best version of themselves possible. Through the use of rhetorical appeals and appeal to emotions within his carefully selected images, Piana has successfully created a brand name that appeals to experience bodybuilders and promotes the idea that supplement usage is necessary to excel the rate at which an individual achieves their physical fitness goals. (WC: 1095) Student 5 Figure 1: Student 6 Figure 2: Student 7 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Visual  Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-37. Print. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs.  Breaking Down An  Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-51. Print. Rich Piana 5% Nutrition. Rich Piana 5% Nutrition, 2017, https://www.rich-piana.com/en/ Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.