Rodriguez-Clemente 1 Derrick Rodriguez-Clemente ENC 1102 F 2-445 Ms. Poston 26 February 2017 Protect the Children In society, controversial topics are all over our social media. One of the most talked about topics happens to be gun control. A topic that people are very passionate about because it not only affects the gun owners but our entire society. Gun protestors and organizations against gun violence would like to get rid of guns as a whole in order to keep our children and society as a whole. Very powerful images are being put out by these organizations to get their message across to protect our children from all the gun violence that is so prevalent in our society. The images that have been released by these organizations against gun violence are very balanced when it comes to rhetorical appeals. Image one shows a great deal of ethos because the sign in the image has the name the of the organization Defense Fund (CDF). The organizations mission is to ensure every child a healthy start, a head start, a fair start, a safe start and a moral start in life and successful passage to adulthood with the help of caring families and communities(CDF). CDF focuses on lower income areas that have a higher rate of gun incidents. The areas in which the organization is involved in have shown a great improvement in the number of gun related incidents. CDF helps in educating the people in these areas about the dangers of guns. In the background of the image you can see a logo on a trailer which makes the meaning of the picture a lot deeper because it shows that authority, who carry guns, supports the peaceful protest going on and they are there to protect the people. Image one also invokes pathos or emotions because of the wording on the sign. The sign reads CHILDREN NOT in red and white lettering. The red on the sign Rodriguez-Clemente 2 symbolizes passion for the protection of the children. Red also symbolizes violence and anger which stands for all the blood that is being shed by the children affected by gun violence. Image one makes the audience feel sympathetic because one is more prone children more than a middle- aged person. The white man holding the sign is also symbolic because when one pictures a typical gun owner the stereo type is an older white male, this affects the meaning of the sign because it shows that this is a cause that is supported by people of all races and ages. In the background of the image you can see that there are many people standing behind the gentleman holding that signs which shows that there are many people that support the protest against gun violence. CDF educates the nation about the needs of children and encourages preventive investments before they get sick, drop out of school, get into trouble or suffer family breakdown (CDF). According to The Hospital of Research Institute In 2013, 1,670 children (age 0 to 18 years) died by gunshot and an additional 9,718 were injured. Image one also has the name of the organization which gives a call to action by getting more involved with the organization. One can easily access the organizations website to get more information about the cause in order to fully participate in the upcoming campaigns for the CDF. Image two is very similar to image one but it appeals to a different audience. The second image appeals more to women because of the baby on the sign. In the image, you have high school girls holding the sign with a baby on it. The sign says SHOOT. I want to grow With the lettering in white which symbolizes purity and there is nothing as pure as a baby. The background of the sign is black which makes the white lettering stand out as if the white lettering would get rid of all the dark that comes with violence affecting children. The image is depicting that there is no reason why something as pure as a child to fall victim to gun violence. Rodriguez-Clemente 3 Ethos is depicted in image two because it has the name of the organization as well as contact information on the sign which gives it more credibility. It makes the audience take the issue at hand seriously since an organization has its name on it. Credibility is one of the biggest things when it comes to having a successful protest or any movement. By having the website of the organization on the sign it allows the audience to go online and get informed on what the organization is fighting for. The number on the sign makes the audience want to act and call the number to back up the movement at hand. There are many devastating statistics that come along with child gun violence but thanks to CeaseFire, the organization on the sign, more positive statistics have come out regarding the matter. Forty six percent of gun injuries were among black teens shown in a study published by the Huffington Post. The affect CeaseFire is having on its local communities has been extraordinary. According to Cure Violence, CeaseFire after five years of strategy development, had its first program in the West Garfield Park neighborhood where it achieved a 67% drop in shootings and killings. Gun violence is a very common problem in our society that not only affects the gun victims but also their families and society as a whole. Thanks to powerful images produced by organizations against guns as well as gun protestors has really helped push towards a safer and gun free society. The outstanding work that is being done by CDF and CeaseFire is impacting the lives of families all over our nation. These organizations give kids the resources to get involved in their communities as well as the skills it takes to make better decisions when it comes to getting involved with the wrong crowd. Even though these organizations are fighting an uphill battle with all the guns that circulate in our society they are doing a tremendous job of positively impacting the many lives that they have touched. Rodriguez-Clemente 4 Works Cited Our  Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.childrensdefense.org/about/#About>. Gun Violence: Facts and  Center for Injury Research and Prevention. N.p., 19 Sept. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://injury.research.chop.edu/violence-prevention- initiative/types-violence-involving-youth/gun-violence/gun-violence-facts- and#.WLN2bYWcHD4>. Hall, Katy, Jan Diehm, and Alissa Scheller. The Horrific Risk Of Gun Violence For Black Kids In America, In 4  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 19 Aug. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/08/19/black-children-gun- Violence, Cure. CeaseFire  Cure Violence. Cure Violence, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://cureviolence.org/partners/illinois-partners/>. Rodriguez-Clemente 5 Image 1: Image 2: