Smalls 1 Jasmine Smalls Professor Martha Heiser English 1102 1 March 2017 GLAAD Fights for Equality The controversy of homosexuals and equal rights has been an ongoing issue throughout history. Progress has been made within the LGBT community but in time, they still where they want to be. Although, the openness of homosexuals is increasing day by day, there are still organizations fighting for the equal rights of gays. The Gay and lesbian alliance against defamation, also known as GLAAD, is an organization that over 30 years, has been at the forefront of cultural change, accelerating acceptance for the LGBT (Glaad.org). Within this push for acceptance of the LGBT community is the fight for equality. This includes the rights of marriage and labor laws. Though the use of visual within 2 images, GLAAD shows the inequality within the laws set in place against the LGBT community. For a start, shown in image A, a couple is listing their accomplishments together over a period of time. By GLAAD using the appeal of time, the audience can also recognize just how long this fight has been going on for those in the LGBT community. The message being portrayed from this image is that if a homosexual couple is capable of doing all the same things as heterosexual couples, then why is it still an issue to get married? The organization uses this image to appeal to an audience of those who may not be a part of the LGBT community, in other words, heterosexuals. To better reach the audience, they use the visual rhetoric of kairos to give them an understanding of what like to be a part of the LGBT community over time. The image shows that although their relationship too much different from a heterosexual Smalls 2 relationship, they still able to get married even in time. Though they were able to get a mortgage together and have a child without anything standing in their way, getting legally married to the love of their life still possible because of the laws against it on time. The organization GLAAD fights for the rights of equality in the LGBT community. By targeting the opposite group, heterosexuals, GLAAD hopes to gain the understanding of heterosexuals. Furthermore, looking at both image A and B could affect feelings toward the topic of homosexual inequality due to laws and restrictions set against them. To do so, the strategy pathos was used to target the emotions on the topic. GLAAD wants to show that the laws against the LGBT community are unfair and unequal. By showing the audience a visual of an assumed gay couple who get married (Image A) even though they can do other couple- like things can trigger the emotions of guilt or pity toward same sex marriage rights. By bringing that feeling of guilt to an audience can create a reform. marriage is also seen as having a role in changing attitudes and being a move in the general erosion of prejudice and discrimination. It is believed that LGBT people will no longer be excluded and invisible in their relationships which will now be valued and treated with 89-90). Pushing towards same sex marriage and actually being successful could possibly break down the wall between homosexuals and heterosexuals. By showing the similarities between the two like image A shows, the LGBT community has a chance towards being accepted. This works towards the mission of GLAAD. The audience of this visual could be heterosexual married couples who experienced the beauty of marriage and know the importance of it in a relationship. For them to have that right to be able to get married and gays because the same sex as one another could bring them that feeling of pity on their situation. The pity and guilt feeling can help to alter the opinions of others who apart of the LGBT community thus creating more Smalls 3 support. The image allows for the audience to put themselves in the shoes of a homosexual couples and try to relate. In relation, image B also uses pathos to appeal to their emotions. The audience that image B was going for pertains to Ellen fans and even those who are just familiar with Ellen. Unlike image A, image B may have an audience of homosexuals and heterosexuals. Ellen is a gay talk show host who has been popular for some time now. The visual uses Ellen to create a movement called #StandupforEllen. This gives the audience the thought of if they stand up for this issue then Ellen will be discontinued. Because of the idea of Ellen being discontinued, fans may begin to relate to a feeling of guilt and pity, but also, potential loss. Although not very likely, it will still have people support the movement out of the respect and love for Ellen. This can be an example of the rhetorical fallacy, either/or. Either you stand up for Ellen or say goodbye to the Ellen talk show because she going to be fired. Furthermore, image B shares a visual of a map with 34 states colored in. These states colored in represents the states that have the right to fire anybody from a job just for being gay. From looking at the map you can see that it is more than half of the United States who have that right. Although the image was published in 2012, at that time this was factual and used to advantage. higher the cost to the firm, the increased probability of a member of that group being hired. This is often characterized as a for the target group and may result in firms increasing their demand for gay and lesbian workers to avoid incurring the high cost of a potential (Christaforea and Leguizamon 219). By the states having this right, they are able to use members of the LGBT community to their advantage. To reduce lawsuits, companies will fire a member of the LGBT community since it is a law that you can do so. They need a reason, they can just fire them by making the audience aware of how many Smalls 4 states have this right gives the audience a sense of reality. It shows the unfairness that the LGBT community has to go through when it comes to Lastly, image B also uses the strategy ethos to appeal to its Ellen fan. In the image, you can see that Ellen is at a GLAAD event with a possible companion. This may influence those who support Ellen to support the organization GLAAD and their views on equality within the LGBT community. Being that the picture advertises GLAAD with its logo, it could be considered credible. Also, using Ellen, who is also a part of the LGBT community, could also be deemed as credible since she experiences all the issues that the LGBT community experiences as well. Ellen supporting GLAAD could create a trend within her fans. The more support GLAAD gets then the more their voice could be heard. As a result of more support, the reform of gay rights can begin. In conclusion, the use of different strategies to appeal to an audience can affect a group in different ways. By GLAAD using the 4 rhetorical strategies to reach an audience of people, they are able to give them different ways to connect. The more people that GLAAD can get to connect to the issues of the LGBT community, the more awareness that can be raised for the issues at hand. This enables GLAAD to push the movement on equal rights for marriage, and equal rights in the workforce as stressed in the 2 images. The different types of appeals affect people in different ways so by providing a variety allows for more connection opportunities. Smalls 5 Works Cited Wilson, Kath. The road to equality: the struggle of gay men and lesbians to achieve equal rights before the  British Journal of Community Justice 12.3 (2014): 81+. Academic OneFile. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Christaforea, David and J. Sebastian Leguizamon. Revisiting Evidence of Labor Market Discrimination against Homosexuals and the Effects of Anti-Discriminatory  Review of Regional Studies, vol. 43, no. 2/3, Sept. 2013, pp. 213-238. About  GLAAD. GLAAD, 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. (IMAGE A) http://www.glaad.org/blog/revenge-star-nick-wechsler-takes-out-esquire-ad- support-glaad-marriage-equality (IMAGE B) http://www.glaad.org/standupforellen