Watts 1 Mitchell Watts Professor Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The View on Violent Video Game Aggression The argument is strongly debated whether or not playing violent video games can have a negative effect on brain and behavior. Eighty five percent of video games that are being sold contain some form of violence (Susan Scutti, CNN, July 26, 2016). This is an alarming percentage and with technology continuing to increase we can only expect that number to grow even more over time. Many parents believe that violent games will end up harming their children, and a group that supports this claim is the Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence organization (MAVAV). Their mission statement or main goal dedicated to educating parents of the fastest growing addiction and the most reckless endangerment of children The MAVAV uses images to help relate to the audience and convince them through different rhetorical appeals that violent video games are terrible for the development of a young brain and behavior. Even though there has been research done on this specific topic that show the negative effects that they have on children there are still one hundred and fifty five million Americans that play video games regularly (Lofgren, 2016). Logos is a rhetorical appeal that is used to help persuade the audience through arguments that they will perceive as logical. Figure 1 is an image that was used by the Nintendo Wii, with the help of the restaurant, called This image helped promote a violent video game, called Manhunt 2. This game consisted of violence and by advertising this image it is logical and easy to tell that the game will consist of violence. The girl has evil red eyes and is Watts 2 holding a weapon. The logo sits on a muscular body and their clothing and tattoos suggest that they are up to no good. The MAVAV was livid when they saw this. They completely disagreed with the way the Nintendo Wii went about advertising this violent game and how they transformed a normal girl logo into an evil girl. With this argument it is logical to understand where the MAVAV is coming from and why they think that people should agree with their stance on this dilemma. Jack Thompson was so disappointed when he saw this advertisement that he wrote a letter to and Nintendo Wii. He was scared for the possible effects this could have on children, such as their actions. In part of his letter, he wrote, of holding in hand the typical game controller, the player holds motion capture devices, so that by moving hands and limbs one is actually acting out with own body the violent (mavav.org). If kids were to play Manhunt 2, they would be committing violence through their actions of trying to kill someone in a virtual video game. This could potentially lead to them acting out on people in real life. Figure 2 also appeals to logos by making it easy for the audience to see what a violent video game player thinks about violence through the use of a gun. Guns are violent and are included in many violent video games. The non-violent video game player has a normal brain with no gun embedded in it. The MAVAV is trying to get their point across by comparing how a brain works when someone plays violent video games compared to someone who does not play violent video games. Ethos relies on the credibility of the source and is another rhetorical appeal that the MAVAV uses to try to abolish violent video games from children. Figure 1 does not include ethos, because the stance on this image is opinionated and mothers may be very cautious when they see this image, but other people might not think that the image is a problem. Watts 3 Figure 2 does include ethos. Researchers at the Indiana University School of Medicine that have studied the topic of violent video games created this image, so they are a credible source. Through their research they think that violent games have an effect on the development of children, so they created this image to help people realize that. Pathos is used to help persuade the audience through emotions. Figure 1 makes the MAVAV and many other people feel many emotions, such as anger, disappointment, and a worried feeling. In Jack letter that he wrote to Nintendo Wii and he felt anger, disappointment, and worried. I can tell from the phrase, dear friend of mine worked for and with Dave Thomas closely for years. From that I know that Dave Thomas never would have tolerated the use of good name to promote Wii, not with this game available on the Wii (mavav.org). Many people did not tolerate this advertisement and emotions flowed from people like Jack Thompson. Figure 2 does not persuade the audience through emotions, because it is a comparison picture. This picture does not make anyone feel angry, worried, disappointed, satisfied, or any other emotion. It is just something researchers came up with for people to think about, so that parents can be more aware about what kinds of games their children are playing. Kairos, or the timeliness of doing something, is used as well by the MAVAV. Once Figure 1 was made with the evil girl, Jack Thompson wrote the letter as soon as he could so that the advertisement could be taken down. He had to write his complaint before the advertisement had people waiting to buy Manhunt 2. He had a small window to change view of this image, so that the advertisement would be cancelled. Figure 2 is not related to kairos, because the image has nothing to do with timing other than making the connection that if kids play violent games then over time their brain and behavior will start to be affected. Watts 4 There are millions of children around the world that play video games and many parents and kids have heard that violent games can have an effect on development, but yet information is ignored and avoided. The MAVAV is one organization that has acknowledged the effects of violent video games on children and have tried to inform people through images that include multiple rhetorical appeals. Maybe video game industries do an excellent job of advertising and that is what gets people to buy their games, because the facts on the negative effects of them seem to be shunned by millions of people. Rhetorical appeals can be used to help sell video games as well as try to abolish them like the MAVAV. Watts 5 Works Cited MAVAV. mavav.org. www.mavav.org/index.php?page=1 Lofgren, Krista. Video Game Statistics & Trends Playing What & bigfishgames.com. 8 February 2016. www.bigfishgames.com/blog/2016-video-game- statistics-and-trends/. Accessed 22 February 2017. Scutti, Susan. video games lead to cnn.com. 26 July 2016. www.cnn.com/2016/07/25/health/video-games-and-violence/. Accessed 22 February 2017. Watts 6 Figure 1 Figure 2