Crane 1 Shara Crane Bianca Hernandez English Composition 2 26 February 2017 Connection Through Concern Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) is an organization that research and try to prevent global stresses. This union consists of experienced scientists that experiment and write blogs/articles to inform the public of concerning environmental issues. Photography is a main medium for the UCS in communicating the claim. These images have all forms of rhetorical appeal: pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos. Through these appeals, viewers that look at these photos can get a clear message of clean energy propaganda. Of all the images from the website, two in particular seem to have the strongest effect on the viewer; these two images address the main concern: to spread word about the harmful effects of natural gas and oil on the environment. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal for emotion. In terms of pathos, the goal of the first image is to evoke the same drive as that of American women during WWII. That movement is important given that it was one of the largest surges in the U.S. workforce of the time. The same style of the original Rosie the Riveter poster was applied to this image about natural energy as an allusion to evoke the same motivation and propaganda, but instead of the original goal to fill job positions, there is a new goal of a mass change in energy use. Pathos can be seen in the second image through promotion of clean power. This aspect can be emotional when viewed in terms of possible health concerns. This message demonstrates the part that different forms of energy have in the environment, especially ones that are considered dangerous to the atmosphere. The main point is to communicate that there are alternatives Crane 2 to gas power that are healthier and can create a safer environment for future generations. Considering that all people either want to live or want to see their children grow and live long, happy lives, the viewer can in some way or another emotionally connect to this image. Although image one has a stronger sense of national union while the other is more personal, there is a common theme of fear between the two images; both call attention to the hazards of climate change and possible negative effects. This element pulls both audiences together to support the UCS. Logos is the rhetorical appeal for logic and facts. Logos can be seen in image one through the use of percentage: fifty percent of the oil is in question. Also, there are direct links at the bottom of the image that can take the viewer to a website with more data and information. Given that this is a significant percentage, the image can catch attention and promote the movement. If the audience already aware of the full ability of the movement, they might now consider these outcomes given that there is available, tested information that claims this alternative could be a possible future. Logos in image two is more indirect that that of image one: data that supports the claim in this image can be accessed through the provided direct links. Though there any specific statistics displayed in the image, population growth is addressed as the main idea. Given that population growth is a main concern and pertains to everyone, the subject of the image is likely to draw attention and interest everyone that sees it. The validity of the calculated changes in the environment are necessary for attracting a larger audience to support the UCS organization. In image one, credibility is implemented through the direct links to professional websites. Also, the UCS includes their own stamp of approval in the image as an organization built on experienced scientists, writers, and researchers. By transforming Rosie the Riveter into a scientist, the feel of the picture is more serious and professional. Also, the picture must be backed up by reason and evidence through the source given that it provides a direct major claim. Image two also has a UCS stamp of approval and provides direct links to the source of this image which has factual research and data on Crane 3 the issue. From these sources, the viewer can read about research conducted on the dwindling health of our environment. The viewer can also read about highly likely outcomes of this change. Kairos is implemented in the first image in terms of its reference to an earlier movement in history. This element shows that time is changing and change needs to be done quickly; therefore, it creates a sense of urgency. Just like the result of the surge in the economic workforce after WWII, achievement is just around the bend. Kairos is achieved in image two as a concern for life or death. The main message of this image is that the next generation is in danger. Given that this generation is approaching adulthood and life is short, there is only a short period of time that we have left to better our current environmental conditions or just stop them from getting any worse. The overall purposes of images one and two are the same. Time seems to be a main theme among the two: either time is precious and and feels like it is running out, or time brings evolution and change for the better. Either way, the use of time is beautifully implemented in the images. Though both have similarities, there seems to be even more differences between the two. Whereas the first image appeals more to logos, image two has a strong sense of pathos. The different appeals are necessary to grab the attention in different ways. These differences are important for the different messages for different audiences. The audience of the first image leans more towards women given its comparison to one of the first female social movements in history. The members of the audience are also likely to find an interest in historical themes and references. The audience of image two is far more broad, relating to people who value family and the lives of younger generations. The diversity of images promoted by the UCS is important: the interest of different corners of the society need to be reached in order to kick-start a movement for environmental change. Without the audience, the UCS have support in its quest to change our energy practices to save the planet. Crane 4 Image One Image Two