Morarji 1 Nabhanya K. Morarji Dr. Jarad Fennel English Composition II 23 February 2017 Project 2, Intermediate Draft Communication is a skill we learn as children, and it stays with us for the rest of our lives. We communicate with the people around us not only by speaking with them, but also through our body language such as facial expressions and hand gestures. Similarly, when we use written communication in the form of the written word, it is not limited to essays, reports, articles, etc. It incorporates visual communication through pictures and other forms of media. In the words of Peter Drucker, author of The Effective Executive, most important thing in communication is to hear what being Thus, this paper seeks to examine how Narendra Modi, the Prime Minister of India, expresses his goals, visions and missions to the public through campaign pictures and slogans, and determine how effective they are. The first image is a picture from one of campaigns. He is shown standing on a podium, facing a horde of people. To the right of him is a slogan that says, is the only way The image draws attention to two things - Modi himself and the slogan. Therefore, the people captured in the picture form the background, while Modi and the slogan to the right become the emphasis of the image, meaning they are the center of interest of the picture. Upon careful observation, it is clear that Modi has a very strong posture in the picture his body language is firm, and that of a leader. In addition to this, the slogan as well is simple but powerful is the only way Not only is he stating that there is no alternative to success, but the fact that he is strategically placed right next to the slogan makes him seem like he is the only person that is capable of providing the kind of development needed in order to triumph. Moreover, the word choice in the slogan is Morarji 2 comprehensible and straightforward, hence appealing to people without a formal education who constitute a fair number of the population of India. In addition to this, it is apparent in the background that Modi has a large number of supporters. This aspect could be interpreted as logos, the appeal to logic and reason. The vast amount of people present in the audience could serve as a statistic to show that Modi is highly looked up to and supported. Another striking feature of the picture are the colors that are used, specifically for the slogan and even turban. The colors orange and green are comprised in the Indian flag, along with white and blue in the middle. This increases the ethos, or appeal to credibility, and connects patriotism with Modi. Another aspect of the picture that would appeal to the general public is the simplicity of clothing. While politicians around the world wear formal clothing such as suites to deliver speeches and give public appearances, Modi chooses to keep it causal and understated with muted tones and traditional Indian clothing. This gives him an advantage because people view him as approachable, and as one of their own. On the other hand, the second image differs from the first in the sense that it is a political cartoon, and hence is not staged by managing team. The biggest appeal that this image has is that of ethos, the appeal to emotion. The image uses humor to bring out the underlying corruption in the situation. In the image, Modi is shown on the screen of a television. He is talking about demonetization, promising his viewers that money will come However, as the image shows, part of the audience in the picture is the personified version of leading companies and enterprises. They are laughing while pointing at Modi on the screen, because they know that it is their money that controls Modi and his political party, and hence their black money will never come to light. Furthermore, upon detailed examination of the picture, on the right side of the television screen, there are two other framed pictures of beloved ex-President and Prime Minister, A.P.J Abdul Morarji 3 Kalam and Manmohan Singh respectively. They seem to be looking at Modi with disappointment, frustration and anger. Since these men were so respected and loved by everyone in the country, it provides another reason as to why the public should not trust Modi and his schemes. While one picture is in favor of Modi, the other picture brings to light the reality of the situation. The first image is a part of his campaign, and hence for obvious reasons is not going to portray Modi in a negative light. Therefore, one cannot be sure of how reliable it is. It seeks to gain the trust of people by showing them that they should follow the crowd and support him, and persuades one into thinking that Modi will be the one to ensure the progress of India. However, there is no legitimate reason to actually do so. In the three years that Modi has been Prime Minister, he has not done majority of what was promised. Instead, by letting criticism get the best of them, he acted out of resentment and announced demonetization as a way to show that he is doing something for the country. Although both images have strong, clear messages through rhetoric appeals, I consider the first image to be deceiving. It comes across as staged and strategically planned out without any solid reason to trust Modi. All in all, visual communication is as important as verbal or written communication. Our mind perceives and processes everything we see everyday, and modifies our understanding of things consciously as well as subconsciously. Therefore, crucial to know the difference between images that aim to manipulate us, or seek to make us believe something that is not true, and images that do not hinder our natural perception of things. Therefore, the first image can be interpreted as one that manipulates and deceives, because it tries to enforce a certain outlook about Modi that should be subjective. Although the second image can also be considered as conniving, it mostly just tries to bright to light the reality of the predicament that the country is in. However, even though both images have different Morarji 4 purposes and messages, they get their point across efficiently and clearly, which is key to successful visual communication. (1,167 words) Dear Lord Jesus Christ please just take me back home to India. I miss my family and my mom and my dad and my sister and my room and my dog and my poster as well. I stand it here. I desperately just need to go back home not even funny anymore. I live here. The people suck and no one is friendly. People are just downright fucking racist and all round awful in general. Fuck this shit! Morarji 5 Image One: Image Two: Morarji 6 Works Cited www.narendramodi.in/downloads https://www.google.com/search?q=narendra+modi+political+cartoons&espv=2&biw=1280& bih=658&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiEuu3xwZvSAhVESSYKHZB4C Plato. 360 BC. Trans. Benjamin Jowett. The Internet Classics Archive. MIT, 2009. Hocks, Mary E. visual rhetoric in digital writing College composition and communication (2003): 629-656.