Geisler 1 Alison Geisler Professor Jarad Fennell ENC1102.03 26 Feb. 2017 How Felons Face Life After Prision Discrimination within any job never fails to exist. Along with discrimination comes people of different social classes all trying to work together at the same job. This type of issue comes about in minimum wage jobs. The epitome of this issue usually arises when the hiring staff hires someone who has a jail record. This is because these people have not seen a normal working life within some time. From the employers perspective hiring a felon is a liability not only to the company but to the other workers. Not only do business usually have an issue with finding people, felons have an even harder time getting a job because they are quickly pasted up once an employer sees their record. The first image clearly depicts that employers restrict themselves by not looking into potential employees who have a record. On the other hand the second image brings about the importance of teamwork as it relates to felons who need to work with the other employees to achieve teamwork in the workplace. Help for Felons is an organization which focuses on transitioning felons to life outside of jail/prison. Each state has multiple programs registered with Help for Felons which has standards that it needs to achieve so that it is reliable. Felons will have to ask to be helped to be apart of this program, they will have a counselor which is their personal support system. This program not only helps them get jobs, but also housing and other needs. Since this program is reliable in each state, when a felon asks for help, they are more likely to stay out of any additional issues they may have become apart of otherwise. Men and women wanting to enter the workforce after being locked up is one of the hardest things for them to do as they have not Geisler 2 had this type of responsibility. Along with getting a loan for a home, these people do not think they have any chances until they meet with a counselor which helps them achieve these things. The first image chosen to describe the issue at hand is, WANTED, No This discourages felons from applying for jobs because they will feel as though they are going to always be rejected. The employers are not giving the employees credibility when they try to sell themselves outside of their criminal record. Employers seem to focus on this even though it may not be as severe as one thinks. Each felon should be given a chance especially if they worked prison jobs or community service, this expresses that they want to live as normal of a life after prison. Many of these people understand that they will have difficulty afterwards. If they understand that they know what they did was wrong and are willing to work at becoming a better person even while maintaining a job, they should be able to work without any issues. Throughout their time in prison, if they are able to obtain evidence that they worked with a program, this should boost them up in the eyes. This being that they understand how to treat others and work as successfully as possible. A program to this extent should make felons more valuable because normal civilians work for the money, but these felons understand that it is not just the money that they need, they need to keep this job to continue to excel in the workforce. This photo expresses a lot especially with everything going on, the sticky note expressing and the barbwire fence. The typical orange and black sign catches that eye but it could also be discouraging because the orange is reminding of an orange jumpsuit one wears in prison. The sticky notes is yellow and it catches the attention which may even be read before the actual sign. Felons are well aware that they are going to have difficulty finding a job but to emphasize it with a sticky note discourages them more. The barbwire fence, just like in prisons expresses that there is no way of them holding a position in the company this sign is hanging in front of. This photo is full of discouragement for felons. Geisler 3 The other photo chosen is acknowledging that teamwork is needed to make a business of any type, work. Although you may think that an employer needs teamwork to keep their business successful, the actual workers are those that need to contribute to teamwork to gain trust and accountability. It is essential for the felons who are currently employed in order to not be distracted because it will hurt them in the end. Being employed will hopefully allow them to become positive in what they do and continue to get their life back on track working with those around them who could also help them along the way. If one who is employed is unable to take anything away from this opportunity, they will be losing out on other experiences that may end up impacting the rest of their life. Companies are looking past what the felon has been through to give them a job which can allow them an easier transition back into society. When a felon is able to transition back into society quicker, they will be able to excel and will not go back to life before prison. Overall, the opportunity to be employed, which will then constitute teamwork and reliability will allow the felon to move through life more successfully. This simple black and white picture expresses a lot, including puzzle pieces which are not in any order, along with people position on random pieces, connected to the put together section and the not put together section. The scattered pieces made me think of teamwork because you need to all work together to achieve satisfaction. The people on the pieces not connected may be because their idea are not the same as those connected and for them to attach they need to be able to put their opinions aside and work together. The faceless people express that no matter what they look like or their skin tone, they put everything of that nature aside and focus on the problem at hand. Lastly, the black and white tones represents anonymity. Together the rhetorics within both pictures symbolize the difficulties felons need to face in order to be successful in life after prison. The employers restrict themselves but the felons Geisler 4 take advantage of the opportunity at hand and attempt at teamwork within the workplace so that they can continue to be successful in the future. Geisler 5 Works Cited Home Help For  For Felons . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.