Novak !1 Erica Novak Bob Botkin Comp 2 063 February 26, 2017 Advertisement Strategies for The American Pit Bull Foundation Pull on the heartstrings, that is an advertising technique emotional campaigns like to use in order to capture their audiences. While it is an effective tool, there are many other like it in everyday advertisements. The method is more properly known as pathos, a rhetorical technique to persuade using emotions, two other common techniques are logos, a logic based persuasion, and ethos, an ethics or credibility based persuasion. The ethos, logos, and pathos forms of argument are used within the advertisements of the American Pit Bull Foundation in both Operation Sidekick, and their foster program. Ethos is a rhetorical technique that uses credibility and ethics to persuade the audience into buying or supporting a cause, and the American Pit Bull Foundation (APBF) uses this strategy throughout their campaign. In both their foster program and their awareness advertisements for Operation Sidekick one of the ways APBF uses ethos is in placing their logo in both pictures. This logo shows professionalism, and a cohesive work group that has all decided on and developed a particular brand. This logo is placed on all of their artwork and campaign ads, creating brand strength. Brand strength is important because it shows the audience what the organization supports and is willing to put their name on. The ad that had the most ethos inspired argument was the Operation Sidekick photograph. One key ethos element is the addition of a separate website, this not only adds credibility, but also adds a professional feel to Novak !2 the ad. Another distinguishable ethos element is the use of the military. The general public mostly regards the military as a credible and reliable extension of the government, thus making the campaign photos credible and reliable because they are about the men and women who serve in the military. Overall, the APBF has small but important ethos factors in their advertisements that add a tone of credibility and professionalism. Logos, the art of persuasion using logic, is a bigger part of the APBF campaigns. Both the fostering ad, and the Operation Sidekick have important logos arguments within their text. In the fostering picture when the audience first looks at it they are drawn to the lettering before anything else. Not only are the words big, but all the lettering are in capitals. This is an added emphasis that these words are important. Another factor about this text is where it is arranged in the photograph. The most important factor about the set up is where they placed the word you. In comparison to the rest of the text and the image, the word you is almost centered in the advertisement, thus making it the most important component. Although these are subtle things, they are subconsciously recognized by the audience. On the other hand, the Operation Sidekick photograph has text that is noticeably different. The biggest type is the word hero, this word is the biggest, but also it is the word closest to the image of the man. Having the text and image so close together, it is a logical leap for the audience to associate that the man is a U.S. Marine and a hero. The next logos inspired element is the highlighting of the phrase fighting P.T.S.D. Not only is this phrase very important in the organizations mission, but it also shows that a problem to be addressed. One more element on the front of this image is the american flag on top of the text. This element is arguably one of the most important ones in the entire image. The american flag is very important because it invokes feelings of patriotism. Appealing to the Novak !3 patriotic sense in the audience is logical because the majority of audience is american and most people want to protect fellow americans. In the end, the APBF uses the logos in the text aspects of their advertisements in order to win over their audience. The strongest argument that the APBF uses is pathos, or the use of emotion in their arguments. Starting with the fostering ad, some of the pathos elements are the color scheme, the use of puppies, and the form of a question in the text. The color scheme of this photo is grey on grey, the foreground is a darker grey that is made up by the interlocking puppies, while the background is just a dull grey. The puppy grey is the important part because the litter of puppies interlocks to form a grey foreground; like all the puppies fit together just right. Next the puppies themselves invoke feelings of empathy and desire in the audience, this a prime example of pathos because the audience will want to nurture and take care of the homeless puppies. Yet, the most important emotionally driven element in this photo is the question mark. Asking a question from the audience is emotionally driven especially one such as can you foster. It makes the audience ask themselves what they can do to help, and inserts their emotion into the cause. In the next image the import pathos elements are the black and white colors and the image of the man. The choice of black in white is the emotional choice in this advertisement, this is because it enhances the features of the man and shows his pain. White hair on the man is very apparent, and his wrinkles are sunken in deeper all because of the black and white color choice. Lastly, the man in this image is in agony, over what the audience is not directly aware, but context clues show that he is a U.S. Marine that suffers from PTSD. The raw emotion in just his face invokes sympathy from the audience causing them to donate, or fund this cause of Operation Sidekick. Novak !4 Pathos is the most used rhetorical argument style demonstrated by the APBF throughout their photos and advertisements, and it is clear that it has strong effects towards the audience. Ethos, logos, and pathos are all strong styles of persuasion, but by using all three the American Pit Bull Foundation is increasing their chance of funding tremendously. From using emotional invoking images, to the well thought out text layout and font, this organization shows dedication to their mission and a strong affinity towards subtle and subconscious persuasion. The goal of this organization is to help Pit Bulls, and in addition to that forum they want to help the heroes that need help on a day to day basis. In the end, not only are their advertisements persuasive but the American Pit Bull Foundation has an ethical and morally sound platform in all their endeavors. Novak !5 Photo Citations Image one : Can you foster? https://www.facebook.com/americanpitbullfoundation/photos/a. 115257661835961.14255.113916305303430/1246533592041690/?type=3&theater Image two: Operation Sidekick http://americanpitbullfoundation.com/os/