Lee 1 Yejin Lee Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 25 February 2017 Legalization of Marijuana in the United States The federal law has prescribed that the distribution, possession and the sale of marijuana are illegal. However, 28 states and the District of Columbia have legalized the recreational or medical use of marijuana by state law (McGinty et al. 80). Additionally, the supporters of marijuana legalization have been increasing. According to Gallup News Service, 60% of Americans agreed to the legalization of marijuana in the United States in 2016 compared to the 12% in 1969. (Swift 1). This lets researchers conduct a research that studies the correlations between the legalization of marijuana and increasing public support. They found out that the legalization of marijuana directly affect the public opinion, but they observed a national trend that young people have been adopting more permissive view towards the marijuana use and concluded that it may be correlated to the active marijuana legalization campaign of supporting stakeholders (Schmidt et al. 1502). National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) is a representative and influential organization that supports the responsible use and legalization of marijuana. Also, it has been one of the most active organizations that manifest the campaigns for marijuana legalization It clearly stated that its mission is to change public opinion positive towards the use of marijuana and to assure the rights to have access to high-quality, safe and affordable marijuana Mission Statement Also, NORML supports the responsible and legal use of marijuana based on five Lee 2 principles which are: adults only, no driving, set and setting, resist abuse, respect rights of others of Responsible Cannabis NORML has conveyed their core messages and goals of legalizing marijuana use through the usage of effective and symbolic pictures and catchphrases to positively change the public opinion and gain support. First image can be the good example of using experience as a lesson to address the current issue. It has the picture that implies the past alcohol prohibition and says and still with logo of The NORML Foundation. Audience are attracted to the image by associating the catchphrase with the picture that reminds alcohol prohibition in 1919, and it reminds them the failure of past alcohol prohibition. Also, still induces audience to think that the past failure of alcohol prohibition is somewhat analogous to the current marijuana prohibition and makes them think that the current marijuana prohibition is not working well. By making people to flash back the failure of alcohol prohibition, the image appeals to the emotion, pathos. Also, it appeals to logic, logos, by letting the people notice the analogy between the alcohol prohibition and marijuana prohibition. In addition, it shows ethos by using the logo of the representative organization that supports marijuana use, The NORML Foundation. Furthermore, it was effectively designed to capture the attention of audience. First, monochrome image helps audience to focus and stick to the past failure of alcohol prohibition and reminds the movies about alcohol prohibition. Second, it focuses on making audience spontaneously empathize and support its side rather than forcing them to support its side which may cause adverse effects. It uses bigger bold font and more capitalizations in than still to focus more on gaining empathy. Also, instead of ending the sentence with period, it questions people to think by themselves and let them empathize. Lee 3 Third, it uses the white color for to have a clear contrast with a grayish background picture. Lastly, it uses a black bold font in still to have a contrast with the white background and puts it under the catchphrase (Hoffman and Wiggs 350). This clearly shows the side that NORML supports and induces audience to its side. By effectively using the rhetorical elements mentioned above, NORML conveys audience that the current marijuana prohibition is ineffective and needs to be abolished while letting audience spontaneously support its side. Second image was made for marijuana legalization speech. It implies strong message that the current marijuana prohibition is violating the concept of justice and thereby it should be abolished. It has the catchphrase MARIJUANA the Justitia, the name with information of a speech, and the logos of other organizations that support the marijuana legalization. To fully understand and analyze this image and how it is connected to the claims of NORML, profound understandings of the Justitia are required. Knox explains that the blindfold, scales, and swords are the three metonymic tokens, the microelements that make up the artifact, and their meanings in the article Visual Rhetoric of Lady Justice: Understanding Jurisprudence through First, the blindfold of the Justitia represents impartiality based on and which means that impartiality can only be preserved by removing own narrow or egoistic perspective. This also can be connected to stoicism that the rationality and judgement can build a society that is unconstrained by political subcultures and social (Knox 1). Second, the scales of the Justitia connotate that the decision-making process in legal system should be based on empirical evidence and realistic experience. It can be related to the enlightenment values that new empirical experience can replace the traditional to build a more rational society. Lastly, the double- Lee 4 edged sword of the Justitia implies the defense and protection of current law system. This can be connected to the faith in Christianity (Knox 2). The metonymic tokens of Justitia reflect claims of NORML that marijuana prohibition needs to be fixed since the penalties against marijuana use have destroyed the lives than the use of marijuana itself and arrests just for possession, distribution and sales of marijuana constitute 88% of marijuana arrest It also emphasizes the core principles of NORML that contain the concepts of law and justice, which are adults only, no driving, set and setting, resist abuse and respect rights of others, that imply the responsible and legal use of marijuana. Second image appeals to pathos by helping audience to connect the meaning of the Justitia to the current marijuana prohibition and letting them realize that the current marijuana prohibition working well. Also, it appeals to logos by putting the catchphrase MARIJUANA above the picture and inducing audience to think current marijuana prohibition needs to be abolished. Ethos can be found in the information, Allen St. Pierre who is the executive director of NORML & The NORML Foundation, and the logos of marijuana legalization supporting organizations, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), Drug Policy Education Group (DPEG) and SSDP (Students for Sensible Drug Policy). The specific date and time of speech appeals to Kairos, the timeliness. It also used the biggest bold font with capitalization for MARIJUANA to strongly convey its core message. It used color green that symbolizes marijuana and NORML to show that it supports the legalization of marijuana. In conclusion, both images appeal to ethos, pathos and logos to induce audience and let them spontaneously empathize and agree with them by effectively utilizing the profound meanings of the pictures. images also captured attention and let audience focus on its Lee 5 core messages by deliberately choosing and designing the catchphrases with appropriate font sizes, styles and capitalization. Furthermore, it used the colors to make a contrast or to symbolize its sides of supporting marijuana legalization. NORML fulfilled its objective of effectively conveying audience that the marijuana prohibition needs to be reconsidered with a new perspective that fits to 21 st century and it should be either fixed or abolished by wisely gaining empathy. (Word Count = 1270) Lee 6 Works Cited - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/faq. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, Masschusetts, 2016. Knox, Bradley A. Visual Rhetoric of Lady Justice: Understanding Jurisprudence through Inquiries Journal / Student Pulse, vol. 6, no. 5, 2014, pp. 1-2. McGinty, Emma E., et al. Perceptions of Arguments Supporting and Opposing Recreational Marijuana Preventive Medicine, vol. 99, June. 2017, pp. 80- 86. Mission Statement Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/about/intro/item/norml-mission-statement-2. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. of Responsible Cannabis Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/principles. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Schmidt, Laura A., et al. More Permissive View about Marijuana: Local Impact of State Laws or National American Journal of Public Health, vol. 106, no. 8, Aug. 2017, pp. 1498-1503. Swift, Art. for Legal Marijuana Use Up to 60% in Gallup News Service, 19 Oct. 2016, p. 1. Lee 7 Lee 8