Project 2: How effective are these images? Rebecca Blackler University of South Florida Whether it is Middle school or High School, school allows anyone to gain a good education, however, sometimes schools guarantee that just by students attending school. Students have to be willing to learn as well. Dress codes have always been a problem. Schools are either too strict on students or students abuse the dress code to their adavantage. The National School Board Association (NSBA) believes that education for children must be top priority as well as having academic success in public schools (National School Board Association, 2017). Focusing on school work can always be an issue, whether it is due to not being motivated or due to distractions. The NSBA wants to support students and ensure equity and access among each individual student (National School Board Association, 2017). The images which the NSBA uses has multiple components including the use of color, framing of the picture, and the want to create action by convincing their audience that school uniforms do help students when focusing with their work. The first image is a picture of students in a classroom who look as if in high school. These students are sitting at their desks, which are all placed in rows. All of them are on their laptops and seem to be focused. Also, all of the students in the image are wearing a school uniform. Each student is wearing the uniform slightly differently which means that the uniform has different alterations. Therefore, not everyone looks the same. The image creates pathos due to all of the students being focused on their work. keeping to themselves and looking engaged. There is a student in the middle of the image who is looking down. He takes up the majority of the photo, therefore, he catches the eye first. The student is most likely looking at his laptop, instead of looking at the camera. By not having that direct eye contact with the audience it could mean that they are focused on something else as well as already being engaged with something important. The audience is able to relate and sympathize with the students as everyone has been through high school and understand that some periods get tough, therefore, they have to focus even harder. The colors in the picture are quite dull and boring which relates to school in general. The students are not distracted by their peers or by what they are wearing. They prove to look professional and hardworking. Since they look like they are working hard it creates Kairos. Kairos is an appeal which convinces the public to go out and do something. It is important for an image to include this appeal otherwise the image do a good job convincing their audience. The students in this picture come across as very well-mannered while focusing on their education. This creates Kairos because everyone wants their students or children to be looking good as well as focusing on their school work. Their uniforms make them look more appealing to the eye because their top buttons are done up so they look scruffy or as if they just crawled out of bed. It could also inspire people to look good when they leave the house, they see how these students look good in professional attire and therefore they would want to follow. In an article it stated that just by students wearing a uniform they become more disciplined and less likely to commit crimes, therefore, focusing more on the school work and their education (Wilken and Aardt, 2012). Schools would be wanting to go out and adapt their dress code or think about wanting to implement a school uniform if it meant helping students with their education. The second picture includes students who are younger, most likely in elementary school, who are experimenting with chemicals in test tubes. There are five children in the photo, however, only two are in focus. Pathos is the main element used in this photo. When looking at it causes happiness within the fewer. Happiness is caused within the reader because the facial expressions are positive. The girls face, on the left, is very happy and ecstatic. Where the boys face is more in shock yet in an excited way. Their facial expressions are caused due to their chemicals bubbling up and overflowing. The color scheme is rather bright too, they have definitely increased the saturation, and there is a lot of blue in the photo which represents calmness as a color (Cherry, 2016). Even the chemicals being used are blue. However, the picture is debatable whether it is actually calming or not. Seeing children being happy could be classed as calming yet they are still over joyed in what they have created that it should make the audience happy too. An uplifted atmosphere is created which allows the viewer to feel good inside. It shows that even in a school uniform the children can still have fun. The uniform which they are wearing comes across as very simple but still smart looking for younger children. It looks comfortable so not restricted from movement. They are simple polos which means that they require a lot of time to put on. All of the children are engaged and are actively learning while having fun. This creates Kairos because people would want their kids/students to have fun without having to worry about what wearing. At this age children are extremely active so having a loose uniform is good. The image could also gain interest in the interest because what doing looks interesting and fun. The picture is trying to state that every school should have a school uniform because then students can feel like they belong as everyone is wearing the same, therefore, are all equal. It also proves that children can ignore that not wearing something which they wanted to wear, that their clothing mean as much to them compared to when children get older. The public should feel the want for schools to have uniforms, not only does it not restrict the children but it gives them less to worry about. The effects of this picture could make parents agree that uniforms should be tested out in schools around them if they already. Schools want their students to gain a good education and this picture is trying to portray that. Both of these pictures portray the same meaning. Uniforms can help with focusing but also with being more engaged. The two pictures have completely different facial expressions, however, they both prove to show that uniforms should be seen in a positive light. They also use the same rhetorical appeals of pathos and Kairos. This is good for convincing people to take action. However, other appeals could have helped the picture, there is nothing on the photos which suggest where from which means hard to make them credible. On the other hand, they are able to prove that uniforms restrict children from having fun and that students are more productive. They are two completely different photos yet still achieve the end claim that uniforms are beneficial. References Cherry, K. (n.d.). Can Color Really Change How You Feel and Act? Retrieved February 25, 2017, from https://www.verywell.com/color-psychology-2795824 National School Boards Association. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.nsba.org/ Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012). School Uniforms: Tradition, benefit or predicament? Education as Change, 16(1), 159-184. doi:10.1080/16823206.2012.692211