Kevin Fee Fee1 Mrs. Theodosiou Composition II February 26, 2017 The NRA The right for people to keep and bear arms in the United States, the second amendment, is one of the main amendments that has been around since 1789. Many citizens in the U.S believe in this right like a religion because owning firearms is custom in many areas of this country. The National Rifles Association(NRA) is a stakeholder that has been growing since it was founded in 1871 giving support to citizens owning firearms and holding a large political role. One major tactic the NRA gains support and influence is through the use of propaganda. Two images they use are a gun that says American over it and the second is a thug looking guy apprehended because he had a knife and your protected yourself with a gun. They use these images to target more patriotic and those who feel safe. Appeals such as ethos, pathos and logos are used to persuade the reader. The National Rifles Association(NRA) has been around since 1871 and has been rapidly increasing in size ever since. Today, the NRA has as many as around five million members, so they have a lot of influence. This stakeholder has a large political influence in the United States. Most of the NRA have very similar political views which are very similar to the Republican This does not mean they are all required to have the same beliefs but most of their support goes to that party. The NRA is against most new laws regarding more gun regulation Fee2 partially because there is already many federal and local government gun control laws already. James D. Wright states, are more then 20,000 gun laws of various sorts already in the books in the United 4). The belief system is strongly built around the second amendment which is the right to keep and bear arms as well as have a regulated militia. On the main site, it states, widely recognized today as a major political force and as foremost defender of second amendment rights, the NRA has, since its inception, been the premier firearms education organization in the 1). Even though this primary goal is to try to reduce gun regulation laws, it also cares about the safety aspect of it too. This organization has firearm training and safety courses for people of all ages and are found all over their site. On the homepage one can find information on their firearm training and safety courses they offer. This makes it much easier and way more accessible for those who are interested in owning a gun or even those who are already owners. Most gun violence is on accident and from a lack of education especially from minors playing with their firearms. This is why the website has firearm education for minors and adults. This allows children to be taught at an early age that guns are not toys and should not be played with. The first image that is used is a picture of a pistol that has American over it. The main targeted audience that this image is intended for is patriotic Americans. It pretty much sends a message that if your a true American then you should own a firearm, which also appeals to pathos for those with a strong American spirit. Underneath that it says to protect your 2nd amendment This tells the audience how you can help support this cause even if you Fee3 do not own a gun. Connected to the pistol is a price tag that says NRA This would appeal to a persons logos, because many people see that and it immediately appeals to their financial point of view. At a glance you would think its saying NRA membership is free but below in small text it tells you that it is free if you purchase the Remington pistol they are promoting. In reality membership is a check of fifty dollars a year. The ethos appeal is that the NRA is a big and reputable group that has many members and great political influence. The second image that is used is a picture of a thug looking man holding his hands against the wall. On the top of the image it says, minute ago he was pointing a knife at The attended audience is for people who do not feel safe or not confident on he or self defense. This automatically appeals to the audiences pathos for fear of being attacked or robbed. The image is advertising hidden compact holsters that can conceal a pistol. The logos appeal is that it may be necessary to have a firearm in some areas of the country where crime rate is very high to maintain safety. Pro gun organizations such as the NRA also make the claim that, gun ownership is made illegal, criminals turn in their guns. Gun control makes easy prey out of law-abiding 1). Information such as this is told to give the reader facts in order to convince them to support the cause. Overall, stakeholders use propaganda to influence the public for support using three main appeals. If these ethos, pathos, and logos are used well, then the message can be very affective, especially to the targeted audiences. The National Rifles Associations use of these appeals in the two images send a very strong message for those looking to protect themselves or just feel patriotic and have a love for shooting. These images use not only color but also images and font Fee4 to make the reader feel passionate about whatever the cause is especially those targeted by the image. Fee5 Works Cited NRA  NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wright, J. D. (1988). Second thoughts about gun control. The Public Interest, 0(91), 23. Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1298115845?accountid=14745 Ammoland. Fifteen Reasons You Should Own A  AmmoLand.com Shooting Sports News. N.p., 02 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Fee6