Harrington !1 Haven Harrington Instructor Kristen Collins ENC1102 12 February 2017 The Protection of Animal Rights Many say zoos and parks are providing a safe haven to the animals being kept in their care, but it is evident that people disagree on the ways that animals are being treated and what rights they have while kept in captivity. Some organizations argue that animals should not be used in any circumstances where their rights are questioned, and others believe that there is no violation of rights when using animals as a display for entertainment. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) work to stop all animal cruelty in four major areas: factory farms, clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry. SeaWorld, another organization founded in helping to rescue wildlife and providing care and well being to the animals until they are fully rehabilitated. These two stakeholders need to work together to find common ground against opposing views, SeaWorld needs to stop putting the animals they rescue on display for entertainment, and PETA needs to become more involved in overseeing the care that is being given to the animals, and making sure they have a voice while at SeaWorld Park. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is a non-profit organization that was first founded in 1980 by Alex Pacheco and Ingrid Ward Newkirk who first began the organization to protect and defend the rights of animals. In the 1980s PETAs main focus was around the stopping of animals used in factory farming, hunting, fishing, and Harrington !2 (Maroufi n.p.). The organizations main mission today is to put a stop to all animal cruelty in four main areas: factory farms, clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry. PETA has a set potent stating, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for (PETA). PETA plays a huge role in protecting rights, and first started the organization with only two people, but is now one of the largest organizations having more than 5 million members. Since PETA is so large its main source of educating people about their organization is accomplished through the use of graphic visual images, expert testimony, media events, seminars, workshops, and (Maroufi n.p.). In Chogollah article he summarizes that over the years PETA has used a tactic to expose companies by going undercover, and revealing to the public all the cruel treatment of these innocent animals that these investigations have found that the companies do towards the animals. In the article he states of investigations have revealed patterns of cruelty that have appalled the public and resulted in widespread public support for change as well as generous contributions of money to the n.p.). PETA strives to continue to expose companies who put animals in questionable situations, and where their rights could be violated. As well as pursuing to educate the public that they can end all animal abuse if they just eat better, educate themselves more, and watch the things they buy. SeaWorld Park and entertainment is known for its wildlife sea creature exhibits, and for over years it has been a leading theme park for personal interaction and educational experiences with wildlife. SeaWorld is located in three major cities: Orlando, San Antonio, and San Diego. SeaWorld focuses its mission on rescuing as many wildlife animals from hostile and Harrington !3 harmful environments and then helping the animals to become fully rehabilitated. In a newspaper article published by Christian Science Publishing the chief executive of SeaWorld explained that SeaWorld would increase their focus on rescue operations, so that animals that able to survive on their own have a place to go and be cared for (Chen). SeaWorld prides itself on offering up close and personal interaction with animals, and is known for having killer whale performances. SeaWorld is it from a company only about certain species to a company that is focused on ocean and educates guests about biology and ocean conservation through virtual-reality exhibits that will explore the world below the (Lindsay n.p.). This organization is able to make a difference in bettering the survival of wildlife animals by its resources to be able to take hundreds of animals in and provide them with the necessities to survive, and eventually become fully rehabilitated. These two organizations share a common goal, however as individual organizations, they take different approaches on how they care for animals. In order for PETA to follow through with their mission, they want to eliminate the use of all animals in the entertainment industry, and believes that SeaWorld is taking the animals rights away by using them for personal gain. The organization fundamentally believes that animal rights is similar to violating human rights. In fact, the former is worse because animals cannot speak for n.p.). As explained on their website, PETA puts in perspective world of virtually unlimited choices, animal exploitation is simply unacceptable. We can eat better, educate ourselves better, clothe ourselves better, and entertain ourselves better without torturing and killing (PETA). On the other hand, SeaWorld believes that they are helping the animals that Harrington !4 they rescue, and are helping them to recover and get back on their feet in a safe environment. PETA and SeaWorld have been at odds with each other because PETA sees SeaWorld as using the animals they rescue as a form of entertainment to draw in a crowd, and put them on for show. PETA sees this as taking the animals rights away and making them train to be put on display. SeaWorld sees their organization as being to the animals, because they rescue injured animals from an unstable environment and care for them so they can recover and support themselves on their own. The compromise that needs to be taken place between these two organizations that will satisfy both opposing views is for SeaWorld to end all displays of big animals only and to not use the animals they rescue as entertainment. PETA needs to become more hands on and involved with SeaWorld so they can overlook the care they provide to the animals and can make sure the animals have a voice. This compromise has already happened in one way when SeaWorld has stated they would end their famously known Orca performances park announced that it would end its controversial captive orca breeding program entirely, adding that it would stop collecting orcas from the wild as (Lindsay n.p.). For example, Busch Gardens has animals that they take in and keep for visitors to come and view, the only difference is that they place their animals in life size familiar habitats where the animals are able to rome. Whereas, SeaWorld build an ocean for the bigger sea creatures they rescue likes whales to live in. By ending all whale performances it will lessen the stay of the animals, and they would only be held in captivity for a short amount of time while they rehabilitate and are then able to be let back in the ocean. By having these two organizations work together they could further their messages of protecting animal rights and overall helping the animals. Though, PETA should become more involved Harrington !5 because it would ensure that the animals would be getting the care they deserve. This compromise both stakeholders because neither organization gets the exact outcome that they would want, but in the end the compromise the animals best interest in having these two opposing organizations working together. In essence, both People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and SeaWorld have a common goal in helping and protecting animals. Although PETA works to protect animals rights and end all animal cruelty in areas like farm factories, clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry, and SeaWorld works to rescue wildlife animals and help them with their process of rehabilitation while at their time at the theme park. Even though their methods contradict each other in the end they have the same overall goal in helping animals. These organizations will have a better outcome with improving the way animals are treated by working with each other and respecting each opposing views, than being at odds with one another. Both stakeholders want to protect the welfare of animals, and it is that SeaWorld notices how keeping animals in a closed environment and making them train for performances can be detrimental towards the animals well being, and that PETA can continue working on making the entertainment industry a better and safer place for animals. WC: 1,431 Harrington !6 Works Cited All About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/learn- about-peta/>. Accessed 26 January 2017. Chen, Cathaleen. In double win for activists, SeaWorld ends orca breeding, boosts animal  The Christian Science Monitor 2016: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Accessed 27 January 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment Theme Parks & Water  World Class Theme Parks & Water Parks. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https:// seaworldparks.com/>. Accessed 26 January 2017. Lindsay, R. (2016, Dec 14). SeaWorld writes a new chapter with first killer whale-free park. The Christian Science Monitor Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/ 1848650947?accountid=14745. Accessed 26 January 2017. Maroufi, Chogollah. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Accessed 26 January 2017.