D e m e l i e n 1 Feline Demelien Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Ban public smoking The push for banning public smoking begin until the early 1990s, it until then scientists as well as the public began to take notice of the hazardous effects of second hand smoke caused by publically smoking. For this reason, the public could greatly benefit from such a ban. The organization, the Americans for Nonsmokers Rights founded in 1976, is one organization that is support of this ban. The ANR was founded solely to dedicate their time to the rights of nonsmokers and making sure to take on the tobacco industry in all levels of government, and lastly to protect nonsmokers from the dangers of secondhand smoke or (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). The photos below represent the values and beliefs of the stakeholder by demonstrating the gravity of secondhand smoke on the public as well as the devastating effects on the user. To represent the gravity of the situation, the two photos utilizes pathos and ethos as rhetoric appeals. D e m e l i e n 2 Pathos is a way of evoking emotion through images, literature, art, etcetera. In this case, images are being used to evoke emotion, which is represented through the photos chosen to represent the stakeholders mission. As previously stated the Americans for Nonsmokers rights mission is to dedicate their time to protect the rights of nonsmokers, through the government and exposure to second hand smoke (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). The first photo in particular demonstrates the effect second hand smoke has on children. The photo shows how crestfallen the child looks, by the way the eyes are downward pointing and the slight pout the child has with the cigarette in the mouth. The background as well as the clothes worn on the body is pale and not bright. Also, the caption states, get the worse end of the representing harmful effects smoking has on people, especially kids. These factors D e m e l i e n 3 stated represents a feeling of despair and urgency. The first photo evokes these kinds of emotion because second hand smoke is extremely harmful to kids. Younger kids who are surrounded by smoke, tend to have more ear infections, asthma, and lung problems (including pneumonia, bronchitis, and poor lung development) (All-Species Also, it is important to note that, average, children are exposed to more second hand smoke than nonsmoking adults. Two out of every five children ages three to eleven are exposed to second hand smoke in the United States. (Campaign for Tobacco Free With the previously stated statements, this aids in the evoked emotion of urgency. Not only are non-smoking adults are being affected, but more children than adults are being affected. Public smoking does not just gamble the lives of the user but it also gambles the lives of nonsmokers, as shown in the second photo. The second photo portrays a man assuming looking straight into the eyes holding out two dice in his hands. The entire photo is in black and white with the caption, gamble with workers lives. Support smoke free air for The emotion conjured from this photo is the feeling of guilt, anger and hopefulness. It is as if the man in the photo holding out the dice is basically provoking the user to go and smoke, go and destroy more lives. This goes back to the fact that when nonsmokers are passively smoking approximately, 53,800 people die every year from second hand exposure (American Nonsmokers Rights Essentially, what the photo is demonstrating is the fact that not only is the user gambling away their life, but they are gambling away the lives of others. There is a plethora of things that occur once the user takes in the first puff of nicotine. Some of these things include, allowing over 69 cancer causing chemicals into their body and changing the brain and muscle activity almost immediately after taking that first puff (BuzzFeed). Along with the devastating effects smoking has on not only the smoker and the nonsmoker the photo does urge for a smoke D e m e l i e n 4 free environment. To decrease the average amount of children from getting diseases from second smoke, the amount of nonsmokers from passively smoking and to try to reduce the amount of users getting ill themselves, the only way is to ban public smoking as a start. Ethos through works of art is the demonstration of credibility of information. Referring back to the images, they both do establish some type of credibility. For instance, the first photo has the logo of the organization that ran the print advertisements. At the top right hand corner, there are the letter DNF which stand for Droits des Non-Fumeur or Rights Association in France. This organization was established in 1973 to make sure that there are working regulations that continue to evolve. They also are involved protecting the non-smoking community and they do not hesitate in taking judicial actions to make sure these regulations are followed (Droits des Non-Fumeurs). The first photo also includes a website which leads the observer of the print ad to refer to the website. The second photo on the other hand evokes credibility through a plethora of things. For one, in the second print ad it includes facts to take note of the gravity of second hand smoke especially in Michigan. The second phot also, includes a phone number that could be dialed and a plethora of organizations that sponsors the ad, such as the American Lung Association, Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids and the American Cancer Society. With some of these factors stated, they establish the credibility of the print ad as well as the organization itself. Having such factors aid in people having trust in what they are looking at and may take what is being said in the print ad seriously. Essentially, the mission to ban smoking has been around since the probably a little bit more before that. Aforementioned, in the United States alone approximately 53,000 annual deaths are due to passively smoking (Rivero, Persson and Romine). It has gotten to the point where there is a law stating that cigarette companies must caution the user of the harmful effects D e m e l i e n 5 of the substances once entered inside the body. Not only is the user harming their own body but they are harming those around them. For instance, as previously stated in kids specifically, when they are passively smoking that is the start of respiratory illnesses such has bronchitis and pneumonia. In addition, because the bodies and their system are still developing second hand smoke may stunt that developing process, hence why the first photo captioned, smokers get the worst end of the By the same token, there are more kids getting the butt end of the drastic effects of second hand smoke than non-smoking adults. Equally important, the user of the cigarette is not only gambling away their lives, but the lives of others who do not smoke. For these simple facts print ads such as the two above exists. By producing these ads that utilize rhetoric appeals such as pathos and ethos, they are much more effective in getting the point across that secondhand smoke or is a grave topic and it needs to be handled properly. D e m e l i e n 6 Works Cited All-Species Fitness. Third-hand smoke: how to harm other health even after you  7 March 2014. http://www.allspeciesfitness.com/2014/03/third-hand-smoke-how-to-harm-other.html. 26 February 2017. American Nonsmokers Rights . Secondhand  6 Jun 2016. http://www.no- smoke.org/getthefacts.php?id=13. 02 Feb 2017. Americans for Nonsmokers Rights. About  http://www.no-smoke.org/aboutus.php?id=436. 26 February 2017. BuzzFeed. 11 Things Your First Cigarette Will Do To  12 January 2015. https://www.buzzfeed.com/thefactsnow/things-your-first-cigarette-will-do-to- 26 February 2017. Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids. Harm to Kids From Second Hand  9 February 2017. https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/research/factsheets/pdf/0104.pdf. 26 February 2017. Droits des Non-Fumeurs. Nos Missions (Our  http://dnf.asso.fr/-Nos-missions-.html. 26 February 2017. Rivero, Luis R, et al. Towards the world-wide ban of indoor cigarette smoking in public  International Journal of Hygiene and Environmental Health (2006): 1-14.