Liam Hemsley Taylor Poston 2/26/17 Syrian Refugees Anyone still living in Syria is taking a big risk that could cost them their lives. Due to continuous attacks in Syria it remains an unstable place where many different groups are all fighting for power. The people of Syria just seek a safe haven for them to live, but other countries are making it increasingly difficult for refugees to come into their country. The first image shows a popular market in Syria that got destroyed by the fighting taking place there, while the second image shows Syrians attempting to tell countries like America that just because they live in Syria it make them terrorist. These two images both depict the unsatisfactory living conditions in Syria and how the people living there desperately need help. For the past 5 years Syrians have been living a nightmare, their houses have been destroyed, they have been terrorized by ISIS, and they have been continuously bombed. Over 100,000 innocent civilians have lost their lives and millions more have lost their homes and way of life. Since 2011 over 4 million people have fled Syria and gone to other countries, with most of them going to neighboring countries like Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey. Countries like Lebanon have stated that they may no longer be able support any more refugees coming in unless other countries can provide money for infrastructure support. America and European countries need to open their borders for refugees so that they can have a fair chance at creating a life again. Anyone that is forced to leave their country in order to escape war should be allowed in to any country they want because they have lost everything to no fault of their own. Seven years ago Syria was a beautiful country that was home to antiques and architecture that dates back to 9000 BC, but since the war started many of these amazing sights have been destroyed by bombings. The first picture is a great example of how the country was flourishing but once the war began it was turned to rubble. The place shown in the picture is known as The Souq, which a millennial landmark for the city, with its shops that housed merchants and products of all kinds: in 1986 UNESCO had declared it a World Heritage Site. During the clashes between the government and rebels in October 2012 was set on (GPB 1). The goal of this first image is to inform people from outside of Syria that it was once a great and beautiful place to live, but now a lot of its architecture has been turned to ruins. The second image also portrays the damage that the war has caused like the first, but this image shows both the physical and mental destruction done by the war. The goal of the second image is to show that just because there are some Muslims that are terrorist it is completely unjustifiable to categorize all Muslims as terrorist, and the ones that are not terrorist are the ones that are being hurt the most by all the bombings. Both images utilize pathos, the appeal to emotions. The first image uses pathos by making you feel sad for what has happened to a common market place in Syria. It makes you think that one day something like that could happen to a city you live in, because it was once such a popular and well developed city but in just a matter of a couple of days it got turned from something beautiful into ruins. The people that sold their goods at this market lost everything they had and lost their source of income, they were left with nothing. The second image also appeals to your emotions by making you feel bad for the all the people that have lost their lives and homes due to the bombings of civilian areas. In the picture you can see what the people in Syria are having to deal with, many of them are being forced to live in makeshift huts made with tarps and duct tape. In the second image the people in the picture are expressing the fact that not all Muslims are terrorist, and in fact that only a very small minority are. Syrian refugees just want to be safe again and the only way for that to happen is if the whole world comes together to help those that are in the most need of help. When refugees are accepted into countries they can help the country grow economically and socially. refugees have undergone forced migration and are often living in destitute conditions, they still are productive and can interact with their host economy in positive (Taylor 1). Both images use pathos to appeal to credibility and morality. The first image uses pathos by building credibility through the use of a before and after picture from an actual market in Aleppo, Syria. The second image appeals to both credibility and morality by being a picture taken of people that are living in Syria at the time of all the destruction, giving them first-hand experience and the most credibility you can have. Everyone in the world deserves a chance at a life were they can feel safe in their own home, but sadly that is not a reality for many people in Syria. It is the duty for developed countries all over the world to help all refugees not just Syrian ones. The two pictures both represent what is going on in Syria and how the people there need our help. Quick Facts: What You Need to Know about the Syria  Mercy Corps. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Agencies Express Hope US Will Continue Long Tradition of Protecting Those Fleeing Conflict, UN News Center. United Nations, 28 Jan. 2017. Web.29 Jan. 2017 Connor, Phillip. U.S. Admits Record Number of Muslim Refugees in  Pew Research Center. N.p., 05 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. GPB. Mai Piu  Mai Pi Cristianofobia. N.p., 21 June 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Am, and A. Sakuma. The U.S. Is Way Behind Its Goal of Accepting 10,000 Syrian  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 07 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.