Daddario 1 Mathieu Daddario Kevin Ip ENC 1102 2/12/2017 Project 1 Final Draft Pets are near and dear to many of us. Pet ownership can start at the local pet store or from a visit to the local animal shelter. Unfortunately, conflict develops when these two business models interact. In business it is extremely important to try to maximize profit, you try to squeeze every last bit of worth out of something. PetSmart is a business whose goal is to maximize profits by selling healthy animals to an adoring public. The Humane Society is an animal shelter whose goal is to protect animals, profits are secondary and adopting animals is free, or costs only enough to help support the shelter. The Humane Society of United States (HSUS) is a nonprofit organization whose web site describes themselves as large-scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife (HSUS). They do a lot to help animals and according to their website, they have helped more than a hundred thousand animals a year with (HSUS). Their goal is to protect animal rights and save all the animals from being mistreated. On the other end of the spectrum are pet stores, for instance PetSmart. PetSmart care as much about the animals as much as they do profit. To stay in business, they rely heavily on making money and trying to maximize profit, which is the goal for businesses. PetSmart is a big business that buys from puppy mills as well as other animal mills. Puppy mills, according to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), a large-scale commercial dog breeding facility Daddario 2 where profit is given priority over the well-being of the (ASPCA). The compromise between HSUS and PetSmart is that PetSmart needs to force the puppy mills to clean up and update their facilities. There are laws that every person who participates in the sale of animals has to follow including the Animal Welfare Act (AWA). According to Gesualdi James, AWA sets the requirements for the humane handling, care, treatment, and transportation of regulated animal (Gesualdi James). According to the Animal Welfare Act there are law inspectors who visit breeders once every year to evaluate the conditions of the animals and where they are staying. This is overseen by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS). The Aphis.usda.gov says that it is for upholding and enforcing the Animal Welfare (APHIS). It also confirms the standards of for certain warm-blooded animals bred for (APHIS). This is the only law that enforces the basic living for animals. There are some problems with the law itself including how well it is enforced. For example, the Thepuppymillproject.org explains that there are no limits on how many dogs can be on the breeders property. The mill could have hundreds or thousands of (The Puppy Mill Project). Dogs for instance, can live their entire lives in a cage made of or wire (The Puppy Mill Project), the cages they live in can minimally be six inches bigger than their body including the (The Puppy Mill Project). There are at least 10,000 puppy mills just in America according to Humane Society of the United States. The Des Moines Register said that there is said to be only 120 people who do these inspections for ASPHIS. There are only 120 people inspecting 10,000 puppy mills and other breeders, that seems very understaffed and needs more people. where the Human Society of the United States can come in and get more volunteers who could Daddario 3 assist ASPHIS in monitoring puppy mills. HSUS could help keep these puppy mills up to date and safe. In 2011 seventy-eight million dogs live in the United States, and $2.13 billion were spent in the U.S. market in 2010 on live animal Throughout the whole country about to 4 million sold were from puppy mills and about 9000 pet stores including PetSmart sold these puppy mill puppies (Kenny Krysten). Kenny then reported between to 8 million dogs and are put into animal shelters and about half of them are put down (Kenny Krysten). Organizations like Humane Society of the United States like those types of outcomes. Millions of animals are being put down each year because no one wants them, and the HSUS is very pro-life when it comes to animals. Now PetSmart does work with the HSUS and other local animal shelters to have adoption days to help sell animals from animal shelters. PetSmart said that lives are saved every (PetSmart Charities) by their adoption day. But according to these statistics, animals are being put to death because no one wants them and the fact that puppy mills can produce and sell millions of animals makes HSUS and other animal rights groups pretty perturbed. when the animal rights groups go and expose how sad, evil, and disgusting some of these puppy mills are. They shoot videos of poor dogs locked up in small cages covered in feces. Then the media exposes these puppy mills, giving reports about how terrible these places are and how they sell mainly to PetSmart and other pet stores. That makes people stop buying dogs from PetSmart and that hurts their business. This is where the compromise comes in between the animal rights group Humane Society of the United States and PetSmart. The HSUS wants the animals to be healthy and happy, while the pet stores want to make a profit. The problem is the poor quality of life at the puppy mills Daddario 4 that pet stores are buying are from, making HSUS mad and causing them to expose these mills because they want dogs to be happy and healthy. Now in order to make both HSUS happy by saving dogs lives while also getting PetSmart more money, PetSmart needs to force the puppy mills to update their facilities so they are more animal friendly. Ensure the breeders provide a place where an animal can actually live its life comfortably and safely. Mills must make sure the animal is not crated up its whole life but let out, given the proper things to survive like food and water, as well as time to be an actual animal not a caged prisoner. Then the Humane Society of the United States will be happy that these animals are not being mistreated. They also can get more volunteers to help APHIS with the inspections of the mills. This will help PetSmart because they can physically show people who want to buy an animal where the animal comes from. Therefor increasing the amount of sales on dogs and in turn raising their profits. Then with the increase in sales of dogs, PetSmart would be able to have more days that they can have animal shelter adoption day. a win-win compromise. Work Cited Daddario 5 Kenny, Krysten. A Local Approach To A National Problem: Local Ordinances As A Means Of Curbing Puppy Mill Production And Pet  Albany Law Review 75.1 (2011): 379-406. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gesualdi, James F. AWA Compliance: Understanding The Basic  Florida Bar Journal 90.6 (2016): 100-104. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Humane Society of the United States : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Puppy  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. USDA APHIS Animal  USDA APHIS Animal Welfare. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Luplow, Lyle Muller and Jacob. Only 120 Inspectors Check U.S. Dog Breeding  Des Moines Register. N.p., 03 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Puppy Mill  The Puppy Mill Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Adopt a  PetSmart Charities. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.