1 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Lauren Berns USF ENC1102 Composition 2 2 The issue of gun control is one at the forefront of the public consciousness, particularly during and around the election cycle in the United States. Politicians and pundits alike seem to fight tirelessly over this issue, one which has become increasingly partisan over the years. because of this that many Americans simply parrot the opinion of their political party, without doing any research of their own into this complex and nuanced issue. As it stands, there are two primary non-profit organizations invested in this heated debate: The National Rifle Association and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (Which will here be referred to as the NRA and CSGV, respectively). These two organizations have different intentions, goals and ideals, which are reflected in their usage of visual rhetoric in advertising. The two images which will be examined in this paper reflect the anti-regulation philosophy, and the anti-violence philosophy. Firstly, the image. This was an ad run in magazines in 1997, featuring actor Charlton Heston, who would later go on to become the president of the NRA. It runs over multiple pages, the first of which is a photo of Heston giving a stoic, almost grave expression to the reader. captioned, me save the second amendment. Politicians scorn it. Media pervert it. Regulators defile it. Movies disgrace it. Publishers censor it. Teachers misrepresent it. And kids get it. Unless we act, our Second Amendment is in grave The second page shows a photo of Heston sitting in a classroom surrounded by children with expressions ranging from boredom to smiles. Above the group, it says gun rights are lost on our On the third page, it has a paragraph written in first person by Heston, explaining that the second amendment by nature allows all other rights to exist, basically citing the second alleged intent as a tool with which citizens must keep the government in check (Gilson, 2013). 3 The image is also a print ad run in magazines. a black-and-white image (which is to say, truly black-and-white, not grayscale) of a street, which has a chalk outline of a person. meant to look like a police outline of a dead body, invoking imagery of death. At the top of the page it says who carries a gun is more likely to make an At the bottom of the page, it says owners are five times more likely to be victims of gun-related violence. To find out how you can help, call 1-800-4-DISARM. The Coalition to Stop Gun This image was commissioned by the CSGV to an independent advertising agency (Deily, 2009). So how does the image speak to their ideology, and furthermore, how does it utilize the rhetorical appeals to do this? Since this ad prominently features Charlton Heston, important to first understand his significance in the context of the NRA. Heston was a political activist since the 1950s, originally a democrat, participating in the 1963 Washington march for civil rights. In 1968, He even called for more harsh gun control laws in response to the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King, Jr. (Team, 2008). But around the 70s, he began to align more with conservative viewpoints and eventually became heavily involved in the NRA and their politics in the mid-90s. especially famous for his speech given at the 2000 NRA convention, when he said can take my gun from my cold, dead and was somewhat of an icon for the gun rights movement up until his death in 2008 (Ross, 2012). At the time of this printing, he had already become a well-known advocate for second amendment rights, and as such his presence in this ad evokes a certain respect, and is a good example of an appeal to authority (Ethos). His serious expression seems to implore the reader for help, and the text on the first page lists the plethora of ways by which the second amendment is under attack. This speaks to the general attitude of persecution, claiming 4 that their rights are constantly under attack by government legislators, and that their lobbying actions are only for the sake of self-defense and to protect the best interests of Americans. The second page of the ad serves multiple purposes. Firstly, its inclusion of Heston surrounded by children serves as an appeal to emotion, as it shows that he (and the NRA by proxy) does what he does with the best interest in so should you, the reader. a classic example of pathos. The second purpose served by this page of the ad is to convince the audience that children need to be taught about the importance of gun rights. This exemplifies the attitude that gun education is in this case, education on the importance of gun rights rather than gun safety. This is an arguably partisan viewpoint, and one that play well with organizations such as the CSGV. It exemplifies the goal, which is the protection of gun rights, and the anti-regulation stance. The third page of the ad lists a common interpretation of the second amendment as it appears in the Constitution, which is that the purpose of the ownership of firearms by civilians is to prevent the government from becoming too tyrannical, and to have a balance of power between citizens and the government. This page implies that without gun-owning civilians, the government would gleefully strip away their freedoms with no fear of an armed rebellion taking place. This page is a good example of the anti-regulation agenda, as it outright states that more gun regulation would directly lead to the removal of rights of Americans. also a good example of Kairos, telling the audience fast! The coming for your second amendment rights first, and the rest of your rights after The ad is based entirely around a fact. Specifically, based around the statistic that gun owners are five times more likely to be victims of gun-related violence. This appeal to logos serves to espouse the idea that guns are dangerous, and should be made more difficult to 5 acquire. The blunt, simplistic delivery serves to associate guns with violence, and as such is a good example of the attitude towards this issue: that violence is bad, and they want to stop it. The call to action at the bottom of the page is a good example of Kairos, asking the viewer to act as soon as possible. Its implication that violence is currently happening and must be stopped is another good example of the anti-violence angle. (About CSGV) In conclusion, both of these ads reflect the concerns of their respective stakeholders. The ad reflects their pro-second amendment, anti-regulation (and subtly anti-government) attitudes, while the ad reflects their anti-violence, pro-regulation angle. These images use different methods to achieve their goals, but both do a good job of getting their point across and swaying readers. Whether this constant flow of arguments for and against gun control does anything to clear the air when it comes to this complex issue is a topic for another paper, and gun control itself remains a major and hotly debated issue in the US. But even so, given rise to many good examples of rhetoric for scholars and students to examine. 6 References Gilson, D. (2013, April 10). This Collection of NRA Ads Reveals Its Descent Into Crazy. Retrieved February 26, 2017, from http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2013/03/national-rifle- association-ads-history Deily, B. (2009). Mini-Book. Retrieved February 26, 2017, from http://www.bendeily.com/id5.html Ross, S. J. (2012). Hollywood left and right: How movie stars shaped American politics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, USA. Editorial Team. (2008, November 11). Charlton Heston and the NRA. Retrieved February 26, 2017, from http://www.shmoop.com/right-to-bear-arms/charlton-heston-nra.html About CSGV. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://csgv.org/about-us/