Alex Fernandez Emotion of a Gun In the 21 st century gun control has been a topic of intense debate. Whether that be promoting the use of firearms or advocating for stricter regulations, gun control has been a central focus. One topic that has recently emerged is whether individuals such as armed guards should be allowed in public schools and college universities. One organization the NRA has long been a champion for gun rights and a strong advocate for armed guards or open carry in schools. Taken the charge in the fight, the NRA has been the forerunner in this fight and released several advertisements with the goal of swaying public opinion in their favor. Using a variety of rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos and Kairos, the NRA has done a good job of advocating for the use of armed guards. According to their website, The National Rifle Association can trace its origins back to 1871 when the organization was founded in the state of New York (About US NRA.org) Its original purpose was to promote and encourage shooting on a scientific basis following the civil war, however the organization has grown into something much different today (About Us) The NRA now follows a different mission statement being protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such Constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use (About Us). A frontrunner on the advocacy of firearms, the NRA has grown immensely and become a central stakeholder in the long battle for gun control. One of the key battles the NRA is fighting is in regards to having firearms or armed guards protecting both lower level educational establishments and universities Report Sees Guns as Path to Safety in Schools NYTimes.com) The organization has taken a hard stance on this issue and has released several advertisements in order to promote their view points and try to sway the public towards the side of advocating these fire arms. Taking a look at two separate advertisements the NRA uses a variety of rhetorical appeals to try to influence individuals who may be on the fence about this issue into the favor. The first advertisement to be examined is the official logo. The first thing that comes to mind when examining the logo is the similarities to many official U.S icons. The logo features a seal shape with very vibrant colors of red white and blue as well as the official bird of the United States of America the bald eagle. Perched beneath the talons is a pair of rifles with the shield brazen with the portrayal of the American flag. The logo also features the date the NRA was founded and utilizes a very unique art style reminiscent to old fashioned cartoons. Looking at the eagle and the font the art is very similar to political cartoons featured in newspapers or a hand drawn American Style. Another comparison can be made between the logo and the original American quarter, both designs feature a central eagle with items perched beneath their feet. This similarity seems to be intentional as the NRA is focused around the American Spirit and utilizes a lot of American symbolism. In terms of rhetorical appeals the logo features a strong element of pathos or appealing to the emotions. The logo appeals to those with a strong sense of patriotism by using those American colors and images. This also harkens back to the mission statement of the NRA or protecting the rights of fire arms under the constitution with the document being central to patriotism. In terms of effectiveness the logo is somewhat effective albeit limited. The logo seems to focused entirely on the patriotic or ultra- nationalist population rather than the entire population of the United States. Despite its limited reach the logo does do a good job of appealing to its target audience. The second advertisement to be examined is much different from the logo as this advertisement is aimed at pushing a specific agenda rather than a broad topic. The advertisement is a intending to bring awareness to the ongoing debate on armed guards in schools by using a variety of rhetorical appeals. The advertisement features a dark background with a shadowy gray scale background. Going along with the shadowy theme are the silhouettes of three young children presumably playing on a open field. Above the silhouettes is the phrase the Presidents kids more important than This phrase is portrayed in bold face font with highlighted in red to stand out from the white font. A small NRA logo also appears in the corner clearly showing that the focus of the advertisement is on the message rather than the messenger. This image features many rhetorical appeals while appealing to its central message. The first and most obvious would be pathos. The image is portraying the emotions of anger or frustration that the former president of the United States children attended private schools that utilized armed guards while he openly opposed this idea in public schools as well as universities. This creates a feeling of inferiority or that our kids good enough to be protected as well as the children. By utilizing the shadowy silhouettes of children, the advertisement is also catering to the emotion of fear as the children seem to be both innocent and defenseless. Another rhetorical appeal sublimely used is Kairos. The advertisement has an underlying tone about safety and school shootings or danger, therefore it can be alluded to that the children as safe and death or harm can happen as a result of them not being protected by the proposed armed guards. This leads to the intended audience feeling like this harm could happen soon therefore utilizing the rhetorical appeal of Kairos. Another interesting use of rhetorical appeal would be ethos or in this case reverse ethos. The NRA is using former president children as a testimonial even though he support the point they are trying to push. This is interesting as most forms of testimonial use someone endorsing something rather than opposing. In terms of effectiveness this advertisement promotes its message very well. The add appeals to a wide variety of audiences as well as using many rhetorical appeals. By focusing on one simple message or point the advertisement is able to focus all of its resources on promoting that one idea rather than a wide decentralized point. All in all, this advertisement is very effective for the stakeholders view on the issue of school gun control. Comparing the two advertisements, it is easy to see that the second advertisement is clearly superior then the first. The first advertisement is simply too broad and pin point the message that the NRA is trying to portray as well as the second. In addition, the first advertisement also has a narrower target audience then the second as it is mainly appealing to the ultra-patriotic rather than the everyday audience in the second advertisement. However, when putting both images side by side, the NRA does do a fantastic job of utilizing rhetorical appeals, especially pathos in its advertisement. When dealing with a topic such as gun control, having that emotional appeal is extremely effective and the NRA has done a good job at portraying emotions. Works Cited National Rifle Association. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.preoccupiedterritory.com/wp- content/uploads/2014/07/NRA-logo.png>. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://i2.cdn.turner.com/cnn/dam/assets/130116121551-nra-ad-story-top.jpg>. NRA  NRA.ORG. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://home.nra.org/about-the- nra/>. Stolberg, Sheryl Gay. Report Sees Guns as Path to Safety in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 Apr. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/03/us/nra-details-plan-for-armed-school- guards.html>.