Al muntaser al sinani ENC 1101 Cat Modlin-Jackson 1/29/2017 University is the most anticipated stage in every life. In this stage, they leave their house and move near the university or inside it either alone or with some roommates. University students tend to have behaviors in their college life that are deferent than those in their house. Some of these behaviors are bad and some of them are good, the good ones include time management, self-reliant, and Decision-making. On the other side, there we have the bad behavior for some students which include, drinking a lot, and taking drugs. There are actually a lot of students drinking. Since their parents are not with them to see what they do in their free time they can do whatever they want with no restrictions, such as throwing a party at their house and staying up and drinking alcohol until early hours in the morning. Drinking alcohol can leave a bad impact on students, especially in their health and school performance if not kept to a minimum rate. Students who drink alcohol tend to have a bad academic performance, for example, being less focused in the class, do their assessments, and leave their homework behind. This is a really major problem that must be solved because university students getting low grades and in worst cases they get kicked out of the university, so Knowing this issue and what are some good ways to solve is important. How is alcohol consumption associated with Poor Academic performance? Sullivan, Michael, and Ed Risler. Understanding College Alcohol Abuse and Academic Performance: Selecting Appropriate Intervention  Wiley blachwell. Vol. 5, no 2, Fall. 2002, pp 114-123. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson), doi: n.e In the article Understanding College Alcohol Abuse and Academic Performance: Selecting Appropriate Intervention  the authors Michael Sullivan and Ed Risler summarizes a research about the relationship between low academic performance and alcohol consumption, also the misunderstandings or the problems that occur in the campus community, like fighting or harassment, They also give three theoretical perspectives on decreasing alcohol consumption and presents programs to prevent alcohol on campuses. (Sullivan and Risler) This source is very interesting for me and also very helpful for my research paper. I discovered that the campus life is not always good and it can be dangerous due to alcohol consumption. In my research paper, I want to talk about the relationship between alcohol consumption and the poor academic performance. Since performance is affected by campus community problems which can be caused by alcohol consumption, I can use this article in my research paper to discuss how campus problems like fighting and harassing that are caused by alcohol consumption, lead to academic performance reduction. Both authors have a Ph.D. in Social Welfare from The University of Georgia. They have experience in social relationships and family connections, and they talk about the problems in the campus community. This makes their ideas very reliable. Walid El, Ansari, Stock Christiane, and Mills Claire. Is Alcohol Consumption Associated With Poor Academic Achievement In University  International Journal Of Preventive Medicine, Vol. 4, no. 10, 2013, Pp. 1175-1188. Directory of Open Access Journals, doi: ne In the article Is Alcohol Consumption Associated with Poor Academic Achievement in University  the three authors Walid El Ansari, Christiane Stock, and Claire Mills did five measures about alcohol consumption during their university life. And three educational achievement indicators, and discusses those alcohol consumption measures and their academic performance. (El Ansari) The source is useful for me and my research paper because it looks over alcohol consumption and how it is problematic to the students and their academic performance and I need it to know how often university students drink alcohol. the author have a Ph.D. in public health at the university of Gloucestershire so he has an experience in the body health and how alcohol affects the body and what would be some problems that the students will suffer from in their body and its effect on their academic performance. et al. Identifying Predictors and Prevalence of Alcohol Consumption among University Students: Nine Years of  Public Library of Science, vol. 11, no. 11, Nov 2016, Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0165514 In The article Identifying Predictors and Prevalence of Alcohol Consumption among University Students: Nine Years of  The author and others writing to evaluate the prevalence of alcohol usage among college students during their adulthood stage and clarify alcohol consumption factors, this article shows the heavy and risky alcohol consumption. Alcohol consumption were measured with the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) at ages of 18 through 27 years old. Also, this article mentions some potential factors connected with alcohol consumption and provides the rates of prevalence of RC (risky consumption) between both genders. ( With this kind of information, I can give factors that drives students to overconsume alcohol, and what could be some outcomes and problems that will face the students after alcohol overconsumption. In addition, this article will give me some useful information about the difference between boys and girls in alcohol consumption and its effect on their academic performance. The author is a Professor of Psychobiology at the Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychobiology at the University of Santiago de Compostela. Also, she worked as a doctor in psychology, and that gives her knowledge about what could be some psychological factors that drive university students to overconsume alcohol. Ezeokoli, Rita, and Ndidi M. Ofole. Measured Effect Of Sexual Activities, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking, And Aggression On Health Risk Of Students In Rural Communities In Ikenne,  Journal Of Education And Practice, vol. 6, no. 23, 2015, pp. 30-35. ERIC doi: ne The article Measured Effect of Sexual Activities, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking and Aggression on Health Risk of Students in Rural Communities in Ikenne,  is a study examining the relation between sexual activities, alcohol consumption and the potential of health risk for students, it explains that the majority of students who involves in aggressive sexual activities are overconsuming alcohol, as a result they compromise their health.(Ezeokoli) In my research, I will talk about the health disorders due to alcohol consumption and its impact on the academic performance. The article goes over some health risks and the sexual activities for students who consume alcohol. The author Ezeokoli has a degree from the University of Ibadan and he is an internist. This allows him to be aware of the health disorders that will accrue to students if overconsumed alcohol. Butler, Adam B., Kama D. Dodge, and Eric J. Faurote. College Student Employment And Drinking: A Daily Study Of Work Stressors, Alcohol Expectancies, And Alcohol  Journal Of Occupational Health Psychology. Vol. 15, 2010, pp. 291-303. PsycARTICLES. Doi: ne The author Butler, Adam B in his article College student employment and drinking: A daily study of work stressors, alcohol expectancies, and alcohol  Examining the relationship between work stress and alcohol consumption among a sample of college students, he assumed that by having more work to do students will drink more, but he discovered the opposite, students who have worked out of the university tend to drink less.(Butler) My research covers the relationship between alcohol consumption and academic performance, and this article addresses the relation between work and alcohol consumption, which will be a useful source for my paper. The author Butler, Adam B is a Professor in the Department of Psychology in the University of Northern Iowa. So he knows how people act when stressed. Kuntsche, Emmanuel, et al. Bullying And Fighting Among Adolescents--Do Drinking Motives And Alcohol Use  Addictive Behaviors, vol. 32, no. 12, dec. 2007, pp. 3131- 3135. PsycINFO. Doi: ne In the article Bullying and fighting among adolescents--Do drinking motives and alcohol use  the author Kuntsche, Emmanuel investigates the relationship (through alcohol use) between drinking and violent behaviors (bullying and fighting). (Kuntsche) This article will be very helpful for me since it talks about bullying and fighting among students which leads to low grades or even worse to absent and not paying attention to class, and that all due to alcohol consumption. The author is a Health Psychology, he got an experience in health education and promotion.