Wynter 1 Jaye Wynter Ms. Poston ENC 1102 February 23, 2017 The Affirmative Action Debate Affirmative attempt to alleviate inequity in modern environments such as workplaces and school systems has made it one of the most hotly debated topics in America. The most direct opposition to the policy is the white community who feel threatened by the idea of minority groups having a slight edge over them. Their main objective is to maintain an environment of an environment where no one gets an advantage because of how they look or where they come from. On the other hand the leading stakeholder for affirmative action is the black community, particularly students who, without the policy, feel disadvantaged because of their respective racial background. They believe it is only fitting to have such a policy in place to the playing and their main goal is to stand on equal ground with the majority group in systems where they seem to have the advantage already. Both of my stakeholder images reflect their goals respectively. In image 2, the logos and pathos images are employed to show that white people are being hurt in the employment line with reference to annual income. While in Image 1, the girl has stated her misfortunes, which are quite likely accredited to her being a minority living in poverty, and now she is depending on affirmative action to aid her in college admission, however, another character, representative of the white community, believes that advantage is unfair to them, a good representation of the differing opinions with effective use of pathos and kairos persuasive elements. Affirmative attempt to mend the racial disparities in education and workplace Wynter 2 environments that has plagued America constitute to a feasible solution; it is an important step in balancing the prejudiced environment that exists presently. One of the strongest points minorities have in the affirmative action debate is their right to justice for historical and even present injustices their people have faced. Image one illustrates a girl who has experienced unfavourable situations her whole life, more than likely due to being born as a black girl in an underdeveloped community and when she tries to use affirmative action to her benefit the white community opposes. The purpose of using this type of irony is to stimulate some emotion in the reader who would empathize with the girl for living in such deplorable conditions and feel the necessity for assuagement, so she can have confidence when applying for school. Keeping the historical culture of discrimination of minorities (blacks to be specific) and all the present poverty ridden, underdeveloped all black communities in mind, the creator of image 1 successfully utilizes the appeal to logos and pathos to bring across their point that affirmative action is a reasonable policy to level the playing field for various racial communities. Image 1: Affirmative Action Comic Wynter 3 Image 2 analyzes the income distribution of whites over time with an annotation that whites are being pushed down the employment ladder. It uses the appeal to logos technique: feeding the reader some statistical information and persuaded to see the information the way they have presented it. A logical fallacy is observed here, La Griffe du Lion seems to carefully pick out the data he wants to use to fit a presumption; in this case, the vague statistics of income against IQ are very convenient and do not give us much information as to all the other factors involved in the levels of income. At the same time, the author utilized the element of pathos in the annotation of the histograph, he explains that when one white person is they fall down the ladder, displacing the person below them in a cascade-like fashion and that, . .eventually they are pushed out of the job market (Lion). This final statement is a persuasive device aimed at the emotions. The white stakeholders, for example, Leonard Steinhorn and Barbara Diggs-Brown argue that one of their concerns is the affirmative action policies benefitting undeserving black people (106). This point is shut down by Nighaou who explains that the very structure of the black community has has to be taken into consideration. Nighaou we should first address the question of which social category racial preferences Image 2: White Income Statistics Wynter 4 were initially supposed to So the social and economic behavior of the people in the black community, which are elemental parts of their culture, brought about by their historically deplorable societal situations have made them who they are. Sami Chedli Nighaou, an activist for affirmative action further backs up the message in image 1 in his 2007 paper, Action: Why We Should Consider that, . . . in a society where race and ethnicity still determine position in the socioeconomic hierarchy, outreach and assistance programs which do not take into account the significance of race and ethnicity will barely benefit those who are at the bottom  (Nighaoui). This is to say that any policy put in place which is to benefit the lower class black man has to be far reaching and efficient in its execution to really be effective. He states that in previous implementations of the policy, the group which seemed to have benefitted the most was the middle class blacks, evidence is the significant boost in permanent employment for blacks in the According to Stein, most important myth is that everyone in this country has an equal opportunity to  (Stein). It is important to remember that the basis on which people succeed is for the most part codetermined by other people and this creates a lot of room for bias. Simon Fulwood conducted a survey published in 1994 which concluded that, of white people felt that people of color have the same opportunities as whites, while 70% of black people (Fulwood, 1994). He explains that white people think that equality exists because they do not think about the issue within a historical context. Both of the images have different characteristics. Image 1 is sad and ironic, hence the persuasive element is the emotion behind the situation. On the other hand image 2 adopts a more statistical approach to convince the reader. They both effectively reflect the concerns of their respective stakeholders and are supported by several scholarly works cited throughout this paper. Wynter 5 It seems that those with a vested interest in introducing or criminalization of marijuana will pull whatever strings necessary to sway public opinion to their side. This means using a wide array of persuasive elements and incorporating them into their arguments. Wynter 6 Works Cited Action The Fight for Civil Rights. 2017. Web. Du Lion, La Griffe Income The Robin Hood Effect. 2017. Web. http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/robinhood.htm Fulwood,S., III 1994 Survey Shows Most U.S. Whites Oppose Affirmative  West Coun ty Times (October 12): A1. LeBeauf, Ireon, et al. Affirmative Action Still Journal of Employment Counseling, vol. 44, no. 3, 2007, pp. 98+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1G1-168507957/is- affirmative-action-still-necessary. Accessed 2017. Nighaoui, Sami Chedli. Action: Why We Should Consider The Western Journal of Black Studies, vol. 31, no. 1, 2007, pp. 33+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1G1-192586268/affirmative-action-why-we-should-consider- reform. Accessed 2017. Stein, Nancy. Action and the Persistence of Social Justice, vol. 22, no. 3, 1995, pp. 28+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1G1-18285711/affirmative-action-and- the-persistence-of-racism. Accessed 2017. Steinhorn,Leonard and Barbara Brown. (1999) By the Color of Our Skin: The Illusion of Integrat ion and the Reality of Race. New York: Penguin Putman. Tollett, Kenneth S. Testament of Hope: Strategies for a New Era in Higher The Journal of Negro Education, vol. 68, no. 2, 1999, pp. 227+. Questia, Wynter 7 www.questia.com/read/1P3-64826980/affirmative-action-s-testament-of-hope-strategies. Accessed 2017. Wilson, Hugh A. Affirmative Action for Blacks Harm Whites? Some Evidence from the Higher Education The Western Journal of Black Studies, vol. 22, no. 4, 1998, p. 218. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1G1-53744951/does-affirmative-action-for-blacks- harm-whites-some. Accessed 2017.