Knowles 1 Ivy Knowles Adam Phillips ENC 1102 2/26/17 Mental Illness Mental illness is considered to still be a stigma in society despite, the fact that 1 in 5 Americans experience a mental illness, and 1 in 25 Americans live with a serious mental illness. (Nami) Nearly 60% of adults with a mental illness do not receive mental health services every year due to lack of diagnoses, their health care not covering it, or improper diagnoses. The National Alliance on Mental Illness(NAMI) is an organization that helps people find the support they need whether it be medical or just someone to talk to. The two images I will be using today is 1) A picture of a crowd with the words in black and red lettering up and tell Congress to KEEP WHAT WORKS for mental health This image uses pathos and logos. 2) Shows a waterfall in a forest with the words in white lettering day we will finally shine a light and support those who are suffering in This image uses ethos and pathos. Today I will be talking about how these images support beliefs and ideas and how these images work together to reflect what NAMI stands for as an organization. NAMI is Americas leading and largest mental health organization with over thousands of community centers all over the US. They educate the masses on the realities of mental health with their education programs through NAMI state organizations and affiliates. They advocate Knowles 2 by helping shape national public policies for people with mental illnesses and fight to help create bills for people whose health insurances do or even cover mental illnesses. They have a toll-free hotline to help provide free information, referrals or support for those in need. They even have public awareness events and activities like NAMIWalks and Mental Illness Awareness Week. They raise thousands of dollars to help support those with mental illnesses and even have a yearly national convention is Washington, DC to promote awareness on mental illnesses and to support said people and find new ways to help them out. Image one is a black and white picture of a crowd with the words in front of the crowd saying in black and red lettering saying up and tell Congress to KEEP WHAT WORKS for mental health coverage. The words in red lettering are what Red as a color in text is associated with vigor, willpower, and courage. It is also good for bringing text to the foreground. It makes the words stand out and makes it the first thing you look at in the picture. They use the crowd in the picture to symbolize people coming together to fight for their rights so to say. This whole image plays on rhetorical appeals such as pathos (means to appeal to the emotions) and logos (means to appeal to logic and reason). (Rhetoric Really Matters) It uses pathos by having using the red font to make certain words stand out and call forth your attention to and having the crowd in the background to use your emotions to join the fight. The image uses logos by appealing to make you wonder what Congress is doing to mess with current mental health coverage, and the hashtag to make you even more curious to go on social media websites and look into what is going on. This image supports the beliefs of Nami by bringing up the topic of what Congress is doing to change mental health coverage. NAMI fights Knowles 3 national bills and laws to provide equal access to treatments and services to everyone with mental illnesses. They fight to ensure that people get the proper help they need provided with their health insurance. Image two is an image of a waterfall in a forest with a blue hue over it in the background with a text in front of it in white text with the words day we will finally shine a light and support those who are suffering in and lists two mental health organizations in the bottom corners of the image. White as a color in text is associated with light, innocence, purity, safety and usually has a positive connotation (The Meaning of Colors) They use the blue hue over the waterfall to promote the sense of tranquility, softness, and sincerity. They use the waterfall in a forest to further promote a sense of tranquility and peace since people generally associate waterfalls with nice, peaceful things. This image uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos (appeal to credibility and morality) and pathos (appeal to the emotions). It uses ethos with the actual text which reads day we will finally shed a light and support those who are suffering in They are trying to evoke the thought to people that perhaps they should help and support people with mental illness instead of ignoring them and letting these people suffer on their own and decay in their self-toxicity. It uses pathos with the whole image to play on your emotions and make you feel calm and want to help others. The image ties into the mission of NAMI, which is to support people with mental illness by any means necessary. They seek to provide help by offering referrals, medical assistance, hotlines and even just mailing pamphlets to help educate people. Knowles 4 These two images are kind of different while also kind of the same, they both exist to promote helping people find some justice per say for their mental illnesses while still showing and promoting the beliefs of NAMI. They are different with how image one only focuses on seeking help for mental illnesses with their health coverage and fighting against Congress to protect it, and how image two believes in helping support anyone and everyone suffering with mental illness in a peaceful, kind way and using the text to appeal to the emotions. In the end, Nami uses two kind of same and different images of promoting mental health stability. They use image one to provoke people to fight for their rights with their health insurance and they use image two to appeal to compassionate side to make people want to help others suffering with mental illnesses. Knowles 5 Works cited 1. http://www.nami.org/About-NAMI.aspx 2. https://resources.oncourse.iu.edu/access/content/user/rreaga 3. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Action MA: XanEdu, 2016, Print, pages 27,32,37