Palta 1 Rudy Palta Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 - 003 February 26, 2017 Stay away from Genetically Modified Food It is widely known that GMOs or genetically modified organisms has been a controversial issue due to the possible consequences if not maintained properly as well as there is much needed research on the health effects. The Non-GMO Project is determined to manage and build a non-GMO food supply. This is done by educating the public through different programs in order for the citizens to be informed of the effects of GMOs. The Non-GMO Project is the largest leader in the market for GMO avoidance and one of their main mission statements is to provide a source of Non-GMO products. Many of the ingredients in food products are unknown to the consumers, bringing up the question of how healthy could the food people consume possibly be and what are the possible effects of genetically modified food. Although this is a large issue in society there is still people that are not informed on the subject of GMOs, genetically modified organisms are used to improve the growth or resistance of food products. This is the job of the Non-GMO Project to inform the public of its effects and the alternatives of Genetically modified food, this is done through diverse methods such as rallies, blogs, but most significantly propaganda posters in order to provide facts and information as well as provide a sense of emotion with the images that are used. The advertisement or posters, help present the main the issues of GMOs through imagery as well as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in order to show how this issue does have an affect on the lives of a society. Palta 2 The Non-GMO Project was created in 2007 by two grocery stores, Natural Grocery in Berkeley, California and The Big Carrot Natural Food Market in Toronto, Ontario both of which had spent the preceding years working diligently to provide their customers with more information about GMOs. (Non-gmo project) The organization had rallied over one hundred stores in a campaign to ask producers about their products in order to know if they were genetically modified.This organization is very credible with several experts from a series of diverse backgrounds who want to inform citizens they have other options besides GMOs and that people should know what they are eating and the effects it has to their health. The first propaganda poster is created by the Non-GMO Project and it states in your This question makes the audience think of this issue because many people dont take this into consideration. This creates possible doubt and fear due to the lack of knowledge the audience has and brings their attention to the poster. This poster shows an apple that appears to be turned into a monster with multiple teeth and tentacles. This poster could be interpreted in many ways, this could be showing how the method of genetically modifying an organism may seem inhuman or something to fear of and stay away from since not something natural or a creation of We know what chemicals or manipulation could be added by modifying the organism creating a lack of trust between both the producer and the consumer, this is what the Non-GMO Project would like to reveal. The fear that the poster presents would be pathos, provides the realization that since food is a necessity it makes citizens realizes how GMOs correlate with all lives, therefore creating an incentive to avoid genetically modified organisms. Also an apple is known to be a food product that must be grown, this shows how genetically modified organisms can be seen in all forms of food and depending on the labeling their Palta 3 may be no way of differentiating between genetically modified food and organic, creating another issue of trust for consumers as well as fear. The tentacles with the monstrous apple can possibly provide logos which is the use of factual information or statistics. (Literarydevices)People may not know what is genetically modified food however, since the overall picture entails animal characteristics intertwined with food this depiction is very similar to the method of the production of genetically modified goods. A source of credibility or ethos would be the the non-gmo project logo, this logo is on many food products and this organization is very well know for their rallies and their purpose of trying to provide an alternative food source that is more natural and safe. (Merriam-Webster)The kairos that could be evaluated from this source is that this food is clearly unsafe due to the monstrous image, meaning that there are probably consequences of consuming this food therefore creating an incentive to eat non-genetically modified goods. The 2nd image is much more simpler compared to the first, it merely states look for the and it contains the non-gmo project logo however this does provide useful information. The butterfly has always been a symbol that was used to be used in all of the non-gmo projects, butterflies represent a symbol of themes such as beauty, nature, and life which is what this organization is trying to promote, a more natural food source. The logo provides ethos which is the credibility of the source, as stated before the non-gmo project is a well known organization main purpose is to promote the education of the topic genetically modified food products, it is to preserving and building the non-GMO food supply, and providing verified non-GMO choices in order to create a more natural and healthy society.(Non-gmo Project) I believe that everyone deserves an informed choice about whether or Palta 4 not to consume genetically modified Project) The sky can be seen as a manner of portraying the theme of the natural world where there any modifications and beautiful in nature compared to genetically modified food being manipulated with.The kairos or the effect that the firm is trying to push onto the reader overall is to eat more natural foods that have ingredients that are known, in order to live a prosperous life and live happily just like a butterfly flying into the endless sky of wonders. In conclusion, GMOs do require a lot of further research on the effects and people deserve to know what they are eating. This main purpose is to educate the public in order to inform them of an alternative food source, many people feel like genetically modifying food is merely unnatural and unsafe therefore they deserve the right to decide whether they consume it or not. The Non-Gmo project has proved to be the world leader of the topic of genetically modified organisms and had captured this through these images, by showing the values and beliefs of the organization. The portrayal of the characteristics of a inhumane method is what this organization is trying to provoke in order to be more persuasive to the audience. Palta 5 Work Cited  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ethos>. Literarydevices.net . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://literarydevices.net/logos/>. MOST TRUSTED  Project . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Palta 6 Figure 1 Figure 2