Borges 1 Angelene Borges Professor George Winkle ENC 1102 626 February 2017 Pit Bull Project Picture your dog or imagine that you own one. The dog has no history of violence or aggression towards you or strangers. Imagine that it is announced of the news that all dogs of that breed are now banned from the city. Surely, this does not apply to you, right? Your dog has no history of violence, your dog is the sweetest thing. You are walking your dog and animal control stops you and tells you that they are taking your dog, because its breed has been banned in the city. You try to reason with them, but they take him anyways. This can not be legal, can it? This happens to many pitbull owners nation wide when a pitbull ban is put into place in their city and it is legal for animal control to take your dog without warning. Pitbullproject.ca is a group that is against pitbull bans and uses visual aids to help make the message clear. The visual aid that is used, successfully conveys their message against banning pit bulls. Since the 1980s, breed specific legislation (BSL) has been in effect in different cities at different times. BSL is regulations towards a specific breed of dog that is considered dangerous. In the 80s, fatal dogs attacks began to receive more media attention. The media influence raised the fear of specific breeds, prompting cities to ban or regulate those breeds. While many dogs are on the dangerous breed list, most cities target pit bulls in these laws. Pit Bull Project is not a rescue group. As the creator of the website, I work with rescue groups in helping to spread the word about adoptable bullies and responsible (Animal Blog). The pit bull project is Borges 2 dedicated to the education and preservation of the (Animal Blog). The maker of the website does research or tells of his finding from working with rescue groups. During the time of bans, many dogs besides pure breed pit bulls get included. For this reason the author puts the disclaimer, clarification purposes, the use of the term includes the American Pit Bull Terrier, the American Staffordshire Terrier, the Staffordshire Bull Terrier, and any mix of the previously mentioned breeds (Animal Blog). The two photos selected show a mix of these different types of affected by BSL and pit bull bans. The image above will be referred to as photo one. The pit bull project wants to show the problem with banning pit bulls. Photo one shows a pile of dead pit bulls after a ban was issued in Denver. These dogs were not strays or unwanted. They were pet, that was taken away from them and put down. Pathos is the appeal to emotion. Photo one has a strong sense of emotion. The photo was not staged or created, but instead was taken from an event that actually happened. Due to this the photo does not have the color applies to rely on. Instead, the photo Borges 3 must show the harm that the bans have. First looking at the photo it might not be easy to tell that the dogs are dead. They are not bloody, but instead they look peaceful. Once the viewer realizes what the photo is actually showing, they can not help but feel bad. The peacefulness of the dogs is what makes the photo so sad. The pit bull project shows these hard photos with the hopes that this will be enough to warrant a change in what is being done to the breed. Kairos is the appeal to to timeliness. The photo has an urgency to it. This photos is just of one haul that one city made after a ban. This haul was not the first, the hope is to help make it one of the last. The viewer has such a strong emotion of not wanting to let this happen, that the timeliness goes in hand with that. The two paired with logos, the appeal to logic, make people want to make a change. Borges 4 The image above will be referred to as photo two. The pit bull project does not just share stories of pit bulls being taken away from their families, but also of them succeeding when they do not get taken.Image two shows a picture of a pit named Tully. Tully is clearly performing in the image. The website did not say anything else about Tully. This image alone is a nice photo, but not one that many viewers would remember for long. When paired with photo one, photo two pre vocs a lot more emotion or pathos. Photo two shows what the dogs in photo one could have been. This not only makes the viewer feel worse for photo one, but also desires more to end up like photo two. It is logic, or logos, that if Tully would have lived in Denver during the time of the ban that she could have ended up like the dogs in photo one. The urgency is again felt, because of the desire to keep dogs like Tully alive. Image two compliments the feelings provoked in image one. While the both the photos get their message across, neither of them have ethos. Ethos is the appeal to credibility. If the photos said something about the pit bull project in them, then ethos would have been included. This is where the photos failed at their job. The reasons these photos may still be more powerful than a photo with strong ethos, is because the photos excell in the other areas. The pit bull project effectively shows why pit bulls should not be banned through the visual aids. your dog or imagine that you own one. The dog has no history of violence or aggression towards you or strangers. Imagine that the news announces that it is a beautiful day out. You decided to take your dog who has no history of aggression or violence out for a walk. You get stopped by strangers who pet your dog and carry on with their day. You and your dog Borges 5 have a great day together. This is the ending the pit bull project is trying to make happen for story. Borges 6 Works Cited Pit Bull Project . Web. 26 Feb. 2017.