Brown 1 Amanda N. Brown Cat Modlin-Jackson Composition I ENC February 5,2017. Social Media Addiction in Teenagers Social media is something viewed as a controversial matter for a lot of people. As you know, teenagers, nowadays, depend considerably on technology and these medias. Platforms such as Facebook and Twitter, are known to have a negative impact and consequences as: anxiety, depression, insomnia, bullying, harassment and ultimately, suicide. We, in fact, are so attached to social media due to the feeling we get to impress everyone and appear to be someone we are not. You see, most of our personal and emotional development occurs while on the internet. So, do we really know until what extent it is safe to use social media? It is important for us to reflect on things we see, post and share on these platforms because we seriously lack privacy. Currently, the number of tweens and teens that engage on social media and are exposed to online harassment, sexting, and privacy violation has increased by a 22%. According to Gween it is important for parents to monitor their social media use regarding the aspects listed above and the obvious detachment that grows between them. So, the real question is: Why does social media, such as Facebook and Twitter, affect a emotional performance? Brown 1 Gwen Schurgin and Kathleen Clarke-Pearson. Impact of Social Media on Children, Adolescents, and AAP News & Journals Gateway. Vol. 127, no. 4, April 1,2011. http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/127/4/800 states that there are different aspects we miss and parents should be persistent on when it comes to the different risks we put ourselves in by sharing information, even if it is fake. It is discussed that most webpages teenagers navigate on are, in fact, age-restricted and some parents are aware on what their children have access to, while other parents, choose to ignore it. It is actually explained by and Clarke-Pearson that because teens are so into their phones/social media/internet, it is sometimes difficult, for some, to socialize and interact in real life because they see their virtual life as an extension of their real life. On the other hand, not only teenagers but also adults make use of social medias and it is sometimes difficult to relate to their young due to the frequent change and technology attachment both have. They conclude that in order to put a stop to social media/internet addiction we have to accept we have an issue and come up with arrangements on how and when it is really necessary to use these platforms. and Clarke-Pearson have MDs, respectively, were part of the Council of Communications and Media Executive Committee of Pediatricians and are current liaisons to the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. Brown 1 Weinstein, Aviv and Michael Lejoyeux. Addiction or Excessive Internet The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse: Encompassing All Addictive Disorders, vol. 36, no.5, Jun 15, 2010. http://dx.doi.org/10.3109/00952990.2010.491880 As said by Weinstein: media is seen as a way to escape from ourselves and create a said that seems much more appealing that the real life. An excessive internet use can lead to poor school achievements, withdrawal, tension, and Some of the theories as to why a person develops an internet addiction are as follows: it serves as a way to rehearse social behaviors and improve social skills, people get lonely and addiction sometimes works as a coping mechanism. You may say social media and internet addiction have an impact on your health but not entirely true. Lejoyeux later implicates that recent studies done on high school students have found that due to the excessive internet use, half of them suffered from severe sleep deprivation and apnea. Solutions for internet addiction have been proposed and few have been put to practice such as the Abstinence where self-help books and tapes are available. Weinstein possesses a Ph.D. in Nuclear Medicine and works at Hadassah Medical Organization and Lejoyeux has a Ph.D. in psychiatry and works Bichat Claudette Bernard Hospital. Brown 1 Brody, Michael. teens in this age of digital Brown University Child Adolescent Behavior Letter. vol. 22, no. 12, Dec 2006. P 8, Education Source, Accessed Feb 5, 2017. In the words of researcher Brody, perception on things seen in his/her daily life as well as their self-absorption behavior and isolation as affected greatly by social Almost 40% of teens nowadays own a blog and everything that happens on their life, absolutely everything and stating that what was done before; passing writing notes on class, is now Pretty much, an abnormal use of any kind of technology is harmful for teenagers if used improperly, of course. Such uses may go from exchanging information with unknown persons to posting provocative pictures. It all goes down to knowing your boundaries on what you share/post online. It deeply explains how an internet addiction changes a perception on things and effects it has on their self-esteem. It said that although blogs sometimes seem to help to help teenagers at all, it in fact, helps health professionals such as psychologists understand better their patients and giving them an window to their This author, Michael Brody, has a Ph.D. and works as a professor at the University of Maryland and is a CEO of Psychiatric Center in Washington. D.C. Brown 1 Yen, Ju-Yu and Ko Chih-Hung. symptons in adolescents with internet addiction: comparison with substance Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences. vol. 62, no. 1, Feb 2008, pp. 9-16, Wiley Online Library. 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01770.x Internet addiction is compared to having a substance use in this article. As an experiment, 3662 students were gathered to conduct the experiment. The main idea was to compare how adolescents behaved. One half were the ones that showed little signs of internet addiction and the other, those who it was for sure they had one. Another group were also divided in half but for this group they tested for little or definite substance addiction. As a result, it showed that internet addiction should be taken into account as serious as substance abuse, as silly as it looks or sounds. Viewing the matter with an emotional point of view, it shows that social media addiction for sure has a trigger in a emotional aspect, this being affected psychologically. It is concluded that teenagers with social media addiction have more severe psychiatric symptoms that those who show less interest in them. Facebook and Twitter are somewhat seen as ways of coping mechanism and without proper supervision or lookout for psychiatric symptoms, these social medias eventually lead to an addiction to them. Both authors for this article (Yen Ju-Yu and Ko Chih-Hung) own a Ph.D. and in the department of psychiatry in the Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital. Brown 1 Lam, LT, Peng ZW, Mai JC and Jing J. associated with Internet addiction among Cyber-psychological Behavior. vol. 12, no. 5, Oct 2009, pp. 551-555. PubMed (NCBI), doi: 10.1089/cpb.2009.0036. This article starts by giving us a small introduction talking about how internet addiction is mainly prevalent on teenagers in the range ages of 13 and 18, which was the age used for this experiment. It starts by saying that Internet addiction has a very strong connection to impulse control disorders and other psychiatric illnesses such as depression, anxiety and others. It actually increases the risks of having these conditions. The gender that is most likely to experience social media addiction are in fact males; however, along the years, it has been growing among the female population. They continue by saying how they realized they experiments based on normal, mild and severe criteria. It Is utterly important to truly understand the cons and pros of having social medias and the consequences for our posts and to have the responsibility enough (as conscious adults) to know what information we decide to expose. As you might have read, we now know that some social media addiction may be due to impulse control disorders, giving of a incentive on how to truly know if a person is really addicted to social medias. All these authors possess a Ph.D. and did their studies in University of Notre Dame (Australia). Brown 1 Whang, Sang-Min Leo, Suijin and Geunyoung Chang. Psychological Profiles: A Behavior Sampling Analysis on Internet Cyber-psychology Behavior, vol. 6, no. 2, 2010, pp. 143-150.Mary Ann Liebert, doi: 10.1089/cyber.2009.0222 This article talks mainly about how parenting and family situations affect teenagers and how it is connected to internet addiction. It describes why the study was made and questions that were asked before, during and after it. It talks about what is really internet addiction and to what psychiatric disorders they are linked, what were the family situations in which higher internet usage was found. In conclusion, a considerably group of teens were found to suffer from internet addiction while only a few reflected a perfectly healthy lifestyle. Teenagers used for this experiment were high school and college/university students. As a result, parents who paid no mind to their kids and were always busy for them, relied entirely on social media and that sense of seeking affection in other persons (even if they were strangers). On the other and, teens that showed to have bad relationships with their parents was also an important factor. These teens used internet as way to project their hatred towards their parents and were shown to express it by indirect phrases or pictures regarding their situation. All authors have and work at the Addiction Medicine Center in General Hospital of Beijing.