Qihang Zhou Professor Poston ENC1102.027S17 Feb 26, 2017 Images Help to Promote Tax Policy Hong Kong is a smoke-free province in China. The whole area carries out a total ban on smoking in public places because smoking has raised lots of problems. Among those smokers, adolescents are particularly concerned because smoking seriously hurt the physical development of teenagers. Consequently, Hong Kong Council on Smoking and Health (COSH) issued some mandate to prevent publics being damaged by tobacco products. Raising tobacco tax was considered as one possible order to reduce smoking of the publics. There are two images contained in the paper help to demonstrate the necessity and determination of tobacco control further. The article published by COSH tries to use two images to support their purpose of reducing smoking of the publics by raising tobacco tax. COSH decided to enhance the tax on retail price of the tobacco products to prevent publics from smoking in 2014-15 fiscal years. This policy is credible and is support by both publics and academic survey. Before we start talking the details of the issue, understand this organization is of great importance so that it conducts a correct direction of helping quit smoking. COSH was established by the Hong Kong Government in October 1987 as a result of the World Health proposal. The purpose of the establishment is to analyze the smoking behavior of the publics in Hong Kong and try to propose possible suggestions for smoking people to help them to stay healthy. The Government supports the primary funding. It is a government-support organization and is a nonprofit organization. Consequently, the result is credible because the group is not affected by other powers. Based on their functional testing, increase tobacco tax could reduce smoking in Hong Kong. It is not only the belief of the COSH. Martire, et al. used the sample from both America and Australia to test the effectiveness of tax on smoking. As a result, the tax can potentially decrease the smoking of the publics (1). Different from the existing results, this paper did not directly point out the effectiveness of tax on the prevalence of smoking. Potential effect means the policy is more likely to have such effect. At least the decreasing trend should exist. The government should carefully consider the current situation if the government decide to make policy. This relationship could exist in some circumstances. In another word, the system could reduce smoking in some way. Scollo, et al. mentioned in their paper that the high cigarette price resulted from increased tobacco tax could be one of the most effective government interventions to reduce smoking (2). Lots of countries gradually realize that smoking has significant damage to humans body. After massive experimental, experts had come to an agreement that increases tobacco tax could reduce smoking. Consequently, lots of countries are now following this conduct to lead smokers a better choice regarding their health. COSH decided to increase tobacco tax from the current 65% by 100%. This decision is credible because it supported by the historical experiences. After the tobacco tax had increased in 2009 and 2011, the smoking had dropped almost half percent, which provides substantial proof of the correction of the policy. Furthermore, the tax increase system is also widely confirmed by the publics. After randomly pick 2401 people as the testing sample, 65 percent of respondents support the activity of growth tobacco tax. Besides, not only has the fiscal policy, but the COSH also reinforced the education to publics, adolescents in particular, as support for the smoke-free policy. It is necessary to increase tax of tobacco product so as to prevent smoking volume in Hong Kong. Sometimes, words are not sufficient to convince. That is why other media has used in our real life. There are two images located in the half-way down of the text as further persuasive. The location of the picture is proper because the audience could see the picture after they fully understand the text. Images are here to make further persuasion. So, locate after text could bring an audience that the picture does not appear abruptly. Much more information could emerge if we break down the whole picture into details. Now we look at the first picture. Several broken cigarettes spliced into a word We can also see a spot on the dark discussing floor. There also have a part green area on the bottom and words is written in this field. This image tries to convince people to break their cigarettes and keep away from it. Apparently, the cigarettes side looks dirty and side looks green and healthy. It seems like deliver a feeling of on, join the green It is used more professional in color. More precisely, the color of the painting is contrasting. The green-black color delivers a sick feeling. The green side gives a peaceful and healthy feeling. No doubt chooses the green part, which is control tobacco, is the better choice.The second picture has composed with six Chinese who are holding a sign. There are several words written on the sign that just means increase tobacco tax by 100%. The whole image is full of green and yellow on the top and bottom side. Green always brings a healthy feeling and yellow make people feel warm. The happy facial expression eases up the tension that is resulting from increasing prices also expressed their determination to raise tobacco taxes. Each part of the image has the proper location so that the whole image is full of the golden ratio. Each line cut boundary of the picture in right proportion. Golden ratio makes audience fell comfortable. face is in the right proportion that audience could see their facial expression clear and do not feel they are too big or too small. Both two images are delivering comfortable feeling and work well with persuasion. The COSH was promoting the policy of increase tax on the tobacco product. It tries to convince the publics through both written propaganda and visual attraction. Pure words sometimes cannot express enough emotions.For example, if you tell a blind man how beautiful the flowers are, he would never imagine how beautiful about flowers. The easiest way is directly let him see them. Visual image has the same effect from the specified point of view. It is not enough to just use simple words to convince people that increase tax will lead a better life. Images are the most direct way can attract emotion. When you see the break cigarettes and dirty background of the picture, you will have a feeling that cigarettes are indeed hurting our body. You can feel the determination of stuff to fight against smoking. When you see the smiling face of the thing, you suddenly feel peaceful in your mind. It seems everyone is going to help smokers with the patient. Images are played a significant role in attraction, convince and so on. That is why our facial features have a clear division of labor. In conclusion, the article committed to publicizing the effectiveness of raising the tax on tobacco products. It expresses their opinion from two perspectives. Both historical experiment and current survey suggested that raising the tax is a correct direction to keep the health. However, using simple words are sometimes unsatisfactory. Images always bring further information and emotional rendering to the audience. Consider the favorable location, color-use, proper tone and space control. Images are achieving a multiplier effect. Work Cited Martire, Kristy A., et al. Cigarette Tax and Public Health: What Are the Implications of Financially Stressed Smokers for the Effects of Price Increases on Smoking  Addiction, vol. 106, no. 3, Mar. 2011, pp. 622-630. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1360- 0443.2010.03174.x. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Tobacco Tax for a Smoke-free Hong 2013: JSTOR Journals. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Scollo, M., et al. Impact of Tobacco Tax Reforms on Tobacco Prices and Tobacco Use in  Tobacco Control, 2003, p. ii59. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?d irect=true&db=edsjsr&AN=edsjsr.20208197&site=eds-live. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.