da Silva 1 Fellipe da Silva Instructor Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 02/04/2017 Emotional Stress on Addicted Gamblers Pathological gambling is a disorder that can have many diverse and involuntary consequence. Addicts have lost homes, damaged relationships with family and friends, and become psychologically dependent on compulsive wagering. Gambling has been around for centuries, since ancient Greece to your modern day local Hard Rock Casino. In America gambling was legalized 20 years ago; thus, it was revolutionized to one of the biggest adult entertainment industries to influence capitalistic culture. Putting it into perspective the industry generated approximately $72 billion in gross revenues during the fiscal year of (Psychiatry, Pathological gambling). Due to such an increase of gross income casinos could thrive, while gamblers lost it all being consumed with the next possible Jackpot. Gambling is best described as something of value at risk on an outcome that is due to There still lies much grey area on the matter of compulsive gambling and the negative effects it has on an life. This brings to question; can individuals battle against the emotional stress and addictive habits that compulsive gambling brings to their lives. da Silva 2 Fong, Timothy W. Biopsychosocial Consequences of Pathological Psychiatry (Edgmont) 2.3 (2005): Print. In this experiment, research methods were designed to characterize a pattern in mental disorder recognize a mental disorder of continuous gambling despite the negative outcomes. It is listed in the DSM-IV as an impulse control disorder and has 10 separate criteria, some of which are similar to substance dependence, such as tolerance, withdrawal, and the repeated inability to cut down on the behavior. Pathological gamblers are often not recognized in general mental health treatment, and even when they are seeking treatment, there are only a limited number of gambling treatment specialists available. its increased availability and the amount of attention gambling is being given by the media, legislatures, and industry, researchers have just recently started to examine gambling in a formal (Fong, 1). Timothy W. Fong, is the Assistant Clinical Professor, UCLA Gambling Studies Program, and UCLA Neuropsychiatry Institute at a Hospital in Los Angeles, California. His research includes resources from other medical specialist like Potenza, who suggested that gambling disorder is similarly involved in substance use disorders. Doctor Potenza works in the Department of Psychiatry at Yale University School of Medicine, and has collaborated with Fong and other researchers to undergo this investigation. Dr. Potenza role in the investigation was of neuro scan of brain to monitor the hormone levels within the body. da Silva 3 Mariano, and Mariano The Challenge Of Online Gambling: The Effect Of Legalization On The Increase In Online Gambling  Journal Of Gambling Studies 32.2 (2016): 749-756. Business Source Premier. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Gambling has evolved alongside with technology with the creation of online gambling. This source discusses the immediate effects of online gambling and how it is deemed the most addictive form of gambling due to accessibility, ease of betting, and so The research included a sample size of 1277 pathological gamblers in recovery at 26 gambling addiction treatment centers. Results showed a significant increase in youth in regards to pathological gambling since the legalization of online gambling. (Choliz, 2016). Choliz places emphasis that online gambling is a new and much more addictive than the actions of a traditional gambler, this proves to be true throughout the experiment. Mariano Choliz is a professor at the University of Valencia, in the department of psychology. His areas of study are behavioral addiction and emotional expression; his current research and projects regard the addiction of children in modern technology. Choliz has written several books regarding addiction and its negative effects internationally and in his country, Spain. Fortunately, his research has assisted the American Psychological Association (APA) to advance better ways to treat pathological gambling. da Silva 4 K.W., et al. Is Sensation Seeking A Correlate Of Excessive Behaviors And Behavioral Addictions? A Detailed Examination Of Patients With Gambling Disorder And Internet  Psychiatry Research 242.(2016): 319-325. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. This research argues the correlation of sensation seeking to gambling addiction, it is rather difficult to prove given that gambling is not an actual substance. Gambling is confirmed as non-substance addiction per the DSM-5 along with internet addiction. As mentioned in the latter statement the purpose of the research is to search for sensation seeking correlation with gambling addiction and internet addiction. The methods of the experiment included 251 patients with gambling disorder, 243 patients with internet addiction, 103 with excessive but no addictive internet use, and 142 healthy controls. The groups were divided by favorite type of addictive behavior whether slot machine, board games, etc; resulting in a few differences in sensation seeking subscales individuals with gambling disorders to highly prefer the gaming over healthy controls. Finding no differences between internet addiction and gambling addiction (Muller, 2016). argument is valid due to the fact it was published in several journals such as the National Library of Medicine (which proves medical credibility), Elsevier (which is peer reviewed from Psychiatry research), and sciencedirect (which is a credible research library). Muller also has about 36 publication in the National Library of Medicine reinforcing his knowledge and experience in the subject behavioral addiction and clinical research. da Silva 5 Walker, Douglas, et al. The Social Costs of Gambling: An Economic  Journal Of Gambling Studies 15.3 (1999): 181. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the social cost of pathological gambling, what exactly is deemed as social cost or can be accounted as a social cost. The economic perspective is the focus of the article whether significant social and economic lost is associated with the negative effects of pathological gambling. Defining social cost in an economic perspective using paradigms and theories to support the argument. Essentially, the journal touches over several economic situations relating to a pathological gambler and potential social cost (Walker). This is relevant to reinforce the negative social effects pathological gambling and how the consequences effect more than just economic lost. Douglas Walker is a professor in economics at the College of Charleston he obtained his Ph.D in economics from Auburn University. Casinonomics: The Socioeconomic impacts of the Casino Industry published in 2013 is his most recent work. Currently his main expertise is regards the economic and social impacts of legalized gambling. Having published research and published book concerning economics through gambling on a macroscale and how it effects individuals on the microscale allows this to be a credible source. da Silva 6 Susana, et al. Typologies Of Young Pathological Gamblers Based On Sociodemographic And Clinical  Comprehensive Psychiatry 54.(2013): 1153-1160. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. This experiments clinically tested a young Spanish population who experience a gambling addiction. Types categorized addictions: type 1 showing less psychopathological and more functional personality; type 2 show major emotional distress, shame, immaturity, hostility, and negative feelings; type 3 showed the most severe psychopathological disturbances (Jimenez, 2017). Essentially, this pool of individuals is arguably used to insinuate the severity of some pathological gamblers in comparison to others. Severity of addiction plays a key role on an psychopathological dependence to gambling, the need may effect personality traits, familial environment, economic stability, etc. Susana Jimenez is an associate professor at the University of Barcelona. She is the head of the Behavioral Addictions unit at University Hospital of Bellvitge. Her publications in clinical psychology and behavioral addiction capacitate her knowledge as sufficient and credible on the subject regarding gambling addictions. Being cited over 200 times in several of her publications on google scholar this only amplifies her experience and respect as a researcher.