Basel Al-Suleimani ENC 1101 Cat Modlin-Jackson 1/29/2017 Climate Change and Extinction Climate change is an effective long-term change on the rate of the weather condition, which happens to a particular area. Climate change could be a change on the rate of the temperature, the rate of the precipitation or wind case. Climate change happens because of two different causes, natural causes and human causes. Some of the natural causes of the climate change are volcanoes, earthquakes, meteorites, global warming and the increase of the intensity of the sun rays. Human causes of the climate change are pollution, deforestation, the burning of trees and the burning of fossil fuels. Carbon Dioxide is a gas that could increases the temperature of the earth if found in a large scale. The industrial revolution and the development both could increase the temperature by increasing the rate of the Carbon Dioxide on the earth. Climate change nowadays is an issue that threats the lives of the organisms and it could cause an extinction for some organisms. Some animals and plants need a special environment to live a natural life. If the organisms find the special area, that is will lead the organisms to the extinction. My research question is: how the climate change could lead some organisms to the extinction? Urban, Mark C. Accelerating Extinction Risk From Climate  Science, Vol. 348, Issue.6234, pp. 571-573, May. 2015, Environment Index, doi: 10.1126/science.aaa4984 In this source, the author tries to tell us that the rate of the extinction nowadays is increasing because of the climate change. Some animals extinct because it find its real environment. There are some studies and statistics which indicate that the change of the temperature on the earth will kill some organisms, which live in a warmer place. People need to find some solutions since a lot of animals already extinct such as mammoth, melomys and dinosaurs. Some animals are rare because of the increasing of the temperature such as polar bear and penguin. Humans are the main factor of extinction and also humans are the only ones who can make the issue stopped. (Urban). Mark C. Urban is a biologist and associate professor in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Connecticut. This article will be very helpful for me because I can find the answer of my research question and how climate change killed some animals. His research has many important things that could be very helpful for my research such as, the causes of climate change, how climate change could affect some lives. This article is so clear and organized that tell us that the author is professional. Since Urban is a professor so he has a good experience in how he can give the students clear information. Beckrich, Amanda. When Climate Change Causes  Science Teacher, Vol. 83, Issue. 6, Sep. 2008, Academic OneFile, In this article the author wrote about some extinct animals. The extinct animals absolutely find their suitable environment. Climate change killed a lot of types of animals. Some types of animals could be here if the humans tried to save it. Nowadays, we need to save the animals which are threatened by the climate change. Climate change is a big issue nowadays around the world and people need to find solutions. (Beckrich). Beckrich is a science teacher. She tried in her research to introduce perfect solutions to save the animals. This source will help me answering my research question since I read in it about how climate change became a very effective issue in the earth. Also, it talks about the global warming and its role on the climate change problem which leads to the extinction and how that happened. very interesting and clear that the author is professional. Wiens, John J. Climate-Related Local Extinctions Are Already Widespread Among Plant and Animal  Plos Biology, Vol. 14, Issue. 12, pp. 1-18, Dec. 2016, DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2001104. In this article, the author tells us that climate change is the main cause of extinction but the animals itself can be a cause. Some animals have the ability to adapt in any place and any climate. He gave us an example like bears, bears have the ability to fit and adapt on many environments. On the other hand, there are some types of animals that just can live on special climate and special environment like some birds. Also he wrote about the role of the humans on the change of the climate and how they can change their habits to stop a huge dangerous issue which is global warming. I think that this source will be very beneficial for my research. I will find the answer which I need for my research question. The author is Dr John A. Wiens, who is the leader of ecologist which focused on birds and insects and its stages of growth. He wrote many researches about animals and environments. In his article, Climate-Related Local Extinctions Are Already Widespread among Plant and Animal , He explained how the climate change is changing the number of some animals and plants nowadays and exactly what I need. (Wiens). Sekercioglu, Cagan H., et al. Climate Change, Elevational Range Shifts, and Bird  Conservation Biology 22.1. Vol. 22, Issue 1, Feb. 2008, pp. 140-150, doi: 10.1111/j.1523- 1739.2007.00852.x This source is about causes and consequences of extinction around the world. He chose many places to compare like Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Alaska. He chose different climate to examine different birds which are threatened by climate change. He also tries to find the main causes of extinct birds so that he can come with great solutions as he said. He talks about a good example of an extinct bird called Dodo. Dodo is an example of an extinct bird who is flightless and found on an island in the Indian Ocean. He tries to find the reason of Dodo extinction. The author of this article is assistant professor of Biology in Turkey. His doctoral research is about the consequences and the causes of extinction. In his article, he mentioned that the climate change is related to extinction somehow and he explained it by his studies. He shows us that humans are the fundamental cause of extinction due to their daily skills toward the environment which change the climate. will be so helpful to answer my research question to clarify that climate change effects the extinction though climate change itself has causes. (Sekercioglu). Schlossberg, Tatiana. 12,000 Years Ago, Humans and Climate Change Made a Deadly  The New York Times, June. 2016, Academic OneFile This awesome source tells us that the earth has changed and many issues emphasizes that. Some issues like climate change, global warming, desertification and extinction changed our green planet. The author explained to us every issue from previous sentence and how every issue is related to the others. On the author opinion, Humans are responsible for all those issues because of their skills. The author blames humans for extinction and for climate change also. He gives solution in his research. Tatiana Schlossberg is a reporter covering climate change and the environment for the Science section of The New York Times. She previously wrote the popular morning column New York Today and covered New York City and beyond for the Metro section. The source is so relevant with my research question since the author talks about the relationship between the climate change and extinction. I can find some answers for my research questions in this article. (Schlossberg). David, et al. Climate Predictors Of Late Quaternary  Evolution. Vol. 64, no. 8, Aug. 2010, pp. 2442-2449, doi: 10.1111/j.1558- 5646.2010.01009.x In this source, the author tells us about some mammals that extinct like Nesophontes, Oryx dammah and mammoth. He gives us examples of amazing animals that we find it anymore, he tries to give us an advice toward the environment and the creatures. In this source also, there are studies indicate that climate change leaded some mammals to extinction and how climate change happened. There are some statistics and studies in this article proves that climate change is the main cause of extinction. The author is Associate Professor in Historical Biogeography. He did researches about extinction under climate change. This source is connected with my research question because about the extinction of some mammals under climate change. In this article, I can find some examples of mammals that extinct because of climate change. I can find some old evidences emphasize that extinction increases because of climate change.