Hodges 1 Javon Hodges Instructor Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 2/2/2017 How parental motivation influences college freshman in transition from high school to college. Parental involvement plays a great role on influencing the direction a student takes after graduating high school. High school graduation, at times, can be a very tedious and rigorous. Leaving most students strained out before the nightmare even begins. After being accepted into college, students have to deal with choosing the college of their choice, registration processes, bills, and etc. This is where the important role of parents comes into play. Being drop off at college, on your own for the first time, could be scary enough itself. Our parents rid the weight from our shoulder of all the things us teen just be stressing about. College students tend to perform at their best when everything is taken care of and the student has no other worry than making good grades. Parents deal with overwhelming cost of college by investing into our futures. As college students, we tend to have lots of time on our hands. There are a lot of different things we can do during that time, but what good is it if not using your time productively in order to achieve your desired grades and goals. Many college students hold part time jobs just to have a little bit of funds to go out and spend on the weekends. Other college student have no other choice but to live a stress filled life, work part time, sometimes even full time, just to hold a seat in class. My Research question for the semester is: How does the impact of parent involvement affects students in transition from high school to college. Hodges 2 Budny, Dan D. Paul, Cheryl A. Newborg, Beth B. Parents at Step One in the Freshman Engineering International Journal of Engineering Pedagog, Vol. 4 Issue 2, 2014,p10-17, 8p. doi: 10.3991/ijep.v4i2.3365 In this research, an experiment was conducted to demonstrate the importance of making parents part of college freshman students educational process. As discussed in my research statement, the first year of college can be very difficult for many students. The authors of this topic believe that parents can advocate on behalf of their children by educating themselves on particular transitional challenges their children potentially face, as well as by helping these freshmen daughters and sons establish realistic educational and social goals. Dan D. Budny holds a PhD in PhD Civil Engineering, and is a professor at the University of Pittsburg and was rewarded ASEE community engagement film festival winner. His research interest includes first year studies, freshman engineering, and international service learning. Newborg, Beth B is the director of the english/freshmen engineering writing program, and the outreach coordinator, University of Pittsburgh. Beth is also on the faculty of the Industrial Engineering Department, where she has developed and teaches communications skills. Not only does the authors research ties in hand in hand with my research, but their article has also been peer reviewed. The authors acquainted the reader with three key transitional challenges new college students face, and offered an approach to productive interactions between the freshmen and the parents to ease these challenges. Hodges 3 Curry, Katherine A. Jean-Marie, Adams, Curt M. Networks and Parent Motivational Educational Administration Quarterly; Dec2016, Vol. 52 Issue 5, p841- 877, 37p DOI:10.1177/0013161X16659345 This research was conducted despite devotion of substantial resources and effort to increase parent/school partnerships, gaps remain between policy rhetoric and practice, especially in high- poverty communities. Current research focuses on parent involvement or effects of parent motivational beliefs on parent choice for behavior; however, it does not address the formation of beliefs or social factors that influence parent motivation to become involved. To gain a better understanding of factors that influence parent motivational beliefs, we examined the effects of parent social network, school outreach, and neighborhood health on parent role construction and parent efficacy in an urban school district. Method/Analysis: Survey data were collected from a random sample of 30 fifth-grade parents from 56 elementary schools in a large urban district in the Midwest. Using a partially latent structural regression model, we tested the relationships between school outreach, neighborhood health, parent social network, and parent motivational beliefs. Jean-Marie is the Dean of the College of Education at the University of Iowa, she has a Ph.D. in leadership and cultural studies from, and is also currently a professor and the chair of the department of educational leadership. Curt M. Adams is an associate professor of educational leadership and policy studies at the University of Oklahoma. He conducts research on social psychology of school systems. Their article ties in perfect with my research topic because not only have the authors in this research obtained degrees relating to education and Hodges 4 phycology, their article has been peer reviewed by others who specialize in Psychology and education. Nieuwenhuis, Jaap. Hooimeijer, Pieter. association between neighborhoods and educational achievement, a systematic review and Journal of Housing & the Built Environment; Jun2016, Vol. 31 Issue 2, p321-347, 27p An Experiment was conducted to examine the effects that neighborhood environments could have on the educational outcomes of students. A systematic meta-analysis was used to figure out rather the relation between neighborhoods and individual educational outcomes is a function of neighborhood poverty. In their study, they used the control variables of school, family, and parenting variables to explain the variation in the strength of neighborhood effects. Nieuwenhuis Jaap holds a PhD in human geography and is also a research master in sociology and social research. His research interest includes urban and regional research, economic research, and human geography. Hooimeijer Pieter is professor of Human Geography and Demography. Published hundred academic refereed papers on household demography, residential mobility, migration and urban development, and is chair of the social science division of the Netherlands.( uu.nl dr. Pieter Not only have the authors in this research obtained doctorate degrees in the field , their article has been peer reviewed by others who specialize in sociology. The authors identified and selected 88 different articles that met all of the inclusion criteria. Using meta-regression, they found that the relation between neighborhoods and individual educational outcomes is a function of neighborhood poverty and parenting variables. Hodges 5 Chabra, Sonal. Kumari, Lalita. of Parental Encouragement on achievement motivation of International Journal of Education & Allied Sciences; Vol.3, Issue 2, Jul- Dec. 2011, p73-78, 6p, 2 Charts. There has been extensive research on the influence effects of Parental Encouragement on achievement motivation of adolescents. The R.R. Sharma and Achievement Motivation Test (AcMT) was administered to 88 deferent kids in the 11 th grade and the results indicated that parental encouragement level influences the achievement motivation in the academic area. Higher the level of parental encouragement, better the achievement motivation of the student. Chabra, Sonal was a lecturer and also an assistant professor at Rawal College of Education. She has also done extensive research on dramatics Societies, Community Service groups, Girls and Adult Education drives and awareness, and Journalism groups. Her interest includes children, economic empowerment, education, human rights, and social services. Although Sonal Chabra have not had a lot of experience working with children, her resnt works ties hand in hand with the topic of my research. Sonal worked on identification of factors of employee disengagement and its impact on morale. Also, her research interest includes education, and environment. This article was also peer reviewed by others who specialize in education. Irlbeck, Erica. Adams, Shylo. Akers, Cindy. Generation College Students: Motivations and Support Journal of Agricultural Education; Vol. 55 Issue 2, 2014, p154-166, 13p A case study was conducted to determine the motivations and support systems of first generation college students and the authors of this research figured out The number of first generation college students enrolling at universities is on the rise. Nine first generation college students were interviewed, and it was determined that three factors led up to their enrollment into college. Hodges 6 these three factors were parental and family support, teacher encouragement, and self motivation. It was also determined these students depended upon three major support groups and systems, such as parents, friends, and advisers/professors. Erica Irlbeck is an assistant professor of agricultural communications at Texas Tech University. received a doctor of education degree in agricultural education from Texas Tech in August 2009. Prior to academic career, she also worked in agricultural television news, farm radio, public relations and advertising. Dr. Akers is an award-winning teacher receiving outstanding teaching awards from students, peers and within the profession. Dr. Akers has also served in leadership roles for the profession as chair of the academic programs special interest group, superintendent of the National FFA Agricultural Communications Career Development Event and Chair to Texas Tech Teaching Academy. Dr. Akers has been a co-author on award-winning research papers and posters. She also currently serves as Director of Student Services. This article was peer reviewed by others who also specialize in agriculture of study and teaching. Stephen Lenz, A. Effects of Relationships With Mentors on College Journal of College Counseling. Vol. 17 Issue 3, Oct2014, p195-207. 13p. dos: 10.1002/j.2161- 1882.2014.00057.x In this research, a study was conducted to examine the relationship between freshman students first year adjustments to college and relational health with peers and mentors in their lives. During this study, Stephen Lenz collected data from 80 undergraduate students who were completing their first semester of course work at a large university.A series of simultaneous multiple regression analyses indicated that higher levels of relational health with mentors were the strongest predictors of college student success during the first semester. as mentioned earlier in my Hodges 7 research, also in my research statement, the first year of college can be very difficult for many students. It is our job to educate parents on the importance of college to takeaway avoidable stress teens experience and in particular, transitional challenges they potentially face, as well as by helping to establish realistic educational and social goals. A. Stephen Lenz holds a PhD. in Counseling Education & Supervision and also a M.A. in Psychology. Stephen Lens has worked with children, adolescents, adults, and families in community based and University counseling settings. His research interests include community based program evaluation, counseling outcome research, single-case research, instrument development, and holistic approaches to counseling, counselor education, and supervision. Not only has the author in this research obtained a doctorate degree in his field, his article has also been peer reviewed by others who specialize in sociology.