Giang 1 Helen Giang Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Saving the Earth One Ad at a Time BUND Friends of the Earth is an organization located primarily in Germany; for several years they have been strong believers in protecting the environment and rights. With approximately 480,000 members and supporters, they create ponds, look after and take care of protected areas, plant hedges and fight for the preservation of valuable natural areas throughout the country of the Earth Over the course of the years, BUND has made it their priority to help with sustaining transportation, fighting nuclear power and improving nature protection are known as a non-partisan and non- religious grass root organization also known as a small organization that grew larger and is more well with some local branches dating back to of the Earth BUND has created an abundant amount of ads to spread the awareness of what is happening in the environment because their vision for the future involves sustaining political approach, ensuring the rights of children and people who are living in the global of this they have united about 30 national organizations with thousands of the local groups. The goal for their ads is to on most urgent environmental and social and promote solutions that will assist in these issues happening. The colors and shading used in Image 1, create urgency, making the viewers realize they must act fast before time runs out. Image 1 has a main focus of a giant clock with a sea lion wedge Giang 2 between the long hand and the short hand. The sea lion has a painful facial expression, almost as if he was screaming out in pain (Image 1). The BUND logo in the upper right hand corner of the Image establishes ethos, which is the appeal to how credible a source is Logos, BUND Friends of the Earth is a well-established, German, organization; because of this the viewers could give their trust in what is presented in the Images due to the credibility of the organization. Above the logo, is a quote that states, 60 seconds a species dies Adding a time to this statement creates a sense of pressure and seriousness to the is an example of kairos. The quote emphasizes the importance of acting hastily because with time passing, a species will die. The clock is approximately five minutes until 12 this represents a full turn or cycle, tying the 60 quote to the clock. The sea lion is shades of gray with dark red blood dripping from it, the color gray was chosen to show life being drained from the animal with every ticking second. This bleeding animal is being flatten by an item that was made by man and like this sea lion, other animals are suffering and dying. Manmade items like cars are contributors to global warming; global warming has melted away home of many artic animals, such as polar bears, who have suffered losing their homes and food source. The dispirited sea lion creates a sense of sorrow; this is an example of appeal to emotion. The audience could feel some sort of association to the sea lion and it crying out like helpless a child; animals are like children they do not understand what is happening around them, creating a sense of obligation for these animals. Like Image 1, Image 2 has the same BUND logo. The logo is presented in the lower right corner of the ad. In addition to the logo, there is a website provided for the viewers, this creates a sense of credibility, in other words ethos. The ad consists of a plethora of animals and a man balancing on a single turtle, the man has his right foot hooked on to a sign that says Nature Giang 3 in 2). This quote forms the feeling of urgency, an example of kairos. If something is not done as quickly as possible then the hierarchy of animals will tumble down and get hurt or possibility death. While the cartoon ad is appealing to the eye, there does not seem to have much logos, which is the appeal to logic Logos, There does not seem to be a lot of logic in Image 2, it does not make sense that all these animals, especially the elephant and giraffe, are balancing on a single turtle. Although Image 2 lacks logos, it prevails in pathos which is the appeal to emotion. Looking closely at the ad, you can see the many different expressions on the faces. The elephant is the largest of all the other animals, while holding up eleven living beings and only standing on two legs; at first the elephant looks like it is laughing but with further observation, it is clear the elephant has on a concerned face. As the viewers work their way around Image 2, they may begin to notice the lifeless background. Which consist of thick heavy clouds and straw yellow grass representing lifelessness. Even though both Image 1 and 2 educes a lot of emotion, Image 1 does a more adequate job at exposing the concerns on environmental issues. While looking at Image 2, many of the viewers may find the ad almost humorous because of the several events happening at once (Image 2). At first glance, the viewers may have their attention drawn to the largest animal there, the elephant, who has its mouth open almost as if it was laughing. However, if the viewers were to look closely at the eyes, it changes the whole facial reaction. The facial expression seems to be more in pain rather than laughing. As the viewers further look at Image 2, they would begin to notice at the very bottom is a turtle looking up at the arrangement of animals on top of it with a concerned look. This does not have a clear and straight forward message like Image one does. Image 1 consists of mainly different shades of gray and a small-scale of red; red is known to be an eye-catching color which makes the viewers drawn to the darken red blood being depleted Giang 4 from the wailing sea lion. The hue red, again hooks the viewers on the ticking hand and the open month; this color builds up a feeling of urgency. It is clear to see Image 1 is talking about the importance of time and how it could determine life or death of a species, by the use of color. Both Image 1 and 2 were careful constructed to target the viewers and their way of thinking. The use of pathos, logos, ethos and kairos was aimed to help the viewers realize they need to act as quickly as possible, if not, time would start running out for helpless animals. Each ad made, has the goal of keeping these animals safe by promoting awareness and solutions. Giang 5 Works Cited Foeeurope. Bund Umwelt und Naturschutz  Friends of the Earth Europe. N.p., Feb. 2012. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Friends of the  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Identidad  Pinterest. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Munro, Brett. ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS in  ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS in ADVERTISING. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Giang 6 Image 1 Image 2