de Kort 1 Ashley de Kort Bob Botkin ENC 1102.099 26 February 2017 U.S. vs. Russia Space Rivalry Since the Cold War, the United States and Russia have been rivals when it comes to the space industry. Since NASA has lost complete funding for space travel, it has become dependent on Russia to send their astronauts into space. Congress has refused to fund NASA as congressmen believe it is a waste of money as they do not see the benefits of space travel. Using rhetorical appeals, these two images will depict the struggle of NASA receiving funding and how it is impacting the expansion of space exploration. The first image is a cartoon in which the scientist is discussing funding of space shuttles for travel with a congressman. The congressman does not seem ecstatic when the scientist explains the shuttle is for NASA in contrast to the congressman seeming overly joyed with the shuttle named WAR. de Kort 2 Image 1 conveys all three rhetorical appeals. Through pathos, one can see the two different emotions from both the scientist and congressman. On the left, the scientist is explaining that the shuttle is for NASA while on the right the shuttle is labeled On the left, the congressman is enraged as it looks like he is yelling at the scientist who looks surprised by his response. On the right, the congressman looks happy and has two money bags while the scientist looks annoyed that the congressman only supports the shuttle if it is used for war purposes. In both images, one can also tell that the congressman in bigger than the scientist which displays his power over the scientist. From these two responses, the audience can easily notice the difference in attitudes and what the intentions of the congressman are. Even though, both shuttles are the same size and shape, they are labeled differently which makes the congressman have two different opinions. The speech bubbles above the congressman are in yellow, which can direct the attention to what he is saying to the scientist. Through ethos, both images display credibility as both shuttles look like a common space shuttle created by NASA. As well, the congressman is in a suit displaying his professionalism and work attitude while the scientist is wearing a lab coat signifying his title as a scientist. With these characteristics of both individuals, it is clear to see that both characters are discussing the shuttles displayed in front of them. Through logos, one can tell what both characters are telling each other. On the left, it is obvious to see that the congressman believes the NASA shuttle is a waste of time because of the speech bubble saying you kidding me? What a huge waste of with the letters all capitalized. This lettering displays he is angry at the scientist for showing him the NASA shuttle. On the right image, the scientist shows the shuttle labeled and the congressman has a money bag in each hand as he says pay whatever you also with all letters de Kort 3 capitalized which displays his enthusiasm towards the shuttle for war. As the congressman mentions that he is offering to pay as much as the scientist wants, it shows his eagerness for the shuttle and what is his intentions are. The scientist is disappointed in the right image as the congressman and himself are not on the same page. The second image displays the statistics of NASA and its funding from Congress. It is in the form of a bar graph displaying the difference through the years. By rhetorical appeals, one can depict the reason behind this bar graph. When discussing ethos, the title of the graph can display its credibility as it mentions the stakeholders name, and the purpose of the graph which is % of US this shows that the graph will be displaying the number of US spending is going toward NASA. As well, on the x- axis, the years increase by approximately every two years while on the y-axis, the percentage goes up by 0.5. Through logos, the graph displays how from 1958-1966, the funding percentage increased tremendously. After 1966, the bar graph displays how it began to steadily decrease and how it maintained steady for a few years before decreasing once again. The highest percentage de Kort 4 seems to be approximately 4.4% in 1966. The year 1966 is prominent as it was the first time two spacecraft could link together in Earth orbit which provided to the success of the first moon landing 16, 1966: First Docking of Two Spacecraft in Earth It explains why 1966 has the highest percentage in funding that year compared to others. Even though there were more discoveries after that because of space travel, NASA began to lack funding as technology became more expensive and congress began funding space exploration only as the space shuttle program ended in 2011 renews contract with As the years go by, the funding seems to be less than 1%, including todays current year. Through pathos, the graph displays its tone of disappointment as the color of the graph is in grey, displaying no happiness such as yellow. Even with the lack of color, the graph is straightforward to the point as it has no other text boxes or images surrounding the graph which makes the audience focus on only the graph itself and what it is displaying. Through these two images, one can see how the space shuttle program from NASA is slowly disappearing as Congress does not see the importance of it. Funding has decreased drastically throughout the years as it is now focusing on space exploration, such as the use of satellites instead of astronauts. Yet, many fail to realize how it is important to keep the space shuttle program running. It provides information from a human perspective instead of a technological device. As well, without the space shuttle, the first man on the moon would have never happened. Despite the several accidents, there should be a way to continue the space shuttle program in a safe and economical matter. de Kort 5 Works Cited March 16, 1966: First Docking of Two Spacecraft in  NASA. NASA, 16 Mar. 2016. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Marketing in Space: A Brief  Marketing in Space: A Brief History Big Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. NASA renews contract with Russia amid lack of  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Tornoe, Rob. more important - military golf courses or space  Newsworks.org. N.p., 02 Dec. 2013. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.