Alshamsi 1 Hmdan Aalshamsi Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 02-19-2017 Global Warming All creatures on the earth. Live in the era of global warming that much is certain. Atmosphere level of heat-trapping greenhouse gasses have increased due to human activities, and lots of climate changes are now in dengare. Moreover, global mean temperatures have increased a lot, and sea level has risen negatively. Glaciers are melting worldwide, the major ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland are shrinking at their edges, and the imagined Northwest Passage may soon open. In many areas around the world, rainstorms are increasing, and summer heat waves have become more powerful while winters are less severe. At the same time, dry areas are increased, according to the current increase in prices of food. Species like butterflies and birds that move fast are feeling the global warming. These animal species that cannot fly or live in limited ecosystems, for example, Lizard may be stuck in a hostile environment and slowly disappear from existence. Given the importance of the issue of global warming, in this semester, I have decided to dig deep and investigate.How does the global warming affect the climate change and Extinct reptiles? Held, Isaac M., and Brian J. Soden. Robust responses of the hydrological cycle to global  Journal of Climate, vol. 19, no. 21, pp. 5686-5699, 2006. Alshamsi 2 Robust Responses of the Hydrological Cycle to Global Warming involves the study of the workings of the atmosphere and ocean and the interactions between the two and the other parts of the Earth, such as its temperature levels. The article also focuses on the study of heat transfer in the atmosphere and explores in detail how the atmosphere of the Earth has currently increased temperature levels. Held and Soden is both experts in this field with great knowledge and experience on this subject.Also, They have worked together on other topics in this issue hence making them popular. Their article is becoming especially for research into how global warming affects climate change. Moreover, The article appears to point undergraduate students in beginning courses on climate or in more general courses in which climate is a major part. It covers an exact picture of global warming and climate change. These features make Held and article more suitable for researching my research question for this semester and for learning more about the scientific basis of our current understanding of global warming and climate change. Urban, Mark C. Accelerating extinction risk from climate  Science, vol. 348, no.6234,pp. 571-573, 2015. There is a strong interest in gaining an understanding of how animal species might respond to global warming and climate change. In the article Accelerating Extinction Risk from Climate Change, Urban questions at least 130 studies to explore how global warming and changing climate affect the survival and extinction of animal species. The researcher also makes an effort to know the risk level that global warming models to the animal species and the specific features of global warming that contribute to the risk of extinction. The article points to Alshamsi 3 several regions worldwide, including Australia, South America, and New Zealand, where global warming sits the highest risk of animal extinction. Mark Urban is a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. His works focus on the evolution and ecological mechanism that shape natural communities around the world. He joins a large number of published studies to provide a calculation of a global average rate of extinction and determine which features contribute the greatest risk to global warming-induced extinction risks. The results from study suggest that the risks of extinction will increase with future global warming and global temperatures. Collins, Mat, et.al. Impact of global warming on the tropical Pacific Ocean and El  Nature Geoscience, vol. 3, no. 6,pp. 391-397, 2010. In this article, Mat Collins and his partners measure how global warming affects the mean climate of the Pacific region and El Nino patterns. The authors give special emphasis to the effects of global warming on the El Nino-Southern Oscillation. According to the article, present the current influence of global warming on natural climate change, the average climate of the Pacific area is likely to experience significant changes. It is unexpected that global warming will reduce the Tropical Easterly Trade Winds.Moreover, cause surface sea temperatures to warm faster near the central region and more slowly away from the middle. The article provides detailed understandings on how global warming affects tropical climates. As such, the article is relevant to the research topic and will be a valuable source of information for conducting research into how global warming affects climate change. The authors have vast knowledge in climate change and its effects on the planet. Them coming together in this article makes it one that is written by a community of experts. Alshamsi 4 Sinervo, Barry, et al. Erosion of lizard diversity by climate change and altered thermal  Science, vol. 328, no. 5980, pp. 894-899, 2010. In Erosion of Lizard Diversity by Climate Change and Altered Thermal Niches, Barry Sinervo and his partners compare historical and current research studies of various lizard species to discover if certainly global warming and its impact on the climate are causing the extinction of animals. The researchers especially focus on 48 different species of lizards found in Mexico and living in 200 different places. Finding from the research study indicate that extinctions resulting from global warming and its effects on climate change are, Also, reducing global lizard diversity. Barry Sinervo is a professor of physical and biological sciences with a specific interest in biology. Together with his partners, they have carried a lot of research on various species. Moreover, the article returns to focus on how global warming affects lizard populations, it provide the basis in which one can argue about the impact of global warming on animal extinction. Published in 2010, the article is nearly current and contains information about the impact of global warming on the survival of animals. This source it has a lot of information that will help me to explore how global warming affects the destruction of animals. Bestion, Elvire, et al. Live fast, die young: experimental evidence of population extinction risk due to climate  PLoS Biol 13.10, e1002281 ,2015. Recent evidence it that climate change and global warming have reduced bio-diversity. The result of warmer temperatures has led to the evolution of species physiology and body size. In Live fast, die young: experimental evidence of population extinction risk due to climate change the focus is the only European lizard and how a warmer climate affects the life cycle of Alshamsi 5 this species. Their study discovers that while initially the more temperate climate is average to lizards and helps them grow, it is harmful to adult lizards where a 42% survival rate was recorded after a year. This article by Elvire Bestion and his team is a strong and peer reviewed lead as to the possible effects climate change may have on populations of lizards and reptiles in general. Being relatively recent, the. The article is particularly straightforward, and though it is heavy on the statistics, naturally so, it makes for a reliable reference to the future of reptilian populations specifically the common lizard. Boyle, Maria, et al. Dispersal and climate warming determine range shift in model reptile  Ecological Modelling 328 : 34-43, 2016. With the difference sex in most reptiles being limited by temperature and with a 3 rise in temperatures for past few years, cause to consider global warming will affect reptilian populations in general. In this article, the research team led By Boyle verify indeed that climate change does determine and affect sex ratios which affect the population range extension of most reptiles. Moreover, if faced with the predicted climate change and 3 temperature increase, reptile population growth may decrease. This study by Boyle and a team does not just focus on a particular species of reptiles as a class, its findings the significance in addressing extinction of reptilian (lizards included). The fact that its relevance has established by peer reviews from team scientists is added reason why this study should be seriously considered. Moreover, that its recentness (published in 2016) is also a valid reason to believe the findings of this research relevant and up to date. Overall, the Alshamsi 6 article returns the already stated threat that global warming and climate change pose to not only reptilian species, but all animal species.