Kulow !1 Nathan Kulow Professor Phillips ENC1102 February 26 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric The Constitution Party is a political party that was founded in 1992, they refer to themselves as meaning they believe in keeping the principles of the Constitution whole. The Constitution Party illustrates this on their website, believes in the principles of the original Constitution, and is firmly committed to keeping those principles intact, from all enemies foreign and Consequently, The Constitution Party believes that the Federal Reserve should be abolished because it is unconstitutional. Like all political the Constitution Party relies heavily on rhetoric in order to appeal to their audience, in hopes to get them to become a part of their movement. The Constitution Party uses the two images presented to appeal to their audience, in order to increase the size of their movement, which will in turn help accomplish their goal to end the Federal Reserve. To achieve this, they effectively use numerous rhetorical strategies to appeal to their audience. Rhetoric is used in absolutely everything; these strategies are used in all sorts of advertising such as charities, politics, clothing brands, etc. In politics, rhetoric is heavily utilized by political parties in order to get people on their side. According to author Maya Khemlani David, is a powerful instrument employed by political leaders. They use linguistic strategies including linguistic manipulation as an influential instrument of political rhetoric to persuade audiences for a specific political (David 164). That being said, many might Kulow !2 assume that political candidates rely more on their choice of rhetoric rather than their actual policies to get people to vote for them. Just like all political parties, the Constitution Party effectively exploits rhetorical strategies in order to get the audience to side with them. The two images presented demonstrate this. The first image appears unsophisticated, due to the fact that it only contains three words. Although it may seem simple and ineffective, this image does a good job of utilizing pathos. The short and bold text grabs the attention of the audience, and will actually be read since it is only three words rather than a full text, which in most cases would be ignored. Both the bold font and the red background effectively grab the attention of the audience; according to Color Psychology, color attracts attention more than any other (Przybyla). Not only does the color grab the readers attention, but also might subliminally make the reader feel more alert or even in danger. Color Psychology also states that, has to do with the fight- or-flight response, so too much red leaves the person feeling not just alert, but also stressed (Przybyla). Therefore the red background helps the Constitution goal to make the reader feel alarmed of the Fed, and even make the reader feel as though the Fed is dangerous. As a result, this image helps the Constitution Party instill their ideology of the Fed on to others. The second image the Constitution Party presents is used to inform the audience of their contact information. This image mainly uses rhetorical strategies in order to get the attention, and to take action. The main rhetorical appeals used are ethos and kairos. The text in red reads, Your Vote and Voice Exploiting the word is an appeal to timeliness, representing kairos. This persuades the audience to take the opportunity to become involved sooner. The picture also uses ethos in a number of small ways to make the audience feel Kulow !3 they are more credible. The first way shown is in the quote, Uniting Constitutionists since Informing the audience of how long they have been established is a very common way to establish ethos. The picture also makes the audience feel as though the party is credible in the image itself; the crowd of people in the image makes the party look as though they have many established supporters. Even though the group of people is just a cartoon image, it can still effect the way the audience perceive the Constitution Party. Both of these subtle rhetorical strategies are very effective, and ultimately help the Constitution Party gather more support for their cause. After reviewing the rhetorical strategies used, it is clear that The Constitution Party relies heavily on rhetorical strategies in order to get their audience to side with them. The rhetoric used in the images are subtle, yet effective, towards the cause. The more people who are influenced by this rhetoric and join the Constitution Party, the closer the party gets to abolishing the Federal Reserve, which is their ultimate goal. The Constitution use of rhetoric is an example of how powerful and useful rhetoric can be when trying to accomplish a particular goal. rhetorical skillful speakers have traditionally been able to influence the preconceptions, views, ambitions and fears of the public, to the extent of causing people to accept false statements as true postulates, or even to support policies conflicting with their (David 164) Kulow !4 Works Cited Constitution Party. N. p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. David, M.K. (2014). Language, Power and Manipulation: The Use of Rhetoric in Maintaining Political Influence. Frontiers of Language and Teaching , 51, 164-170. Przybyla Dena. Color Psychology. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Kulow !5 Image 1: https://www.constitutionparty.com/principles/seven-principles/sound-money-constitutional- banking/ Image 2: https://www.constitutionparty.com/about-us/faqs/how-long-has-the-constitution-party-been-in- existence/