Mahmoud 1 Mentalla Mahmoud Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 February 27 th , 2017 Standardized Tests Are Biased and Unfair The use of standardized exams has become an increasingly heated topic of debate in educational circles, with important implications for the future of language education and testing. Standardized tests have strict, uniform administration and scoring procedures that rank large groups of students in relation to their level of achievement in a broad area of knowledge Despite the widespread use of testing, standardized testing had little effect on teaching practices until the late 1970s. Demands for educational accountability increased in the 1970s. When students scored poorly, teachers and school administrators were held accountable. Raising the test scores sometimes means changing the curricula to make sure what the students were learning matched the contents of the standardized tests. Additionally, Congress changed Title I in 1974 by recommending the increased use of standardized testing to improve school programs and curricula. Gallagher states, the 1980s, 33 states mandated some form of minimum competency testing and over 200 million tests were administered annually to determine . . . academic  (2003, p. 92). The use of standardized testing continues to increase in contemporary education. Test scores offer clarity and efficiency in the curriculum, while increasing the confidence of the community in high achieving schools. However, standardized tests may do little to develop the individual beyond the fundamental processes of rote learning. Mahmoud 2 Standardized tests should be optional because not an accurate measurement of the success of a student. When standardized tests become optional students will succeed more and as a result the world will become better because there will be more people loving their jobs and thus they will have extra positive energy and they will be happy to benefit the world. Standardized exams should be  and not   because not an accurate measurement to predict the successfulness of a student. In the article (Analysis: Pros and cons of standardized testing in public schools and its effects on teaching and learning.), authors mentioned a question that was asked to parents in a survey the best way to measure Twenty-six percent of parents picked test scores, and 68 percent said classroom work and  This actually shows that more than fifty percent of people believe that test scores is not an accurate way to measure or even predict the future successfulness of a student. Researches have shown that during the 90s when standardized exams have that much popularity and importance, students succeeded more because students at that time were able to choose their career and major according to their interests and not according to their test . Talk of the Nation radio show where It focused on current events and controversial issues. Talk of the nation focused mainly on education issues and addressed all the problems that student and teachers encounter. It also provided solutions to these problems and even sometimes it would have expertise and scientists that would argue about the topic for hours. This article inform readers not only about the pros and cons of standardized testing but also it analyzes the effects of the situation on both the society and the students. It clarifies the serious consequences that result from having the admission tests a  for colleges admission. This article is helpful because the author argues that admission tests should be Mahmoud 3 optional because not an accurate measurement for the success of a student. The author also mentioned that if students pass these tests, the probability of them dropping education is extremely high which may result in them being poor, homeless and committing crime. Finally the author mentioned that the ministry of education should reconsider this topic and re-evaluate it and take into consideration the consequences seriously. Standardized tests are designed to measure the memory of the students. This is because standardized tests contains information acquired from school since day 1. Therefore, considered to be measuring the memory instead of focusing on the knowledge and how to apply this information into real life. Also it does not measure intelligence and thus concluded that standardized test score may Not correlate to higher IQ. And thus this brings the point about the correlation between standardized test score and IQ test score. The article found regarding this point is  Standardized Test Score May Not Correlate to Higher IQ By Rick Nauert PhD  The author mentions Such tests are designed to measure the knowledge and skills that students have acquired in school what psychologists call This actually contribute to the fact that standardized test is more of a memory test and not intelligence test. The author also mentions But schools whose students have the highest gains on test scores do not produce similar gains in the ability to analyze abstract problems and think logically, according to a new  This is a strong point arguing that after several researches, it was proven that students who score higher on standardized tests does not have the ability to deal with real life problems and abstractly analyze them. This article is scholarly reviewed and serve as a suitable source for this project since it helps support the idea of making standardized tests optional by showing the relationship between standardized scores and IQ scores proving that standardized tests does Mahmoud 4 not necessarily measure intelligence and therefore cannot predict future performance. This article explains that there is no correlation between standardized test score and high IQ scores. It states that such tests are only designed to measure the knowledge and skills that a student acquires in school. Psychologists call this crystallized . Thus, schools or students that gain high scores on standardized testing are missing what is called the fluid , the ability to analyze abstract problems and think logically. The conclusion of this article and its findings is that schools will mostly focus on nourishing the crystallized intelligence in order to perform professionally in standardized tests. As a result, students will graduate having only a specific part of their brain nourished and strengthened while missing other components that will be essential for their future work and study life. Researches back at the time and researches nowadays have the same results that prove that students who usually perform better on standardized exams does not necessarily perform good on applying their knowledge into real life situations. Standardized testing will likely continue to be a topic of heated debate among educators throughout the United States and in many parts of the world. The increased use of standardized testing at all educational levels and in different subject areas has revealed many weaknesses, as well as strengths. The consequences of this major educational debate could have a profound and lasting effect on the ways in which tests such as the TOEIC and TOEFL are used around the world. The internal and external constituents of schools, educators, students, parents, the business community, and politicians all have an important role to play in creating an effective curriculum that balances the needs of the individual with the requirements of the greater community. Educators must find a way to judiciously use test scores in order to assess and improve curriculum, and to increase student learning Mahmoud 5 opportunities. A balance must be struck between actual learning, and fair and accurate methods of evaluation. Mahmoud 6 Work Cited Page Analysis: Pros And Cons Of Standardized Testing In Public Schools And Its Effects On Teaching And Learning. n.p.: National Public Radio, 2000. Literature Resource Center. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Nauert, Rick. Standardized Test Score May Not Correlate to Higher  Psych Central News. Oct. 06, 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://psychcentral.com/news/2013/12/12/standardized-test-score-may-not-correlate-to- higher-iq/63200.html>.