Name: Lambotharan Vijayan Instructor: Cat Modlin Jackson Class: ENC 1101 Date: 01/29/2017 Deserting Fossil Fuels for Hydrogen Fuels as Primary Source of Energy Increased energy usage is the most prominent factor for raising a quality lifestyle in all societies, from countries which are developing to developed. However, the reliability of energy from fossil fuels has produced a vast amount of unwanted side effects such as: environmental pollution which has put human health at risk, the increasing amount of carbon dioxide emissions that has brought the earth to global warming, and geopolitical tensions that have created war due to the varying distributions of fossil fuel resources throughout the world. The challenge most scientist face today is to find a highly efficient way to use, produce, and deliver energy that would enhance lifestyle but do not harm the environment and climate nor cost more geopolitical controversies such as the war between United States of America and Iraq. Hydrogen energy is an energy source that could be the answer to all these problems that we are facing in world. Hydrogen is a chemical element which is known to be the most abundant chemical element in the universe and the combustion of hydrogen would only produce heat energy and water with no harmful pollutants. Hydrogen is probably one of the many potential replacements for fossil fuels but it is not a naturally occurring energy source by itself. It is an energy source that is rather produced than found. Hydrogen is tend to be extracted from methane, water or nuclear power, and extracting hydrogen from these compounds would still need other sources of energy which we still have to tilt our heads to fossil fuels once again. How can hydrogen be produced without the help of fossil fuels? DAS, L.M. potential of hydrogen as an alternative fuel for the transport and power sector in International Journal of Environmental Studies, Vol. 64, No. 6, Routledge Taylor and Francis, December 2007, pp DOI: 10.1080/00207230701770418. L.M Das discusses about the rise in the Indian economic growth and the increasing demand for energy. It also states that India is starving from fossil fuels. Research on various kind of alternative energies were made and hydrogen proved to be the best alternative for fossil fuels. The existing Spark Ignite machines that were currently used in vehicles could support hydrogen fuels and it has given more positive feedback than fossil fuels. Hydrogen could also be used in dual fuel mode in diesel engines with the current advancement in technology (Route of hydrogen use in diesel engines, page 755). It has proven that hydrogen would give us a better future than fossil fuels. This article is relevant to my research because it states that hydrogen can be used in the existing designs of the Spark Ignition engines which means we would not have to change or modify any existing Spark Ignition engines to burn hydrogen fuel. Furthermore L.M. DAS is a professor in the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi for the centre of energy studies, engines and unconventional fuels laboratory. Not only that, this article has been peer reviewed by others who specialize in this particular field. Ahmed, Adeel, et al. fuel and transport system: A sustainable and environmental International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 3, 21 January 2016, pp The global energy market mainly the transportations sector are dependent on fossil fuels to generate energy. Fossil fuels are not only known to cause damage to the environment but also known as a non-renewable energy factor. Many alternative energy sources have been introduced to overcome this ongoing factor and hydrogen fuel has proven to be the most reliable and the most sustainable energy sources. This article also discusses the implementation of hydrogen fuels in the transportation systems in malaysia and the studies conducted has proven that hydrogen is not only safe for the environment but it also improves the economy of the transportation sector. I find this article helpful and reliable because it evaluates the introduction of hydrogen fuel into the Malaysian transportation system for a sustainable and environmental future. It also addresses the environmental issues that we are suffering from and proposes a method to curb the ongoing issue. R.Saidur is a researcher in Centre of Research Excellence in Renewable Energy in King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM), Dhahran, 31261, Saudi Arabia. This article has been peer reviewed by the by others who specialize in this particular field. Bidin, Noriah, et al. The effect of sunlight in hydrogen production from electrolysis International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Vol 42, 1, Elsevier Ltd, Issue, 5 January 2017, Pages doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.11.203. Noriah Bidin states that hydrogen is considered as a clean and pollutant free energy and can be generated from many other renewable source that is easily accessible. The usage of hydrogen as fuel and a universal energy carrier is the best method in countering energy crisis and environmental pollution ( Introduction, page 133 ). It discusses all the various methods which include fossil fuels for hydrogen production. Of all methods used sunlight has given the most amount of hydrogen gas through electrolysis. Sunlight energy has been collected and used to power electrolysis process to separate hydrogen from water. The reason behind the success of sunlight energy has also been further discussed. The steps taken and the process of the hydrogen production is explained. It also has been stated that energy from sunlight creates a direct current which enhances the production of hydrogen. This article was taken because it discusses the topic about production of hydrogen through sunlight. Which means there are methods to produce hydrogen without the use of fossil fuels. Furthermore, they have discussed and compared few other experiments and had their research prove that sunlight is the best way to produce hydrogen energy. The are researchers from University Technology Malaysia and Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Batu Pahat. Al-Zareer , , Maan. Dincer, Ibrahim. A. Rosen, Marc. and assessment of a novel integrated nuclear plant for electricity and hydrogen Energy Conversion and Management, Volume 134, Elsevier Ltd, 15 February 2017, Pages doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.enconman.2016.12.004. Fossil fuels are emerging to be the environments greatest concern as the they renewable and it pollutes the environment. Many research is made to produce energy without the use of fossil fuels and hydrogen has emerged to be the best renewable energy source. Many ways have been introduced to produce hydrogen without fossil fuels and they have came up with a hybrid system to enhance hydrogen production. Two hybrid systems have been introduced, one is Magnesium and Chlorine cycle (Mg-Cl Cycle) and the other is the Copper and Chlorine cycle (Cu-Cl cycle). These systems produces electricity in water to break the hydrogen bonds of water to produce hydrogen and oxygen. The use of the Cu-Cl cycle is proposed as it yields the most amount of hydrogen from water. This article is peer reviewed by experts in this field and the authors are researchers who does research in University of Ontario Institute of Technology. This article also discusses about the production of hydrogen from electricity generated in nuclear plants. It discusses the other options we have for hydrogen production rather than just abusing fossil fuels. The production is proved to be efficient and more research is taking place to make the production of hydrogen better. Bae, Joongmyeon, et al. fuel processing for hydrogen production: A International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 44, Elsevier Ltd, 26 November 2016, Pages doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.08.135. There are large demands for clean and renewable energy development. The liquid fuel cell processing technology has been introduced to produce hydrogen. The production of hydrogen through liquid fuel cell processing technology gives a bigger output compared to the other technologies that tested and It is proven that liquid fuels produces a dense amount of hydrogen. Furthermore liquid fuels are less mechanic, therefore the cost to make one could be made much lesser. The reduced amount of mechanics used also helps to reduce the noise it makes thus helps us prevent sound pollution. The liquid fuel cells are also powered with Nitrogen Oxides and Sulphur Dioxides which also leads to the increase in the efficiency of the liquid fuels. The advancement in this technology would help the energy sectors to reduce the amount of fossil fuels used and hence create a cleaner and better environment. This article was chosen because the authors are researches in the Department of Mechanical Engineering in Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and research and development center in Saudi Arabia. This article is peer reviewed by experts in this field and they discuss their research on how to maximise the hydrogen production by using fuel cells. It also summarizes and discuss each liquid fuel processing technology to convert liquid fuels into hydrogen-rich gases in a stable manner. Monk, Nigel. Watson, Simon. of pulsed power for efficient hydrogen International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Vol. 41 Issue 19, Elsevier Ltd, May 2016, p7782- 7791. 10p, doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2015.12.086. Nigel monk stresses out on how the energy sectors should widely use renewable energy source rather than fossil fuels for energy consumptions. It is said that pulsed power should be introduced for efficient hydrogen production. Pulse power is a technology which accumulates power for a long period of time and releases all of it at once. Research was made with plasma electrolysis and pulsed electrolysis and the the result were further studied under various conditions. Research has shown that pulse and plasma electrolysis has the ability to surpass the faradic limit in electrolysis (page 7784). There are still many challenges to overcome to produce hydrogen more efficiently and extensive research and studies are being carried out. This article discusses about the Pulse power applied to electrolysis for hydrogen production and thus has helped me to further my research about hydrogen fuels. The authors are also researchers from Centre for Renewable Energy Systems and Technology in United Kingdom and they must be experts in the field of renewable energy and that is why i find this source reliable. Furthermore this article has been peer reviewed by professionals who are also experts in the field of renewable energy.