Al Zadjali 1 Mazin Al Zadjali Instructor Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 February 5, 2017 The effect of domestic violence on women and in USA The term Domestic Violence, which is also known as family violence or domestic abuse, is violence behavior between the family members. Which can start when one member of the family feels to take control. This issue takes different forms and a widely common issue, which many countless women and mostly children suffer from. This issue can take various forms of aspects, such as verbal, physical, religious, financial and sexual assault. The causes of this issue are due to the history of facing family abuse as a child, dysfunctional behavior such as alcohol or drug addict, controlling relationship, stress and economic hardship, for example, delayed unemployment and the lack of money in the family. There are many drawbacks on whom is affected by this common widely spread issue. The victims of domestic violence will mostly suffer from emotional stress, mental health problem, and physical problems. Domestic violence could be physical, sentimental and mental abuse. In other words, the physical abuse could be slapping, beating, kicking, the sentimental abuse could be humiliating, isolating, threatening, and the mental abuse is more like the emotional abuse. The research question is: what are the impacts of domestic violence on women and mental health in USA and how it will affect them in the future? Moylan et al. Effects of Child Abuse and Exposure to Domestic Violence on Adolescent Internalizing and Externalizing Behavior J Fam Viol Journal of Family Violence, vol. 25, no. 1, 2009, pp. 53-63. Accessed 28 Jan 2017. This article has tested the negative impacts of children being mistreated and experienced domestic violence, the article has mentioned that the young people who have experienced an abuse or domestic violence are the ones who experience mental and social Al Zadjali 2 problems. Furthermore, the studies about domestic violence on children have shown various of results between the two gender and who will suffer more mental or social problems. This article is about the child abuse and how they have been exposed to domestic violence. Also, the article discussed the future outcomes of the violence that the children will have toward their future partner and that connect the article to my research question. The writer has attended Center for Social Research, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA and School of Social Work, University of Washington, Seattle, WA. The writer has cited the work and this article is peer reviewed which shows that a credible article. Furthermore, this research is funded by two institutes the first is the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), the second is the Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR). This research has been issued in two thousand and nine (2009). Laurel et al. Impacts of Family and Community Violence Exposure on Child Coping and Mental  J Abnorm Child Psychol, vol. 43, no. 2, spring 2015, pp. 203-215, Accessed 28 Jan 2017. This research gives us an overview of the results of children who has suffered from domestic violence whether from a family member or a community member. This research stated that the young people who are exposed to such violence are the ones who will suffer mostly from depression, social problems, and other mental problems. This research proves that the children who were suffering from domestic violence are larger than the immigrant in the US and this indicates that factors such as lifestyle, religion, and family capture a big role on the causes of this widely spread violence. This research talks about the effects of community and domestic violence on children and it covers all the aspects in an understandable way. This source helped me answer my research question because it talks about the problems that both women and children will suffer from and how certain factors can make changes in their future life. Affiliation: Al Zadjali 3 Department of Psychology, University of Massachusetts Boston, Boston, USA. This source is by Murray Center for the study of which make it credible. This article was published in 2015. Yoo, Jeong Ah, and Chien-Chung Huang. The Effects of Domestic Violence on Behavior Problems: Assessing the Moderating Roles of Poverty and Marital  Children and Youth Services Review, vol. 34, no. 12, 12 Dec. 2012, pp. 2464-2473, doi: 10.1016/j.childyouth.2012.09.014 , Accessed 4 Feb. 2017. This article talks about how can the family financial status exposures them to domestic violence. Due to the lack of money, exposures the family members to alcohol abuse, use drugs and violence. These pressures, which lead the family to suffer from illness, related to family abuse. In a research done by Yoo and Huang in 2012, indicates that women who suffer from poverty are the most being encounter with family abuse. However, that domestic violence is a widely spread issue, researchers suggest that poorer places have an increase statistics of family abuse. This article talks about the relation of family poverty with the domestic abuse. In which how the family financial status could lead them to be an alcohol and a drug addict which causes the violence between the family members. This research helped me answer my research question, by stating the issues of the domestic violence on women and that poverty can play a role in their behavior. This research is credible because peer reviewed and the articles work has been cited. Chien-Chung Huang is the director of Human Research Center and a professor in the School of Social Work at Rutgers University, he earned his Social work Ph.D. in 1998 at Columbia University. Holt et al. The Impact of Exposure to Domestic Violence on Children and Young People: A Review of the  Child Abuse & Neglect, vol. 32, no. 8, 21 Feb. 2008, pp. 797-810, Accessed 4 Feb. 2017. Al Zadjali 4 This article reviews different aspects of domestic violence on young people mental health. It indicated that children who faces domestic abuse or family violence are the youngest group in which be exposed to sentimental, physical and sexual assault, of evolving sentimental and behavioral issues in their life. This article also mentions how this issue will impact social life in the future and the obstacles face. Such as harming other family members, threating their partner and losing their children. This article talks about young mental health who has encountered with domestic violence and that connects it to my research question. Also, it mentions the problems that will affect their social life and the problems they will face in their future life, which also connects it to the research question. In which it includes many charts, table, statistics, and figures. This research was sponsored by Health Research Board of Ireland. The work has been cited by 49 articles, which makes it credible. Moreover, its peer reviewed. The writers have attended School of Social Work and Social Policy, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland. Rigterink et al. Domestic Violence and Longitudinal Associations with Physiological Regulation  Journal of Interpersonal Violence, vol. 25, no. 9, 4 Aug. 2009, pp. 1669-1683, Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. The article explores the impact of domestic violence on young feeling potential. The writer tries to find the common thing about family violence and the child normal function over a period, to see if domestic violence is connected with the child normal behavior from being a baby till his grown up. There were different results between the two genders. The article also shows that young people who have faced domestic violence face difficulties dealing with self-respect. The article sources are credible because all the work is shown. The article helped me answer my research question because it talks about the children who have encountered with Al Zadjali 5 domestic violence and the upcoming difficulties dealing with self-respect in their life, which relates to the research question. The writer represents his ideas in a more understandable easy way. The article is peer reviewed. The writer has a Ph.D. in 1990 from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Department of Psychology. Urbana, Illinois, and MA in 1981 from New School for Social Research. Department of Psychology. New York, N.Y. and he has published many researches. Tailor et al. Children Exposed to Intimate Partner Violence: Influences of Parenting, Family Distress, and  Journal of Family Psychology, vol. 29, no. 1, 1 Feb. 2015, pp. 29-38, doi: 10.1037/a0038584, Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. The study discusses and investigates about the relation between the father and the mother attitude towards child trauma symptoms, in families that had or domestic violence. The experiment included mothers with 2 school-age siblings. The results revealed that the abusive families had the highest level. However, there is no difference in the parenting attitude. Young people from various ages have various trauma symptoms such as bleeding, shock, nerve injury, brain damage, bone fracture and hematoma in a various conditions. This research of Exposed to Intimate Partner Violence: Influences of Parenting, Family Distress, and has many scientific statements and figures which makes it understandable. The research helped me to answer my research question, by stating impacts of family violence on children and how various trauma symptoms has a great impact in their life. The author has a PhD on Developmental Psychology. This article is peer reviewed and credible. She is a head of department in University of Manitoba. Also, she has published many articles.