Hodges 1 Nicholas Hodges Karen Hanson, PhD ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Animals in Factory Farms While factory farming may not be a issue we as every day humans think about, there are those who lose sleep over it. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) is a non-profit organization that provides care for a wide range of animals all across the United States through their rescue teams, sanctuaries and wildlife centers. HSUS has many goals they would like to accomplish in the field of animal rights, however; ensuring that factory farm owned animals have a comfortable life is at the top of their list. This organization argues that factory farm animals that are treated poorly and not given proper living conditions can develop physical and mental disabilities that not only affect the life of the animal, but can also be harmful for consumer consumption. They also believe that while animals may not be humans, they have feelings and families as well. This means that when factory farm animals are not provided with proper care, they can become depressed, afraid, and ultimately develop mental and physical disabilities just like humans, when placed under certain circumstances. HSUS successfully supports its argument that to animal lovers worldwide that factory farm animals should be given proper living accommodations through two pieces of visual rhetoric that connect animal abuse to factory farming. The Humane Society of the United States argues that factory farm animals should be treated better through two images that highlight animal abuse in factory farming. For example, Hodges 2 image A shows a group of chickens that are huddled together and one of them appears to be seriously injured. This is an appeal to Pathos, an appeal to emotions. According Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre generally, an appeal to pathos is an appeal to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or (Pathos 37). This appeal is used affectively because seeing that the chicken is badly injured makes the audience feel sad. It also appears in this image that the chickens are very frightened. They are crowded together around the injured chicken as if they are trying to comfort it. This allows the audience to imagine themselves in a similar situation and ask themselves how they would feel if they had those living conditions. It makes the audience feel bad for the animals that have to suffer through these harsh conditions. Image A also makes a kairos appeal, which is an appeal to time. According to Allyson Hoffman and Alysia Sawchyn, like to get technical, kairos is grasping or recognizing the opportune or ethical moment for (kairos 41). Seeing these chickens being hurt and kept inside a facility all day makes the audience want to act now! As soon as they see the image, they may want to pick up the phone and call the Humane Society and donate money to help free these animals. Much like image A, image B uses very similar methods to argue that factory farm animals should be given better treatment along with better living accommodations. Image B is a picture of hundreds of chickens locked up in cages indie a facility. The chickens are aligned in very long rows, one right next to another in very small cages, all housed inside a building that appears to be very dark inside. Image B also make a pathos appeal. Seeing all these chickens locked up inside very tiny cages right next to one another makes the audience feel sad for all these animals. The audience feels sympathy for the chickens because instead of being outside in the warm sun where they should be, they are locked inside a cold, dark facility being kept in tiny Hodges 3 metal cages. This image also makes an appeal to kairos. When the audience sees how these chickens are being housed, they want to act that moment. It makes them want to free those chickens so they do not have to spend any more time in those cages. This image also makes a logos appeal, an appeal to logic. According to Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (logos 32). Seeing how these chickens are housed, it is easy to tell that they are being raised in a crowded, dirty environment. This can lead to these chickens acquiring diseases and becoming sick, and since they are so close together, if one of them gets sick then they all get sick. Consumers do not want to eat infected meat. This can persuade the audience to either not buy meat from the company that owns this factory farm, or donate money to the Humane Society to help these chickens be kept in a healthier living environment. According to Sophie Baker, farming has catastrophic implications on all the issues we care about: It is bad for humans, for animals, for the planet, and it is bad for (Baker 3). It makes logical sense to not eat meat that is infected with diseases. This image effectively uses logos to persuade their audience to stop factory farming. Both of these images use many rhetorical appeals; however, in some cases these rhetorical appeals can persuade the audience in ways the Humane Society may not want them to be persuaded. For example, when using a pathos appeal, they should be careful not to push the audience away due to overwhelming sadness. Image A shows how one of the chickens is very badly injured while the other chickens are crowded around him trying to comfort him. Seeing images like this can push the audience away and make them change the channel on their television when a commercial for the Humane Society comes on. People naturally like to feel Hodges 4 happy, which means that when they see images of injured chickens, they will feel sad and want to look away. This can be a negative affect from using an appeal to pathos in image A. similarly with image B, seeing how the chickens are locked in small metal cages in a dark facility, this can discourage the audience and turn them away. The Humane Society should be mindful when using these images in advertisement, as they could discourage audiences from viewing their organization. The Humane Society of the United States has affectively argues that animals in factory farms should be treated better by showing images of animals being injured and having poor housing environments. Both of these images show light on the environment these animals are housed in, and even their physical health. By showing how some of these animals are injured, it proves that these animals are put through harsh conditions that can injure them and negatively affect their well-being. They also show that these animals live in cramped, uncomfortable, unnatural environments that do not meet the standards to allow these animals to grow up mentally healthy and grow to their full potential. The Humane Society of the United States is still fighting for these animals to be provided with proper care, and will not rest until their needs have been met. Hodges 5 Works Cited  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman Allyson, Sawchyn Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Lane Emily, Mckee Jessica, McIntyre Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Lee Gayle Kendra, McKee Jessica, McIntyre Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Hodges 6 Image A Image B