Daya 1 Joshua Daya Ms. Collins ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Death Penalty: To have or not to have? Court cases are a constant source for controversy for the people involved and possibly the people that hear about the court case. Serious cases can go into deeper contention and can create a divide. The death penalty is a case that continues to be a toss-up for some cases and morality begins to be questioned. There are different sides to this conflict on whether the death penalty should be used as a form of punishment for the guilty defendant. It just seems like there are simply two stark contrasts/sides to this controversial topic. There needs to some form of resolution or compromise between the sides. For this project, the two stakeholders being presented for the topic of the death penalty are weleylowe.com and The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. The following two stakeholders have seemingly incompatible goals when it comes to the death penalty. The stakeholder wesleylowe.com has the goals of enforcing the death penalty as a form of punishment for the guilty here in the United States. On the other hand, the stakeholder The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (ncadp) desires for the death penalty to be completely removed from all states in the US. Due to these seemingly incompatible goals between these two stakeholders, there continues to be conflict which is why they have not come to a resolution. However, it is possible for these two stakeholders to come to a resolution that can work for both as long as they can work together and they are willing to follow through with a given resolution. The two stakeholders must provide full cooperation with Daya 2 each other which can then lead to a peaceful situation in future conflicts between stakeholders in the topic of the death penalty. The first stakeholder brings up several subtopics that are widely discussed when defending or going against the death penalty. It brings up debatable topics on the death penalty including the cost of the death penalty, the racial problems associated with death penalties, the morality of capital punishment and even brings up religion into the discussion of the death penalty. The website utilizes these topics in the defense of using the death penalty as a form of punishment for any guilty person or party. For example, the deterrent effect of capital punishment is discussed. According to the website, it brings up that argument states that the death penalty does not deter murder. Dismissing capital punishment on that basis requires us to eliminate all prisons as well because they do not seem to be any more effective in the deterrence of There is a firm belief in the death penalty as a valid punishment to the people deemed guilty in a court case. It brings up the debate of capital punishment vs. life without parole to further back up the usage of the death penalty. explained that it would be better for one to be executed rather than give them the chance of coming back to harm other people in the future. The website brings up the example of who was serving a 48-year sentence for the 1973 murder of a cab driver when he escaped a road work gang and stabbed to death a storekeeper named Gadys Nopwasky in a 1988 robbery that netted This stakeholder presents several points that make sense for one discussing the death penalty as well as trying to defend the usage of it. A scholarly journal study titled of Variation in Pro-Death Penalty Attitudes in China: An Exploratory Study of Chinese Students at Home and focused on the views of different Chinese groups in different surveys that analyzed the amount of them that support the Daya 3 death penalty and the reason for this support. Granted, the authors of this article and study explain that there can be some Western influences on the Chinese but the death penalty has been there for a long time. Per Liang, Chinese slogans such as killer should be one as a warning to a and a chicken to scare the reflect the deep-rooted Chinese traditional cultural belief in retribution and deterrence of capital been well established that capital punishment can serve as an effective tool in preventing or at lessen the rate of future crime in the country of China and the different factors such as economic factors relate to at least more than 50% of the different groups surveyed having a pro-death penalty mentality. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) is a national organization that strives solely for abolishing the death penalty (NCADP). Their goal is build a diverse and powerful national constituency favoring death penalty repeal The NCADP also states that they wish to assist other worldly organizations in their fight to abolish the death penalty. Racial problems, the costs of the death penalty, and problems with executing innocent individuals were discussed in the argument against the death penalty. For example, there are problems with the current justice system and how people of color are treated unfairly and how this is damaging the justice system (NCADP). The website brings up that in 1990, multiple studies were tested and 82% of the studies found that the race influenced the likelihood of the defendant being charged with capital murder or receiving the death (NCADP). It is interesting to point out these figures reflect the way society is and the racial conflicts there. an article titled Case Against the Death that comes from the American Civil Liberties Union. Similar to the NCADP, they bring up valid points that support Daya 4 the need for the complete prohibition of the death penalty in the US. This article references human rights in the constitution and how capital punishment violates those human rights. Hugo Adam Bedau writes, punishment is cruel and death penalty violates the constitutional guarantee of equal (Bedau). In addition, it discusses how the justice system is unfair and treats people of color differently and much harshly compared to white people under the same circumstances. Therefore, the article by Bedau shows that there needs to be a major change in the justice system especially when it comes to the forms of punishment used on people considered guilty. This need for a major improvement in the current justice system is discussed in a scholarly article by Jack Greenberg titled the American System of Capital In the article Greenberg talks about the problems with the justice system and how capital punishment in the negative effect. He writes that just because the judges are displeased with the speed of a case, they will the case by taking extreme measures (Greenberg). These sped up measures lead to a judge confidence in the fairness of the death penalty (Greenberg). There is a need to spread this awareness in the hopes that there is a permanent removal of the death penalty in the US. There is a solution to this though in the form of a compromise. The first piece of the compromise is straight forward and in the name: death-in prison. The name explains exactly what the compromise contains. This compromise can satisfy both stakeholders in that the death penalty is not used but this method utilizes deterrent effects promised by the contemporary death penalty (Covey). They would be forced to be incarcerated for life with no chance whatsoever of having parole. Similar to the death penalty trials, this kind of case would still require a special type of trial. This compromise would serve as Daya 5 a very effective solution for the two presented stakeholders. It incorporates elements from both sides to make this a valid compromise for the issue of the death penalty. In addition to the death in prison component in the compromise, there is another component which can benefit both sides. The other part of the compromise consists of using a coma on the guilty. According to a scholarly article by Oleson, the coma actually less cruel and less unusual than the condition throughout many of (Oleson). In the case that a prison sentence would prove too expensive, turning to modern medical science with a coma could be the economically better choice. The people against the death penalty benefits because it does not violate the human right of forcibly taking life. They are just paced into an unconscious state. The people for the death penalty benefits in that it has the same effects as the death penalty. They will have absolutely no chance of ever being released unless their verdict had been overturned because of new evidence found in that case. Their freedom is removed in that they are in that state of being in a coma. A possible example is if a person was being convicted of 1 st degree murder. The jury could have special cases and select if that person must have death in prison or undergo a punitive coma. Death in prison gives the convicted defendant no chance of a parole which benefits both sides and eventually places him to his death which benefits the people for the death penalty. If the jury after thorough deliberation chooses the guilty defendant to go into a coma, there will be no conflicts. This is because the guilty cannot harm anyone else anymore. They are completely removed of their freedom and his life was not forcibly taken by someone or something artificial. Through this project two stakeholders were presented with incompatible goals. Weleylowe.com and The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty had goals that contradicted each other. Fortunately, through the cooperation of both stakeholders they can reach Daya 6 the compromise of death-in prison and the usage of punitive coma that bring goals from both stakeholders for a very effective solution. Daya 7 Works Cited Bedau, Hugo. Case Against the Death aclu.org. aclu.org, 2012. Web. 28 January 2017. Bin Liang, Hong Lu, Terance D. Miethe, Lening Zhang. of Variation in Pro-Death Penalty Attitudes in China: An Exploratory Study of Chinese Students at Home and The British Journal of Criminology 46. 1 (2006): n.pag. Web. 28 January 2017. Covey, Russell. in Prison: The Right Death Penalty racism.org. n.p. 2012. Web. 28 January 2017. Greenberg, Jack. the American System of Capital Harvard Law Review, 99. 7 (1986): n.pag. Web. 28 January 2017. Lowe, Wesley. Death Penalty in The United wesleylowe.com. Wesley Lowe, 2011. Web. 28 January 2017. Oleson, J. C. Punitive California Law Review 90. 3 (2002) n.pag. Web 28 January 2017 of the Ncadp.org, ncadp.org. n.d. Web. 28 January 2017.