Hnaing Ma Kha ENC American Energy Works is a huge producer of natural gases that aims on producing natural gas and fuels that are clean and can be used efficiently. Not only is producing energy is their goal, they also plans on providing jobs for more people and improving the economy. Their main goal is to follow the energy policy made by Washington and to a secure supply of abundant, affordable, and available energy for the American people in an environmentally responsible With the world entering an age of technology producers and organizations like these will be needed to provide energy to fuel all these technology as well as advancing them. The two images supports the goal and mission by proving that American Energy Works is trying its best to provide all the people living in the states with energy and producing jobs by doing so. The first image shows a Minnesota male at what it looks like possible at a construction site or on an offshore oil field. The second shows a Pennsylvania male which is most likely at his office. American Energy Works is also known as America Petroleum Institute (API) which supplies8 percent of the US economy as well as providing 9.8 million jobs to the US citizens. Although API was initially only to supply energy domestically, they have already started going international and is already recognized. API is the advocate many petroleum industries and their programs like Energy Tomorrow. They usually negotiate with regulatory agencies, represent the industry in legal proceedings, participate in coalitions and work in partnership with other associations. Not only that, they also do research and take statistics on many things. Not only do they conduct those research, they also sponsor such research or collect statistics on imports and exports of the US industry operations. API has been the head at development of petroleum and petrochemical equipment and operating standards. They have experience using everything from drill bits and environment protection and has proven it with their engineering and operation practices and safe equipments. Not only that they also plan on educating other organization in the same field by providing workshops and conferences. and legal precautions provided by API says each day, the oil and natural gas industry depends on equipment to produce, refine and distribute its products. The equipment used is some of the most technologically advanced available in the search for oil and natural gas and allows the industry to operate in an environmentally safe manner. Designed for manufacturers of production, drilling and refinery equipment, the API Monogram Program verifies that manufacturers are operating in compliance with industry standards. API also provides quality, environmental, and occupational health and safety management systems certification through APIQR. This service is accredited by the ANAB (ANSI-ASQ National Accreditation Board) for ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Let industry expertise certify your organization to API Spec Q1, API Spec Q2, and OHSAS 18001. API also certifies inspectors of industry equipment through our Individual Certification Programs (ICP), designed to recognize working professionals who are knowledgeable of industry inspection codes and are performing their jobs in accordance with those codes. Through our Witnessing Programs, API provides knowledgeable and experienced witnesses to observe critical material and equipment testing and verification. In helping to improve industry safety, API Work Staff offers a program for service station owners to make sure their contractors have been trained to industry safety standards. WorkSafe also offers an E&P Onshore Operations Safety Program for operators to ensure their workers and contractors are trained in industry safety practices. As the recognized leader in safety training, API WorkSafe offers UST Operator Training that meets both federal and state operator training requirements. For consumers, API provides the Engine Oil Licensing and Certification System (EOLCS). It is a voluntary licensing and certification program that authorizes engine oil marketers who meet specified requirements to use the API Engine Oil Quality Marks. These emblems go directly on each container of oil that retains the certification for and is there to help consumers identify quality engine oils for their gasoline and diesel-powered vehicles. The Motor Oil Matters program (MOM for short) is new program for licensing motor oil distributors and oil change locations. MOM has one main make sure that consumers receive high- quality oil through a secure chain-of-custody structure. The MOM mark identifies distributor and oil change locations committed to providing motor oil meeting the performance standards recommended by most vehicle and engine (API) AEW have many projects going on which ranges from offshore access to crude oil and natural gas to supplying Alaska with energy. The first image shows a Minnesota male at an offshore oil field smiling with the words of registered Minnesota voters support increased production of domestic oil and natural gas resources located here in the US. This image supports 3 goals at the same time. First by showing us the image of a man at this place means he got a job from AME and second the words means that AEW provided supplies so well that 80% are supporting them. The male smiling tell us that he is happy and satisfied with his job and is doing well. And the word means the male in the image is most likely a citizine of the US. The word means that AEW also supply energy for domestic usage providing people with the energy to enjoy their free time. The # at the bottom of the image shows that it is a part of an energy organization telling that the facts are true and reliable. The second image is familiar to the first one but this time it is showing a family near their sweet home. This implies that the jobs provided by American Energy Works provides enough money for them to start a family and purchase a house. The fact that they are all smiling tell us that they are happy with their life. And with 2 kids it shows that they have enough to even support kids. Like the last image the percentage is enlarged to make a much more impacting feeling by looking at it.