Myroradov 1 Dan Myroradov ENC1102.029 Taylor Poston 26 Feb 2017 Purpose of Motion Picture Association of America The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) is a company that protects viewers from the undesired explicit and violent content by the Ratings System and defends copyrights of the production companies. This company has been influencing the development of the film industry in the United States of America for almost a century. There are a couple of images that can be found on the official website that provide some information on the background and beliefs. In this paper, the images The History of MPAA and The Film Rating System presented by the stakeholder will be analyzed in order to determine the messages and key positions issued by MPAA. For the better understanding of the perspective, it is important to know what their background is. This company provides the illustration The History of MPAA, which shows the timeline of the significant changes of the censorship policies aligned with the historical events in the country. According to the illustration, the MPAA was launched in 1922 and led by William Hays, who had developed a so-called Hays Code in order to absence of and prevent from government interference in In the article A Century of Film Censorship, Elizabeth McCauley explains that the Hays Code defined the only pattern the storylines were expected to follow: good was always to prevail over bad all those who committed immoral actions were to be punished, while the moral ones were to be rewarded Myroradov 2 (McCauley par 7). She further states that because of this, the film production companies would feel repressed with their freedoms of expression, regardless of the fact that MPAA had clearly determined the censorship policies and enabled the film production companies to receive criticism on their movies during the filming process in order to secure the release of the films (par. 10). As the image describes, a notable moment in the history of MPAA was the replacement of the Hays Code with the Rating System in 1968 to provide more freedoms for the film industry due to the advancement of the civil rights in the United States of America. With this step, MPAA made a progressive step and found a reasonable compromise to then provide more autonomy to the film production companies. In the 2004, the company began being concerned about protecting the film industry from copyright theft. The History of MPAA depicts the story of the company with all the essential dates and changes. Also, this illustration describes the reasons the company had to apply the regulations and how they were improved in order to adjust to the industry and satisfy the viewers. All the rhetorical appeals can be observed on The History of MPAA illustration. In the first place, this image is located on the official website, with a clear description and graphics related to the storyline, adding up to their credibility. Additionally, it greatly appeals to ethics, for the reason that it shows that the company used to adjust their policies in order to satisfy the viewers and the production companies. The appeal to logic can be observed with the descriptions of the historical events and graphics related to them the company adjusts its policies to the changes in the ideals of the society. The strongest rhetorical appeal of The History of MPAA is kairos, because it shows how the company exists in line with significant historical events in the United States. For example in the the civil rights issues had become more significant, thus, MPAA had to replace the Hays Code in order to give more freedom to the filmmakers as a Myroradov 3 part of the movement. Lastly, The History of MPAA depicts the U.S. flag on the ship, symbolizing the popularity of the American films overseas it makes some Americans feel pride for the national production. Another image shows the Earth in order to represent the innovation and globalization of markets people feel connected with each other, removing all the boundaries. Such images present pathos, the appeal to emotion. Another illustration from the website, The Film Rating System shows different kinds of ratings with short description and graphics to each, clarifying that films should be generally beleaguered for the different groups of people. On the top is the name of the illustration The Film Rating System with its main purpose under families to make informed movie In order to protect the families of viewers from the explicit and violent scenes, MPAA warns them by labeling the intensity of the explicit content and violence in the films with such labels as G (general audiences), PG (parental guidance suggested), PG-13 (parents strongly cautioned), R (restricted and requiring accompanying parent or adult guardian under the age of 17), and NC-17 (adults only). Just like the previous image, The Film Rating System is supported by a variety of rhetorical appeals. Firstly, it contains ethos due to the fact that the actual emblems illustrated for the film rankings are well-defined by the descriptions in the illustration. In other words, this presents the awareness of the issue of the explicit and violent film content, which indicates an appeal to ethics. In addition, this image is provided by the stakeholder and can be found on the official website. All these factors contribute to the credibility of this image. Secondly, the text provides enough explanation to the graphics showing how the categories of the viewers are matched with each rating. Due to the fact that this logically clarifies the attitudes of the company, this image contains logos. Thirdly, the kairos on this image is the Rating System Myroradov 4 and the types of rankings, because this is one of the most prevailing policies of MPAA that was passed in the past and remains essential today. However, unlike The History of MPAA, this image does not contain much appeal to emotion. Nevertheless, the graphics of the family groups representing each of the film categories make the Rating System appear livelier. Also, the bright yellow and beige colors with the relaxing tones make this message appear very friendly. Therefore, few elements of pathos can be noticed on The Film Rating System illustration, too. Overall, both images by MPAA are persuasive enough and use a variety of the rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, logos, kairos, and pathos. Even though The History of MPAA and The Film Rating System are just illustrations, they contain a lot of textual descriptions, rather than being strong only with their visual rhetoric. Besides that, neither of the images has any logical errors, because they just state the main facts the story of MPAA and the variety of ratings. This helps to position the audience on the side of the stakeholder and provide additional background with all the important information. Therefore, rhetorical fallacies are absent in both images. All things considered, MPAA is a stakeholder that has a strong influence on the film industry in the United States of America. According to Our Story page on the website, the main purpose of the company is the business and art of filmmaking, protecting the creative and artistic freedoms of filmmakers, and ensuring the satisfaction of audiences par. 3). The History of MPAA and The Film Rating System are the images on the website that explain the historical facts about the companies, as well as describing the Rating System. Presenting the images is important in order to trigger the rhetorical appeal towards the company and explain its purpose. Myroradov 5 Works Cited of the Motion Picture Association of America. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.mpaa.org/our-story/. McCauley, Elizabeth. Century of Film Back Story, 7 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Motion Picture Association of America. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.mpaa.org/our-story/. Film Rating Motion Picture Association of America. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.mpaa.org/film-ratings/.