McFarlane 1 Madison McFarlane ENC 1102 Dr. Oana Cimpean 25 January 2017 Born Free USA exotic pet trade poses grave dangers to the animals, as well as to human health and Born Free USA has a main goal of keeping animals and people safe. They are dedicated to educating people of the dangers and issues of attempting to domesticate wild animals. The images are both from the page on the Born Free USA website. They are photos of a small Capuchin monkey behind a fence being kept as a pet, and an individual holding two tiger cubs by their necks for entertainment purposes. The two images that I chose both rely primarily on pathos and ethos. There is also a claim of logos, though it is more inferred, as to why this is a serious issue occurring in the United States. These rhetorical devices help to convey the message that humans should not disturb animals in their natural habitats because of the negative impacts it has on the animals. Born Free USA has taken the time to hand pick images that produce a reaction into those who view them, so that they receive support for their plan to keep all wild animals in the wild. The ultimate goal of Born Free USA is to raise awareness about the dangers to both animals and humans by keeping exotic pets. The CEO of Born Free USA, Adam Roberts, is completely dedicated to changing the outcome of keeping exotic animals as pets. He is tired of the mistreatment, and abandonment of these creatures. The organization encourages everyone to take action by writing to legislation, such as the House of Representatives, or donating money to McFarlane 2 help in rehabilitating rescued animals. They encourage individuals to be avid activists in this fight by stating, you are just one person, your voice (Roberts 1). The pictures mainly rely on pathos and ethos, but there is the presence of logos just for validity. The best way to lure people into support a campaign is with appeals to emotions. Persuading the public is important in any situation that requires action and help. The appeal to logos in both photos is more of a common theory that animals should not be mistreated, harmed, or forgotten about. The credibility of the photos is not very strong, it is based more off how reliable the website and organization are. This young Capuchin monkey was kept in a cage, with a play house meant for a toddler, for public display. The appeal to pathos present in the picture are most present in the sad look in the eyes. Also, the small hand with fingers gripping the fence, all the animal longs for is to be let out of the enclosure. The photo is meant to generate guilt, and make individuals want to help free all animals being locked in cages for showing purposes. According to the article, keeping animals caged up can cause depression and aggressive behavior. The ethos that presents itself in this photo is that animals are meant to roam free, not be confined in small cages. Exotic animals are not meant to be cooped up. They need extensive amounts of space to live comfortably. Animals such as this monkey enjoy moving around and climbing, but in small enclosures they do not have that freedom. The photo containing the two tiger cubs is captioned with, tiger cubs were brought out for visitors to pet and bottle- feed. Excessive handling would be extremely stressful for these young animals. (Stump Hill Farm, OH) Copyright Born Free These tiger cubs were bred specifically for entertaining, and to make easy money by selling them. Born Free USA has stated that, Texas alone, there are more tigers in captivity than there are in the McFarlane 3 wild globally. 1). Overbreeding is a serious issue more recently because people are only interested in the small, cute animals. The pathos that stands out the most in this photo is how these cubs are being carried. You can see the anguish on their tin faces, and how there is pain being inflicted upon them at the moment. The image creates feelings of anger for how the cubs are being handled, but also sadness because it is happening. Illegal trading of exotic animals has increasingly become more popular due to the aesthetics of some animals. It has been reported that, trade in exotic animals is a multi- billion-dollar (Roberts 1). Exotic animal trading is a very common practice, which in turn causes more cases of abandoned or forgotten animals. The current industry is very focused on infant animals because they draw bigger crowds. Money is a huge factor when it comes to exotic pets. These reasons are why Born Free USA posts photos such as these, and try to raise money to campaign to stop the unethical treatment of animals. Pathos is such a large factor in their campaign because the more emotions you feel, the more likely you are to donate to the cause. In final analysis, Born Free USA posts photos like these, and many others to communicate the issues they have with keeping exotic animals as pets. Adam Roberts, CEO of the organization, maintains that, their very nature, exotic animals are unpredictable and are incapable of being (1). According to Born Free USA, it is important to remember that these are not the average family pet, and that they do require special care. They belong in their natural environments so that they can flourish. Although the images do not directly appeal to Kairos, or the timeliness of the situation, if nothing gets done more animals will continue to suffer. McFarlane 4 Works Cited Roberts, Adam M. to Born Free Welcome to Born Free USA. N.P., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Roberts, Adam M. Life Sentence: The Sad and Dangerous Realities of Exotic Animals in Private Campaigns and Programs- Exotic A Life Sentence. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Roberts, Adam M. Get the  The Dangers of Keeping Exotic . N.p., 2003. Web. 30 Jan. 2017<http://www.bornfreeusa.org/facts.php?p=187&more=1>. Born Free USA owns the copyright to these photos.