Tekelioglu 1 Ali Tekelioglu Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 27 February 2017 How technology became more adapted by children and how was it viewed over time. Today, a majority of problems and concerns parents have over their children can be a side effect from the overexposure of technology. But looking back a few decades, parents were concerned about much different things than today. Over time, parents and numerous researchers concluded that access to technology came to be one of the greatest, but most detrimental tools for children because it can easily become a form of distraction that negatively impacts their development. It all started when Television started reaching the household, it way for children to entertain themselves and this was preceded by products such as the personal computer and cell phone. At first, according to a study by Rutgers University, television did not replace values such as social activities but this view changed over time. Questions started arising about how the dialogue of children could be influenced by what they see and whether academic progress could have been impacted. Children could flip to any channel they wanted if not monitored by parents and this also raised youth. Over time, Television just grew bigger and more and more Children had access to it, eventually by the there were channels dedicated to showing content such as cartoons that would be appealing to children. Parents that highly concerned about the development of their children literally were using the television as a since it would keep them quiet and prevent them from asking questions. There were multiple channels kids could choose from which could be aimed for kids and they could even shift to watching more violent content which was one of the original concerns. Tekelioglu 2 After the television, the rise of consumer consoles became the next thing to take over children. At this point, not only was television an issue, but the 1990s, concerns tended to focus on violence and sexual content on television, in the movies, and in video games. The need to go to a place such as an arcade to play video games was not needed. Kids could now switch from watching TV to playing games with even having to get up. Violence was the biggest concern of how children interacted with videos games, a lot of games involved the use of weapons and killing enemies, along with the violence was the fact that games like Super Mario Brothers were plain addicting and children could not get enough of the content. A kid named Zhang Xiaoyi even went as far committing suicide to the of the game World of Warcraft. Many news reports had started popping up in the and about how video games were taking over children. To this day, video games are still perceived as negatively affecting children and with features like online support, they can even talk to others and violence can arise from that aspect too. As video games were becoming more advanced, personal computers eventually entered the consumer market and this became the era of electronics with internet access. Children were appealed by the internet because of the endless amount of content it provided. In reality this was the issue, from the mid and onwards, perception of their children using technology became a true concern. The American Academy of Pediatrics started issuing guidelines in 1999 recommending that children under the age of two should not be exposed to technology. Kids were getting exposed to technology from the day they were born because having items such as a TV or computer had become standard among households. At the same time, schools had started purchasing computers and creating to prepare kids for the 21 st century making access even easier for them. A phenomenon known as being started to Tekelioglu 3 arise. Already by the year 2003, of American homes owned at least one computer, and 69 percent had access to the By this time, technology had become more portable than ever and a majority of the population had some sort of portable electronics such as cell phone or handheld gaming systems. At this point, the AAP discouraged the use of screen media for children under the age of eighteen and twenty-four in comparison to how they previously only suggested that children under the age of two stay away from technology. Technology has become a part of lives since the and over time, companies even specifically targeted children to use their products such as Console and TV companies. The more that technology was available, the more time kids seemed to spend time on them. From the start, such use of technology was never viewed as a threat but this changed as time passed on and parents have even gone to measures such as taking their kids to therapy. There is no way to escape technology as it revolves are society every day. Tekelioglu 4 Work Cited: Avramut, Mihaela, MD, PhD. Internet  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Schrock, John Richard, PhD. Computer  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Game Distributor Sued Over Fox News, Associated Press, 12 May 2006, www.foxnews.com/story/2006/05/12/chinese-warcraft-game-distributor- sued-over-teen-suicide.html. Ward, Victoria. Toddlers Becoming so Addicted to IPads They Require  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 21 Apr. 2013. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/10008707/Toddlers-becoming-so-addicted-to- iPads-they-require-therapy.html>.