Bryan Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Stem Cell Research There are many little details that go into advertisements that you may not even realize are there. Everything is put there to influence you and get you to side with a company or organization so they can either get your money or public support for a cause. Tons of money each and every year is spent on advertising and trying to influence people to side one way or another. Stem cell research is no different. There are millions of people living with diseases that either cannot be cured by todays medicine or surgery. People with diseases such as HIV/AIDS and spinal cord injuries who may be able to get their lives back with stem cell treatments. Spinal cord injury alone accounts for 1.2 million people in the US and 11,000 new victims every year (Americans for cures), and about 36.7 million people across the globe have HIV/Aids. (aids.gov) These people have a chance to be cured of their awful and debilitating diseases for good, why should we not help progress so they can lead normal lives again? Image 1 is nothing fancy. It is just a pink background with text on it that says woman is diagnosed with breast cancer every 2 What this image lacks in complexity, however, it makes up in rhetorical appeals. This image would appeal to pathos, or an appeal to emotions, because you feel bad this woman is being diagnosed with breast cancer every two minutes and you may want to do something to help that woman so she can either be cured or at least treated. Also the color pink is already correlated with breast cancer so using it in this image may illicit an even greater emotional response than any other color may have. It is also appealing to Kairos, which is an appeal to timeliness, (University of Louisville) because it shows that every two minutes someone new is being diagnosed with breast cancer and this may also make you want to Bryan Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 move now and do something quickly before even more people are diagnosed when we still have a definitive cure for the awful disease. This picture is on the Americans for cures website but the source for the image is the National Breast Cancer Association which many people know and have heard of. That would equate to a sense of credibility or ethos, the association is a very credible source on breast cancer and people will believe things that they read off their website. Also, the use of a statistic would appeal to logos because it is it is a statistic fact that every 2 minutes a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer. The audience of this image would be women with breast cancer or just those who are prone to breast cancer This image is a rather simple, yet very elegant way of appealing to all four of the rhetorical appeals. The image background is entirely pink and there is not much to look at other than the words. The words are all the same size except for the last two word which are this is what pops out most when you look at the image, just how often someone is diagnosed with such an awful disease as breast cancer. If I could change the image I may make the background while with a pink stripe and have a man and woman, each with a mastectomy in the image showing that breast cancer is real and effects all people, not just women. My second image is a little more complex. In the background is a doctor and a child, both smiling, this would immediately be an appeal to pathos because seeing children smiling would make almost anyone smile. But if you look even closer, the words in the image can cause Kairos because it is talking about curing a disease that previously have a cure and saying that it could happen quickly, which may lead you to wanting to help out the organization and side with them if the government decides to take away funding, The audience of this image may be parents with children with debilitating diseases or people who have hearts and care about other people Bryan Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 and their well-being and may want to do something to help out. This image can show that bad diseases just happen to older people but can also happen in younger children and if we do something about it more children can get these awful diseases, but with the use and advancement of stem cell research these diseases have a real chance of being cured rather than just having the symptoms treated. The second image takes place in what appears to be a office. This would add to the credibility or ethos of the picture because doctors are usually trustworthy people. Also, the use of the line never heard of shows that this is groundbreaking and shows that we could be closer to curing some of these diseases than we even know. I think that this image does exactly what it needs to do to convey its point, the only thing that maybe needs to be changed is try to get the point across in fewer words if possible. Both images do a fair job at conveying the points that they are attempting to make. The first image may be more relatable to most people, in 2017 alone there are expected to be about 255,180 new cases of breast cancer in women and about 1 in 8 women will develop breast cancer at some point in their life. (breastcancer.org) The second image may be more emotional because it shows that children get these awful diseases too and this would make most people sad and make them want to do something to help these poor children. All in all both mages are good at getting their point across and would both get people to help out the cause of stem cell treatment for diseases that we have no current cure for. WC:1012 Bryan Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Works Cited U.S. Breast Cancer  Breastcancer.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Ethos, Pathos, University of Louisville. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Global HIV/AIDS overview. (2016, November 29). Web. February 26, 2017 Bryan Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017