Robertson 1 Erik Robertson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 27 February 2017 NORML: The Visual Search for Influence The first recorded usage of marijuana dates all the way back to 10,000-Year World History of Hemp and 1) and continues to this very day. In recent history, the United States has had several states legalize the plant on different levels (recreational use, medicinal use, etc.). To understand why exactly this tall, leafy plant has been such a delicacy for this long period, you must consider the potential it offers and what it can do. The list of beneficial uses that the plant offers along with the fact that it can bring some serious economic gain makes this plant something that we should all consider. Because of beneficial side effects of cannabis such as these, NORML and several other organizations are looking to regain full legalization of marijuana. The problem is that cannabis has had a negative connotation in recent news, and is currently being looked down upon by companies that hold economic power and influence such as big pharma, oil companies, and more that are scared of declining profits. In fact, from the University of Georgia shows that prescription medication use is down in states with established medical marijuana (Medical Marijuana Inc 1). Even with all of this money and domination over the economy that these groups have, NORML still refuses to give up and fights for their views on marijuana. NORML proposes a mission move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by (NORML 1) and to ensure that those who consume the marijuana will be guaranteed to access to high-quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (1). To do this, they use many forms of Robertson 2 communication and marketing, but one form that stands out is their images. These two images that NORML has released advocating for marijuana legalization are enticing to the rhetorical appeals that areethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to successfully convey the message of marijuana legalization around the country. Ethos, or credibility, can play a large role in convincing someone to take a side on a particular topic. Ethos an appeal to ethics, and it is a means of convincing someone of the character or credibility of the of Ethos, Logos, and 1) and without it, would severely discredit an image. Ethos is present in both images that NORML has released, and within the first image, to reference the appeal of ethos displays the organization name in the biggest text contained within the image. NORML decided to insert their name directly in the center of the circle with a rectangular shape surrounding it to further enhance the display of the name to add relevance to the picture. The second image is a little different, though, NORML decided to insert not only their name in the bold green text, but they also decided to add their website and phone number. This adds their own credibility into the picture as they decided to implement not one, but three different forms of recognition that show these images contain the kind of messages that they want to represent. While ethos is a very important factor, it is but one of many and is not the only rhetoric appeal that is important when analyzing evidence such as this. Pathos is another appeal like ethos, but it is different when looked at side by side. Pathos is appeal to emotion, and is a way of convincing an audience of an argument by creating an emotional of Ethos, Logos, and 1). This first image contains virtually only the color green. This color can represent marijuana, nature, and even the (Bourn 3). The specific sensation that the audience should be feeling due to this Robertson 3 color is trust in the plant. They can possibly feel that it is something that is clean when referencing to the environment. It is a plant, and a renewable resource, so it any harm to the environment when compared to something like fossil fuels or coal. Green, or the dominating color in this image, could also reference how marijuana is a profitable resource and if legalized, a lot of money would, therefore, be pumped into the economy. The biggest point being made here in this picture would have to be when it says not for everyone, but not a The combination of these words along with the color green can represent the fact that it is a relatively harmless plant as it comes solely from nature. The second image displays a tree with marijuana leaves that contain dollar signs on them. This is intended to tell the audience that the plant can indeed produce a great amount of money if put into action. The leaves are also displayed as green contributing to that profiting factor. In addition, the image states that CAN grow on stating that growing marijuana is a direct comparison to growing money on trees as it is and always will be instantly profitable. In this picture, though, there is a second color, blue. This color can represent things like confidence, faith, and the (Bourne 2). Using blue on the statement given in the image puts a lot of meaning behind the statement when in reference to the color, backing it up that much more. Logos is appeal to logic, and is a way of persuading an audience by of Ethos, Logos, and 1). The first image logically states that marijuana for everyone. This is true as some do not prefer marijuana as a medicine or recreational drug. On the other hand, though, it mentions that it a crime. This makes the audience question the severity of punishment that is given for possession of the drug. With the view of the organization and the message in this picture, the ultimate goal is to inform the viewer that even if you agree with the legalization of marijuana, the punishments that are given to those for using the Robertson 4 plant should either be non-existent or lessened to a greater extent. The second image is showing that marijuana can indeed result in a lot of money. It also states that CAN grow on While this a very factual statement as this is not possible, if one was to start growing and selling marijuana legally, a lot of money could be involved. Kairos to making exactly the right statement at exactly the right of Ethos, Logos, and 3). With the first image, it brushes over the severity of crimes caused by incarceration due to marijuana. While it is something actively discussed in the news, it leaves more of a question for you to answer. It is asking if you know the severity of the crimes, what the rates of incarceration are, and how many are receiving time due to marijuana. The second image is focusing a lot more on the money. To be fair, the entire population say no to the potential profit that would synchronize with legalization. If one could profit greatly from something, they would immediately act upon it. Therefore, NORML decided to add the CAN grow on phrase to reveal the truth of profit that can result from marijuana. Finally, it may be concluded that NORML is giving it their all when it comes to pushing their agenda of marijuana legalization and lessened incarceration rates. They use different forms of communication to get their message across, and in this case, their images do just this. With different rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, these two specific images appeal to viewers in a couple of different senses. Not only do they inform, but motivate and sensibly allure individuals to side with them to fulfill their destiny as an organization. Robertson 5 Image One: Image Two: Works Cited Robertson 6 Big Pharma Is Scared of Cannabinoids and How Medical Marijuana, Inc. Is Bridging the Medical Marijuana Inc. (OTC: MJNA), 14 Nov. 2016, www.medicalmarijuanainc.com/big-pharma-scared-cannabinoids-medical-marijuana-inc- bridging-gap. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. YourDictionary. of Ethos, Logos, and YourDictionary, 21 June 2016, examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-ethos-logos-and-pathos.html. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer. of The Color Bourn Creative, 3 June 2016, www.bourncreative.com/meaning-of-the-color-green. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer. of The Color Bourn Creative, 3 June 2016, www.bourncreative.com/meaning-of-the-color-blue. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Dharshini, Mary Pascaline. Benefits of Medicinal Medical Daily, 26 Sept. 2016, www.medicaldaily.com/medical-cannabis-2016-new-benefits-medicinal-marijuana- 398935. Accessed 15 February 2017. to Reform Marijuana NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws, norml.org. Accessed 15 February 2017. NORML, Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Robertson 7 NORML, www.jayselthofner.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/08/Money-Tree-NORML.png. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017.