Shanise Emanuel ENC 1102 De Carion 2/14/17 Freedom of speech exists in many forms today; one of the main forms is protesting. Different organizations go out and deliver their message so that the general public can become informed. However, there are also a lot of disagreements that come along with protesting because of opposing sides. For example, Reasonable Faith is a Christian organization that believes that they should be able to provide a Christian message, challenge unbelievers, and to train other Christians to defend Christianity. The LGBT Initiative is an organization that wants to push the LGBT community towards leading a healthier future. Both want to achieve their goals in a positive way but they do not agree on the same things. Conflicts between these two groups occur often during protests. The LGBT Initiative and Reasonable Faith have very different beliefs based on religion and love, however there is a way for the two organizations to agree on the concepts of religion and love. Reasonable Faith was created by William Lane Craig, a professor of philosophy, who devoted his life to God at the age of sixteen. His work has consisted of articles that circulate around the Bible and God. In the religion of Christianity, it is strongly believed that homosexuality, or any sexuality that is not heterosexual, is morally wrong and is a sin. Most Christian organizations agree with this idea such as the Christian Coalition. This organization supports this reasoning by saying in their mission statement anti-Christian bigotry and defend the rights of people of (Combs). The LGBT perspective on this is that you are not defined by your sexuality, and that love cannot be defined. Also, the fact that this aspect of the Christian community protests against the freedom that everyone has as citizens of Emanuel 2 the United States of America, violates the First Amendment. First Amendment guarantees freedoms concerning religion, expression, assembly, and the right to (School) The problem as to why these two organizations do not agree is because one side believes there cannot be a compromise between God and homosexuality. Although there is an area where they both have things in common with each other. Both organizations want to be able to speak freely on what they believe in. This is why there are marches and protests that come from both sides. Another factor that either side has not taken into consideration, is that there are people who can get, or are, caught in the middle. Some of these people may have been raised to be Christian, but support the LGBT community; and vice versa there are members of the LGBT community who support the idea of religion and a belief system. This is a good reason to come to a compromise because everyone who is affected by these two groups deserves to have a stance on the issue. Furthermore, there is an organization that believes in no prejudice when it comes to matters such as these; but is still a Christian organization. The Christian Left is a liberal Christian group that the political and Christian right-wing have their priorities (The Christian Left ). They believe it is fine to be who you are without judgement, and that the teachings of the Bible apply, but are outdated in this era. The Christian community and the LGBT community could learn ways to compromise from this group, since they pass no judgement. The other possible compromise for these two groups, is that they agree to disagree. Sometimes a compromise cannot be forced, so if the previously stated compromise did not work then this would be the last result. The LGBT Initiative and Reasonable Faith are both organizations that came to be because a group of people shared the same beliefs. But because these two groups have different opinions Emanuel 2 there are constantly disagreeing. However, both use freedom of speech to share their ideas with the world and to try to get the other side to see where they are coming from. Although the two organizations have opposing ideas and opinions, there is an outcome that can benefit both sides. Whether it is not being able to agree at all or meeting in the middle, they can be entitled to what they believe. Emanuel 2 Works Cited Combs, Roberta. Welcome to the Christian Coalition. 2017. <www.cc.org>. Craig, William Lane. Reasonable Faith with William Lane Craig . n.d. Initiative, The LGBT. The LGBT Initiative . 2016. School, Cornell University Law. First Amendment . n.d. The Christian Left . n.d.