Kohari,1 Stem Cell Research Stem cell research is amongst many of the new breakthroughs in science today. It is the stem cells withdrawn from aborted fetuses to be used for medical research purposes. There has been a remarkable amount of research being conducted in this field to come up with multiple treatments for diseases. Although, this has now advanced into cosmetology as well. Biologic Solutions is a company advertising their line of skin care products manufactured with the aid of stem cells. Their tag line being science meets emphasizes on how science is basically incorporated into every walk of life and is now making way into cosmetology. BioLogic Solutions was established in December 2014 where the founder of the company worked in collaboration with a cosmetic surgeon Dr. Janis DiPietro along with many cosmetic chemists to create a skin care line with a different approach. The images I selected advertise using non invasive methods for wrinkle free skin. The stakeholders goal is to advertise new line of skin care products derived from stem cells and how this non invasive method composed of natural formulas can be the cure to your wrinkle free skin. The company also has a guarantee policy for 60 days. If you see any results from using the product you can ask for a refund or an exchange for another product. BioLogic Solutions effectively uses ethos and pathos by being a registered company and by advertising their product in such a way targeting audience to believe that they could have similar wrinkle free flawless skin similar to the model in the advertisement if they chose to use this product. The element of logos in both the advertisements is shown by how other methods and surgical procedures are being discouraged whereas using these skin care prodcuts are being shown as the ideal method to use. Both these pictures say one get one this sheds light onto the element of karios the stakeholder has used to draw the attention of their possible Kohari,2 customers. The backdrop and colors of the pictures catch the viewers attention. The orange color can be seen as emphasizing and the placement of the different parts of the advertisement can show how the stakeholder is very focused about what it wants to get across to the viewers. The text used in these advertisements can also be linked to pathos again and how it has been phrased in such a way with the bold letters to impact an individual on an emotional level. The size of the text also plays a major role in the advertisement. Especially how the word free has been written in larger font than the rest of the advertisement and is in all capital letters. Free things usually catch peoples attention, and even though the product is not entirely free the fact that if they purchase one they could receive another one within the same cost could be a deciding factor for many people. In the first picture theres a woman with flawless skin advertising the product and the image says your own stem cells make your wrinkles diappear from (How to live,pg3). This could be a factor which catches the attention of the audience since it advertises how this method uses your own body to rejuvenate your skin, making it sound ideal. It also states that if you purchase the product now receive a promotional offer and receive one free. It also attracts customers by saying if you order now you would be enrolled into the companies Stem C ell Replenishment Program. The image in a way plays with the viewers emotion by possibly making them feel complexed about their skin, which could result them in being in a vulnerable when they see the remaining advertisement regarding to the promotional offers. The girl in the picture is smiling which can be linked with her being satisfied with the way she looks. The second image is similar to the first but emphasis more on certain features. The image focuses on the eyes and how there can be a drastic change seen in the before and after picture. It states that it can decrease the appearance of wrinkles by 56%. It again highlights how Kohari,3 if you purchase the product now receive one for free. The advertisement also talks about how the products can not only make you look younger but also feel great within just days. BioLogic Solutions is one of the first companies in the United States who claim to produce top quality skin care products with the aid of stem cells and using all natural properties in their formulas . BioLogic Solutions uses ethos, pathos and rhetoric appeals to accurately advertise their products to the general public and have a diverse team of cosmetologists plastic surgeons and chemists who together incorporated their knowledge into creating this product, setting themselves apart from the everyday methods being used today. Kohari,4 Kohari,5 Kohari,6 Works Cited Hamzah, Herdiansyah. Stem Cell Therapy  How To Live Longer. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.