Al Maamari 1 Mohammed Al Maamari Professor Collins ENC 1102 12 feb. 17 Free-smoke campus policies Smoking around campuses especially among youth has remained an extreme threat to public health. Moreover, smoking has many types like cigars and smokeless tobacco, using these types causes various health issues and diseases. 22% of United States adults, who are between 18 to 24, are current smokers. (Seo 1) For instance, it has been detected that the rates of secondhand smoking, which is smoking from others cigars, and passive smoking, which is breathing others tobacco smoke, over college students have raised. The American Lung Association is an organization that try to educate people that smoking is harmful. On the other hand, Smokers Association is an organization that protect rights and ensure their freedom. In fact, there are smoker students, who are willing to have the right to smoke freely around campuses and there are non-smoker students who live on campus and try to have a clear and healthy environment free of tobacco smoke and smell. Since the American Lung Association and Smokers Association are having opposite points of view towards smoking, an appropriate compromise which satisfy both sides would be to build specific areas and spots for smokers to smoke in while they are on campus and prevent smoking elsewhere around campus. The American Lung Association is one of the leading organizations that are trying to save lives by ensuring the health awareness through people. According to the American Lung Association main website, this association focuses on five vital goals: defeat lung cancer, improve breathing air, reduce the burden of lung diseases on individuals and their families, eliminate the Al Maamari 2 diseases caused by tobacco and related products and finally they try to accelerate and enhance the effectiveness of their efforts. According to the association, lung cancer is the main killer of women and men in the United States and every five minutes, there is a woman discovers that she has a lung cancer. Therefore, the American Lung Association leads a program called Lung Force in order to unite American women and their loved ones to stand against lung cancer. A half million people die each year in the United States because of the tobacco use since it is still the leading cause of the preventable death and disease in the United States. It was stated in the mail website of this association that smoking causes more than 480,000 deaths per year. There are many forms for smoking such as second-hand smoking which is a serious danger causes 41,000 deaths per year. In addition, the association provided information for people who are willing to quit from smoking. They stated that as soon as a person quits smoking, his body starts to rebuilt the damage caused by smoking. Moreover, after a person quits smoking, his heart rate returns to normal. This association shows these facts and reason in order to convince smokers to quit and in their consideration, these facts are enough to make someone quit. Smokers Association is a non-profit organization that protects rights and in support and defense for those who are willing to have freedom of lifestyles. This organization stated in the main page of their online website that a world without smoke is like a world without anything human in it. It is like a half world because almost half of the world are smokers. In the article 1 of the constitution of the Smokers Association, they all individuals have the right to exercise self-control over their own This organization is strictly refuse the regulations and restrictions that the government put against the smokers and they consider the government the responsible for ensuring and ordering justice and essential laws. They support and enhance the fact that no one is segregated or discriminated against. Nowadays, there is a modern method to smoke which is electronic cigarettes. According to this association, the electronic cigarettes are alternatives to the actual tobacco and the large tobacco companies are going to produce more and more electronic cigarettes to provide smokers with modern methods of smoking. Al Maamari 3 The president of the Romanian Smokers Association who is a member of the Smokers Association We believe the states and governments should be the guardians of the traditions, habits and choices of their own people. It is not the duty of the governments to change, impose or prohibit, to normalize or de-normalize values, cultures, They believe that if the government prohibit and force people to do what they do not want to do, there will be opening for crimes, violations and dividing societies. Everyone is free to choose the lifestyle he wants and smoking is a lifestyle. Both of the two stakeholders American Lung Association and Smokers Association have opposite opinions toward smoking and using tobacco products. The American Lung Association is one of many associations that are trying to eliminate smoking while Smokers Association is one of many associations that call for providing freedom to smokers. When it comes to campus life, there are students who smoke and student who do not smoke. If smoking has been banned on campus, therefore, organizations like Smokers Association will start to make campaigns calling for smokers right to smoke considering the ban is a form of discrimination towards smokers. On the other hand, non-smoker students are suffering from unclear environment. Therefore, associations like American Lung Association will continue to fight smoking through educating people that smoking is harmful and publishing facts about smoking. Since there is a disagreement between the two sides, American Lung Association and Smokers Association, there should be a compromise made satisfying both sides. Since it is hard to ban smoking at all and also it is hard to give smokers the absolute freedom, establishing specific spots and areas for smoker to smoke in would be a satisfying compromise for both sides. When a smoker student wants to smoke, he can go to one of these spots and smoke freely. On the other hand, non-smokers would have a clear environment to study and live as long as they do not go to these smoking spots. For example, the University of South Florida started to allow smokers to smoke in specific areas around the campus while it is not allowed to smoke elsewhere except these areas based on a policy that went into effect on January 4, 2016. The policy University of Al Maamari 4 South Florida Tampa is committed to providing a safe and healthy learning, living, and working environment for the campus community. This Policy intends to reduce the health risks related to smoking, tobacco and related products, as well as to reduce the smoking and tobacco- related waste from (Department of Facilities Management). Smoking has been a large danger that targets the society and threatens the different layers of society. As university life is a part of the society, it has involved in the threat of smoking since large numbers of deaths and heart, blood diseases have been detected among college students. There has been a long-term conflict between people who support free-smoke campus policies and those who oppose such policies. Universities are committed to providing the appropriate environment for students and employers in terms of safety, health and quality of living for those live on campuses. However, that does not mean to enforce smokers to quit smoking since they have own rights and freedom. Therefore, it has been important to reach a satisfying compromise to give everyone his rights and avoid disregarding specific group. The University of South Florida Tampa has applied satisfying policy regarding smoking on campus and it states that the entire campus must be smoke free. However, there are specific spots have been assigned to allow smokers to smoke in because the main goal is to teach and advise students to change their bad habits and behaviors not to enforce them to do specific actions and disregard their rights. Al Maamari 5 Works Cited Department of facilities managements. Tobacco  University of South Florida. Department of facilities managements, 04 Jan. 2016. Web. <http://www.usf.edu/administrative- services/environmental-health-safety/tobacco- free/faqs.aspx>. Fallin, Amanda, Maria Roditis, and Stantos Glatz. Association of Campus Tobacco Policies With Secondhand Smoke Exposure, Intention to Smoke on Campus, and Attitudes About Outdoor Smoking  Research and practice 105 (2015): 1098-100. USF. Web. History and Debate of Smoking  Debate.org (n.d.): n. pag. Web. <http://www.debate.org/tobacco-rights/>. Levinson, Arnold, Shelly Campo, Jan Gascoigne, Olivia Jolly, Armen Zacharyan, and Zung Tran. Identity among college students who smoke  Informa healthcare 9 (2007): 845-52. USF. Web. Lung  American Lung Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.lung.org/>. Seo, Dong, Jonathan Macy, Mohammed Torabi, and Susan Middlestdt. The effect of a smoke- free campus policy on college smoking behaviors and  Science Direct 53.4-5 (2011): 347-52. USF. Web. THE CONSTITUTION OF SMOKERS  SMOKERS ASSOCIATION. N.p., 24 May 2008. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://www.smokersassociation.org/>. Al Maamari 6