Ling 1 Computers, a fundamental part in society that are constantly growing and changing to shape more humanistic ideals. From the first computer in the 1940s to present time, technology has reshaped our society drastically to point where some cannot live without. Eventually, computers will evolve once again, not to a simple machine with simple-minded tasks, but to be able to think in more abstract ways. This is known as the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Movement. AIBrain, a leading company in artificial intelligence, strives to advance the production of AIs and for them to coexist with humans. The two images represent the fears that society has on the concept of AIs. The first image depicts Arnold Schwarzenegger from the movie Terminator. The image has a negative attitude towards AIs. It shows that, if computers were integrated in the human body it would become a monster and a threat to humanity. A world run by technology is seen as dangerous. AIs have already started their reign in our everyday lives, though they may not be the conceived image of robots that are shaped like humans, they are integrated in our everyday devices. Siri and Alexa are semi-automated machines that can respond to orders. Siri is a part of the Apple iPhone and Alexa is a part of the Amazon branch. Ethos is portrayed in the first image. The image shows a popular Hollywood movie actor that plays many major roles, one being terminator. With the recent innovations, and with this movie dating back to the 1980s, many people start having assumptions that there may be a scenario that robots take over the world. In the second image depicts a head with a filler image of a computer chip. Though there is a lack of words it shows the age that we live in and how it has impacted humankind. Ling 2 Pathos is portrayed in the first image by the color and facial expression the actor makes. It shows the darkness and monotonous life one can live with a world run by technology. It begins to evoke viewers and strike fear into them. The second image is relatable to the current generation of people. Generation Z is shown to have more people that are hardwired and logical thinkers. Logos is not really shown in the image, but it does make others wonder what the world would be like if there was a world run by AIs and what would it be like. It begins to bring up questions, when should we stop advancing? And are we playing god? Kairos evokes the sense of urgency. Along with the images showing the need for people to take action, the topic is relatively hot and new. It is one of the biggest problems the present and future hold. The two images represent the goals and mission of AIBrain. They both show the incorporation of technology with humans. AIBrain hopes that AI and humans can coexist in the future. They work to advance humans with AIs to a universal civilization. Currently they are working on integrating AI in technologies of everyday use such as tvs and smartphones. They have done work with big name companies such as Amazon, Apple, Facebook, IBM, and more. The message that the images are trying to show, is that a world of AI is unpredictable and scary. A future that integrates robots in our lives may leave us with major problems. There is always a risk that computers fail and malfunction. This could be harmful to the human beings and the environment in the area of malfunction. However, a place with AI may not be as bad as some people might think. Technology makes our lives easier and can do tasks much faster. In the food industry, it may yield more Ling 3 product and can overall help with world hunger. It gives a surplus of jobs to engineers and mechanics, if the machines were to malfunction and break. In the medical field, they have made countless of surgical robots to aid in the precision of surgery in very remote places of the body. One of products is called SMILE (Social Mind for Intelligently Learning Emotions). SMILE is an AI that is used for games, learning games for kids and young adults. SMILE utilizes conversational Artificial Intelligence exercise Social and Emotional Learning (AIBrain). Programs like SMILE aid people who have social issues, people who have trouble talking to other. Not only that, it also helps an individual emotionally. Sometimes, people begin to stress and start to lose focus, SMILE works with that acts a form of destressing. AIs have made a presence in the learning community, with not just SMILE, but with surgical simulators. These surgical simulators assist incoming doctors to practice with AIs and also get real life experience. This further pushes doctors to new way of learning and assessing knowledge AIs are also seen in places of leisure. In Shanghai, Disney World was remodeled in 2016. The roller coasters, simulators, and rides have integrated new forms of technology to communicate with participants and riders. It puts a whole new experience for people. Many restaurants have adopted a it type of ordering. They place computers and screens in restaurant for you to order your food and beverages. This has made it more efficient for guests and servers. The guest can select exactly what they want and the server brings their food out to them. It has been seen in places such as McDonalds, Olive garden, and many more. Ling 4 To sum it up, my opinion on AIs is unchanged, I feel that technology has become an integral part of my life and many others and I hope to see it expand for the better of humanity. However, there is always a chance that it may not go the way many people picture it to be, computers malfunction frequently and that may cause an issue. The moment there is a malfunction in the AI with the capacity of a human being and can think abstractly; there would be unpredictable results that may harm humans and the environment. Ling 5 Ling 6 Works Cited  AIBrain. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.