1Almamri Rawad Al Mamri Professor Williams ENC1102.091F16 February 27, 2017 Protection of Endangered animals To be categorized as an endangered, literally means to be under threat of extinction. Today several hundred (over seven hundred) animal species are under the threat of extinction. This is as a result of multiple factors. A couple of the most prominent include; Humans who hunt animals for a category of reasons including fashion, sport, game and the diminishing environmental climate unsuitable for certain animal species leading to an endangered existence. Several organizations exist who through their guidelines and regulations, are determined to prevent the extinction of vulnerable animals. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) is on the forefront of this battle. This chief focus lies in providing public, private and non-governmental organizations with the knowledge and tools that enable human progress, economic development and nature conservation to take place . But a different spectrum of individuals and organizations exists. Those who believe in the dominance of humans over all other species. In short, they believe that other animals exist for the delight and convenience of humans completely disregarding the cost at which their actions might arise to a majority of animals and their species. While this can be morally justified in some cases, as in the case of humans who consume meat typically of non-endangered animals for survival and nutrition. Other cases exist where animals are slaughtered merely for the aesthetic beauty 2Almamri certain features of their body offer. Some of the most talked about organizations who portray the former statement include famous fashion brands like Gucci, Fendi and Dior. The act of convincing an audience on the credibility of the author/persuader is called ethos. Ethos tends to plea to our ethics. In the first advertisement, the logo of Peta included in both images as well as a link to the organizations also included in the first image helps in persuading the viewer. Not only does this provide further reference for the observer into how open the organization are willing to be, it also provides a source for the viewer to use available resources at their disposal to research the organizations including previous programs they have been involved with. The logo of Peta on its own makes a major statement, indicating the backing of Peta one of the largest organizations in the fight for ethical treatment of animals. The combination of both these factors present within the image improves the credibility of the author to the viewer. Pathos involves appealing to your emotion. In our scenario, this involves using images. This is an attempt by the author to convince the viewer of the argument using emotional response. The image of the bloodied animal skinned for fur and its skin depicted both in image one and two would draw upon the emotional side of a high population of viewers. Although this picture evokes a variety of emotions, it is majorly aimed at putting off individuals from patronizing fur and leather skin products gotten from animals. It does this by inducing sadness and pity towards the animals and anger against the organizations who sanction these types of action. Image one depicts an animal who has just been skinned for its fur. This status of life is not categorically stated hence it forces the viewer to come to a painful conclusion on their 3Almamri own. Through this image, most viewers who patronize fur are forced to come to terms with the guilt and pain their love for fur inflicts. The second image is a well-played out mockery of the organizations that make use of fur and animal skin for fashion campaigns. Majority of the love for fur is incited by the fashion industry. These fashion brands and magazines place out beautiful ads and covers involving the latest fashion fur and leather items. This second image attempts to bring to focus the gruesomeness of skinning animals for fur and skin products. To which the fashion houses only show the glamorized finished products to the viewer. Logos is the appeal to logic and aims at persuading viewers through . A section of the fashion industry, like fashion magazines run statement that try to vindicate their actions. This is done by adding statements which suggest that the skins and fur were gotten from the animals using the least pain as possible. In the second picture the statement is no kind way to rip the skin off an aims at disproving these theories or disclaimer remarks which usually accompany fashion ads involving animal fur and skin products. Several of such statements trying to impose logic through reasoning can be found throughout both images. The statement in bold by Harvey Nichols in the second image carries with it greater significance as this is coming from a fellow fashion house. This intends on not only using logic to convince the common viewer, but by having the backing of a fellow fashion house the ad attempts to bring about reasoning to the fashion community against their actions, at the same time speaking to individuals who align their fashion choices to the trends portrayed by a majority of the known fashion houses. Also the statement in the first image which says fur had a can be taken as a direct censure of people who try to justify their use of fur to the lack of knowledge of the animal whose fur they have on their backs. 4Almamri Nowadays it is not uncommon to observe several smear campaigns against famous individuals who routinely wear fur clothing and fashion. One of the most common campaign against fur involves pouring items such as paint and flour onto celebrities who wear fur in public social gatherings by Peta. An example of which was the pouring of flour on Anna Wintour a popular fashion editor. Moving away from the limelight, the importance of campaigns and ads which preach against the use of fur and animal skin products cannot be overstated. It should not be pushed aside by comments from the fur loving community as being led by organizations owned by animal fanatics. About 1 billion rabbits are killed each year so that their fur can be used in clothing and not only does 85% of the fur industry skin come from captive in fur farms these fur farms harm the environment by creating about one million pound of faces annually. It should raise a lot of eyebrows that the fur farms in the U.S are the only sector of animal agriculture unregulated by the federal . In general, the fight to protect all animal species from extinction, both endangered and not has several battles. One of which can be found is the campaign against the use of fur and animal skin for fashion items and aesthetics. Works Cited 1. About IUCN. Available at: https://www.iucn.org/about. (Accessed: 28th February 2017) 5Almamri 2. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos. Available at: http://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-ethos-logos-and-pathos.html. (Accessed: 28th February 2017) 3. Nine Shocking Fur Facts PETA. Available at: http://www.peta.org/features/nine-shocking-fur-facts/. (Accessed: 28th February 2017)