Kolman 1 Elle Kolman Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 27 February 2017 Images Can Relay a Message Pictures can have a strong impact on an audience if used properly. Blue Zones Project is an organization that seeks to aid in creating a healthier environment for people. They use many different techniques to spread awareness about their mission including visual and rhetorical appeals through images. Blue Zones Project use kairos, ethos, logos and pathos in two photographs to show people the benefits of a healthy, active life. The stakeholder, Blue Zones Project use pictures to convey a message. Blue Zones Project hopes to help transform the world into a healthier place through exercise, eating habits, community and more Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Their goal is to not only spread knowledge about living better but to also provide easier and cheaper access to resources to aid in living better. They achieve this by working with cities, restaurants, businesses and residents. Blue Zoned Project helps to promote a mainly plant based diet, naturally being active, community, belonging and relaxing Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Blue Zones Projects images both target the audience. The first is depiction is of a plate and food proportions. It is used to demonstrate healthy eating and living habitats under Blue Zones Project Standards. The audience is supposed to trust Blue Zones Project and take their advice. The image helps give people knowledge about healthy eating habits and motivates them to act. The second image is to show the positive effects of community and activity through the Kolman 2 couple walking with their dog. The picture is supposed to make the audience feel warm and happy and motivated to go out, it shows the audience the positive effects of being active and social. Only one of the images displays kairos for Blue Zones Project. Kairos can be defined as appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Wiggs). In other words, Kairos is seizing the favorable moment to entice the audience to act (Hoffman and Wiggs). Kairos is shown in the first image through the presence of the website because it is inviting the audience to take the next step right then. For the second image I could not clearly identify any Kairos. Kairos aids the first image for Blue Zones Project but not the second image. Ethos is shown in both pictures to help reinforce the positive aspects of living like people do in blue zones. Ethos is known as method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the rhetor) attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman and Wiggs). The three most common ways ethos is shown in an image is through intrinsic credibility, borrowed credibility or by reinforcing preexisting beliefs or experiences (Hoffman and Wiggs). In the first image ethos is shown from a couple sources. The first is their logo on the picture Blue Zones Project by . Also the logo of Wellmark, the sponsor shows ethos. In addition the website address is present in the photo. For the second image ethos is shown solely from the logo of Blue Zones Project by . Labels and websites add to the intrinsic and borrowed credibility of a photo. Logos is found in both of Blue Zones Projects images, logos is the to (Hoffman and Wiggs). In the first image logos is shown many times. The image contains many facts and tips. Also, the words eat  try to connect the logic of wisdom with their tips and Kolman 3 facts. The second image displays logos through the couples fit bodies and the fact that they are being active in the photo. In addition they appear to be very happy and exercise is proven to release endorphins which make you happier. The images rely upon logos to help show Blue Zones goals. Pathos is an appeal to emotion that be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Hoffman and Wiggs). For the first image pathos is shown mainly through colors. Different colors cause different emotions. The blue allows the reader to feel calm, at peace and trusting. The green relates to plants and nature. The second image shows pathos through the smiles, making the audience feel happy. The dog, especially his tail because it is up and wagging, also helps to make the audience feel joy. In addition, the sunlight coming from behind and the yellow shirt also give off a happy, light-hearted vibe. The green of the trees helps remind audience about nature and vibrancy of the outdoors. The position of the couple and the dog and how they appear to be in motion inspires the audience to be active. Pathos works within these pictures to enhance the empathy and care towards Blue Zones Projects mission. Through the rhetorical appeals, both images effectively add to the goals of Blue Zones Project. Kairos is only helpful for the first photo as it is not present anywhere in the second photo. The presence of the website adds to the effectiveness of the first photo because it takes the initiative of inviting the audience to take action and get more involved. Intrinsic and borrowed credibility add to the successfulness of both pictures through ethos, as the labels and website help the audience to trust the reliability of the information and image that is provided. Logos is helpful in aiding the message of Blue Zones Project through the multiple logical appeals. Many facts and tips are added in the first image which logically expose the Kolman 4 audience to a couple ways to achieve the goals of Blue Zones Project. In the second image, logos relies heavily on the appearance of the couple. The man and woman look to be happy and in good shape which are both factually linked to exercise and daily activity. Both images successfully display pathos. Pathos is in the first image is mainly established through colors. The colors not only grab the attention, but the blue encourages them to feel at peace and trusting, while the green enforces the idea of nature and plants. In the second image, pathos is accomplished through the couple and expression and body language. The smiling couple and the wagging tail of the dog convey joy to the audience, in addition to the sunlight and yellow that is present. Also, the motion of the couple and the dog inspires the audience to be active. These rhetorical appeals successfully add to the message that Blue Zones Project hopes to get across through their pictures because they reinforce and validate the mission behind the organization. Images are powerful tools in conveying information. Through rhetorical appeals such as kairos, ethos, logos, and pathos, an audience can be further engaged by an organization. Blue Zones Project hopes to transform the world into a healthier place by spreading knowledge and real solutions on diet and lifestyle problems through the help of experts. They allow the viewer to develop deeper connections to their mission through, an appeal to timeliness, appeals to ethics, appeals to logic and appeals to emotion in their images. Many photos have been posted by Blue Zones Project, specifically however, the one of the and facts and the other image of the couple walking their dog, successfully aid the health goals of the organization. Kolman 5 Kolman 6 Kolman 7 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Blue Zones Project, Healthways Inc., www.bluezonesproject.com/. Accessed 27 February 2017. www.bluezonesproject.com/.pdf www.bluezonesproject.com/.pdf