Espinola 1 Michael Espinola Professor Jarad Fennell English 41 26 February 2017 False Cigarette ads In the there was not much research out on smoking tobacco. This allowed big tobacco companies to make any statement they wanted in their ads without question. The pictures I have selected make statements like helps your and your throat a but there are thousands and thousands of researches done on smoking tobacco products now that prove all this wrong. These images try to persuade its audience by showing images of doctors and athletes who have endorsed the product. They target certain groups and make claims that be proven wrong only because of the time period that they were released in. Cigarettes are responsible for more than 480,000 deaths each year in the United States alone and it is because of ads like this that have hooked people from a young age. My first advertisement shows a doctor holding a pack of camel cigarettes with the words your throat a Smoke a fresh above him. These are attempts to persuade the audience and show that if a doctor smokes camels, they be bad for you! The ads target audience is the working-class individuals who are stressed from the work week. It appeals to their emotions by implying that smoking a camel is like your throat a That claim is not backed up by any evidence and no solid reasoning was provided other than the claim itself. The ad was released in the 1960s which was perfect timing for big tobacco companies as there was little research out on smoking tobacco and tensions were high with things like the Cuban Missile Crisis and the Vietnam War. Now that it is the 21 st century Espinola 2 and we have solid research on the topic, we can call big tobacco companies out on every lie they have told. My second advertisement shows a picture of an Olympic athlete at the time and it says, smoke This ad is claiming that by smoking Camel cigarettes you will experience better digestion. The athlete is quoted saying what I do and my digestion goes along Tobacco is known to speed up your metabolism for the moment after lighting up but it does not outweigh the negative side effects of smoking cigarettes. This ad makes another claim by quoting the same athlete saying a great believer in the way Camels help ease the strain and The ad attempts to persuade the audience further by saying that Camels give you a sense of well-being. The Olympic athlete represents their attempt at providing credibility and authority. Since an Olympic athlete smokes cigarettes, they be bad for your health! The ad targets just about everyone with this ad. Everyone wants to be healthy and have a sense of well-being so why not try what the Olympic athletes do! Again, the ad was released in the which was a great time for big tobacco companies. However, we know everything that we need to know now about smoking tobacco. smoking is associated with an increased risk of respiratory tract infections, chronic airway disease, and cardiovascular diseases, all of which may be modulated by endogenous nitric (American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine). Smoking as a teenager can even permanently stunt your lungs and cause early wrinkles and bad breath. Even those who smoke are affected by it! Second hand smoke kills 40,000 people in the U.S. every year (therealcost.gov). Again, none of this was known at the time of these ads making the timing as perfect as it can be. Although, that change the fact that average smokers die 10 years sooner than Once addicted, quitting cigarettes is extremely hard to do and Espinola 3 thousands find themselves slaves to the smoke. Furthermore, 80% of all deaths from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which is a leading cause of death in the U.S., are caused by smoking (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Looking back now, big tobacco companies were lying every chance they got. A lot of them knew the harm of smoking tobacco because of their own research but chose not to release it. They are killing almost 6 million people every year when you include things like smokeless tobacco and it must be stopped. In conclusion, these ads make specific claims that target certain audiences that the ad would appeal most to. The first ad assumes credibility by showing a picture of a trust worthy doctor holding up a pack of camel cigarettes and implies that smoking them will give your throat a vacation. The second ad does the same thing by showing an Olympic athlete who endorses the cigarette in quotes. They both were advertised in the 1960s when there was little to no research done on smoking tobacco, making for great timing. Cigarettes are a deadly addiction that end more than 400,000 a year in the U.S. alone. The big tobacco companies have no regard for the health and well-being of the American people which is ironic since the advertisement states feeling of well-being comes after a goof plenty of Espinola 4 Sources Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Effects of Cigarettes December 1, 2016. Web, February 26, 2017 ng/ S Kharitonov, R Robbins, D Yates, V Keatings, P Barnes. ATS Journals - and Chronic Effects of Cigarette Smoking on Exhaled Nitric Aug 1, 1995. Web. Feb 26, 2017. https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/747/08/ The Real Cost Effects. Web, February 26, 2017. kMIQ&gclsrc=aw.ds