German 1 Emma German Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 27 February 2017 Finding the Appeals in Ads: Death With Dignity According to the National Cancer Institute (NIH), in the year 2012, there were 14 million new cases of cancer worldwide and of that 14 million, 8.2 million suffered a cancer-related death. The mortality rate, especially in America, is visibly high and is continuously growing. That means the number of people lying in their death beds suffering and losing their dignity without being able to choose to die is also gradually growing; not including the many other terminal illnesses that take a toll on the lives of many. In the United States, physician-assisted death is illegal in all but a few states. With controversial laws comes organizations, protestors, and the fight of the people to stand up for what they believe is right, and the laws involving physician-assisted death are those laws. Death With Dignity is an organization that stands up for the right to choose to die with prescriptions provided by a physician for those suffering from a terminal illness. One of the many reasons they have a steady count of supporters is due to their promotion methods. With their website, campaigns, and advertisements, they create visual content that not only expresses their views to the audience, but uses appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to connect the audience to their mission statement. For those who may not know, Death With Dignity, established in 1993, is a nonprofit organization that actively fights for the legalization of physician-assisted death for qualified terminally ill adults in the United States, and promotes the importance of having the freedom to German 2 make end-of-life decisions for oneself. They also educate families, healthcare advocates, and others about physician-assisted death as an end-of-life option, and offers legal defense of physician-assisted dying legislations. In fact, on their website, they provide the readers with their goals: The mission of the Death with Dignity National Center is to promote Death with Dignity laws based on our model legislation, the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, both to provide an option for dying individuals and to stimulate nationwide improvements in end-of-life care. (Death With Dignity) To get their views across to the minds of many, Death With Dignity uses campaigns and advertisements that connects the viewer to their mission statement. They do this by using colors and images that bring out emotion, or using statistical data and credible sources and supporters in their advertisements. In Image 1, the whole point of the advertisement is to target sympathy within the viewers. The image uses a beautiful vibrant backdrop of a bright green field of flowers overlooking the vast blue ocean. As eye-catching as the backdrop is, it is only the backbone of the inspirational quote that the image focuses on. The color of the text is a bright orange, and the natural landscape seems to compliment the quote. In Image 2, the viewer is first drawn to the big, bold, and subtly blue text that reads, SUPPORT DEATH WITH In the same color as the text, in the top left corner of the image, there are ten human-like figures aligned, seven of them shaded darker than the other three. Just to the right of it, in the same orange as their logo, there is a sentence that simply explains that the 7 out of 10 figures represent the percentage of Americans who support the freedom of terminally ill people to make their own end-of-life decisions. German 3 In order for advertisements to be effective, one must include something in the ad that uses ethos. As defined in the commonly referred-to textbook, Rhetoric Really Matters, is the way of establishing trust with his or her In Image 1, the ethos, although not as noticeable at first glance, is presented in the text, that acts as the source of the quote. The quote presented in this image is only as powerful as the credibility of the source. The ethos in Image 2 is presented in the same way, by crediting the statistics presented with not their website, but with something more memorable; their logo. In Image 1, the pathos lies in the beautiful landscape of a field of flowers overlooking the ocean. The colors are vibrant and makes the audience feel happy, which is supposed to trigger the audience to have a positive attitude towards physician-assisted suicide. In Image 2, the pathos lies in the logo as well as the diagrams. The vibrant orange colors trigger a happy, positive vibe, which the audience can connect to the cause. In Image 1, the logos is used within the quote. It is a fact that everyone does die, it just depends on how you die. The organization is pushing to allow for citizens to be able to choose when their death occurs as no one should suffer. The second image revolves around a statistic of seven in every ten individuals support the choice to take their own life in suffering. The number presented shows that a good majority of people who were asked supported this method of death, and the organization uses this statistic to show just how many people would like to see a legal form of suicide during their worst. For the first image, kairos is present in the sense that everyone lives and everyone dies. Everyone has that little voice in the back of their head that one day they will die, and everyone hopes to have a quick and painless death. The quote states that greatest human freedom is to live and making death a high priority. If one has the chance to have a quick and painless German 4 death rather than suffering, it is almost a gift. When they use the word it is telling us that how we die should be a choice, not a cause. For the second image, kairos is present in almost the same way as the first image. It is saying that with a majority of individuals supporting a choice of when to die, it should indeed become a choice that we should be able to make. Death is something that happens to every individual who has ever lived and who will live for the rest of eternity. Suffering is not the answer as to what they are getting across in this message here. With the help of rhetorical appeals that include ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, advertisements become more effective and meaningful. By emotion triggering visions like beautiful landscapes or using reliable data and statistics, Death With Dignity has gained a number of followers over the years. The advertisements allowed this organization to connect the audience to their mission statement that seeks to help those suffering from terminal illnesses. German 5 German 6 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, 2002. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cancer  National Cancer Institute. National Cancer Institute, 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Breaking Down an Image. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.