Fernandez !1 Ashley Fernandez Professor ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Visually Analyzing the Effects of Childhood Immunization Everyday people use their eyes to observe and judge the world around them. Through visual analysis one may be affected by a stand on a specific issue. Childhood immunization is just one of many issues. Two large organizations: World Health Organization (WHO), and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) present visual representations of the effects of not vaccinating a child and why a parent should choose to vaccinate their child. These images engage a viewers emotions through the usage of pathos. Each image also uses ethos, logos, and kairos by showing specific details. Through these visual rhetoric appeals in each image, parents are affected and more motivated to vaccinate their children. The World Health view of vaccines is presented in an effective image. goal is to make the community as a whole healthier and safer. They work together to fight infectious and life threatening diseases (World Health Organization). WHO is pro- vaccinations and encourages parents to get their children vaccinated as soon as possible. The organization describes immunization as, process whereby a person is made immune or resistant to an infectious disease, typically by the administration of a vaccine. Vaccines stimulate the own immune system to protect the person against subsequent infection or (WHO). Vaccinations could potentially save a life. The image shows a shocking Fernandez !2 story presented in a comic book style of a child dying due to the mothers decision to not vaccinate the child. The image also shows another child that did get vaccinated and thus, does not get infected and survives. This image is a powerful way to get the attention of parents and show them the importance of vaccines. The World Health Organization uses pathos, kairos and ethos in order to show the importance of childhood vaccinations. The image shows several details that may impact a viewer that is unsure of the idea of vaccinations. The first of twelve pictures shown, shows several diseases in the form of lightening bolts. This may be to symbolize the strength and severity of the disease. Going through the comic book styled pictures there are two mothers, one that understands the importance of protecting her child and the other that does not trust the doctor. It continues to show the lightning bolts coming down and striking the children and shows that one child is protected and the other is not. Ultimately, the child that did not receive the vaccination gets infected and dies. With the use of pathos, parents are shocked about the outcome of the second child. The image uses pathos to somewhat scare parents and show the worst possible outcome of not vaccinating their children. The image also uses kairos by showing that it was too late to vaccinated the child once it was infected by the disease. Vaccinations are used before infection in order to protect children and adults from getting the disease. Finally, the image uses ethos by showing the World Health Organization logo at the bottom of the image. This shows parents and other viewer that a large and reliable organization can back up the image with facts about the importance of vaccinations. In the second image, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention presents their view of the importance of vaccinations in a fun and playful way.. The CDC is pro-vaccination and Fernandez !3 states, is one of the best ways parents can protect infants, children and teens from 16 potentially harmful diseases. Vaccine-preventable diseases can be very serious, may require hospitalization, or even be deadly - especially in infants and young (CDC). The CDC also believes that vaccines help the body to fight off infectious diseases and they are very important in a life. Dr. Seuss is a worldwide known author and is known for the appeal to children, the CDC partners with Dr.Seuss in order to make vaccinations seem less scary to both parents and children. In the image, it shows a familiar image with narration on either sides of the image. The text explains that vaccinations start 15 months after a child is born and it lists the diseases the child is protected from. This image presents the idea of vaccinations in a positive and effective way. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention uses pathos, logos, kairos, and ethos in order to encourage parents to vaccination their children. The image shows an image of a familiar illustration from a famous Dr.Seuss book, I Ran the It shows several characters stacked on top of each other. The characters begin to get larger towards the bottom symbolizing the growth of the child from being vaccinated. The image uses pathos by presenting a nostalgic image creating interest. It also uses pathos by displaying the idea of vaccination in a cute and child friendly way. The first sentence presents the idea of a coming when the child is 15 months old. The image uses logos by showing that by vaccinating one child, the whole community is effected. The final sentence in the image says shots also protect against Hib, polio and DTP, protecting not just the whole The rhetoric appeal, kairos is also shown in this image. Kairos is shown at the very end of the image by revealing the saying, wait: Finally, the image shows ethos by displaying the Fernandez !4 logo of CDC. Showing the logo and the phone number of a large organization presents credibility of the image and persuades the viewer to vaccinated their children. This image effectively uses rhetoric appeals to convince parents to protect their children from harmful diseases. Overall, both images presented are powerful and effective. With the presented evidence it is obvious that the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have very similar views on the issue of childhood immunizations. Both images display unique ways to persuade viewers to vaccinate their children, and show the importance and the effects of vaccines. Through the usage of the rhetoric appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, each image an essential link to the audience, persuading an audience to accept the message [the are trying to express and in turn support the position [the have established in (Communication Assessment Learning Lab). As a result of using these appeals, the viewers are effected and may even change their ideas about vaccinations. Fernandez !5 Fernandez !6 Fernandez !7 Works Cited Alman, Ashley. How Dr. Seuss, Born This Day In 1904, Was Part Of The Pro-Vaccine  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 02 Mar. 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. CDC. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 03 Aug. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Communication Assessment Learning Lab. Persuasive Power: The Importance of Ethos, Pathos and  Communication Assessment and Learning Lab (CALL) Blog. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. World Health Organization Poster Promoting Vaccination. - Vaccines -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Fernandez !8