Ceballos 1 Eric Ceballos ENC 1102 02/26/2017 Jarad Fennel Intermediate draft Animal agriculture has recently grown to be the leading cause of global warming. Animal agriculture, otherwise known as factory farming is the mass production of animal produce. The main problem is the production of cows. According to worldometers.info, the global population is nearing seven point five billion people and is rising at an exponential rate. Due to the population growing so quickly, it is only necessary to increase the production of animal produce. However, the effects of this comes at a greater cost than many people may think. The methane molecules cows produce from releasing fratulence, trap more heat than carbon molecules, also enormous amounts of land are used to feed, house, and slaughter the animals. The main goal of factory farms is to produce a large quantity of meat at a very cheap price. There are many rhetorical images that reflect the stakeholder. Due to the negative effects of factory farming there are a great amount of pessimistic pictures related to the mass production of animals. The two images I chose, represent two different meanings. Picture one is an overwhelming amount of facts and statistics caused by factory farming. If you are not educated on the effects of animal agriculture then this photo will cause you to question if eating meat is worth the risk of harming the environment. The second picture could be interpreted in many different ways. Pathos is the main rhetorical appeal in the second picture. There are many different rhetorical appeals embedded within both of these pictures relating to animal agriculture. Logos is the main appeal in the first photo. The layout of the photo is broken into four different categories; deforestation, climate change, water usage, and waste. Every category has Ceballos 2 statistics that prove factory farming is destructive to the environment. The photo is slam packed with facts cited from a documentary about the harmful effects of animal agriculture. All of the facts are scholarly researched sources. The Cowspiracy website lists over fifty facts about the effects of producing mass amounts of meats and each fact can be traced back to a scholarly source. The credibility in this photo is definitely worth listening too, without regulating meat production the environment could continue on the road of destruction. The use of certain colors in the photo could pertain to the appeal of pathos. An emotional feeling of sorrow can be interpreted while analyzing the dark and glum colors. Also the cow centered in the middle of the screen has a look of fear and devastation, almost as if he or she realizes the situation around them. The photo is screaming action, the bold facts say change must happen now. The second photo shows a man smiling next to a cow. Many different emotional explications are derived from this photo. One could say this man just has love for his cow. That the cow is his and he does not use the animal for any meat cosumption. However this picture can be seen as ironic. According to theworldcounts.com, currently forty nine million tons of meat have been consumed this year (2017). It can be assumed based on the quantity of meat consumed that a majority of the global population eats meat. Let us say the man standing next to the cow consumes meat, think of the ethical aspect of this photo, an enormous amount of the population consumes tons of meat but do not feel any affection towards the ethics of the cow. Many people sense death, although there is no scientific research, many different websites have stories about incidents where cows have showed signs of death. stated that she could see all the cattle behind the plant and they were all screaming because they could smell the blood. They were all terrified that they were going to This is a story posted on Ceballos 3 ruminationsfromtheroad.com. A woman questions whether she should eat meat after witnessing such a traumatic event. This can relate back to the picture, everything about the picture looks happy, but there is a deeper meaning. A deep dark meaning that shatters the rules of ethics, cows are being slaughtered in extremely unethical ways. Pathos is the overall appeal to this photo, and whether or not you are educated on the effects of animal agriculture, will depend on how you interpret the photo. There is no sense of time in this photo. Specific timing relate because this is a problem that has been going on since the beginning of factory farms. This problem will not end until the global population decides on it. Both of the photos exhibit negative effects of animal agriculture. Rhetorical appeals can dive into the connotation of the photos. Ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos can be used to break down these photos to analyze the strategies they used to portray a goal. Due to the great amount of negative advertisements associated with factory farms, there must be a global change in the food industry. At the rate the population is growing in relation to the production of meat, the environment will take a toll for the worst. Ceballos 4 Work Cited Do cattle understand  Ruminationsfromtheroad. N.p., 20 Feb. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Facts and  COWSPIRACY. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Real time world  Worldometers. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tons of meat eaten - globally, this  The World Counts. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ceballos 5