Yang 1 Weidong Yang Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 January 29,2017 The effect of Animal Testing for the human society Animal testing is a very sensitive topic, a lot of people think Animal testing is very dark and merciless, the same Animal Testing bring some benefit for human society. In practice, people just know that Animal testing is a phrase that most of people heard it but they know involved of the Animal testing. Today Animal testing is a research project, researcher do some testing on the animal for get some new medical and find the activity of the human body work. According to HLS and many other scholars, the main gold is look for human body work, health, medicals and some academic knowledge that people know. HLS is a Huntingdon Life Sciences organization. The main gold for this organization is to Huntingdon Life Sciences, Harlan Laboratories, GFA, NDA Analytics and LSR associates merged into Envigo. (WIKIPEDIA). While supporter believe they can contribute to human development and progress, and they can get some medical achievements through animals testing. According to NAVS that main gold is to against animal testing for the commercial, education, research and some sciences purpose. As same to remind people the important of animal testing. NAVS is National Anti-Vivisection Society, that organization opposed animal testing because they think human should not take the animal experiment because people do animal testing will affect and destroy the integrity of the food chain, human evolution is also come from animals, people have not right to decide the life or death for anyone. With the development of the time, people find a new technology to replace or compromise this stakeholder which is use computer technology to help both side this argument that to make human life better. According to CAAT, it is an organization for protect animal. They promote use Yang 2 alternatives for animals testing research, and they want to find new ways to replace animals as non- animal methods, reduce the animal experiment. (WIKIPEDIA). This organization want to less the effect of the animal testing for human society and compromise the two different opinion for two stakeholders. According to an article Role Play To Debate Animal the author Vanessa Soria, from the USF library. She discusses two views of the animal testing after she did some animal testing and consequence of animal testing. One view, she thinks animal testing bring some benefits for people, because it promotes the progress of humanity. One view, she accused human did some damage for animals, it is ruthless, unmerciful and selfish. According the HLS organization that they pro- animal testing. They support develop of biomedicine have to depend on the animal testing, it can help people easy to find the correct methods to treatment for people. So those animal experiments are correct and necessary, people should to support. In the human society, animal testing is benefit for everyone, if you have ever taken a medicine or vaccine, you have benefit from animal testing. Those medicine and vaccine help your body to resist illness and virus. Such as the first vaccine is from a cow which is help people end smallpox. According to NABR website, this organization gives a similar opinion with HLS, NABR is Biomedical Research that state animal test can help people make some safely medicine and find good treatment. In the last 100 years, most of medical result and achievement has from the animal testing, such as people test in dog to find the insulin, this discover is very important for diabetics to saving life. And animal testing is very for people to understanding and treatment, such as leukemia and cerebral injury. Animal and human are very similar, we have the similar body symbol, apparatus and activity. Marke Davis is a patient; he has Pakinsonism for 15 years. But today he gets the healthy body, and healthy life because a medical Yang 3 technology that is deep brain stimulation, this medical technology is research by monkey. People have to consider which one more important Marke Davis or the monkey? A medial technology can be saving million life, for human it is very important, for animal it is selfish. According the NAVS organization that they against animal testing. This organization think some animal testing includes forcing mouse and rats to inhale toxic fumes, it can test medicine function, the safety of the props and the human body movement. Even some product is harm for animals, but it is useful for consumers. And by the researcher, some tests in the animal body show it is safe, but nobody can promise it is safely to use in humans. There has very famous event that is Thalidomide Event. According to the thalidomide event (WIKIPEDIA)website. In the 1957 year, doctor use Thalidomide for sedative or hypnotic, Afterwards, it was used in against nausea and for women. It is very bad event, because researchers do enough test for human and animal, the company forced sales for gain much money these cause 5000-7000 baby were born with phocomelia, only 40percent children can grow healthy. Through the world, recording 10000 case at that time, only 50 percent baby can survive. These children suffering from malformations of the legs and arms will be die, and their mental and physical are different with healthy people. This drug withdraws from the market, and people call this event thalidomide event. But in the recent year, people start to test thalidomide again, fortune, human get great success form the thalidomide of animal testing. People can use thalidomide for against cancer. The opponent thinking animal testing will result wrong information and testing. According to CNBC article flu in China sparks concern as Asia travel peaks for talks in the recent years, some sick such as bird flu, pig flu, HIN1 and some disease still appeal in the human society, some disease people still can resolve those problems. And that researcher did a lot of experiment on the animal, but those animal just sacrifice for medical science. They did get any useful animal test from the test. In the other point, Yang 4 human and animals still have some different in the physical structure, so people suspect the value of animal test on the different species. For pro-animal test organization, they get some achievement from the animal testing and promote the development of the human, as same they kill some animal in the pain and effect the food chain. For the against animal test organization, they protect animal right and maintain the equality of rights for human and animals, as same, reduce the development of the human society, and reduce the study of new medicine. Follow the development process of the society, people find a new way to compromise animal effect that use computer technology to instead animal testing. Recording a research from the CAAT that is an animal rights organization, it related in the world, there have millions of mice, dog, rabbits, dog and other animals are using in the testing, training and experiments. People use computer test can reduce the animals are injured. Also use computer is benefit for animal, it can check animal body good or bad. So animal testing is necessary for development of human. People who dislike to animal testing will be happy because this technology will not hurt animal. Both side are benefit from this technology, and both side can make a good gold together for human. The new computer technology can see the medicine effect for human on the technology, it will not affect human and animal. In the conclusion, People have to respect for researcher, animals and science. About people use animal to do the test, we have to make a smart decision. Animal and human both have the same feeling. In the future, people will not make same mistake again. Human and Animals are equal to share the resource on the earth. Yang 5 Works Cite Kooijman, Marlous, et al. Case Of Animal  Technological Forecasting & Social Change (2017): ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Day, Nancy. Animal Experimentation: Cruelty or Science? Hillside, N.J., U.S.A.: Enslow, 1994. PETA. Animals Used For  Peta.org. PETA, 2012. Web. 12 Sept. 2012. . Vanessa Soria. Using Role Play To Debate Animal  Journal Of Biological Education (Routledge) 49.3 (2015): 309-321. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.