Uhl 1 Maxwell Uhl ENC1102 Karen Hanson Feb 26 2017 Just Label It? Genetically modified organisms have been used in food products for more than a decade, and have seen their fair share of scrutiny, and advancements. One issue in regards to their use has become particularly important, namely the labeling of such products. Two advertisement images were made by a certain group who supports GMO labeling and were found on their website which appear to show different arguments that the fight for labelling is both contentious, and rather important to the general public. Image A reports on the numbers of people who support their to and seems to evoke a sense of national unity in support of labelling. Image B shows what appears to be a simulacrum of a news article on a paper whose title is is fighting your right to and which shows which companies partook in legal battle over a certain law which would require GMO labeling in a certain state. The Just Label It project, who believes that it is the right of every person to know whether they are eating and desire to label products with them, has made two ads which I believe successfully enumerate and elucidate their stake in the issue. Their pro-labeling position seems to be successfully supported by the images. It is entirely another question whether or not they are effective in a real setting Uhl 2 The first image, image A, can be found on the Just Label it website under the section titled Million Strong: Record-Breaking Comments Delivered to FDA to Label GE It is an image which includes a number of percentages and numeric values set up in the shape of the United States which makes several claims about the amount of support GMO labeling has from the public and other nations. This major points are based around the general claim that of Americans want as the ad states. This ad, being publically available on their website, is a prime example of statistic driven appeal and appeal to public opinion. There are few cases in which opinion has any amount of weight, but in the case of consideration of law, public opinion may be paramount. Public opinion can be seen as an emotional, pathos appeal in that may bring about a sense of pressure in those with power, or unity in those who are a part of that group. One article by a commentator at The Guardian stated has even been claimed that public opinion has the ability to change the course of and opinion could also help set the pace of In so citing public opinion, this ad has made it clear to any viewer what the people want, or wanted at the time those numbers were relevant. This appeal can be seen as one of pathos, tugging at a sense of public pressure. The fact that the image is shaped like the US may also tie into the idea of national unity, but is not clearly used for any other purpose. The Logos, or logical and structured appeals in the ad, are as simple as the numbers the ad reports and are not entirely structured so much as they are merely listed. From claiming things like of Americans 89% of 93% of Democrats, (and) 90% of independents say the ad is using the numerical facts of public opinion as their logical appeal. One might say that stating the previously mentioned and that countries mandate labeling of is a bandwagon fallacy, but in the case of national policy one might reasonably call that appeal an affective Uhl 3 appeal to the credibility of GMO labeling working for other nations. However affective or credible it may or may not be it is clearly a pro-labeling appeal to credibility. When it comes to Kairos, a sense of timeliness is not established or mentioned whatsoever in this ad. Time is not mentioned in any way, nor is it implied that the issue has any sense of urgency or near danger in this particular ad. The Kairos appeal is not a factor of image A. Where image A lacks certain strength of appeals, like timeliness and a specific logical structure image B shines a bit brighter. Image B is in the style of what appears to be a stack of posters in front of, seemingly, a wooden desk or wall. The title on the poster-looking ad is is Fighting Your Right to Next to that is a logo Label It (image B) and the date it reports to be made around, September 2013. It gives a further explanation f who will appear later in the image On Underneath it states November 2012, some of most profitable chemical companies teamed up with a handful of large food companies to spend millions to defeat prop 37, an initiative to require labeling of genetically engineered And proceeds to list, most to least, the spenders in question, starting with Monsanto, at around $8.1 million and lowering to at around $0.8 million. It even cites its source, the California Secretary of State. The emotional appeal from image B follows from the title is fighting your right to (image B) wherein it claimed that knowing whether one is eating GMO food is a right and there exist people who are not just against it, but fighting it. The list of companies below seems to enumerate the amount that these organizations are fighting your (image B) and to name names of those who might, through the suggestion, be seen as foe in the fight for those rights. The Ethos, credibility, of the arguments in the image comes from the direct citation of a trustworthy source for the amount that the companies fought. The information comes directly Uhl 4 from the California Secretary of State and thus makes for very believable details. The logical appeal of the image comes from the progression of the poster, from title, to setting up info, to the enumeration and listing of the companies mentioned. Having a very concise and well put together structure of argument as such is very convincing. An article from The Writing Commons reports that Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and () The logic and evidence that flowed from the phrases of this paper, and their clear structure and enumeration of companies is evidence of a fantastic appeal to logic. The Pathos of image A were a sense of pressure to political forces, a sense of unity with the idea of GMO labelling being nationally supported. The Ethos followed from the same numbers, as the argument that GMO labelling should be implemented follows directly from public opinion, which is the only Logos in the image. Even with Kairos not being present, the image seems to completely coincide with the Just Label It mission, which is to have labelled. Image B differs from image A in the fact that it makes different claims towards the same goal, supporting right to know. The Pathos of the image are evident in its use of phrasing like (image B) and construct a sense of rights being under attack, which helps a person to think that the Just label it project has their best interest in mind. The Ethos of image B comes from the source of the data provided, which is the California State Secretary, who is a government institution with publicly available information. The Logos of the image comes its effective structure. It sets up a title which relates to the explanation, and an explanation which ties into the companies and dollar amounts that they spent to fight GMO labeling. The Kairos of the appeal is derived from the nearness of the time that image B came out, which was September of 2013, whereas the law in question was contended by the companies in 2012. All of the present Uhl 5 appeals, in both images, line up completely with the Just Label it sense of pro-GMO labelling. With advertisement that lines up with its maker, the Just Label it project may seem to have a robust campaign of image production that relates well to their ultimate goal of having GMO foods labelled. It may seem that the appeals, whether factually consistent or prescient, line up with their views on GMO labelling completely. Uhl 6 Image A http://www.justlabelit.org/one-million-strong-record-breaking-comments-delivered-to-fda-to-label-ge- foods/ Uhl 7 Uhl 8 Image B http://www.justlabelit.org/right-to-know-center/labeling-opponents/ Works cited Labeling  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre.  Home. Writing Commons, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. One Million Strong: Record-Breaking Comments Delivered to FDA to Label GE  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hobley, Marcus. Public Opinion Can Play a Positive Role in Policy  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 03 Sept. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017