Polston 1 Will Polston Andrew De Carion ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Hall of Fame or Hall of Shame? Juicing and steroid use in the major leagues has become a commonality for quite some time now. Due to the Major-League Baseball (MLB) doping policy, players are not allowed to be using performance enhancers, such as steroids to help their game play. Companies such as General Nutrition Centers sell these steroids to players around the league to provide them with the upper edge in the game, while organizations such as the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) do their best to make sure the players who use the prohibited substances do not get voted into the Hall of Fame. Opinions vary around the world on whether or not players who use steroids would be shrined or shunned. With both groups having common ground in baseball, a compromise between the Baseball Writers Association of America and General Nutrition Centers (GNC) is needed to eliminate bias from the ballot and correctly elect the players deserving of the Hall of Fame induction. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) is the organization against steroid use in baseball. The organization was founded in 1908 and contains over 700 members. Per their Constitution, the Baseball Writers Association of America is a group of individuals whose objectives include ensure proper facilities for reporting baseball games and to provide competent regulation of press boxes of the American League of Professional Baseball Clubs and the National League of Professional Baseball Clubs, hereinafter designated as the Major (Baseball Writers Association of America). This organization is responsible for operations regarding baseball, including the distribution of yearly awards around the league and Polston 2 voting retired players into the Hall of Fame. When it comes to who is granted the privilege to have their name enshrined for the name of baseball, these appointed individuals have the final say. With that being said, they must cast their ballots for the Hall of Fame quite meticulously. This group is responsible for determining what players will have their name associated with being one of the best in the sport. They are given no requirements for the players, no scoring sheet or any other guide that could assist them in choosing the best candidates. The players who are inducted are chosen based solely off what the members of the BBWAA feel is worthy. The organization aspires to select the most prestigious names with the largest impacts on the game and the players around them, as well as who is the best representative for the sport. On the other hand, GNC supports the use of performance enhancers in the sport. mission statements reads, sets the standard in the nutritional supplement industry by demanding truth in labeling, ingredient safety and product potency, all while remaining on the cutting-edge of nutritional (General Nutritional Centers). This company makes a fair shar of money selling steroids, testosterone boosters and other performance enhancers to baseball players. By using these performance enhancers, the strength of the player is elevated with the right workout plan, increasing the number of homeruns hit by a player as well as increasing the number of runs scored by their respected teams. Some popular players who have been known for using steroids from this company include Jose Canseco, Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire, Curt Schillings, Manny Ramirez, Alex Rodriguez, and Rafael Palmeiro. These players are some of the top tier players in the history of the game, but an asterisk is next to their name in the history books for the use of performance enhancing drugs (PEDs). Some players admit using steroids from companies like GNC such as Jose Canseco, who had a career total of 462 homeruns, along with 1407 RBIs, and Barry Bonds who holds ten different MLB hitting records, most notable is Polston 3 his 762 career homeruns and most homeruns in a single season with 73. Other players have denied accusations regarding steroids including Manny Ramirez, though he was caught on two separate occasions in 2009 and 2011 (Marchand ESPN), Curt Schillings and Alex Rodriguez. GNC profits would decline heavily without the sales of performance enhancers. If one looks at the big picture, these two groups do share a common goal. Both the Baseball Writers Association of America and GNC want what is best for the game of baseball. Players who use GNC performance enhancers will increase their team performance, individual performance, as well as draw in more money for the sports revenue. The Baseball Writers Association of America wants to elect the most deserving athletes into the Hall of Fame, as well as induct the players that represent the purity and genuine skills in Major League Baseball. The BBWAA believes that if a player is willing to use steroids to enhance their game that a player is undeserving of a spot in the Hall of Fame. Also, they believe it is unfair for the players who did not use steroids that do not get voted in because they let in other athletes who used steroids to improve their game. GNC believes that their supplements only enrich the game of baseball. With players using their supplements, more fans are piling in to the stadium, making more money for the teams, league and their company as well. Either way one looks at it both groups involved want what is best for baseball, since it is a main reason why both organizations are still up and running. To cooperatively build on their common ground, the two groups must put together a compromise that eliminates all steroid scandal bias involved in the voting. To greatly enforce the doping policy already in place, suspensions for abusing supplements could be intensified. At the same time, there needs to be guidelines in place so the BBWAA knows who could be voted into the Hall of Fame. Statistical parameters should be implemented to where a player must hit a Polston 4 certain career stat in more than one category to make the Hall of Fame. Many could argue that this compromise is in favor of the steroid users, but even though many have been caught taking performance enhancers, there has been no change in the number of homeruns hit within the commonly known the time-period in baseball from the late 80s to the early 2000s where many players were suspected of doping, and present day baseball (De Vany 489). If needed, higher statistical standards could be set for those players who were caught after a random drug test. The Baseball Writers Association of America could be the committee to pick the standards required for Hall of Fame. This would require a standard for each baseball statistic. For example, not everyone in the league is a power slugger that averages forty homeruns a season, so a different statistical standard would need to be set for statistics such as steals, hits, or individual awards such as MVPs, Cy Young awards, Gold Gloves, and All-Star appearances. A player worthy of the Hall of Fame will have met, or broken at least two of the standards set by the BBWAA. With this method, there will no longer be a voting bias implemented in the electing system, making the whole process statistical. This compromise keeps both parties involved in baseball, with BBWAA creating the standards as well as GNC still being able to sell their product to baseball players. Given that this compromise is implemented, mainstream media will no longer effect who is inducted into the Hall of Fame. Sure, you will still have people saying that certain people were users of PEDs, but with statistical parameters being in place, being caught with steroids just makes it harder for the players to be inducted. This compromise will not only discourage current day use, but also allow for players who use PEDs to have a chance to be inducted, given that they are given higher standards to reach. Soon enough, all of these conflicts between the feuding Polston 5 sides will be settled with this compromise, keeping responsibilities, as well as rewarding those deserving of praise. Polston 6 Works Cited De Vany, Arthur. Steroids And Home  Economic Inquiry 49.2 (2011): 489. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Marchand, Andrew. The Steroids  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 5 Dec. 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Official Site of the Baseball Assn. of  BBWAA.com: Official Site of the Baseball Assn. of America. Baseball Writers Association of America, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Weber, Wolfgang S. Preserving Integrity Through Proper Drug Testing: Time For The Major League Baseball Players Association To Let Go Of Its Collective Bargaining  University Of Colorado Law Review 85.(2014): 267. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Committed to Exceeding Your  GNC: Vitamins, Supplements, Minerals, Herbs, Sports Nutrition, Diet & Energy and More. General Nutritional Centers, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.