Reem Al Balushia Composition II Mr. John Williams Project2 intermediate Animal Testing Animals faces many issues nowadays. One of the biggest issues is animal testing. Some people gives a special attention to this issue and try hard to stop animal suffrage. There are many ways that have been used in order to stop the companies that tests on animals. One of the most effective ways that is using nowadays to spread issues, thought or ideas is advertisement. People who gives a special attention to animal rights they use the power of media to spread their messages in order to give every single person enough knowledge about animals and how they treat in some companies. By that way, they are explaining what they want in a picture that has a lot of meanings and messages. The goals of the organizations can be reached depending on the way that the advertisement was designed. There are many strategies uses like visual rhetoric that include the idea through images. The design, the color and each information in the image represent something specific. There are many appeals that describe an idea. The logo in the image appeal to the reasons and it could be represented by a numbers, facts or information. The pathos is appeal to the emotions and represented by an emotional photo or sentence. The ethos appeal to the credibility and show how credibly is the work. The Kairos appeal to the urgency. All these appeals can appear in an image or some of them and they help in describing a specific idea. The organizations like Peta and Humane society of the United State uses the visual rhetoric to save the animal and encourage people to stop buying products tested on animals. To design the images many appeals like ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos where used to convey the message of saving animals. There are some organizations fight for animal rights like Peta and Humane society of the United States. These organizations care about the animals in many aspects. They make sure that the animals not get harm in any way, find shelters for animals, collect donation to support animals and fight the companies that tests their products on animals. According to society of the United to address the inhumane treatment of animals, the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) has developed into the largest privately funded animal protection agency. Employing lobbyists, scientists, attorneys, investigators, educators, and fund-raisers, the HSUS deals with institutionalized forms of inhumane exploitation of (Davis and Jennifer, 2015, p4) so that shows that this organization covers all the aspects of supporting animals. The first picture, is accomplished by Human society of the United State and it has the message that everyone should be an animal defender and stop using products tested on animals. According to Cosmetics Animal tests for cosmetics include skin and eye irritation tests where chemicals are rubbed onto the shaved skin or dripped into the eyes of rabbits; repeated oral force-feeding studies lasting weeks or months to look for signs of general illness or specific health hazards, such as cancer or birth defects; and even widely condemned tests, in which animals are forced to swallow massive amounts of a test chemical to determine the dose that causes np). The official website of the organization describe the horrible proses that used to test the products on animals to show that animal testing caused death to animals. In addition, According to that test on list includes companies that make cosmetics, personal-care products, household-cleaning products, and other common household products. In the U.S., no law requires that these types of products be tested on animals, and companies can choose not to sell their products in countries such as China, where tests on animals are required for cosmetics and other products. Companies on this list should be supported for their commitment to manufacturing products without harming any animals. Companies that on this list should be boycotted until they implement a policy that prohibits animal (np). The second picture that was accomplished by Peta and it includes all the companies that test the products on animals. Each picture have many appeals that describe a specific idea. The first picture, have an ethos which shows the credibility of the image. The ethos appears in the logo that is shown in the image that refers to the organization Humane Society of the United State, so that image is credible because it was designed by known organization and it was published in their official website. The second picture, have ethos too and it appears in the name of the known animal charity which is Peta, also the picture was published in their official website. In addition, the pathos was used to evoke emotions, but the pathos appears more in the first picture than the second one. In the first picture, they used a photo of a pet that many people love which is a dog and they used encouragement sentences like are my and you for being a lab animal to encourage people to stop using animal tested products. The logos that show fact, numbers or information appears in the second picture more than the first one. The second picture shows all the logos and names of companies that tests their products on animals and an argent call to stop using animal tested product, so that shows another appeal which is Kairos. In addition, the urgent call in the first picture is indirect and it appears in the sentence you for being a lab animal So both images have the same goal which is to stop animal testing products and they used different ways in designing the visual rhetoric. In conclusion, animals face many issues and one of the most serious issues is using them to test the products in the labs. So many organizations like Peta and Human Society define for animal rights in many ways. Using the visual rhetoric to design an image that carry a message is one of these ways. In addition, the image should consist of pathos, logos, ethos and Kairos or at least some of them. Each of these appeals could show a specific information or message. Work cited: 1. About cosmetic Animal Testing, Humane Society international, 2. Davis and Jennifer, Humane society of the United State. Organization, January 2015, p4. 3. Hester and Harrison, Alternative to animal testing. Electronic resource, 2006, p123. Companies that test on animals, beauty without bunnies program, http://www.mediapeta.com/peta/PDF/companiesdonttest.pdf