Weng 1 Shengyu Weng Karen Hanson ENC1102.107S17 26 February 2017 PETA Against Animal Testing People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) main organizational goal and vision is based on the need to look into how human beings have treated animals since time immemorial, testing of many of the human products has been done on animals and this has gone against on how well to treat animals, the images herein have thus tried to campaign against the use of animals as test objects for human food ad medicinal products. The vision of the PETA organization is based on proper care of animals both domestic and wild. Humans have enacted laws that allow animals to be used as test objects and this has not curbed rogue scientists who have imprisoned lots of animals and birds in cages and hauled in labs, stressed and almost losing it as they await the fate of scientific tests and eventual death. Most of this test subject succumb to failed projects and eventual killing by the scientific experiments carried out on them. The idea of conserving animals and giving them fair treatment has attracted many discussions and debates in countries around the world. Most democratic countries have then adopted a steady and clear direction on how to treat animals and thus the campaign by PETA is concrete and practicable. There are two images produced by PETA organization well depict the feelings of animals that are forced to experiment. The first image shows a locked monkey. The face tells it all. Even in the illumination on its face, it has registered a facial expression that can tell exactly how it feels. It Weng 2 has been shocked and the mouth is agape. It holds on the cage bars as if telling the world, I am not guilty, please help me. The monkey in its natural habitat is always wearing a curiosity face or one of contentment. The only other time they can wear such a face is if there is a fire in a forest. The utter shock then can help to explain how these caged animals feel. The picture then has a caption on it that reads you call it you can get away with This caption states the mind of the captive in the image. The monkey then thinks that whatever happens to him is not deemed as anything medical, not euthanasia, it is cold blood murder. So true in this case. The second image shows a different type of animal, theorized or real, the Alien that is holding a laboratory instrument with a clear motive, to work the needles and syringe contents into the human being also pictured. The eyes of the human subject is crying but not like normal human tears, blood. The smile on her face is twisted. In this picture too appears a caption that has used reverse psychology in trying to explain its point of view. The caption if aliens tested on humans serves to tell human beings, think what you do. What if it happened to you? Even if the idea of Aliens is mostly theorized, the concept of this image is not lost. It clearly states, what if this was you humans, would you want an end to it? The two images here are being used by the organization to create awareness. They are objects of scorn to the human race for they are ironically inhuman. These two images are not the only exclusives, there are many more at PETA. The two have used captions to capture their thematic concern. They have thus developed their intentions through visual aid on the image. These two handpicked ones though are of a different way in the testing conducted on animals. The first one is on medical research. The organization in its website notes that there are millions of animals in the world that are hauled up in scientific experimental labs ready for inhumanity of Weng 3 the humans. The exact number of such legal cases is considered but the site has noted that most labs have abused this right to fair animal treatment. The pure disregard for such policies then tells a lot about human beings, they see animals as food and circus objects. The image showing an alien looks into a different issue altogether. This one campaigns against testing beauty products on animals before releasing the product to human beings. Caption this, there are very many substandard beauty products in the market. These products have had devastating effects on the human beings in the first place. Assuming that these products were first tested on animals? The greater number of the test subjects is severely mutilated and the other percentage is undoubtedly dead (Atkins-Sayre., pg. 310). This is animosity. Well maybe not the right phrase here, it is human- the animosity is human. Aesthetics in human beings is primal, but does it need to be tested on animals? The answer here is no. There are many other methods that scientist can use and have used to test human products for quality and safety. In some cases, laws have provided grounds for use of animals as test objects with regard to fair treatment of the subjects. The problem is then on the part where policies are disregarded. PETA has information on such cases because in some countries the laws are non-existent. Dr. Elias Zerhouni advised on change in methodologies because the experimenting on animals was a failure. One of the methods that are alternatives to animal testing is in-vitro testing. This one uses human tissues and cells to experiment the workability of a procedure or an experiment. The pick body tissues and blood samples and use sophisticated methods to look for solutions to a patient. In this case, no animal needs to be tested for anything. This method has been endorsed in the government labs and are highly efficient than the use of animals as test Weng 4 subjects. This is one of the methods that PETA has highly advocated for because it is a way to curb the menace on animals. In silico biological testing is also an alternative to animal testing. This one involves the use of computer simulations to test subjects for disease and other solutions to pathogenic attacks, this method provides for a better test result than the archaic use of animals to test for solutions to human infections. This is a method that has been provided by PETA to rid the animal menace that has taken years to overcome. The images appeal to emotions thus using the principle of pathos which seeks to appeal to the emotions of those who see the caged animal and think what they can do to treat it better. The captions herein are examples of the use of logos and ethos because there is no vulgarity or obscenity in the graphic representation. Kairos in this case has been observed in the proper timing and correct placement of these images to correlate with the underlying issues that the organization is appealing the public to look into. The combination of all these gives a clear ethical approach by the organization. Peter, say that the basic principle of equality does not require equal or identical treatment; it requires equal consideration. (Singer, 1) This in regard to animals is a very relatable idea. When the world wanted equality between genders, it was done in such a way that created equal opportunities while fighting suppressing on of the genders. Lucky for the movement, the subjective in this case was also human and was therefore able to fight for their rights. In the animal kingdom, very few species can speak and none has the intelligence to fight for their rights. The consideration of animals will ensure equality but this will not in any way demean the position of being human. Treating animals fairly thus will not make a human any Weng 5 less human. There will be no need for satirical and cynical images plastered all over the inter- webs advocating for humanity I human beings, or begging them to stop the animosity. Weng 6 Works cited 1. Atkins-Sayre, Wendy. Articulating identity: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and the animal/human  Western Journal of Communication 74.3 (2010): 309-328. 2. Singer, Peter. Animal  Animal Rights. Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1973. 7- 18. 3. Regan, Tom. The case for animal  Advances in Animal Welfare Science 1986/87. Springer Netherlands, 1987. 179-189. 4. Jasper, James M., and Dorothy Nelkin. The animal rights crusade: The growth of a moral  (1992). 5. Benton, Ted. Natural relations: Ecology, animal rights and social justice. Verso, 1993. 6. Rife, Martine Courant. Ethos, pathos, logos, kairos: Using a rhetorical heuristic to mediate digital-survey recruitment  IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication 53.3 (2010): 260-277. Weng 7 Link: http://www.peta.org/features/columbia-university-cruelty-deadly-animal-experimentation/ Link: http://vanitynoapologies.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/makeup-brands-that-dont-test- on-animals-5.jpg