Ramos 1 Janel Ramos Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 01/26/2017 Educating to Help Others Feel Better and Get Better. In America, there is a large war on drugs including marijuana, whether medicinal or recreational. It is currently classified as a Schedule I drug by the DEA along-side heroin, LSD, and ecstasy (DEA Drug Scheduling N.p.) This is a main reason why it is opposed by many. Even so, there are proven studies that as a medicinal drug, marijuana can prove a vital role in helping with pain, muscle spasms and migraines, among many other things (Baron, Eric; 885-916). The studies done on marijuana can be very contradicting and confusing, causing many organizations to be at odds about the drug and its true effects. Among the organizations who take the classification very seriously are the Against Legalizing who take the position that laws against the use, cultivation and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or CALM USA. N.p.). An organization with a complete opposite viewpoint would be NORML who want move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for to Reform Marijuana About NORML. N.p.). These organizations are both very passionate about what they believe and have seemingly incompatible goals but they both care about people and feel like their organizations are doing the right thing. By using education and first hand experiences they can come to a compromise to try Ramos 2 to find a healthy medium. Also, they could work together to make sure that it is affordable to all and no one will be unable to afford it due to their income. It is a compromise that would take time and a lot of understanding but in the end could help to work towards unity and a solution. The Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana is an all volunteer organization that stands on the fact that studies conducted by the FDA reaffirm that there is medical benefit provided by the use of FAQs; Calmca.org). They describe it as a psychoactive, addictive drug that impacts the (CALM FAQs; Calmca.org). They also state that is just as addictive as (CALM Calmca.org). In a book called Marijuana by Kevin Hill, he describes every aspect of the drug in the most unbiased way possible. He states that people who use marijuana do not become addicted to it but some will develop an addiction, and that addiction causes problems that are every bit as serious as those caused by like cocaine and (Hill, Kevin: Marijuana pg. 20). They also believe that fatalities associated with marijuana have doubled in states that have legalized. Homelessness and other social ills have become (CALM FAQs; Calmca.org). They believe marijuana has significant impacts on teens and believe it is more harmful than alcohol. NORML was founded in 1970 to advocate for Americans who oppose marijuana prohibition and favor an end to the practice of arresting marijuana smokers as well as representing the interests of the tens of millions of Americans who smoke marijuana to Reform Marijuana About NORML.) NORML is a nonprofit public-interest advocacy group and represents the interests of tens of millions of americans who smoke marijuana About NORML) They fight for an overall Ramos 3 legalization of the drug across the board. NORML supports the removal of all criminal penalties for possession and use of Marijuana. Education of the drug, studies and first hands accounts are the biggest steps to take towards progress. By showing evidence of people who have been greatly benefitted by the use of medical marijuana, CALM can work towards the acceptance of medical marijuana and making sure it is affordable to all. On the other hand, we can bring people who have been negatively impacted by marijuana and introduce them to NORML to show them what CALM is afraid of and advocating against. There are only twenty-eight states with medical marijuana laws, meaning that people dealing with chronic illnesses/ pain will either have to move to have access to medical marijuana or take more harmful addictive painkillers (States info; Norml.org). NORML and CALM can also do research and work together to find something that can replace marijuana for medical benefits but be less dangerous than prescription opioids. Prescription opioid overdoses have killed more than 165,000 Americans between 1999 and 2014. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released an article with a chart included that states that nation is in the midst of an unprecedented opioid (Assistant Secretary for Public affairs; HHS.gov.) In an article by Scientific American, they describe a study done by Marcus Bachhuber at the Montefiore Medical Center in New York City to whether some legalization of medical cannabis had affected the number of opioid overdose (Hsu, Jeremy; Vol. 315) The study revealed that between 1999 and 2010, states that permitted medical marijuana had an average almost 25% fewer opioid overdose death each year than states where cannabis remained (Hsu, Jeremy; Vol. 315). In a study done by the University of Michigan published by the Journal of Pain, they did a survey of 185 patients Ramos 4 who frequented a medical marijuana dispensary. patients reported cutting their opioid use by more than half in treating their chronic (Hsu, Jeremy; Vol. 315). That is just some evidence of why fighting for medical marijuana or finding a replacement could be a solid solution for both organizations. The two organizations have not come to a resolution yet because they are both so set in their beliefs because they think the best and only way to face this issue. By coming together, they can educate themselves and make themselves better advocates for this issue. CALM bases their entire mission on the FDA. They state in their that supports all properly used FDA approved drugs of all calmca.org) It is very largely argued that the FDA scheduling of marijuana is controversial, especially with the medical benefits it has been shown to have. If CALM is exposed to people who have been very positively affect by the medical properties of marijuana, then maybe they can make their own decision and conclusion on marijuana to help people. CALM cares about their youth and about the future and they seem be scared of this drug because they are not completely educated on it and the positive impacts it has had. NORML would have to hear side of the story and be exposed to the negative that marijuana can cause if they want to work together and have a civil debate on how to help our people as a whole. The two organization can come together to educate society on the negative effects of marijuana just like they would do for cigarettes and also all the good marijuana, at least medical can do, and make sure it is affordable for those who really need it. On the opposite side, CALM can open up and explain to NORML why they think marijuana is such a negative drug and have the civil debate on how to help our society as a whole. They both want the same thing and a better society to live in and to create a better America. Both organizations have the Ramos 5 same foundation in that sense, and can help those who medical marijuana affect positively by helping to legalize it throughout the country and making it affordable for all or by trying to find a substitution that would make everyone satisfied. This solution is workable because CALM explains that they only advocate against this drug because of what the FDA implements it does and can do. NORML is trying to advocate for too many things at once and by working together with CALM to have a solid argument and foundation for medical marijuana they can become an extremely strong organization to give a voice to those who truly need one. Ramos 6 Sources Cited: About  About NORML. N.p., n.d. Web 29 Jan. 2017 Assistant Secretary of Public Affairs Opioids: The Prescription Drug & Heroin Overdose Against Legalizing Marijuana CALMca N.p. n.d. Web 29 Jan. 2017 Earlywine, Mitchell Oxford University Press, 2002 Web. 29 Jan. 2017  HHS.gov. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 24 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hsu, Jeremy medical cannabis break the painkiller Scientific American Sept. 2016, Vol. 315 Issue 3 Web. 29, Jan. 2017 State N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017