Tardonia 1 Savannah Tardonia Professor Collins ENC1102 25 January 2017 The Link Between Taxes and Poverty Today within our society, we are struck trying to find a balance between supporting our economy and supporting our citizens. It is a continual uphill battle between the American Taxpayers and those would are making use of welfare programs. The two sides may disagree on certain things but the facts and statistics speak for themselves. This issue can be so simply resolved if the proposed compromise was to be implemented. What our country needs to focus on is lessening the necessity of welfare programs in order to reduce poverty levels while creating revenue and tax breaks for the American Public. As a citizen of the United States of America, part of your duty and given rights as a member of society is to participate in government. This could take place through activities such as voting, running for office, or paying taxes. All 3 of these activities are all strong factors in what occurs throughout the course of our government, locally and nationally. Through paying taxes and other fees, our government is able to run and without that there would be no government. It would be unable to function and welfare and jobs would cease to exist. One way one could get involved could also be through joining Americans for Tax Reform or the ATR. The ATR is a non-profit organization that in a system in which taxes are simpler, flatter, more visible, and lower than they are today (Americans for Tax As of December 2016, the unemployment rate of the US is 4.7%, which translates to approximately 14.9 million people (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics). Currently there are only 123,470,000 citizens working full time, while there are Tardonia 2 242,470,820 adults live in the USA (Reference, Statista). The working people of America are the people who pay for programs like social security, disability, and other welfare programs. The point of social security was to have the government set aside money for its taxpayers once they achieve retirement reach the age of 66 in order to receive full benefits. Yet this program may not even exist for upcoming generations due to lack of budgeting and not enough people paying taxes. Forbes.com in October of 2015 stated now figure it is 45.3 percent, nearly 5 percentage points higher than our 2013 estimate of 40.4 when discussing how many American household would not be paying federal income tax. War on Poverty started more than 50 years ago, yet the poverty rate has remain unchanged. Spending has doubled in the past ten years and is projected to reach $1 trillion in the next ten. Clearly, we are throwing money at a problem with little to show in results (Americans for Tax I find it absurd that almost half of the American population does not contribute to the government and allows for the other half of the population to provide for them. I was raised in a household that taught me to work hard in order to earn what I want and that determination and persistence will get you much further than just sitting around. This lack in the workforce it continuing so put our country in a steady decline and teach people that they can try to find an easy way out for themselves, but only to demolish the American economy. Capitalism within our own democratic country is a necessity to stimulate the economy and allow for it to successfully grow. You will get what you put into it, just like a plant. A plant may start with a little bit of soil and a seed but with fertilizer and some water and sunlight, it has the ability to flourish. The United States budget heavily focuses on things like defense, pensions, healthcare but one of largest consumers comes from that of welfare. For the fiscal year of 2016 there was approximately billion spent on welfare per usgovernmentspending.com. This Tardonia 3 was ranked as the 5 th most expensive section of the budget. Government welfare programs are funded from the American tax dollars. There are approximately 80 programs that fall under this specific category alone. The Coalition of California Welfare Rights Organizations, Inc. (CCWRO) is an organization that has been providing advocacy toward the field of public benefits since the 1980s. The CCWRO has been able to provide Bono Opportunities related to Issues being litigated at this time are: Failure to provide medical transportation to disabled Medi-Cal recipients; Failure to advance transportation related costs; and Failure to use non- English forms for clients whose primary language is not English (Coalition of California Welfare Rights Organization, According to CNS News in August of 2014, Percent or 109,631,000 take part in some form of This is more than a third of the entire United States population and only 10% less than the number of citizens paying taxes, which I believe to be a correlation of the two. This can also be connected to the level of poverty within the United States. In 2013 the Huffington Post declared that about 45 million people, or 14.5 percent of all Americans lived below the poverty The lack of taxpayers and people employed all and inter-related to that of poverty levels. With the amount people not pay taxes and those receiving welfare somewhat equivalent and equal to almost half of the American population, it makes it almost impossible for the other half of the government to be able to compensate. These may be welfare programs but at the same time there are not many limits or parameters that go along with them, therefore, allowing people to be on these programs without them even having to get off their couch to look for a job. Dependency among these programs continues to spread generational too. In many cases when a family is on welfare or continually depends on it to live, it instills the lesson to the children about what you can gain or to take advantage of what the government has to offer. While I understand a good majority of Tardonia 4 people may need financial or need based help at some short period of their life, it should not be depended on for life time. Many insurance agents can agree that they have been in a situation where they have had to go into poverty-stricken communities, where they would go door to door for people just to say pay right now, I am waiting on my These entire communities had this system instills in their brains that they could wait around and receive more money from a government sent check instead of even attempting to look for a job. Both stakeholders grasp large pieces of the American budget, which is why those who are left and right wing continue to debate how the two should be balanced. Therefore, I promise that these following changes be implanted by the United States Government. There should be added advancements or incentives to those on welfare, if they can prove that they are looking for a job or working at least part-time. Heritage.org supports this my stating that standard measures of income are flawed and inadequate. They compare households made up of different numbers of people and do not factor in taxes or non-cash government transfer payments such as food stamps, Medicare, or This would decrease levels of generational dependence and create more growth within the job force and economy while increasing the amount of taxpayers. With the generational dependence decreased, a positive trend would then be created to transcend among the coming of future generations. With an increased number of taxpayers, taxes per household would be lessened due to the more citizens able to pay. This could also help the government overcome the deficit. The National Taxpayers Allliance states propose increasing the personal allowance for income tax, abolishing national insurance, cutting direct taxes and other measures so that earnings can be spent on improving an way of life (Taylor, Tardonia 5 Many of these government subsidized and supported programs could still be used, but with this possibility if some smaller programs were to be cut it would allow for more revenue and flexibility to be given to larger more impactful programs. With 80 different welfare programs currently implemented there is plenty of room for cut back or collaboration of programs. By easing some of the population off of welfare programs through incentives, actual work, and cut back of certain programs, the USA could be able to come out of debt while lowering the national poverty levels that have continued to grow throughout generations. In conclusion, both stakeholders have a lot of valuable input. Whereas, at the end of the day this is the best conclusion to solve this reoccurring issue. The use of this compromise will heavily contribute to eliminating the generational poverty issue that is continually linked with welfare. Once again, as the United States of America we needs to focus as a country on lessening the necessity of welfare programs in order to reduce poverty levels while creating revenue and tax breaks for the American Public. Tardonia 6 Works Cited The 35.4 Percent: 109,631,000 on  CNS News. N.p., 03 Oct. 2014. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. About Americans for Tax Reform Americans for Tax  About Americans for Tax Reform Americans for Tax Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. * All Products Require an Annual Contract. Prices Do Not Include Sales Tax (New York Residents Only). U.S. Full-time Employees: December 2016, Unadjusted  Statista. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Beltway, Business In the. New Estimates Of How Many Households Pay No Federal Income  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Coalition of California Welfare Rights Organization, Inc. * - National Pro Bono Opportunities Guide - Pro Bono  Coalition of California Welfare Rights Organization, Inc. * - National Pro Bono Opportunities Guide - Pro Bono Net. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Defending the Dream: Why Income Inequality Threaten  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gongloff, Mark. 45 Million Americans Still Stuck Below Poverty Line:  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. How Many Adults Live in the  Reference. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Notice: Data Not  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Taylor, Jordan. Reforming Welfare and Reducing the Tax Burden on the  Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. What Are the Biggest Federal  US Federal Budget FY15 Estimated Spending Breakdown - Pie Chart. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.