Al lawati 1 Ahmed AL lawati ENC 1102 Mr. Fennell 26 February 2017 The integration of Technology in Education For the past year, United States was one of the highest ranked countries in education purposes such as the value served. In these days, United States has been Al lawati 2 the complete opposite as education has been going downhill in the ranking of the education given out to the American citizens. People started their own profitable organizations to help resolve this problem such as Education Week to help upgrade and uplift the education in USA. Education week is known as the leaders in education as stated in their website. They are trying to develop the education served in high schools around USA. They went out to spread the message of integrating technology into education in an interesting way; which was by advertising all over the Internet. The unique thing is that their advertisements are eye catching which holds up the attention of the person. Not only that but they will illustrate quick facts about the integration of technology in education to make the reader want to read more about it. This organization is trying to update our classrooms and force technology into it. This brings up the question; will it actually help education standards and make a difference in the education methods? Education Week has a magazine that provides information about technology. They also provide information about institutions that integrate technology in their system. Not only that but they give the audience the pros and cons of the integration for other institutions to know about. A special feature in their website is that they help out institutions through their website to give out relevant information, those are sponsored by well known companies such as Little Bits and Ustream. I visited the website and a learning aid was given to students on how to use technology to help them study with few tricks that will make a huge difference. Education week mentioned in their website, believe growth mindset has great potential for teaching and learning. Nearly all survey respondents (98%) agree that using Al lawati 3 growth mindset in the classroom will lead to improved student learning. Nearly as many report that it will improve the quality of their (1). This quote shows how the organization is willing to help out in the education of the students and also teachers in methods to teach, by creating surveys for students and teachers to find out what could be the best solution and the best way to integrate this technology. The organization will always have a logo like all other companies would. This would show that the information given out is credible and is from a trusted source for the audience to know. The use of logos in their advertisements states the ethos appeal. Little Bits is an organization sponsored by Education Week. This sponsorship shows that the information is trustworthy, as Little Bits hold up events to show their gadgets and how children could use them to adapt in education. student engagement is key for student success. Having students who are curious, passionate, and interested in the material leads to better outcomes across the The events held encourage students and mainly children to attend so that they get an idea of how they could improve the learning methods in the classrooms. An interesting fact about the designs used by Education week is that is has a laptop that shows some statistics about the company. The arrows pointing in other directions and which basically is pointing to other laptops that are doing the same thing. The main idea about this design is that it clarifies the idea of accessing information is way easier while using the technology and it is also faster to do so. The design can trigger the audience making it feel true which indicates the appeal of pathos where it is focused on emotions. Favert states that, arrives as the Al lawati 4 witness to the efforts by emotion to verify itself. It is the felt recognition that whatever meaning or certainty emotion arrives at is going to be This quote shows how pathos could be the main factor in any advertisement. As it is mentioned that emotions can trigger someone into believing something is true and reliable. Emotions are what controls human beings and if it is triggered then it can convince people about a topic or an issue. In that case, pathos could be the main factor in an advertisement as it a way to reach out to the audience. The right message should be delivered out to the audience to get the most out of those advertisements. In those pictures Education Week included the logos appeal, which was having a laptop as the center of attention of the advertisement. Education week also included facts in which they showed how students and teachers could benefit from the integration. For example teachers can use different applications and software to help them deliver the information is a better way and a more accessible way. Education week tested the students with a survey as they thought students were more open to the integration of technology as they preferred it from the paper, pen and board way. Those surveys showed that it was true and students actually preferred the use of technology in the education. Going back to the kairos appeal, the writings on the advertisement insure that education is a slow process. Students always complained about the length of classes and how it was boring for them just to stare at a teacher writing stuff on the board and them not having enough time to study. Consequently, technology can be really helpful and could be the best solution out there as it could speed up the pace of education and it could also mean teachers and students could communicate outside of the classroom. Al lawati 5 To conclude, this could be a critical point in improving education. This is the point where institutes need to realize that integration of technology is necessary, as it would help many people especially the teachers and students making it easier and faster. The fact was when the government realized that education going in the right path as they started funding some organizations for them to go out and make education better. As integrating of technology starts those organizations will be the one who should be thanked for their massive efforts to help USA citizens and help education all around the world. Al lawati 6 Work Cited Mary The Pathos of  130.5 (2015): Flanigan, Robin L.  the Right Digital Learning Education Week. N.p., 2016. Web. 02 Oct. Mindset in the Classroom: A National Study of  Education Week. N.p., 2016. Web. 10 Oct.