ENC 1102 Professor Hernandez 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate draft Train a Dog Save a Warrior (TADSAW) is an organization that trains medical service dogs for veterans who are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Their mission is to train these dogs and give them to veterans and/or their families to improve their lives, free of charge. Image one is a picture of a human hand on rested on top of a paw with written in bold letters above. Image two is a picture of a couple medical service dogs with a group of people wearing TADSAW shirts with a TADSAW banner in the background. Image one demonstrates mainly Ethos, Pathos, and Kairos. While image two appeals to emotion, trust, and logic/reason. Both images appeal to emotion and trust and demonstrate the organizations mission statement of wanting to improve the quality of life for veterans suffering from PTSD. Both of the Train a Dog Save a Warrior images have qualities that appeal to the viewers and make them want to believe in and trust TADSAW. The first image of the paw holding the hand is demonstrating the love shared between the two. This image allows the viewers to see the love and trust that is being portrayed in the picture. Since the audience is seeing firsthand the bond that can be created between the service dogs and the veterans, it allows the organization to earn the trust of the audience and prove their credibility. The same goes for the second image of the veterans smiling with their dogs. Basically, this picture is giving proof that the dogs have improved the lives of the veterans. Just like the first image this is motivating the viewers to trust and rely on the organization. The ability for the image to make the viewers feel something and what the image makes them feel is pathos. Image one makes the viewers feel the love and trust between the medical service dog and the veteran that is suffering from PTSD. Having the paw resting on top of the hand shows the companionship and it makes the audience feel the happiness and warmth that the picture is portraying. Similarly, the second image is also demonstrating the love between the service dog and veteran. The people in this image ae wearing TADSAW shirts and supporting the organization that improved their life by putting the dog that provides love and support in their lives. Both image one and two are able to make the audience actually feel the love that is being shown between the animals and humans in these pictures. While the first image may appeal to the feelings and gain their trust, there is not much in the picture that is able to appeal to their logic and reasoning. However, the image does contain website where the viewer can then go read and learn more about the organization, including how they work and what their mission statement is. This allows the viewers to have a better understanding of how Train a Dog Save a Warrior works. Having the website on the image appeals to the viewers reasoning. The second image appeals more to the logic and reasoning of the audience simply because the people are all wearing TADSAW shirts and cuddled up with dogs. Another key piece of this image is the banner in the background that contains their website. Both images are able to appeal to the logic and reasoning of the viewers because of the website being in the image. Displaying the website allows the audience to take it into their own hands and do more research on the organization. Out of the two images I chose to represent Train a Dog Save a Warrior, the first image does a really good job demonstrating the urgency of this matter. The image portrays love, companionship, and trust between the human and animal. This proves that the quality of the veteran suffering from port-traumatic stress disorder has had the quality of their live improved because of the love and support this medical service dog has been able to bring to their lives. This image is also appeals to timelessness because it demonstrates the everlasting bond. Just like image one, the second image shows the bond between the people and their dogs. The relationship formed between them is timeless and everlasting and it is portrayed very well in both of these images. Both of the images represent the mission of the organization Train a Dog Save a Warrior. The images both have rhetorical appeal, they appeal in the same way and in different ways for others. Images one and two both demonstrate that the organization TADSAW can be trusted. Both of the images are also able to make the viewers feel something, like the love shared between the dog and the human. The first and second image do not appeal as much to logos as it does to the others. Image one demonstrates both urgency and timelessness while image two demonstrates timelessness very effectively. Images one and two not only appeal to emotion and trust as well as effectively demonstrate the organizations mission statement of wanting to improve the quality of life for veterans suffering from PTSD. 1) 2) Work Cited  TADSAW. TADSAW, 2016. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder  Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) - Brain Injury Resource BrainLine.org. WETA, 2014. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.