Xiong 1 Xin Xiong Kristen Collins ENC1102 01/29/2017 Smog and Haze in China Chinese news always mentioned the smog and haze in recent years. As a developing country, China sacrifice environment to improve the efficiency of economic developing country. Greenpeace is an organization that focus on protect oceans, forests, food, climate, and democracy. They believe that government should closing some severe polluted enterprises for the living environment, because the quality of air are unbearable, a lots of people got sick because the air, people thinks that the living environment is more significant for human. However, All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce (ACFIC) is a non-governmental organization thinks that government should not closing the polluted enterprises, if government implement the scheme of closing all the polluted enterprises, it must affect the economic for China which is a developing country. However, If the government get two aspect mix together, the government closing some severe polluted enterprises for alleviating the pressure for environment, and the government advocate green and clean producing, that people can improve economic and protect the living environment. All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce believes that government should keep the industry open in order to ensure the economic runs. The Economist, which is most authority economic magazine in this world, it publishes an article named Pollution: The cost of clean air. The author is Shi Jing, who is an economic expert in China. In this article, she comes up with the Xiong 1 measures of combat smog and haze is biting hard in industrial areas already hit by and economic slowdown. In this part, she thinks that the government give orders to closing the quarries, mills and factories, it result in many people lost their jobs. These energy enterprises cannot offer enough energy for other enterprises, these situation result in other enterprises cannot make their business profit maximization. The Whole economic chain is leash.(Shi Jing, 12) Although a small polluted enterprise closed, this is matter, but if all the polluted enterprises closed, this would be a huge impact for Chinese economic. Shi Jing points to an example, Hebei, the province where is in north of China. In 2014, the GDP from Hebei still growth since 2000. When the policy of closing polluted enterprises started, the GDP from Hebei has decline. The GDP increase from 7.7% in 2013, but in 2014, it decreases to 7.4%. Especially in Hebei, the GDP is 8.2% in 2013, but in 2014, it decreases to 6.5%.(Shi Jing, 13) This results in lots of people lost their jobs and the consumption decrease. This is the reason that ACFIC insists that all the industry should work as usual even if the air pollution is spreading in China. On the other hand, Greenpeace believe that environment is more important than industry. There is only one earth; everyone should protect it no matter whatever it takes. Coincidentally, Li Keqiang, The Chinese premier, he calls upon a Bloody War to renovate the smog in China, the target is Hebei. Because province of Hebei is surrounding in Beijing, where is capital in China. He thinks a lot of leaders and president coming to Beijing cannot breathe fresh air, that is a really embarrassing thing. The international image will be reduced, so he gives the pressure to local government, let them do something to make the air clean. Since 2013, Hebei has closing 18000 polluting factories, it almost closed all the polluted enterprises in Hebei. (Shi Jing, 2) Baidu Tieba, the Chinese biggest forum, many people talk about this controversial case. A person who is in the closed factory, he lost his job and no money to support his family. So this Xiong 1 policy result in more than 180000 people lost jobs. Smog and haze in the survival pressure before, that is seem feeble. In the society, there are lots of people supports to close the polluted enterprises. China Daily, which is biggest news portals in China. The expert Long Hai Shen, who is work in IEEPA (International Emergency Economic Powers Act). He said, a lot of cities from northern of China, has suffer in smog and haze, with the development of industry, Chinese air problem is very serious, it has to make air clean. Chengdu, the southwest city in China. Old people called the land of abundance to describe Chengdu. In last decade, people are strange for smog and haze even do not know the air would treat our health. The fresh air is requirement for human. People cannot survive without air for 5 minutes. (LI, 13) In 2015, the polluted air erosion Chengdu, people wear gauze mask to withstand smog and haze. This would be the result of the new chemical plant in Peng zhou, near in Chengdu. In 2016, people cannot suffer the terrible air, they hold a demonstration for closing down the chemical plant. 99 Health is the biggest medical web in China, it demonstrates the influence from smog and haze to human. The smog and haze cause respiratory illness, and chronic exposure to particles contribute to the risk of developing cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. (Heath, 34) The industry emits in the air pollutant aggravating stratosphere smog haze, cause the global warming. PM2.5 is fine particulate matter, it can suspension in the air, the higher concentration in the air, that means the more polluted in the air. PM2.5 into lung, they are hard to clean, if the long-term erosion for human, it is easily to get lung cancer. (Rinkesh, 23) Although ACFIC and Greenpeace are holding different point of view, they have a common goal that they would provide better development. The first major in economic, other is Xiong 1 major in environment. If these two aspects step back, that will be better than before. First, government do not have to close all the polluted enterprises, they can choose a part of the industries that cause the air pollution, but does not have a large influence on the Chinese economic. They can screen small enterprises, which are lower benefits, or lower producing, certainly the government need to afford redress for these small enterprises. The government can stay big polluted enterprises, because the big polluted enterprises has more human resources and profits. The big polluted enterprises can spend money for environment investment. It can improve the quality of air and economic cannot down turn. Overall, the compromise is to ACFIC should close part of the small industry companies and donate all those money to help Greenpeace to protect the environment. In this way, it not only can protect the environment, but also has less influence on the Chinese industry. In conclusion, Clear away smog and haze is a long-term plan, the government need make a balance between environment and economic. Because of smog and haze, people can create green energy technology, it not only improves economic but also decline pollutant discharge, it impossible to make air clean and economic improvement, government and people need more patient to face the problem. Xiong 1 Works Cited Greenpeace  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Health, 99. The six disadvantage of  N.p., 6 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Li, Xiao-dong, et al. High Abundances Of Carboxylic Acids, Oxo carboxylic Acids, And Carbonyls In Fine Aerosols (PM) In Chengdu, China During Wintertime Haze  Environmental Science & Pollution Research 22.17 (2015): 12902. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rinkesh. Causes and Effects of  Conserve Energy Future. N.p., 24 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shi, Jing. The cost of clean  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 07 Feb. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.