Li 1 Zhenwei Li Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 (036) Feb 12th, 2017 FEO and EFN on Solution for Climate Change Today, Climate Change, or global warming, has become one of the most urgent issues in the world. According to NASA and many other climate scholars, the main cause of current global warming trend is excessive emission of which blocked heat on the earth from escaping and directly caused the average temperature of the earth to go up (NASA). Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy (EFN) refers itself as a pro-nuclear organization that provides complete and straightforward information to the public on energy and the environment. According to EFN, it is also in favor of all energies which respect the environment, including the peaceful applications of clean nuclear energy (EFN). Barry William Brook is an ARC Australian Laureate Professor who has illustrated the same point as EFN. Because of Global warming, according to Professor Barry Brook, we are losing ice from high mountains, Antarctica, and southern hemisphere, causing the average sea level of the earth rapidly raise (Barry Brook). Thus, in order to mitigate the severe situation of global warming, emission must be largely reduced, and humans have to find a new energy resource that is cleaner and more efficient. On the other hand, some argue that nuclear energy cannot take the role of future main energy resource. Friends of the Earth (FoE) is an anti-nuclear group that was founded in 1969. FoE is an international network of environmental organizations in 74 countries, mainly considering nuclear-related environmental issues in their social, political and human rights contexts. Ian Lowe is an Emeritus Professor of Science in Australia. He is a Li 2 member of Friends of the Earth, presenting the same idea of anti-nuclear energy as FoE. Although Barry and Ian have different point of view on if nuclear energy should be the solution for climate change, they have the same goal of finding a new reliable source of energy and mitigate the climate change. If they were to work together and do more research on the energy sources, they will find a better solution for climate change. According to the article Global Warming Impacts from UCSUSA website, global warming is a severe problem and is already showing significant and costly effects on our communities, health, and climate. (UCSUSA) It is having the most impact on coastal and low- lying communities since the rise of sea-level is still constantly accelerating, putting massive amount of human properties under risk. (UCSUSA) The article mentions: we take immediate action to reduce global warming emissions, these impacts will continue to intensify, grow ever more costly and damaging, and increasingly affect the entire planet including you, your community, and your EFN is a big support for nuclear energy. According to EFN, opposing nuclear energy is the biggest mistake of the century, as it states that opposition to nuclear energy is the greatest misunderstanding and mistake of the century ... If well managed, nuclear energy is a very clean very little waste (almost totally (EFN). In Potential for Worldwide Displacement of Fossil-Fuel Electricity by Nuclear Energy in Three Decades Based on Extrapolation of Regional Deployment Data, an article that Barry has published, after analyzing empirical data from the Swedish and French light water reactor programs of the 1960s to 1990s, he concluded that nuclear energy has great a potential for a large-scale globally expansion to replace current fossil fuel power (Barry Brook). Li 3 EFN and Barry Brook promote nuclear energy as they both share the goal of uniting people in favor of clean nuclear energy. According to EFN, nuclear energy is the only energy that could handle the level of electricity demand and cut down the emission of carbon dioxide at the same time. Barry further demonstrates his point as he provides an example of what nuclear capacity impact on carbon dioxide emission is. Sweden is a great example of a country that her gross domestic product (GDP) per capita while reducing its per capita carbon dioxide emissions through a rapid expansion of nuclear power (Barry Brook). According to research, Sweden unintentionally achieved to reduce the emission, reduction in CO2 emissions was not an objective but rather a fortunate by-product, since the effect on the climate by greenhouse-gas emissions was not a factor in political discourse until much more (Barry Brook). Base on the data found in World Bank Database, from 1960 to 1990 Sweden appears to be most rapid installation of low-CO2 electricity capacity on a per capita basis of any nation in thus becoming the best example on whether nuclear power should be expanded in the future or not (Barry Brook). In Why vs. Why, a book composed of the idea of both Barry and Ian in 2010. Barry first listed 6 points on why nuclear power is able to solve the problem of climate change, energy and energy efficiency solve the energy and climate crises; nuclear fuel is virtually unlimited and packs a huge energy punch; new technology solves the nuclear  problem; nuclear power is the safest energy option; advanced nuclear power will strengthen global security; nuclear true costs are lower than either fossil fuels or renewables; nuclear power can lead the clean  (Why vs. Why). Although many believe that nuclear power is a good replacement for fossil energy, Friends of the Earth, on the other hand, strongly opposes this point of view. As a member of Li 4 FoE, Ian Lowe debates with Barry in favor of anti-nuclear energy in the book Why vs. Why: Nuclear Power. To refuse points, Ian Lowe listed 6 reasons, namely power solution is not a fast enough response to climate change; it is too expensive; the need for baseload electricity is exaggerated; the problem of waste remains unresolved; it will increase the risk of nuclear war; there are safety concerns; there are better (Why vs. Why). He further points out that nuclear power is not fast enough to respond to climate change, neither it is affordable for most countries, power is certainly not a fast enough response to climate change. To demonstrate that renewable energy sources are reliable and doable, he has come up with a 6-point plan. The plan includes, up a domestic emissions trading scheme; adopting electricity from renewable sources completely by 2050; Installing solar hot water system in all new dwellings; introducing minimum fuel efficiency standards for new vehicles; purchasing out the existing subsides for fossil fuel use (5 billion per year) over 5 years; extending to all major domestic appliances and commercial energy-using equipment the system of minimum efficiency (Ian Lowe). Although FoE and EFN have different views on whether nuclear energy should be widely introduced to the world to slow down the climate change or not, both of them share the same goal of trying to ease the tension of global warming and to find the best energy solution for the world to fight against it. In fact, if FoE and EFN are both willing to take a step back and allow room for agreement, they will make a great research partner with each other. To satisfy EFN, FoE needs to convince it with evidence and research result that Renewable energy and energy efficiency may actually solve the climate crisis. Also, better alternatives that are usable need to be introduced. To satisfy FoE, its concerns for nuclear energy need to be eliminated. Further research on the safety of nuclear power need to be done and safety need to be assured. The Li 5 problem of nuclear waste need to be solved. In fact, renewable energy is a practical solution for climate change, as UCSUSA states that energy is growing rapidly investing in improvements to our electricity system, and making smart policy decisions that move the country toward a clean energy (UCSUSA). For further agreement and compromise, both stakeholders need to work together to gather the research and report for the safety and treatment for nuclear waste and other concerns. Although Global warming is inevitable, humans have come up with many solutions, namely nuclear energy and renewable energy. EFN and FoE should work together and look for the best solution for the upcoming disaster, since they both share the goal of saving the environment. As long as the thoughts between researchers are united, the best solution will be figured out. Li 6 Work Cited  Brave New Climate. N.p., 05 June 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Dunbar, Brian. NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. 10 reasons why climate change is the issue of the  EARTH HOUR. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. for Climate NASA, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Smart Energy Solutions: Increase Renewable  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Environmentalists for Nuclear  Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy - SourceWatch. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Frame  Frame Page. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Ian  The Conversation. N.p., 04 Oct. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.