Jordan Zariczny Kristen Rouisse Project 2 Intermediate 2/26/17 The Argument Against Music Piracy Through Visual Images The Recording Industry Association of America is an American trade organization that represents the recording industry in the United States. The current mission is to protect the intellectual rights of artists, to monitor and propose policies that effect the music industry, and to preform research about the music industry. One of the main focuses of the RIAA has been on stopping music piracy, and to achieve that they advertise to show how music piracy affects artists (and consumers) negatively. Regarding piracy, the RIAA believes that when a consumer pirates digital media instead of buying it, they directly hurt the music artist. Two advertisements from the RIAA both try to convince the consumer to be against piracy in two different ways. One of the images relates music piracy to communism, trying to relate the consumers hatred of communism to piracy. The other image shows how economically unsound it is, quoting laws that state how much a person could be fined for piracy. Both of these images try in different ways to support the main goal of combating digital media piracy, and to persuade consumers to buy music legally. Established in 1952, the RIAA has now been combating music piracy for decades now. The RIAA spends between 2 to 6 million dollars a year lobbying for more copyright laws that protect the music industry and music artists, and 85% of all music records are created and distributed by the RIAA (RIAA). The RIAA also awards Gold, Platinum, Mulit Platinum and Diamond records, which show how well a album or songs are selling. Since the RIAA was founded, they have also filed thousands of lawsuits against file distributers in their efforts to stop music piracy. With that said, after 2008, the RIAA has focused most of their efforts on educating the public on music piracy. Instead of filing lawsuits, they have put out advertisements that appeal to certain emotions. These advertisements try to uphold the RIAA mission of preventing piracy but also educating using the four rhetorical appeals; logos, pathos, ethos, and Kairos. The first image that the RIAA uses to try to decrease music piracy is a heavy appeal to pathos. The image depicts a music pirator as a communist and relies on the negative attitude toward communism to try to persuade them to adopt negative attitude toward file sharing. The amount of red in the images also shows this because red is related to the communists. This image makes you feel disgust towards music pirates because it relates them to communism. The second image relies very little on pathos because it states mostly facts. This image also slightly relies on logos because if the reader is educated, it can be concluded that communism is a flawed system. So if communism and music piracy are related like the image suggests, it could be concluded that music piracy is just as flawed logically as communism. The image overall relies heavily on a viewpoint at a certain time; when the united states was in a constant fear of communism. This is also why the image really relate to ethos and Kairos. The only credibility is that the image was sponsored by the RIAA, but the image relies on a blind assumption that music piracy is related to communism. The image is also not very timeless because it assumes that the average American still lives in a constant fear of communism. Overall this image, because of the theme around, sufficiently uphold the mission. This is because it sufficiently establish the credibility of its claim that music piracy relates to communism and only advertises to a small number of people who would be afraid of communism. It would seem however, that if in the time period it is targeted at, it would uphold the mission very well. The image also uphold the second part of the mission, to educate the consumer on why piracy is bad, this image educate, only relies on a blind assumption that piracy is related to communism. The second image also depicts the mission through an advertisement using logos and ethos. The image depicts a series of facts that explain why it would not be beneficial to a consumer to pirate digital media. It explains how If a person is caught pirating music it would lead to thousands of dollars in fines. This advertisement establishes ethos because it manages to establish credibility by having the RIAA tag and only state facts, not assumptions. This image mostly relies on logos because it states facts. It makes the audience aware of the fine for music piracy and asks the question you rather pay a little, or a The image relies on the ability to logically conclude that they would rather play a small amount of money for a song than be fined thousands of dollars. This image also shows Kairos, because it is directly related to a subject in the period of time. The threat of being caught pirating is still a real thing so the subject of this image is still relevant. This image overall displays the goal quite well. It establishes credibility by not relying on assumptions or false facts, it relates directly to the current time periods, and challenges the consumer logically based of risk versus reward. This image also displays the second part of the mission, to educate the public on the hazards of music piracy. It accomplishes this by relying heavily on logos and stating facts. Both of these images try to uphold the mission of diminishing music piracy and educating the public on how it could affect consumers. However, both images do not represent the mission equally. The image that relate music piracy to communism may have worked in the but in present day, the average consumer demands more facts than assumptions. Because of its use of pathos, it accurately educate the average consumer on why music piracy is bad. The second image upholds the mission of stopping piracy and educating the public. It does this by heavily relying on logos to get out facts of why music piracy is bad. Because of this, this image succeeds where the previous one failed, educating the public. Works Cited Adermon, Adrian, and Che-Yuan Liang. Piracy and Music Sales: The Effects of an Anti-piracy  Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 105 (2014): 90-106. Web. Camacho Murillo, Music Piracy and Illegal Sharing: Are Artists Being  Revisto Criterio Libre 2013, 11th ed., sec. 18: 113-24. Print.  RIAA. RIAA, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.riaa.com/>.