Tran 1 Michelle Tran Professor Alison ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The Syrian Relief UN reports that 805 million people are hungry (2014) and the vast in developing countries. Globally, as a result of chronic undernutrition, one in four children under the age of five has stunted growth (2011), which impairs development and future (US Food Aid and Security). Natural disasters, wars, and civil conflicts can cause a deficiency in food supply in many countries. According to Freedom From Hunger, hunger is a persistent and insidious condition that can affect generations of people in a geographic From hunger). The most crucial yet basic needs of life should be easily accessible to every man, woman, and child. The accommodation of World Food Programme and the USAID, two well-known food assistance programme who both have a common goal of annihilating world hunger, can help developing countries, in this particular case, Syria, acquire the fundamental necessities and the stability needed in their government. Although both organizations have a common goal, they have different principles and strategies to achieve the common goal. If both humanitarian agency, World Food Programme and USAID, were to collaborate together they would have the ability to receive more donations and investments, be able to provide for Syria on a larger scale and ensure food security. Tran 2 For several years, the Syrian government has become chaotic and a civil war had arised. Many civilians have become injured and left hungry. Implications such as a military coup with the President Bashar al-Assad and rebels has left the state of the country in degression rather than progression. Reports have shown that conditions in government-held areas are abysmal and Risk Yearbook: Syria Country Report (2016). Innocent lives are being taken because of the constant fighting, hospitals have been demolished, and food supplies are destroyed. The US approached the situation by donating $500 million to train and equip soldiers, but the approach does not help the civilians in providing fundamental necessities, medical treatment, education, or even infrastructure. In the the UN WFP developed a international food aid system resulting from a surplus of agricultural goods (Aaron Rietkerk). Development economist Hans Singer partnered with FAO Director-General B.R. Sen to emphasize the importance of food aiding to donors and (Rietkerk). The World Food vision be able to provide food to every single person, which can enable them to achieve a developed government (World Food The World Food Programme has revised their of food aid to food in order to provide for the long-term need. Food aid is the act of immediately providing food where it is needed, but the solution interferes with the local markets. Therefore, food assistance provides [for involves physical banknotes, vouchers, or electronic funds being given to beneficiaries to spend (WFP). In developing countries, HIV and Tuberculosis is very prevalent and causes affected people to more calories and nutrients in their Food Programme), but causes a lower appetite. The World Food Tran 3 response is to provide food and nutrient support while working with The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS). During 1993, the US government contributed an estimate of $5 billion in assistance to the with the assistance of the USAID (David Gootnick). The USAID aided with humanitarian assistance, water resources and infrastructure, education, and government assistance (Gootnick). Similarly to World Food Programme in adopting the food the USAID is largest provider of international food cash provider (USAID From the American People). In emergency situations where food aiding cannot arrive in time, the USAID will provide cash assistance in order to purchase from local vendors. The mission statement is to extreme poverty and promote the development of From the American People). The focus of USAID does not stop there, their vision is to promote and provide education, gender equality, economic growth and trade, and food security. They work on a bigger scale of improving global health. Many developing issue arise within their own government, USAID ventures on working to prevent active conflicts by working with the military to create stability. The USAID works together with U.S. governments and donors to ensure quality access to education to create a pathway to economic growth and health. Global poverty and development is the overall focus of the World Food Programme and USAID. The World programme attempts to achieve their goal through educating the people on ways to sustain self support systems in agricultural needs and supplying food assistance and aid. The WFP contributes to community infrastructure, natural resource development, and restoration of agriculture. While, the USAID directly link with other government agencies to allocate private Tran 4 enterprise, government assistance, education, and gender equality. The USAID the opportunities impoverished households need to raise their living standards, provides countries with the resources to expand access to basic services, important of citizens to chart their own prosperous individuals to be able to support themselves in the long-term (USAID). If both humanitarian agencies were to work together and collaborate with their different methods, it would fulfill the vision of both agencies while enabling them to expand on their techniques. With the unstable government issue arising in Syria, the USAID can provide support in improving the government while, WFP can aid with food security. Over the years, the USAID has collaborated with many U.S. government agencies such as the military in to stabilize countries and build responsive local (USAID). They would work on the same issues as the military, but using different tools. The WFP has also collaborated with over one thousand Non-government organizations (NGOs) varying from small groups to large international agencies. The collaboration with NGOs helped aid more than 80 million people in 80 countries and helped their Zero Hunger campaign become successful Working with NGOs allowed access to areas unreachable for WFP and expanded on technical knowledge. The NGOs collaboration provided understanding of the community and how it is worked. Therefore, a collaboration with a large government agency such as USAID would be even more beneficial to recipient countries. Both organizations have already adopted the same idea of helping developing countries with cash based assistance, but forming other projects and programs together would be in favor of both the agencies and the people of Syria. The World Food Program and USAID have many donors and combining them Tran 5 would only benefit both humanitarian agencies for their projects to be achieved. The two agencies are very large and have connections, so launching a Syrian aiding project together could be easily achieved. The act of partnering together could present more resources and opportunities to the World Food Programme and USAID. The WFP can reach than 80 million people with food assistance in 82 countries each year. 11,367 people work for the organization, most of them in remote areas, directly serving the hungry but can reach out to more with the help of the USAID. The World Food Programme can possibly become the largest food donor to Syria in the United States, while the USAID can assist with medical treatments, government aid, and education. WFP and USAID can launch a project where both agencies can focus on the security of Food assistance. Both potential partners can contribute their fundings, share research connections, attract investors, and raise donations. The partnership would advance the aid in helping developing countries achieve food security. Work Cited Tran 6 World Food  Plan WFP United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Food  and Food Security U.S. Agency for International Development . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Emergency Food Security  Aid Emergency Food Security Program . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Under-Five  DATA . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Gootnick, David B. Foreign  Reports (2016): 1-35. Source Premier . Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Rietkerk, Aaron D. Constructive Use Of The UN World Food Programme And The Evolution Of The International Food-Aid System During The Post-War  History Review 38.4 (2016): 788-813. History & Life . Web. 14 Feb. 2017.  Risk Yearbook: Syria Country Report (2016): U-1-18. Source Alumni Edition . Web. 14 Feb. 2017.