Acevedo 1 Marisela Acevedo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals An advertisement can be a paid or unpaid announcement for a product or notice. Advertisements call for the attention of the public, therefore should be creative, and eye-catching to attract the awareness of the public. These advertisements must contain the right color, text, and symbols to portray the correct message to the audience. Companies will often use magazines, newspapers, radio stations, and television to exhibit their messages (Dictionary). Factory farming is a very large industrial operation that is dedicated to raising an enormous number of animals for food. More than 99% of farm animals in the United States are raised in factory farms (Farm Animal Welfare). With large amounts of animals often comes conflicts such as overcrowding, poor quality treatment, and indoor confinement. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a dedicated animal rights organization that focuses on the areas where animals suffer most intensely for long periods. Through research, animal rescue, public education and cruelty investigation, PETA protects the freedom of animals. To fend for the rights of these animals, PETA uses a strategy of promoting a vegan diet for all types of audiences. Through color and the use of certain symbols, PETA can create advertisements that bring awareness to stop factory farming and promote a vegan diet. Image 1 portrays a woman carrying a pig. The woman is smiling while holding the pig who seems to be very calm. Pathos creates a sensitivity toward emotion (Hoffman). In this case, the image gives you a positive vibe; it makes you have a satisfied feeling because the woman is Acevedo 2 doing nothing more than smiling with the pig. Then they looking at the text of information that is presented and those feeling might change to uneasy or concerned because of what is happening on factory farms. The logos, or logic presented in this image, is in the white square to the left side, where it gives you a quick statement of how the animals suffer. Ethos or ethics is the way of establishing trust with his or her reader (Hoffman). PETA is a well-known organization throughout the world, and even though it is small, a website is posted to the bottom right, which gives credibility through PETA. Kairos pertains to the right place and the right time or a call to action (Hoffman). The image reads another reason to go giving you a sense of surprise, or giving you a sense of reality. It seems as if they feel the need to give you another fact for you to change to a vegetarian lifestyle. Image 2, also portrays the PETA logo at right, it is not big, but it is visible to the viewer, thus establishing ethos. This image does not incorporate any logos. It does, however, display Kairos with the quote on since everything takes the time to grow, it is a way of saying, start eating like a vegetarian now so that it can start developing. It also gives you a sense of taking immediate action for you to become a vegetarian. The first feeling of seeing the picture is fascination. The dress is made of leaves, so it captures the attention of the spectator while also bringing humor because seeing a dress like that is not a normal sight. After you read the phrase, it makes you aware of vegetarianism, and it makes you have a serious feeling. The main color in the image that stands out is the darkish green color of the dress, which can represent a new beginning and grow, renewal and abundance (Smashing Magazine). Those images can create different types of emotions in the people who are viewing them. Although simple, image 2 has a clearer understand to it. While image 2 has to be closely analyzed to understand they are promoting vegetarianism because of cruelty to animals in factory Acevedo 3 farms. When you first glance at image 1, it gives you the sense that a woman is peacefully holding a pig, not much to it. PETA promotes a vegan diet, but also advocated for the rights of animals (PETA). Therefore, this image can become a big confusing, since there are two points to this image. Image 2 is quick to show their intent to promote vegetarianism. One can obviously see this through the dress made of leaves. They do not have many words, but their quotes state vegetarianism grow on letting the audience quickly see what PETA stands for. Finally, PETA is an organization who stands to protect animals from being in cruel positions or situations. While doing this, they also promote a vegan or vegetarian diet in the lifestyle of human beings. Both image 1 and image 2, are advertisements created by PETA for the audience to become informed of the call to action PETA creates. Although both of these images have their pros and cons, they do not fail to demonstrate the power of vegetarianism. They both have credibility, poses the ability to stimulate emotions, and promote a call to action. There is logos in image 1 but not in image 2. At first glance, they might seem like ordinary images, but once a longer look of them is taken, it can be seen how both images incorporate a deeper understanding. These two images provide a satisfactory method of capturing the attention of the spectator. They both have sufficient information and understand for the viewers to support what PETA lives for. Acevedo 4 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. History: Compassion in  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Farm Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Acevedo 5 Image 1 Image 2