Wang 1 Yiqing Wang Kristen Collins ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Atmospheric pollution in China Environment is the most important factor which affects economic development. A economic development and policy can also affect the improvement of the environment objectively. This article will introduce the status and characteristics of economy with an environmental focus on atmospheric pollution. The analysis of atmospheric pollution in China will lead to solutions for the problems produced by the pollution. Chinese smog has its own unique characteristics separating it from the pollution in other countries. In recent years, China has greatly improved its level of economic development. Economic development at the expense of the environment is actually limiting the long-term development. As the country grows more conscious of the environment, it is taking more care when addressing environmental factors. Being aware of this priority will help to effectively deal with the relationship between economy and environment. Most people who work on increasing GDP think short term - earn money to survive and develop the country. These are more important than reducing the atmosphere pollution right now. However, the environmental protection organizations think the basis of developing a country is to keep a healthy and clean environment. So creating a link between people who work with increasing GDP and the environmental protection organization will be critical to balancing a policy of clean economic progress. There are five factors continually increasing the Gross Domestic Production Rate. First, Wang 2 ensuring economic growth can also ensure investment attraction for foreign capital. Secondly, ensuring economic growth can ease up social contradictions. It is because economic growth can bring out more employment opportunities and protective welfare. Jobs and security can encourage people to live at a better level so that social contradictions can be reduced. Ensuring economic growth can mediate political problems so as to not infinitely expand into social unrest as well. The best way to reduce violence is to maintain rapid economic growth, which can also stabilize employment. If there is a high rate of unemployment, survival becomes a problem over time. One threat to survival is an increase in social violence. In some ways, it seems similar with the second reason, but they start with different origins. High growth in China is a good way to show other countries that the Chinese social system has its own advantages. The development of the economic foundation is to support the political superstructure. The advantages that increase GDP make the Chinese economy a critical piece of the countries overall success. People who work with increasing GDP do not agree with giving up GDP to completely working on protecting and reducing atmosphere pollution, but the environment cannot be ignored. Air pollution is very serious in China, especially that shown on coal combustion pollution. Total suspended particulate matter in the urban atmospheric environment generally limits sulfur dioxide pollution to keep at a higher level, motor vehicle exhaust pollutant emissions increased rapidly, nitrogen oxides pollution showed an increasing trend, the formation of multiple SuanYu Districts: central China, southwest China, east China and south China. The main source of air pollution in our country is the production of and living with coal. The main pollutants are sulfur dioxide and soot. In some cities in addition to the coal pollution, there is a combination of local industrial pollution and geographical conditions that combine to seemingly trap the smog over Wang 3 major cities like Beijing. Factors like time and space lead to higher distribution of pollution in China. The worst air pollution is in winter, then spring and autumn, while summer is the best. Pollution on a national scale affects the north less than the south due to the larger cities in southern China. Urban air pollution by human activities and the local special geographic location comprehensively influence the dust weather which increases the northern atmospheric pollution (Kirk R. Smith, P530-531). China is aware of the environmental stress and its industry is changing to best help its population. In 2014, China had the top three largest public companies in the world, five of its companies in the top ten (Chen, 2014). The top three companies highlight growth and thinking as they are the Industrial & Commercial Bank of China at number one, China Construction Bank at number two, and the Agricultural Bank of China at number three. All five of largest companies are banks, while the whole top ten is banks. It is not surprising that banks are some of the largest companies, but their names show their purpose. Construction and agriculture are very large parts of economy and thinking. There are many big state-owned enterprises in China that make money. The Chinese government has a strong influence on economy and is working to make the country better. Many of the state-owned enterprises have not listened to the government though. The government is looking to jump forward with communication and access (The Economist, 2014). Many bad state-owned enterprises closed, but those that did not looked to rural China. The markets were cheaper and regulations less challenging. Learning what companies are helping though is important to growth and GDP. Just because a state-owned enterprise is not under the government, does not mean it is bad. These two different views also affect how the economy and environmental pollution organizations interact. Wang 4 In contemporary China, the society is in a special and accelerating transformation from traditional to modern. In this particular stage of social development, environmental problems also create a social divide making the issue more delicate to solve. First of all, is the most significant problem with the acceleration of socioeconomic transformation, the condition of the environment becomes worse and worse. Decisions must depend on the breaking up atmosphere, people should deeply think about the step of development as beginning with environmental protection organizations. Expansion can cause environmental problems through economic activities, but can also help to solve these problems. There are three main ways: first, as income increases, some problems will be reduced. This is because the increase of income will assist the public services such as providing sanitation and rural power equipment with a source of funds. When a person does not have to worry about day-to-day survival, he or she will provide profitable investment for environmental protection as well as have the income to help the economy. For economic growth and environmental quality between this positive synergy, cuts cannot be underestimated. Secondly, some problems beginning to worsen, will reduce with the increase of income. Most types of air pollution and water pollution belong to this type. Some types of deforestation have encroached on natural habitats, but only when these countries carefully invest in environmental policy to ensure that the additional funds to solve environmental problems, will this improvement happen. Finally, with the increase of income, the environmental degradation index will continue to improve. The best example of this is carbon dioxide emissions. In this case, cost of reducing the emissions is higher. The cost caused by the high emissions and waste however have not been recognized - the reason for this is usually the influenced by the cost for others. The crux of the problem is still the policy. In most countries, individuals and businesses have little Wang 5 incentive to reduce waste and emissions; these rules and regulations which would allow collection of fees or other ways to encourage cleaner measures - also decreasing the emissions and waste. In reducing other forms of pollution, experience has shown that once committed to a policy, a real difference will take place. Environmental protection is a vital part of national development, without proper environmental protection, the economic development will be destroyed. Without economic advancement though, the funds needed for the investment will be insufficient, and environmental protection work will be unsustainable. The next generation will be faced with unprecedented challenges and opportunities. 2030, the population will increase by 3.7 billion, so food production needs to double, global industrial output and energy use is likely to increase 2 times, while developing countries will increase 5 (He, K., 2002). Along with the development of serious environmental damage if the issue is not addressed now. In another case, economic development can also bring about the improvement of environmental protection, producing more fresh air and clean water, and actually eliminating absolute poverty. These outcomes will be the cause of the different policy choices countries like China make. For developing countries, the environmental policy can slow down the environmental damage. Wang 6 Works Cited Chen, Liyan, The Largest Companies: China Takes Over The Top Three . Forbes. 7 May 2014. He, K., Huo, H., & Zhang, Q. URBAN AIR POLLUTION IN CHINA: Current Status, Characteristics, and Progress. Annual Review of Energy and the Environment, pages 397- 431. 2002. Sarah K. Air Polution in China is Killing 1.6 Million People a Year. Web. August 14, 2005. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/08/14/air-pollution- in-china-is-killing-1-6-million-people-a-year-researchers- Smith, K.R. Fuel combustion, air pollution exposure, and health: the situation in developing countries. Honolulu, HI: East-West Center. 1994. enterprises: Fixing China The Economists. 30 August 2014.