1 Christina Abraham Professor James Josue ENC 1102 10 February 2017 The Abortion Conflict Abortion in the United States has been a hotly debated topic for decades, with the two stakeholders involved being Pro-Life activists and Pro-Choice activists. Pro-Life activists for the most part advocate against the practice of abortion and support the implementation of anti-abortion laws. Pro-Choice activists generally advocate for the rights of women to have access to abortions, and believe that because it is a body it is her choice whether or not to terminate her pregnancy. This topic has many grey areas wherein the two stakeholders may be able to settle on a compromise. However while, abortion is a common practice in America in order to end a pregnancy, the establishment of laws that make abortion illegal will likely not decrease abortion rates. A compromise that can be made, would be to allow abortions as an option for women whose life is threatened by the pregnancy, a child that is conceived as a product of rape or incest, and not to allow any late-term abortions. The first stakeholder involved, pro-life supporters, believe that abortion is not the solution and is equivalent to murder. Many pro-lifers are not against rights, nor do they believe that their privacy is not relevant. However, they consider themselves advocates for those who cannot speak for themselves but who still have human rights, the unborn fetus. Pro-lifers have a firm belief that human life begins at fertilization and thus, an unborn child, no matter how early on in the pregnancy, is considered a living human being with constitutional rights. The 2 decision in the vs. Wade (Hull 2001) court case of 1973 to permit abortions in conjunction with the 14th amendment, and as a right to privacy, is one that pro-lifers generally do not support. Pro-lifers have a stake in the abortion argument because in most cases, they do not support abortions no matter the circumstance, because murder is in no way justifiable. The second stakeholder involved, the pro-choice supporters, believe that abortion is a personal choice based on self-interest and should be accessible to all women, regardless of circumstances. The concept of privacy and rights, greatly come into play in the pro-choice argument. Pro-choice advocates believe that an unborn child is not considered a fully developed human being with rights, thus, do not consider abortion to be murder. The term body, my is a slogan used by pro-choice supporters, to explain their stance (Hull 2001): it is the body, and she has the choice whether or not to keep or terminate her pregnancy. A compromise which would benefit both sides of the argument would be to permit abortions under certain circumstances. Generally speaking, this solution would satisfy both parties involved, however, it would require each of them to give something up. In the article After Roe: The History of the Abortion Debate the author claims that the pro-life movement has evolved over the years to be somewhat more liberal and more practical, thus, making this compromise even more feasible. The author, Sarah Jaramillo states, pro-life movement shifted from an absolutist agenda that favored a fetal rights amendment to a practical, incrementalist agenda that worked around and within the Roe framework to restrict (Jaramillo 20216). This information makes it easier to believe that a compromise between these two stakeholders is an actual possibility. Additionally, this compromise would allow for women who need to have an abortion access to safe medical procedures, therefore, reducing the amount 3 of unsafe abortions that would occur if the practice was banned completely. In the article Common Ground in the Abortion Regulation Debate does a good job of highlighting how the regulation rather than banning of abortion is much more effective in reducing injury or death due to unsafe abortions because women are likely to have abortions regardless of legislation. This supports the idea of a compromise where abortion is regulated and not completely illegal. The compromise would allow for abortions under the circumstance that the pregnancy is a product of rape or incest or the life is being threatened. The pro-life stakeholders would have to sacrifice the complete abolishment of abortions altogether in favor of abortions still being accessible but restricted. The pro-choice advocates, would have to sacrifice the idea that a women can elect to have an abortion regardless of the circumstances, what they believe would be considered a violation of rights. An abortion could not be an option for a woman who simply was or does not want to be a parent, the guidelines would be very clear to eliminate the use of abortion as a form of This compromise benefits both sides, in that, each other them is being appeased to some degree. The pro-lifers would get a victory in that abortions would not be as unrestricted as they are now and pro-choice advocates can rest easy knowing that if a women was in a dire situation that she felt an abortion was absolutely necessary, she would have safe access to one. Abortions are clearly a very controversial topic in contemporary politics, as it has been for decades. The two stakeholders in the situation, pro-life and pro-choice advocates similarly believe that their perspectives are the correct ones. However, there are many grey areas associated with this particular subject, which allows for a compromise to be contrived, in which each side sacrifices something in order to come to a mutual understanding. A compromise that 4 permits abortions under certain circumstances is the best solution to allow for the pro-choice advocates to have their rights to have a choice protected while also appeasing the pro-life advocates by ensuring that abortions are not just used as a means of correcting a 5 Works Cited America, NARAL Pro-Choice. What is  Pro-Choice America . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hull, N. E. H., and Peter Charles Hoffer. V. Wade : The Abortion Rights Controversy In American History . n.p.: Lawrence, Kan. : University Press of Kansas, c2001., 2001. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Jaramillo, Sarah. After Roe: The Lost History of the Abortion  Library Journal 2016: 688. OneFile . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Murray, Justin, Meredith B. Esser, and Robin West. Search Of Common Ground On Abortion : From Culture War To Reproductive Justice . London: Routledge, 2016. Discovery eBooks . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. What is Pro-life? Can one be both pro-life and  is ? Is it possible to be both pro-life and pro-choice? ChristianAnswers.Net . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.