Brown 1 Amani Brown Josue ENC 1102 29 Jan 2017 Children with cochlear implants proposal There has been a power struggle between the Deaf community and parents over the lives of deaf children since the Deaf have galvanized themselves into a culture. The issue on the table is whether a deaf child of hearing parents should be fully immersed in the hearing world and ignorant of their Deaf heritage. The conflict has escalated with the arrival of the cochlear implant, a medical device that relays sound signals to the brain by doing the work of the damaged inner ear mechanism. Parents view the cochlear implant as a sort of corrective surgery for their disability that will ultimately help the deaf child successfully integrate into society. Though this goal is shared by the Deaf, some in the group still feel slighted against due to the parents treating deafness as a disability and feel the cochlear implant at such a young age will be the end of the Deaf Culture. To satisfy and benefit both parties, families who have implanted children should be required to learn a signed language that will facilitate a method of communication between both parent and child, and then also foster a relationship between the community and the child. To begin with, the news that child is is disheartening at the least and parents often respond with disbelief, sadness and anger. While this is expected, these emotions can become detrimental for the child the longer the parent harbors these feelings. This theory was considered and introduced by Santhi Prakash in his comparative study that measured the level of stress and depression in mothers with children who wore hearing aids and mothers of children with cochlear implant. The findings of this study determined that these feelings of Brown 2 stress, disbelief and anger can and will manifest into depression which is bad for the child because mothers have been found to be less sensitive to their need and hence are less effective at nurturing language and psycho-social development in their (pg.37). This is in accordance with another study done by Sophie Ambrose where mothers of children with hearing loss were observed and compared to mothers with children who have normal hearing. In this observational study, Ambrose concluded that the mothers of the children with hearing loss were likely than their counterparts to provide no response to (pg.519). Both Prakash and Ambrose came to the same inference that mothers with implanted children are less likely to respond to their gestures or needs due to emotional stress. Thus, even though a hearing may be fixed, methods of communication and parental-child relationships are still strained; there is still a gap that needs to be bridged. On the other side of the fence, the Deaf community are vexed with this technological advancement. While parents may not be attentive to their implanted child, there is still the silver lining that their child can hear. And therefore, be an active member of society. The Deaf do not have this silver lining as they have been against the cochlear implant from the beginning, a sentiment further explained by scholar Julie Mitchiner who states, that the Deaf have against cochlear implants, fearing for the loss of their language and (pg.51). The reason the cochlear implant has some of the Deaf community worried is that children are the future of their culture; of any culture. It is to children whom the torch will be passed and it is children with severe to profound hearing loss that are main candidates for this kind of surgery. This issue is better expressed by Ella Mae Lentz, a Deaf poet, in her poem To a Hearing Mother. Lentz likens the deaf child to a tree and states: He is like a tree which nobody knows. Brown 3 Without us, the Deaf, the tree will be lonely and wither, having no soul. However, without [the hearing there would be no tree. And our great people and language would rapidly dwindle. (Ella Lentz, Youtube) Lentz perfectly captured the power struggle between the Deaf and hearing worlds; if every deaf child born to hearing parents is implanted and raised to be like the hearing majority then where lies the future of the Deaf? This question introduces the common ground between the two conflicting parties; both parties are hurt at the hands of the cochlear implant. However, in her article, Sophie Ambrose noted that there was a shift in the general feelings towards cochlear implants due to deaf parents of deaf children now opting to implant their children. (pg. 51). This change is the foundation for the bridge that will connect both hearing parent and Deaf community. In correspondence with the shift in community, deaf parents agreeing to cochlear implants for their deaf children leads to bimodal bilingualism which is defined as both a visual/manual language and an aural/oral (Ambrose, pg 51) Bilingualism is a given in households with Deaf parents and children with cochlear implants because the parents are naturally going to teach and use their native language with their child, as it supports that cultural tie between parent and child. However, bilingualism is not only beneficial in these situations; Bimodal bilingualism allows for children with cochlear implants to have an accessible language that is not just oral. As a compromise the bimodal bilingualism is the less stressful method. Even though both Sophie Ambrose and Santhi Prakash arrived to the same conclusion that mothers are less attentive towards children with cochlear implants, Ambrose discussed how the implanted children used gestures a lot more than their normal-hearing counterparts. Because of this Brown 4 Ambrose suggested that mothers, be coached to increase their provision of contingent (pg. 519). This is also in line with Prakash who states, professionals to provide family-based intervention especially to empower the parents of children with hearing impairment irrespective of the type of rehabilitation options (pg. 37) Basically these scholars are calling for the parents to be able to respond to the gestures and needs. Prakash wants this to take place in a rehabilitative setting, which is where the bimodal bilingualism would start. As discussed above, the common ground between hearing parents and the Deaf comminty is to make sure the child can function within the hearing society. Bimodal bilingualism alleviates this mutual concern because approach offers opportunities for social- emotional growth in the children with cochlear implants (Mitchiner. pg.51). In that very same sentence, Mitchiner further elaborates that to both languages allows learners to have communication options during their social interactions with both deaf and hearing people, thereby facilitating their social (pg.51) This type of dual participation in hearing and Deaf worlds pushes positive psychosocial skills while simultaneously allowing the child to generate an identity through interaction with the Deaf. Researcher Marcel Giezen, along with Anne Baker, and Escudero Paola, studed academic performance in normal hearing students versus academic performance of students with cochlear implants that were taught with sign supported speech. The researchers noted that their evidence not be interpreted as evidence that good sign learning causes good spoken word learning, or vice versa. They only suggest that the children with higher sign learning performance were the same children that showed higher spoken word learning (pg. 107) This means that bimodal bilingualism does not hinder or Brown 5 advance the child in anyway, this method only evens out the playing field and gives the child a better chance at success. In short, this positive overall growth is what creates an upstanding citizen in society by cultivating a stronger parent/child relationship and encouraging a cultural tie between community and child This method nurtures a cultural relationship between parent and child but teaches the English so that they can integrate into the hearing society and still succeed. Bimodal bilingualism is the conduit between the hearing and the Deaf that will be beneficial for the implanted child and is needed because the technique allows for interaction between both the hearing and the deaf which enables for development of social and psychosocial skills. Thus, parents who have children with cochlear implants should be required to promote bimodal bilingualism; to learn a signed language to facilitate a method of communication between parent and child and foster a relationship between the community and the child. Brown 6 Works Cited Ambrose, Sophie E.1, sophie.ambrose@boystown.org. Gesture Use In 14-Month-Old Toddlers With Hearing Loss And Their  American Journal Of Speech- Language Pathology 25.4 (2016): 519-531. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Giezen, Marcel R.1, Anne E.2 Baker, and Paola3 Escudero. Relationships Between Spoken Word And Sign Processing In Children With Cochlear  Journal Of Deaf Studies & Deaf Education 19.1 (2014): 107-125. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lentz, Ella Mae. Poem - To A Hearing YouTube, uploaded by Ella Lentz, 26 April 2010, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PzpbYDCpyWg&t=12s Mitchiner, Julie Cantrell1. Deaf Parents Of Cochlear-Implanted Children: Beliefs On Bimodal  Journal Of Deaf Studies & Deaf Education 20.1 (2015): 51- 66. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Prakash, Santhi S1, et al. Measuring Levels Of Stress And Depression In Mothers Of Children Using Hearing Aids And Cochlear Implants: A Comparative  International Journal Of Special Education 28.1 (2013): 37-44. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.