Rainey 1 Kiersten Rainey 2/21/17 Sarah Basil British Petroleum BP is vital part of the United Sates economy, in 2015 they generated 80 billion dollars in economic value. They do many different things, but in summary, BP customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday (What We Do). They provide energy to many different countries through fossil fuels and are a leading contributor to the U.S. economy. The economic worth is something they pride themselves on very much, and how much they contribute to the U.S. economy as well. BP has gotten plenty of back lash over the years because of the harmful emissions fossil fuels give off . BP is doing their best to appeal to their customers, and are doing a good job considering all the hate they receive. Green energy (like solar energy) has become very popular recently, and BP is working and creating advertisements like the two analyzed here to keep up with the competition. To highlight this great economic success in the country, BP made several advertisements utilizing several of the rhetorical appeals to appeal to their audiences. These rhetorical appeals are ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. By using these appeals they are able to attract different audience and get their message across to different audiences. The art of Rhetoric goes back to day, in fact he came up with the system of rhetoric in order to persuade individuals. He knew that most audiences be able to follow scientific reason because they intelligent enough, so he persuaded through reason alone (McKay). He categorized ethos, logos and pathos as means of (McKay), and these three are very effective in their own ways. This practice is Rainey 2 still used today to keep audiences interested and to persuade them into buying something, or to donate money or to vote for a certain candidate for public office. Rhetoric is used by BP to appeal to certain audiences and uses each appeal in a unique way. The first rhetorical appeal that stands out in the first image is pathos. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal that evokes emotions, this was done by the use of the color green. Green represents many different things in different contexts, for example in the Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald green represented hope for certain characters (Fitzgerald ). In this advertisement green represents money, and by the statistics presented it is obvious that BP generates a lot of money. Green also represents green energy like solar energy, and this usage is ironic because BP is a fossil fuel company. This use of green may be used to trick the viewer into thinking that BP is good for the environment, so this color choice was strategic. This theme is the same for the second image, they use green to represent money and environmental friendly energy, but they also use orange. Orange is a warmer color and this may have been used to be a more inviting, friendlier advertisement. Colors like blue and green alone as inviting as orange and red so they used this color to represent home and warmth. In the second image the word commitment is used several times, and this word may evoke emotions because commitment mean they care about their customers. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal that provide credibility to the company or organization usually through company logos or copyright symbols. In the first BP advertisement there is language used like which provides some credibility to their company, because they invest real money in to the economy. There is also an image of what looks like employees working on a project in hard hats, looking at this image it looks like several engineers working on something important which provides credibility to BP. Real workers (as opposed to artificial Rainey 3 intelligence) is important to a lot of people, it provide legitimacy to the company to people viewing this advertisement. In the second advertisement, the BP logo is in three places. Having the logo on an advertisement is important because it gives the viewer further understanding of the purpose of the words or pictures on the advertisement. The BP logo is also a credible source, when someone sees that logo they understand the message and trust it because the symbol is well known. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic, so typically logos links up with statistics and facts. In the first advertisement there were a lot of monetary values all over the page in bold font, this font size was strategic so the numbers were the first thing to catch the attention. Facts and statics are important to some people, they want to see cold hard evidence that convinces them why they should buy the product. day, BP sells 50 million gallons to our valued consumers via more than 7,000 BP-branded retail locations across the United (BP We facts like this one help convince people that BP is a great company that acts as a catalyst for economic success in the United States. The dollar amounts were statistics of how much money BP contributed to the economy, how much they are worth and how many employees they paid , this is important to some people because they want to buy from a company that gives back to the economy. In the second advertisement, they are lacking in logos, they do not have statistics or facts in it. One element of logos implemented in the advertisement, is the use of the phrase to this can make viewers trust in the company and believe that they are truly invested in the country. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal that appeals to urgency or timeliness, sayings like appeal to some audience and gets them thinking. Companies like World Wild Life Foundation have a mission and goal in mind that they want to be taken care of urgently, so they Rainey 4 use language like now to influence people to take action and help the environment Species However, in both images, they are lacking the use of this appeal, there is no urgent message they are trying to get out to the world so this appeal make sense anyway. Sure, they want consumers to buy their oil of gasoline, but they use other appeals to attract consumers, not a time limit. All rhetorical strategies do not need to be used in order to make a good advertisement or argument, however the more implemented the more audiences you will appeal to. Every advertisement in the world has a purpose, whether it is to get you to buy their product, educate viewers on a topic or leave you in suspense, they have their ways of getting attention. Rhetoric has been used for centuries to persuade people to think a certain ways or do a certain thing, and they have been pretty effective. BP utilized a few of these appeals in the two advertisements analyzed. They used logos and ethos effectively in both advertisements, but they did lack in the kairos and pathos area, and that is perfectly okay for advertisements to not utilize every appeal. Through the use of these four rhetorical appeals, BP effectively demonstrated their dedication to the U.S. economy and their vision for the future of new energy. Rainey 5 Image one Image two Works Cited: Our Commitment to America: Supporting the U.S.  Bp.com. BP 2017 Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Bp+advertisement+2016 - Google  Bp+advertisement+2016 - Google Search. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Rainey 6 Feb. 2017. What We  Bp.com. B.P. , 1996-2017. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. McKay, Brett & Kate. Classical Rhetoric: A Brief  The Art of Manliness. The Art Of Manliness, 17 Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Fitzgerald, F. Scott. The Great Gatsby. London: Penguin, 2000. Print. Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.