Wilson 1 Mary Wilson Instructor Alison Missler ENC 1102 14 February 2017 SSDP vs. the CDC on the Drinking Age Debate Between 1985 and 1991, in America, the legal drinking age was transitioning from ages eighteen to twenty to the current limit, twenty-one. Since then, there have been many organizations that have provided their input on the issue. These organizations include Students for Sensible Drug Policy (SSDP) and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) who provide opposite opinions regarding lowering the age to eighteen or keeping it twenty-one, respectively. need for freedom and responsibility drives them to support lowering the age to eighteen. Meanwhile, the care for the safety and health of Americans lead them to advocate for the drinking age to remain at twenty-one. Although both have a strong opinion in the debate, the common ground for both organizations is that people are given the opportunity for safety. The compromise to satisfy both organizations is to hold an event promoting safety and advocating for a federal law change to make the drinking age nineteen with special restrictions on what alcohol can be purchased and used until the age of twenty-one. This is to give both organizations a happy medium on what the law should be. The organization Students for Sensible Drug Policy (SSDP) operates under the idea that young people can be responsible and make their own important decisions regarding drugs and alcohol by themselves. Their ideals and values include having power and authority, a youth controlled agenda, collaboration and partnership, specific strategies, learning opportunities, and diversity and (SSDP). These policies coincide with the idea that Wilson 2 eighteen-year-old young adults should be able to make the decision of whether to drink, while still acting under legal circumstances. In an article published by Alcohol and Drug Abuse Weekly, the author discusses how it is not necessarily the age that should be the concern, but rather what the age has done for college campuses when students take the drinking off campus. When college students are forced to take their alcohol off campus, it becomes a more dangerous environment and leads to more binge drinking, (Alcohol and Drug Abuse Weekly 1). By lowering the drinking age, the environment and circumstances change for those that do drink. The college students would not have to flee to off campus fraternity parties or other alcohol events, it would overall be a safer option where they could drink at home. Giving the students the opportunity to be responsible for themselves is exactly why SSDP is arguing for the drinking age to be eighteen. In article on lowering the drinking age, they state that drinking age is the only exception to the legal age of adulthood in the US. We consider 18-year-olds to be adult enough to vote, serve in the armed forces, enter into contracts, marry, and even serve on (SSDP). This is the most common argument amongst those who believe the drinking age should be eighteen. The main point in the argument is that those who have legal adult status have all those privileges, but are still denied the basic right to drink whatever they please. The Center of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), however, is on the other side of this debate by arguing that safety is the main concern. The mission statement states that the works 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the (CDC). Therefore, the CDC emphasizes their care for the health of Americans. The concern is revolved around analysis of statistics revolving drunk driving car accidents. In Anne article, The Effects Of Minimum Legal Drinking Age 21 Laws On Alcohol-Related Driving In The United States, she states that when looking at 102 analyses of car Wilson 3 crash effects of Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA)s, of the 66 analyses that found significant correlations, found an association between higher MLDAs and lower crashes and 2% found the (McCartt 177). By these statistics, there is a direct correlation between having lower drinking age and having higher car accident rates. This is the main concern of the CDC since their entire position in this issue is revolved around the idea that safety is the number one priority of America. According to the CDC, the drinking of alcohol by anyone under the age of twenty-one is also strongly linked with from alcohol poisoning, unintentional injuries, suicide and violence, changes in brain development, school performance problems, alcohol dependency, and other risk behaviors such as (CDC). By linking the drinking age to all these issues, it brings more cause for concern to keep the drinking age at twenty-one, if not raising it. Using the statistics, it is easy to see that the issue with lowering the drinking age stems from the correlation between alcohol and vehicular accidents, causing them to want to keep the age limit at twenty-one. Because these organizations cannot make law changes by themselves, the compromise between SSDP and the CDC is to hold an event advocating for the safety of Americans while under the influence of alcohol, as well as advocating for the drinking age to be lowered to nineteen with special restrictions until the age of twenty-one to provide a middle ground for both organizations. Beyond this event, both organizations can provide information sessions at college campuses on how to use alcohol in a safe manner. While advocating for the law change to nineteen with restrictions, many may wonder if this would work. However, currently in Canada the drinking age is nineteen, whereas in the United Kingdom, the drinking age is sixteen with special restrictions to what they can drink and buy until the age of eighteen. In Henry article, Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Wilson 4 Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among Youths?, he states that students are more likely to engage in heavy drinking than their peers who do not attend college, with 2 in 5 students nationally engaging in binge drinking on at least 1 occasion in the past 2 (Welchsler 987). This coincides with case that college students will just take their alcohol off campus and will resort to more dangerous and illegal habits. While these students are off campus binge drinking, it also increases the likelihood for car and other vehicle accidents to occur, siding with the CDC in their fight for American safety. Therefore, if the organizations worked together to provide information on safety and advocate for a law change, the SSDP could get their foot in the door to progress their goal to give college students the freedom to be in control of their lives as well as guaranteeing the CDC the safety that concerns them. When advocating for the federal law change, the freedom SSDP requires would be provided by the drinking age being lowered to nineteen giving nineteen-year-olds the responsibility to drink some alcohol. The safety would involve having special restrictions on what could be bought and drank by nineteen-year-olds, specifically types of beer and weak liquors, until the age of twenty-one. This compromise could easily meet the common ground between safety and freedom in America and would satisfy the needs of both the SSDP and CDC. Even though organizations like Students for Sensible Drug Policy (SSDP) and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are on opposite sides of the debate, there is a compromise that would appeal to both sides. The SSDP is mainly concerned with giving college student the freedom to be responsible for themselves, whereas the CDC is mainly concerned with the safety of youth in America. The compromise between these two organizations can easily appease both sides by both organizations hosting an event together to advocate for safety in youth as well as advocating for a law change to move the drinking age to nineteen and Wilson 5 placing special restrictions such as only allowing nineteen-year-olds to only buy beer and other weak liquor products. This special restriction would last until said person is at the age of twenty- one. After the event, both organizations need to be actively going to college campuses to hold information sessions about how to use alcohol safely. With the help of both organizations, America could change for the better and stop this on-going debate. Wilson 6 Work Cited College presidents call for a debate on lowering the drinking age to  Alcoholism & Drug Abuse Weekly 2008: 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Sheets - Age 21 Minimum Legal Drinking CDC, last edit 20 Oct. 2016. https://www.cdc.gov/alcohol/fact-sheets/minimum-legal-drinking-age.htm Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. the Drinking SSDP. http://ssdp.org/campaigns/lowering-drinking-age/ Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. McCartt, Anne T., Laurie A. Hellinga, and Bevan B. Kirley. The Effects Of Minimum Legal Drinking Age 21 Laws On Alcohol-Related Driving In The United  Journal Of Safety Research 41.(2010): 173-181. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among  American Journal Of Public Health 100.6 (2010): 986-992. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.