Al Hadhrami 1 Al Mundhar Al Hadhrami John Williams ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Videogames and Violence The current gaming consoles are unlike the past where they had been developed extensively and examined by professionals so that the games have a positive impact in society. Since adults today have played Pong or Donkey Kong as children, video games have made considerable progress. On the other hand, harsh videogames can cause teenagers to act violently when their parent are not taking full control of what games their kids are playing. Almost all scholarly articles that researched videogames show how videogames can be developed and manipulated in a way that can cause a positive impact on society. However, in the end, the last question is not how videogames can be beneficial, but rather how to be able to control it in order to avoid any certain negativity on society. Infinity Ward, one of the best Call of Duty developers, believe in making the best version of Call of Duty where it can be so real as to having actual war weapons and advancing it to the 3 dimensional world. While American Psychological Association (APA) is against developing videogames such as Call of Duty, they believe it can cause a negative effect increasing violence. Through the use of advertisements, both the American Psychological Association and Infinity ward has successfully reached their targeted audience through the use of rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Every image that has the element of pathos arouses the emotions and feelings, which are clearly shown in both of the images. The image from APA allows the audience to feel some sort of happiness and the feeling of safety. The people portrayed in the image are all Al Hadhrami 2 smiling with a happy expression their face showing that everyone is having a good time. This allows the audience to feel some sort of happiness and warmth looking at the image. On the other hand, the image by Infinity Ward is supposed to make the audience feel scared based on the knives shown and the skull located in the middle of the image. The feeling of being scared appears to the non-gamers while gamers feel excited and a feeling of rush and power to play the game and kill the opponent. Apart from pathos, ethos gives credibility to the company allowing the viewer to trust and believe what they are saying. Similarly, both advertisements have the element of ethos portrayed in the images. In the picture represented by the American Psychological Association, the elements of trust are in the logo itself. The company placed their name and several different faces portraying what the company does, which is assuring happiness to the people and the logo is their way of showing what their company stands for, which is making people happy. The doctors and the army men show credibility assuring wellness and safety. On the contrary, Infinity Ward is showing their most popular game called of which is popular and almost every gamer and non-gamer knows this. This way when a gamer looks at the advertisement they would know where its coming from and what the picture is trying to say because of how well known the game is. Additionally, logos give the viewer information that persuades the reader into their services. The image from APA provides the knowledge about the association that they are obviously working towards a good cause. Looking at the image you would know that this has to do with something relating the society since there are people of all age, sex, and race. At the same time, Infinity Ward gives the audience the knowledge that this game is a matter of life or death especially with the slogan that says of The person looking at the image gets Al Hadhrami 3 the idea that this is a videogame that deals with fighting and playing battles.  Kairos, another powerful element of rhetoric appeal, gives the reader a sense of timeliness when the person is looking at the image. Out of the two stakeholders, only Infinity Ward has that appeal in their advertisement. The timeliness about the image is the dates listed on the bottom stating a specific time period for when the gamer has to play to participate. This way the stakeholders are attracting the gamers to join and compete with everyone in that specific time. The gamer has to be aware of when they play the game in order to play well. The relationship between the two images through the different stakeholders is that they both end up having the same goal towards their viewers. The American Psychological Association has happy faces all over the campaign to promote wellness and security. Although Infinity Ward has an advertisement for gamers to play the serious game, at the end of the day both stakeholders are trying to make people happy and satisfied. Whether it is playing the game, or helping society, both images reach the same goals. According to the American Psychological Association in an article called Benefits of Playing Video they state that a game has been designed for a cancer patient that allows the patient to shoot cancer cells and overcomes all the symptoms. This is a way to teach the cancer patients how to adhere to their treatments. This is just an example of how APA and infinity ward (videogames) can have positive effect on society. Al Hadhrami 4 Works Cited Granic, Isabela, and Adam Lobel. Playing Video  The Benefits of Playing Video Games (2006): n. pag. American Psychological Association. Jan. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Account, Infinity WardVerified. Infinity Ward  Twitter. Twitter, 27 Feb. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. p<ic.twitter.com/tmPCmqMu8T> Association, American Psychological. Keep up with American Psychological Linekdin. American Psychological Association, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. < https://www.linkedin.com/company/american-psychological-association>