Caceres !1 Karina Caceres James Josue ENC 1102 Section 082 January 29, 2017 Euthanasia This morally problematic topic has been discussed amongst many. Both stake holders be- ing the doctors and the public are involved in this argument regarding assisted suicide. Many feel that legalizing euthanasia may go against the moral code that they completely live by even though they would be the process would be completed consensually. The two sides of this debate regard arguments about morality and choice. The physicians feel as though they are held to a moral standard that involves helping each and every individual, some feel as though assisting the patient would go against the natural course of his/her life. Some feel as though the patient may not be in the right mindset to make these decisions about their own end. Although physicians and patients are at odds about euthanasia, a compromise involving strict policies can be brought to light. Doctors are posed a moral and ethical issue through society. An academic article taken from the journal a specific example is discussed, doctor Nigel Cox had an emo- tional connection to his patient Mrs. Boyes. Boyes was Dr. Cox patient for thirteen years when he decided that she should be freed from her suffering. Which stirred up the emotions of a nurse practitioner, Roison Hart, who was on Mrs. Boyes case. Hart felt as though it was her duty to not allow compassion into dictating her judgement and decided to contact the authorities regarding Dr. executive call to assisted Mrs. Boyes in her own suicide. As humans we are always us- Caceres !2 ing compassion in committing our everyday actions, to expect a doctor not to have compassion for their suffering patient is irrational. The patients seeking help through euthanasia should not be denied their rights. In an arti- cle written by Jukka Varelius, Euthanasia, Physician-assisted suicide, and the Right to do it is argued that personal morals should be put aside in the light of a suffering pa- tients life. Each and every person has the right to have a decision about their own life. A patient living with sickness and faced with suffering has the moral right to consensual euthanasia despite the feeling that it is morally incorrect. If someone has suggested that they are miserable and in search to end their life in a controlled setting, they should not be denied that right because a physician should not have rule over another persons decisions. Many patients are just looking to escape the endless suffering they have been bound to. In the article Till Death Do Us Part: The Lived Experience of an Elderly Couple Who Chose to End Their Lives by Spousal Self-euthana- sia scholars discuss a case study in about two dutch 86 year old spouses, Georgette and Bernard Caves. The couple did not consider themselves mentally deranged, rather perceived them- selves as citizens, with a wish to die, in search for what they call digni- fied (Wingaarden, Leget, and Goossensen). This case study is considered the first of its time to follow two people who ended their life simultaneously simply because they were content with their lives and found it unnecessary to continue living, the schoolars mention that of them suffered from a life-threatening disease or severe one could assume that the issue they struggled with was aging. The Dutch laws on euthanasia, since 2002, when the Dutch Termination of Life on Request and Assisted Suicide Act was passed is very strict, the rules are as follow: 1. The request is voluntary and well considered, 2. The suffering is Caceres !3 unbearable and hopeless, 3. The patient is informed about his situation and prospects, 4. There are no reasonable alternatives, 5. Another independent physician should be consulted, and 6. The termination of life should be performed with due medical care and attention. This movement shows the change in public opinion regarding the controversy that is assisted suicide. Patients and doctors can compromise by applying that very same human compassion. As a suffering patient pleads to be saved, a doctor should not have the right to decide what is moral- ly correct or incorrect. Ethically physicians feel as though it goes against their code to take a life, yet in any case it would be helping the patient to fulfill their wishes. In the article Splitting the Difference? Principled Compromise and Assisted Dying, Richard Huxtable explores the com- promises between both parties. There is no clear call to action but he states that can be done to ensure that this jurisdiction, and doubtless others, genuinely and appropriately occupies the middle ground that lies between the conflicting answers offered in response to the never-end- ing euthanasia (Huxtable 480) this topic will always be in the grey area. A call for a strict protocol, similar to the Dutch law, on euthanasia is necessary. The Dutch clearly identified each part of the situation in the laws strict rules. Caceres !4 Cited Varelius, Jukka. Voluntary Euthanasia, Physician-Assisted Suicide, and the Right to Do  HEC Forum 25.3 (2013): 229-43. Web. Begley, A. M. Guilty But Good: Defending Voluntary Active Euthanasia From a Virtue  Nursing Ethics 15.4 (2008): 434-45. Web. Els J. van Wijngaarden, MA, Carlo J. W. Leget, Anne Goossensen; Till Death Do Us Part: The Lived Experience of an Elderly Couple Who Chose to End Their Lives by Spousal Self-euthana- sia. Gerontologist 2016; 56 (6): 1062-1071. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnv060 Huxtable, Richard. Splitting the Difference? Principled Compromise and Assisted  Bioethics 28.9 (2014): 472-80. USF Library. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.