Vargas 1 Karina Vargas Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 27 February 2017 What Are They Really Saying? Ever wonder what advertisements are really saying? Or what is considered when it comes to advertisements? break down some advertisements from the Sunset Music Festival. Sunset Music Festival (SMF) is an Electric Dance Music (EDM) Festival that last two days, outdoors, with a lot of different artist and crowds of people. There are two ads that caught my eye and going to discuss how they both use mostly pathos and ethos and how effective they are. Sunset Music Festival is a music festival with various EDM artists that crowds of people go to see for two days. Usually over the Labor Day weekend. Their main goals are: Your enjoyment of Sunset Music Festival is our first priority, and the times of your life are straight ahead. Enter our sunny world with a reminder to have fun and be safe. The health of our Disco dancers is of utmost importance to  (Safety Par. 1). They are very concerned with the health and well-being of their participants. They want people to have fun while at the same time having fun and looking out for each other. Their position is to promote fun times at a festival while being safe and making friends. The first ad is from official website, www.discodonniepresents.com, that shows the flyer that they used to shows ethos and pathos. This one is trying to accomplish a sense of understanding to the audience by showing all of its information, like ethos and pathos. Vargas 2 Ethos is when the image it truthful or credible. The ethos in this ad is the source on the bottom right. They list the days of the festival and the times. It also shows who performs on what day. This shows that these are the official dates times the event will take place. Pathos is when an ad makes you feel a certain way about what they are trying to advertise. The pathos is that they use bright colors like orange, blue, green, and yellow. It gives off an almost tropical feel with the orange, yellow and green. While, the blue is light and gives the image a cool, refreshing feel. The second image was found on Instagram, with the caption #Views from #SMF16. This image shows ethos, pathos, and a little bit of kairos. Ethos has to do with how credible and truthful the image is, pathos is related to emotion and if the image makes you feel something, and lastly kairos is related to statements or commands that are given to the reader. The ethos represented in this photo is due to it being posted on the official Instagram page showing the sponsors. This image shows everyone at SMF having a fun time together enjoying music. Which makes people who usually go want to experience this event for themselves, this would be an example of pathos. Not only does this photo look cool because of the 360-degree editing but the colors on it scream Take me there, I want to enjoy myself at this . Now, kairos is just the caption of the post of this image. Showing you a statement that the SMF is using to make people want to go. Vargas 3 Now the real question would be if they were effective? And if they are how effective are they? Overall both ads are very effective the line up is good and it makes people want to go and enjoy a colorful time. Overall in the second image looks like a good time where people are joined together, the way the image was edited makes it feel like if it was its own world. That there is a portal and you can join something that seems a lot bigger than what we are. In the first image, the ad looks to be important, or that the people listed are important. The only reason these ads be effective is that they really show the safety aspect in either of the two ads. In conclusion, Sunset Music Festival (SMF) and the two advertisements are for the most part effective. The first and second image both showcase ethos and pathos, at the same time the second image also has a bit of kairos. They show off how colors and the digital design can change the effect an image has on people because if they were black and white it would have the same effect. The colors make people want to go and be a part of this musical event, while with friends and having a great time. Vargas 4 Work Cited Hardwell at Raymond James Disco Donnie Presents, https://www.discodonniepresents.com/event/2016-0528-tampa- raymondjamesstadium Accessed 28 Feb. 2017  Sunset Music Festival 2017, https://smftampa.com/info/safety Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. from Instagram, Smftampa, 11 Dec. 2016 https://www.instagram.com/p/BN5d5-uBm1M/?taken-by=smftampa&hl=en Accessed 26 Feb. 2017