Rosa 1 Alih Rosa Professor Josue ENC 1102 1/29/17 The Impact of Genetically Modified Organisms GMOs, otherwise known as Genetically Modified Organisms, are a controversial subject with groups who have very conflicting opinions on the subject. Presented to the markets for the first time in the these crops have expanded and taken over the world with their efficiency, productivity, and performance. GMOs account for a huge portion of the food we consume: from meats to fruits and vegetables. AgBioWorld, a major agriculture biotechnology establishment, glorifies the relatively new technological advancements, as these organisms have contributed to many improvements in our day, including a faster paced production process and conquering the problem of environmental difficulties. Even though all these developments contribute to what seems like super powers to the crops, FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization, has observed this innovation with an unfavorable eye. While from the viewpoint of a major business GMOs are a gift sent from heaven, to normal consumers and farmers, these crops have caused nothing Genetically Modified Organisms have support from a variety of backers, including those who believe GMOs are harmful to the environment and those who believe that the economy benefits from its contributions. A compromise that can be achieved by both stakeholders is creating a plan where only certain extreme unproductive areas around the country are selected to grow GMOs. Genetically Modified Organisms have been the focus of scientific attention since first pioneering into the laboratories and kitchens of our country. Since its introduction into the market, it has been greeted by tons of positive feedback by companies like AgBioWorld for the wondrous solutions it brings. One of the problems it may be able to possibly cure is world hunger. As current technology is expanding, scientists can hone in on specific concerns such as weather. Climate has so much to do with the growth on any land, as stated by Tom Parrett in his science and tech article for Newsweek, disasters are increasingly common on a planet buffeted by climate change and worldwide commerce, where heat burns crops, soil has been ruined by over-farming and drought, and bugs ride across oceans to feast on defenseless It is an obvious fact that when weather impacts the crops negatively, it is a major loss of time, money, and the crop itself! With the invention of GMOs, they have helped lower the amount of products we lose, speed up the production process itself, and increase manufacturing quantity. This is beneficial to a number of parties, but one of the best effects it has on the world is its ability to reduce hunger. In many countries, the populations suffer from malnourishment and starvation every day. With modern technology scientists to zero in on a single gene and turn it on or off, remove it or exchange it for a different (Parrett), laboratories are able to create foods with more nutrition and sustenance for the poverty stricken. With more nourishment being provided across the globe to the starving population, Genetically Modified Organisms can evidently viewed as a valuable implement to our system. Rosa 2 While there are plenty of positive features attributed to the widespread liking of these crops, GMOs also has its fair share of opponents. FAO, which stands for Food and Agriculture Organization, is a group who believes that the consumption of GMOs leads to devastating effects on human health, as well as on the planet. In a GMO Awareness article, the author describes the process and examples of genetically altered organisms, including and tomatoes injected with fish genes to protect the fruit from freezing, goats injected with spider genes to produce milk with proteins stronger than kevlar for use in industrial products, salmon that are genetically engineered with a growth hormone that allow them to keep growing larger, dairy cows injected with the genetically engineered hormone rBGH (also known as rBST) to increase milk production, and rice injected with human genes to produce (GMODefined), indicating that these challengers consider the health risks imposed over the monetary benefit. This include the incredible amount of poisonous herbicides and pesticides showered over the farms of crops, and the insufficient amount of experiments focused on humans. In terms of money, the big corporations are not doing any of the genetic modification for the well being of their consumers, doing it for profit, as can be seen in a stat from a GMO timeline focused on 1999, 100 million acres worldwide are planted with genetically engineered seeds. The marketplace begins embracing GMO technology at an alarming (Shireen) Once corporations saw how powerful their long lasting crops were (especially on the shelves of grocery stores and supermarkets), they began to expand their influence around various places across the globe. Their influence was not met with triumph however, as are currently labeled, extremely restricted, or banned in 64 countries, including the entire European and more nations around the world. (GMODefined) Along with it being highly disapproved of in more than 60 countries, The United States and Canada are the only countries that do not require labeling. With all the negative attributes added up, no wonder GMOs are so unpopular. All things considered, Genetically Modified Organisms obviously have two very opposite opinions: either you love them or absolutely hate them. But if both the stakeholders at odds with eachother were to try and come up with a compromise, it may be a negotiation more focused on circumstances. In other words, our con GMO stakeholder, FAO, sees that production of GMOs are unnecessary unless due to extreme conditions. AgBioWorld, the pro GMO stakeholder, sees that one of the reasons GMO production is useful is because of the fact that the crops can grow even in exceptional circumstances. An important factor to recognize is that there are millions of people starving around the world, and the work of crops could contribute to food production increases and thus improve the availability of food at global and local (Qaim and Kouser). For both companies to agree on a compromise, it must be made clear to both that in extreme conditions, organic crops are lost, as well as a good deal of time and a greater amount of money. In order to limit this loss of things, scientist can research and locate areas around the country with the worst weather or growing conditions. They may create a rubric in which the land has to pass a certain number of scrutinizations to be considered drastic. Once the land has been analyzed and passed the test, then genetically modified organisms can be grown there. The companies may want to keep a tally of how many lands are being confirmed, as well as which scientists are in charge of the inspections to determine whether the land be suited or not. Rosa 3 Altogether, GMO supporters and opponents have very passionate reasons as to why they feel so strongly about the topic at hand. GMO opponent focuses on the health risks they pose on human health, as well as the concerns they have for the environment, the lack of experiments on the subject, and the actual objective the big GMO corporations have, AKA profit. GMO supporters however, realize the amount of optimism these organisms provide for our system, including being able to provide food for the starving and malnourished population, grow crops in land otherwise seen as worthless due to harsh conditions, and keep grocery products at a relatively inexpensive price for all consumers. Even with such contradictory points of view, a compromise can be made where both parties can benefit in a way: an agreement in which Genetically Modified Organisms can be grown only in land with unstable and extreme conditions to eliminate the loss of so much time, money, and crops themselves. With vigilant observation and lots of checks and balances, scientists can research and conclude which uncultivable lands around the country would be most suitable for GMOs, while trying to keep the majority of farms organic. Rosa 4 Work Cited GMO  GMO Awareness. N.p., 11 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Parrett, Tom. GMO Scientists Could save the World from Hunger, If We Let  Newsweek. N.p., 30 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Qaim, Matin, and Shahzad Kouser. Genetically Modified Crops and Food  Genetically Modified Crops and Food Security. N.p., 5 June 2013. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Shireen. GMO Timeline: A History of Genetically Modified  GMO Inside. N.p., 18 Sept. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rosa 5 Rosa 6