Caudle 1 Megan Caudle ENC 1102 Professor Josue 14 February 2017 Sexual Education for adolescents has been a heated debate in America for decades. Thanks to the media, sex is constantly talked about in settings. Infact the topic is taken as joke. The classic movie Mean Girls poked at it with the coach misinforming students saying have sex. You will get pregnant and . Thankfully this is not true for most cases. However, most adolescents in America are not properly informed on the ins and outs about sexual education. Since the beginning of the parents of the children are supposed to be the ones that talk to them about the birds and the bees. On the other hand many believe that since some parents will not step up to the plate, the school should be allowed to educated the students on this sensitive topic. Although there are many opposing views on adolescents and sexual education from both the school system and the parents, both stakeholders can all agree that it is essential to make sure our children are well informed about sex so they will postpone making any unenlightened decisions. Many parents feel as if they should have this crucial conversation with their own children. However some feel very uncomfortable or embarrassed. Some even believe they have the skills or knowledge to educate their children. So what is a parent to do? Thankfully, the Caudle 2 government is starting to fund more schools to adopt either Abstinence programs or Comprehensive Sex education (Martin JA et al, 2003). The Comprehensive Sex programs been proven to be more effective. In fact, many sexual behaviors have been modified when teens have been educated through this program. Some of the behaviors include reducing the amount of partners and the increase in practicing safe sex. Since these programs have been more widespread the results say it all. Between 1991 and 2004 teen pregnancy rates went down from 62 to 41 per 1000 female teens (Martin JA et al, 2003). The results show that the more programs are available to teens, the better chance teens will reflect and take action on safe sex. On the other side, there are many different reasons parents believe that the school should not take action in speaking about sex. One of the biggest controversies in sexual education is the many different religious viewpoints (Salem Press, 2013). For example, many Christians believe in abstinence until marriage. That being said, many christian households may not want their children participating in the Comprehensive Sex program because it sexual behavior. Many would prefer the Abstinence-Only programs even though they are proven to be less effective. Another reason parents feel uncomfortable with this situation, is because they feel as if the content that is being taught to their kids is unnecessary and not age appropriate. They feel as if it is an invasion of privacy. The students even agree with their parents. Studies show that children prefer and feel more comfortable learning about sex from their parents. Finally, parents want to teach their kids based off of their experiences. In school they will learn a lot of the Caudle 3 technical terms and preventions. At home however, the talk will be a lot more personal and in a language the child will understand. There are many ways that we can find a common ground for both the parents and the school system. One of the simplest ways is to have an optional, separate course that not only covers sexual education, but also covers how to take care of your body and the different changes they will be experiencing during puberty. This would benefit both of the stakeholders because both have the option to educate adolescents on sex. Another solution, is to take time and educate students on sex. The school will send home a permission slip to have their child educated. If they chose to speak to their kids on their own and not go through the program their child will be sent to another room for a study hall. This way both of the different parenting styles can choose how they get educated. Finally, the school system can provide an after hours seminar for parents on how to educate their children on sex. This way the school is doing their part by making sure the students are given correct information. This is also beneficial because since most kids want to learn about sex from their parents, this will help them feel comfortable while being informed. The only problem with these solutions is the amount of money and time that will have to go into developing these programs. This will therefore raise taxes and most likely will enrage the public. Even though the benefits will show in the long run the process may be too much for the public to handle. Caudle 4 In conclusion, sexual education has been a heated debate for the past century. Although there are many opposing views on adolescents and sexual education, we can all agree that it is essential to make sure our children are well informed about sex so they will not make any unenlightened decisions. This issue could easily be fixed; there are a lot of factors that make the decision of sexual education harder to make like funding and religion. However, there are many benefits to increasing sexual education no matter what method we use. Caudle 5 Work Cited Sex education in schools  Debate Topics (Online Edition). Salem Press. 2013. Martin JA et al. Births: final data for 2003. National Vital Statistics Reports 2005; 54(2):1-116. Mean Girls. Mark Waters. Paramount Pictures. 2004. Film.