Cain 1 Karina Cain Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 27 February 2017 The Bleak Reality of Deforestation Captured Through Images Each year, it is estimated that more than seventy-eight million acres of rainforests are destroyed due to deforestation The practice of deforestation is the permanent removal of standing forests, usually on a relatively large scale of This is correlated to many damaging effects on the environment, including the depletion of oxygen reserves and the loss of species. In an effort to protect the environment from an unpromising future, some environmental organizations have risen up against deforestation. One in particular, Greenpeace, is a nonprofit agency which campaigns for forests that thrive with unique wildlife and provide clean air As a large part of the campaign against deforestation, Greenpeace releases images to shed light on the bleak consequences this practice has on the environment. In two selected images, Greenpeace utilizes logos, kairos, pathos, and ethos to effectively portray the dismal outcome of forest loss. Greenpeace is the leading independent campaigning organization which endeavors to use peaceful protest and creative communication to publicize global environmental problems They also strive to promote solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful future. Greenpeace was first created in 1971 by a small group of activists From the beginning, they have relied solely on member donations and contributions for funding. After over forty years, the organization has grown to thousands of members and participated in Cain 2 numerous campaigns. Some goals that Greenpeace indicates to have are stopping global warming, defending the oceans and forests, and protecting the environment from nuclear disasters and toxic pollution Regarding deforestation, Greenpeace believes forests are crucial for the health of people, animals, and the environment. Their current campaign is to work toward a deforestation On official website, many negative effects of deforestation are listed and explained, but two particular cases concern the loss of clean air and the loss of species As part of their campaign, Greenpeace releases images that embody the aftermath of deforestation, including these two cases, and applies rhetorical devices to strengthen their effectiveness. Greenpeace utilizes logos within an image of a tree trunk to apply logic to their advertisement against deforestation the Last At first glance of the tree trunk, logos is apparent in the reference of in the On the stump, is placed at the bottom-right corner of the center ring of the tree, which appears to look like the letter Thus, the image depicts a tree stump with at its center. is used in this case to connect trees to the production of oxygen. is at the center of the tree, because trees store and produce oxygen. The image translates that oxygen is literally and figuratively at the core of a Cain 3 tree. Logic is then applied further by correlating the loss of trees with a loss of oxygen. This means that every time a tree is cut, some of the remaining oxygen reserve is depleted. As a result, the atmosphere becomes abundant with greenhouse gases that we cannot respire. Overall, an appeal to logic in this advertisement helps the audience realize that deforestation results in the loss of oxygen and clean, breathable air. Kairos is also apparent in image of the tree trunk in order to evoke a sense of urgency. As a whole, this image depicts global oxygen running out through the use of tree rings as time. The thickness of a stump or the number of rings a stump possess can be used to estimate a age and are often associated with time. By placing the symbol for oxygen at the center of the tree stump, Greenpeace implies the loss of oxygen through the progression of time. Kairos is also a factor in the knowledge that every time a tree is cut, oxygen is loss. There is a finite amount of oxygen on this planet, which means deforestation contributes to an increasingly unlivable environment for aerobic organisms. This literally translates to time running out for humans on this planet. This then encourages the audience to act now before the effects of deforestation are irreversible. Kairos is also apparent with the text the last placed at the bottom of the image. This text is implying that there will be a last breath once the loss of trees, and oxygen as a result, can no longer be reversed. Below this text, us stop is also included along with website. This also contributes to kairos, because it is a timely demand. Overall, this advertisement is urging the audience to visit the website immediately and see what they can to do to stop the tragedy. In image of the tree stump, pathos is apparent in an effort to bring out the emotions on deforestation. Greenpeace wants the audience to feel passionate about Cain 4 the gravity of a vital gas running out. The placement of at the center of the stump is then effective, because it represents oxygen running out over time, as mentioned before. With a finite amount of oxygen which continues decrease with deforestation, the audience is meant to feel panicked, fearful, and urgent about the matter. The audience should also feel sadness for the loss of mass amounts of trees and other species in effect. The words the last at the bottom of the image are also meant to evoke sadness, because human practices are continuously taking the lives of animals and vegetation, and possibly humans in the future. The color within the image is dark and uniform, which is used in an effort to make the image appear and feel serious as well as dismal. Overall, the advertisement is meant to inflict emotions of sadness, anger, fear, and seriousness among the audience about deforestation. Greenpeace makes use of ethos in its first advertisement of the tree trunk, as well as another advertisement of a cheetah, to ensure the audience of their credibility. In the image of the tree trunk, ethos is apparent through the placement of organization name in the bottom-right corner of the image. Thus, the credibility of the image is placed on reliability. In the image of the cheetah, ethos is apparent in the same way: is written in the bottom-right corner of the image Only a Tree is Whether or not Greenpeace is considered credible is up to the discretion. Cain 5 However, name is known widely due to its status as the leading independent campaigning organization. This organization is also known to be non-profit and triumphant in many of their campaigns. The main concepts within the images, oxygen depletion and species loss due to deforestation, are known to be factual and can be confirmed through research. In the first image, official website is also provided, so any skeptics can find more information on the organization. Overall, the two images rely on the credibility of Greenpeace as an organization for its supporters. Within another advertisement, Greenpeace applies logos to an image of a cheetah in order to use logic in their argument against deforestation. In this image, Greenpeace applies the reasoning that the loss of trees also results in the loss of animals. This is depicted by the death of a tree, shown by a stump, equating to the death of animal, shown by the beheaded cheetah. This advertisement could represent the death of an animal, the end of a species, or both as a result of deforestation. The close and complex interaction of animals with other organisms and with their environment means that any slight disturbances within the environment would affect these interactions. This then means that the devastating loss of mass amounts of forests would result in the death of animals who lose their habitat or resources. This logic is used in order for the audience to make the connection that when a tree is killed, animals are typically killed as a result. Overall, the use of logos within this advertisement helps the audience make the connection that deforestation causes a loss of animals. Kairos is also apparent in image of a cheetah in order to portray deforestation as a time-sensitive issue. First off, the use of a tree stump with visible rings symbolizes a sense of time. As an extension of this, the image depicts both the lives of a tree and Cain 6 image ended too soon. The cheetah and the tree both have no other wounds or marks besides a clean cut at the neck and trunk, respectively. This means that without deforestation, these organisms could have lived a longer and healthy life; their lives were cut too short. Furthermore, the reasoning mentioned earlier means that an animal is killed or hurt every time a tree is cut. This is a scale of time, where trees are being cut down every second. This then means that animals are dying every second. Thus, the image is urging the audience to take a stand against deforestation before an even greater multitude of animals are destroyed. Greenpeace uses kairos to influence the audience to act immediately, and the name is placed on the bottom of the image so that the audience knows where to begin. Finally, the imagery in the background depicts a dark grey sky, which is used to symbolize a bleak future with deforestation. Thus, the audience should act immediately or else the future will be bleak and desolate like the advertisement. Overall, Greenpeace uses kairos to encourage the audience to join their movement before the effects of deforestation on biodiversity are permanent. image of the cheetah also contains pathos, which targets the emotions. The image depicts a cheetah without a head, and its death is correlated with deforestation. The image could represent one animal of many that dies due to deforestation, one whole species of many going extinct due to deforestation, or it could represent both aspects. The text at the bottom of the image reads only a tree is This could mean the lifespan of an animal is cut, a existence is cut, or it could mean both. The emotion the audience should feel is sadness and/or anger that human practices are continually contributing to the deaths of animals and vegetation. The emotion is heightened in this image through the use of a cheetah, which many people associate with grace, majesty, and agility. By choosing an animal that the Cain 7 majority of the audience thinks of positively, the sadness felt by its loss is increased. Additionally, the image displays dark and dull colors in the background, which represent a bleak future if deforestation continues at ts rate. The surroundings in the image are deserted with no sign of active life, which is meant to make the audience feel empathy for the lonely cheetah amongst an empty landscape. Overall, the image is meant to cause feelings of sorrow, anger, loneliness, and empathy amongst the audience. Finally, Greenpeace effectively utilizes rhetorical devices to provide the most impact in its deforestation advertisements. paramount mission statement is to strive for peaceful protest and communication in an effort to target global environmental issues and promote sustainable solutions. The two selected advertisements embody this goal by providing simple and straight-forward images that communicate two serious issues which result from deforestation. The images make the effects of deforestation known to the audience, protest these effects by negatively portraying deforestation, and provide solutions through the inclusion of the name and/or website. The image of the tree stump is effective in stance against deforestation through the inclusion of the correlation of oxygen depletion with deforestation, the urgency placed on oxygen reserves running out, the seriousness and fear felt through the elements, and the reliability placed on the organization itself. The image of the cheetah is also effective in anti-deforestation campaign, because it provides the correlation between species loss and deforestation, urgency to save dying animals, elements that evoke emotions of sadness and anger, and the name of the organization for credibility. anti-deforestation campaign is firm in its goal to move toward a zero deforestation future, which is effectively carried out by providing two major issues that arise through Cain 8 deforestation as well as pressure on the audience to help reverse these effects. In such simple images, Greenpeace carefully places elements of logos, kairos, pathos, and ethos to give the advertisements a monumental impact. Ultimately, the issue of deforestation leads to numerous adverse effects on the environment, including the depletion of oxygen and the loss of species. As a result, some environmental organizations have come forward in protest of deforestation, including Greenpeace. As a part of their anti-deforestation campaign, Greenpeace releases advertisements which utilize rhetorical devices within an image to depict some of the major consequences of deforestation. Within the two selected images of the tree stump and the cheetah, the harsh reality of oxygen depletion and species loss, respectively, are depicted using logos, kairos, pathos, and ethos. These devices are used effectively in each image to turn a simplistic picture into an advertisement with a powerful message. These advertisements then effectively demonstrate stance against deforestation by emphasizing its negative impacts and encouraging the audience to help join the anti-deforestation movement. Cain 9 Works Cited Greenpeace, <http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/about/>. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. ThinkGlobalGreen, <https://www.thinkglobalgreen.org/deforestation.html>. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. of Pachamama Alliance, <https://www.pachamama.org/effects-of-deforestation>. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Only a Tree is , Greenpeace, <https://www.pinterest.com/pin/394839092301289410/>. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace, <http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/forests/>. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace, <http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/what-we-do/>. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. the Last , Greenpeace, Jan. 2008, <http://www.advertolog.com/greenpeace/print-outdoor/shrinking-11152955/>. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017.