Morris 1 Dylan Morris Josue ENC 1102 2/9/2016 Padding in Professional Football One of the biggest money-making industries in modern world is professional sports. Everywhere you look you see athlete endorsements, or sports apparel, or maybe even you are watching the sport itself. At the fore-front of this mainstream industry is American football. Every year the Super Bowl, professional annual championship game, is the most watched spectacle in the United States. American football both captures the attention of an adult audience as well as influences our youth greatly. With this ginormous population of viewers there is bound to be some disagreement among fans. By far the most controversial of those disagreements would be about the safety of National Football League (NFL) players. On one hand, there are the concerned NFL fans who believe that the league needs to issue more padding to players in an attempt to keep them safe. But on the other hand, there are those who feel that the more padding a player has, the more weaponized they become. Either way, it is important for the NFL and its community of followers to come to an agreement. An achievable compromise would be changing the rules of the game to make it more safe for all involved rather than altering the padding worn by players. Everyone would agree that a change should be made, until a compromise is made we cannot all move forward together. Morris 2 In every NFL game played at least one, usually a few, players sustain an injury. It could be broken bones, sprains, or the most common injury which is a concussion. In a test of 91 former NFL players, 87 of them had a disease known as chronic traumatic encephalopathy or CTE (PBS 2015). CTE causes the brain to deteriorate at a much faster than pace than usual due to repeated concussions and hits to the head (Boston University 2009). This study displays the severity of the issue at hand. If the NFL does not take some sort of action almost every currently employed NFL player is on path to have serious brain injuries after their careers. Many argue that the cause of all these injuries is a lack of protection. They feel that the solution to all this head trauma is a new revolutionized helmet. As the game itself changes over time so should the equipment. There have been two very popular helmet ideas that claim to be the answer to all problems. The University of South Carolina has begun using a sleeve that goes over the helmet called a guardian cap. This protective sleeve consists of pockets of foam rubber scattered around the top of the helmet for added protection. In its use, the guardian cap reduced head impact up to 33% (USA Today 2013). Another very popular idea thrown into the mix was a helmet designed by auto- racing safety equipment maker Bill Simpson. This new helmet incorporates padding on the inside of the helmet instead of the outside. The new casing within the helmet mimics the motion of what happens inside a human head. This means with any impact there will be a much more natural movement. Both of these helmets increase padding to a players helmet and more importantly decreasing the impact on a players head. In opposition to the more padding argument, there are those who argue that all these heavy helmets tend to weaponize players. Logically if a player is given a nearly indestructible helmet, then he is going to lead with that hard helmet when making a tackle. It is basic survival Morris 3 instincts. In an interesting experiment, the University of New Hampshire started doing their practices without helmets. Erik Swartz, professor of kinesiology at the University of New Hampshire, compared the helmet-less practice to rugby saying, keep your head out of the way in a tackle in rugby. Because not protected, it will (Erik Schwartz 2014). If a player knew that leading with his head would now hurt, he would definitely stay away from that act. It would be as if you were playing paintball with a vest versus without a vest. Without a vest you would be much more conservative and likely hide more than you would when wearing the protection. This is just how the common brain works. This argument seems a bit far out to most, but the theory is backed up in similar scenarios. Some good news is that the NFL is paying attention to this study by the University of New Hampshire by offering them a $500,000 grant. Both approaches to the same topic are very different. But one thing that is certain is that both parties are bound to make the game of professional football much more safe. If both parties could just focus on coming together to accomplish this feat the game would have been changed by now. An alternate route to please everyone involved may be changing the rules of the game. If the NFL was stricter on the hits allowed on the individual player, then we would see less head injuries. This solution is perfect because it solves the problem that both parties are facing without letting one side Meaning that we do not add pads nor do we take away pads in this solution. We alter the rules to match the always changing game so that players and fans can enjoy a safe sport while also keeping it rather traditional. Football is the United States most popular sport. Kids everywhere are jumping in head first to start their young careers. A priority we should have as a country is to make the game safe Morris 4 before letting the athletes take the field. Although some people want to achieve this by adding pads and others want to achieve this by taking away pads, I believe the answer is a serious rule change. We need to increase punishments for what will be considered on another athlete. No more leading with the helmet or targeting another players helmet would result in less concussions and other brain related injuries. Let us all take one giant step toward a safer pastime. Morris 5 Works Cited Football Players Drill Without Helmets To Curb  NPR. NPR, 11 Dec. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Breslow, Jason M. 87 Deceased NFL Players Test Positive for Brain  PBS. PBS, 18 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Foster, Tom. New Football Helmet Could Save the  Popular Science. N.p., 18 Dec. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sports, Gary Mihoces. More Padding the Issue of Concussions and Better  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 23 Aug. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What Is CTE? CTE Center Boston  CTE Center RSS. Boston University, 2009. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.