Stamm 1 Melissa-Lynn Stamm Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 25 February 2017 The Non-GMO Project: The Butterfly Affect The United States is one of the few countries along with Canada that does not carry any law on genetically modified food labeling. Therefore, The Non-GMO project must use their own efforts to get the information out into the world explaining what GMOs are, what they do, and how to remain a non-GMO verified product. GMOs have been around for thousands of years appearing first with plants in the southwestern part of Asia (Rangel 3-5). Now it is very common to find in most of the products and food consumed. As a non-profit organization, the Non-GMO Project uses funding and support from verified brands to create more programs and publication geared towards training, educating, and protecting manufacturers/consumers from the dangers of genetically modified organisms. This organization has become one of the most trusted verification labels for non-GMO foods and products in North America (The Non-GMO project). The Non-GMO Project supports their mission educating the public on the use of GMOs by projecting images on the public that utilize ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos productively. Before the famous GMO prevention label took flight in 2010 the Non- GMO Project was merely collaboration between two grocery stores in 2007. The two grocery stores Natural Grocery Company in Berkeley, California and The Big Carrot Natural Food Market in Toronto, were consistently working to supply their staff and consumers with as much information on GMO prevention as possible (The Stamm 2 Non-GMO Project). Both stores combined their progress and research with the technological support from the global ID Group, an organization known to be the world leaders of experimenting, verifying, and educating on Non-GMO products. The three advisors reached out to form a committee, board of directors, and found many credible experts in the industry to give their general viewpoint in the form of a consensus-based document to create The Non-GMO Project Standard. The Non-GMO mission is dedicated to building and educating the public on non-GMO verification, all the while preserving organic agriculture and sustaining non-GMO seed growth. The Non-GMO project believes that people should consume as little products with GMOs as possible. They work towards this by focusing on expansion and participation with their labeling, and most importantly explaining to retailers how important it is to ensure that your crops do not become contaminated with The first image with Alexia sweet potato fries utilizes ethos to represent the credibility of the Non-GMO Project by presenting their verified label at the bottom of the image. Ethos is defined in this image by referencing to symbols (The Non-GMO Project logo) that represent authority, they apply this rhetorical device so Stamm 3 that the audience will see this logo at the bottom of the image and on the bottom left of the Alexia bag, and trust that this brand ensures the best quality as well. Logos is used to assure the audience that their argument or message is logical. In the first image logos is found in the little sentence in the middle of the image, because it is describing how natural the product is by saying it is with more Mother better for the consumer, the audience reading this information will be convinced from reasonable information presented. This sentence is comparing sweet potatoes to mother nature, and also their sea salt to mother nature as well, concluding that their product is the same as nature, organic with no added GMOs. In the first image does not show any kairos, however the farmer hand grabbing the carrots that are part of the bag is unusual and funny, therefore the hand appeals to pathos through humor. The point of this image is to make the audience happy or possibly laugh at the idea of a hand grabbing a bag of sweet potato fries out of the ground. The first image uses pathos with humor, and also with happiness by their choice of font. Not only does the first image utilize pathos in their choice of font, but the second image of Woodstock products does as well. Both images show pathos through the cursive font they choose to make the audience feel joyous and peaceful. In the first image they say to with the word flavor in cursive, immediately I associate the joyfulness I feel when I see the word with the product, this has the same affect in the second image. The words because with in cursive has the same affect the first image does, convincing the audience that the product is as wonderful and good as the ad makes you feel. Stamm 4 The second image of the Woodstock peanut butter, corn, and blueberries has a lot of ethos with the USDA organic label, and the Non-GMO Project label in the middle of the picture to draw attention to it. This image also has the Woodstock website, the Non- GMO Project website, and their social media hashtag. This small image has a lot going on by first glance, however it also draws the audience attention right away, because all the credibility allows the audience to believe the company and products are reliable, and valid thanks to the notorious Non-GMO Project verification label. In the second image logos is not shown, however kairos is clearly depicted through the saying at the bottom of the image, insinuating that the audiences needs to eat, and Woodstock products is what is going to be good for them to eat. The words because are in all capital letters except for the word which is in cursive. This sentence was put here to make the audience see how urgent it is for them to buy Woodstock products, because they are just that good. The use of ethos, logos, and pathos in image one clearly depicted what the organization was trying to get across to the audience. These 3 rhetorical appeals grabbed the audience attention with valid information, logical reasoning, humor and joyfulness. The use of ethos in image one helped the organization gain the trust of Stamm 5 the consumers by giving credit to the Non-GMO Project twice in the picture, and letting the consumer know the product has been verified. Part of the Non-GMO mission statement is to reach a worldwide goal for Non-GMO verification labeling, and therefore consumers will always know everything in their products. Logos is also successfully utilized in image one, through the little sentence in the middle of the image confirming their product is a as natural as mother nature itself. This appeal works in the mission statement supporting their goal to educate the public on what a verified product is. Image one and two both successfully use pathos in the choice of cursive for their font. The first image is appealing to the humorous side with the farmer hand grabbing the carrots out of the ground, and both images appeal to the joyful, and peaceful side with cursive font. The use of this appeal helps support their mission statement because, the audience will feel happy when they look at the images, and may sway them in the direction of verification. In the second image, the rhetorical appeal ethos is successfully providing credibility for their supporters, and following the mission statement by spreading awareness and knowledge of GMOs. The Non-GMO project strives to achieve in their mission statement telling the public of how much better Non-GMO products are for them, the use of kairos in the second image does just that. The words because use kairos to tell the audience exactly why they should try this product. The Non-GMO Project applies ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos in two different images, one of Alexia sweet potato fries, and the second of Woodstock products both verified. They use these rhetorical devices to convey to the audience that consuming Stamm 6 products with Non-GMO Project verification is the most successful route to good, natural, farm fresh products. Stamm 7 Work Cited NON GMO Project, https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Westgate: Megan Westgate leads the nonprofit Non-GMO Project, whose reach is Nutritional Outlook, Vol. 15, Issue 10, Dec. 2012, pp. 36. General OneFile, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T003&resultLis earchForm&currentPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA339015801&docType=Articl e&sort=RELEVANCE&contentSegment=&prodId=ITOF&contentSet=GALE%7 CA339015801&searchId=R1&userGroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true. Accessed 26 January 2017. Rangel, Gabriel. Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO SITN, 9 Aug. 2015, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/from- corgis-to-corn-a-brief-look-at-the-long-history-of-gmo-technology/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Schaberg, James. Living Non-GMO, https://livingnongmo.org/wp- content/uploads/2016/07/ALX-LivingNonGMOAd-430x200.jpg. Accessed 23 February 2017. Living Non-GMO, https://livingnongmo.org/2017/01/25/the-opal-of-my-eye/. Accessed 23 February 2017. Stamm 8