Masut 1 Amanda Masut James Josue ENC 1102-100 14 February 2017 Standardized Testing accountability systems the use of tests to hold individuals or institutions responsible for performance and to reward achievement have become the cornerstone of U.S. federal education policy, and the past decade has witnessed a widespread adoption of test-based accountability systems in the sales have grown from approximately $260 million annually in 1997 to approximately $700 million today nearly a threefold (Jonathan Supovitz). The U.S. federal government uses these test-based systems (also referred to as Standardized tests) to somehow assess the growth of a education. The U.S. Department of Education believes that all of these timed, high-stakes exams will make it easier to place students and ultimately provide colleges with a standard of excellence, but over the years local teacher unions in local school boards have seen a reverse effect on students. They have witnessed the stress that these students face. These teachers have been instructed to teach these students at the same pace with a No Child Left Behind policy, but this leaves some kids to fend for themselves if they are falling behind. Additionally, curriculum has been significantly narrowed over the years to accommodate for test prep. Both stakeholders, the U.S. Department of Education and these local teacher unions, want students to succeed. Their end goals are the same, however they do not agree on how to get there. In order to compromise and come to an agreement, the U.S. government should come up with a way to make standardized testing suitable for each age group (kindergarteners, 1 st grade, 2 nd grade, etc.) so that younger kids are Masut 2 not struggling and the U.S. Department of Education can get accurate statistics to base their future tests off of. To begin, the stakeholder that is for Standardized testing is the U.S. Department of Education. They believe that testing may be stressful for some students, testing is a normal and expected way of assessing what students have learned. The purpose of state assessments required under No Child Left Behind is to provide an independent insight into each progress, as well as each This information is essential for parents, schools, districts and states in their efforts to ensure that no child--regardless of race, ethnic group, gender or family income--is trapped in a consistently low-performing Frequently Asked The Department knows that this policy basically encourages teachers to the but they are not alarmed by this because they see it as a necessary step to influence students to learn the material on the exam and to better their scores. The Department also believes that when students are only taught the required material on the exams, students do not need extra preparation for these standardized tests in the future. The issue that the union sees with this is that not all students learn best under a time crunch. A lot of students also need more attention in class because their learning ability may be either advanced or lower than their classmates. Therefore, they may struggle to maintain this standard that the federal government is influencing. The Department can counter this argument toward teachers, because they believe testing provides teachers with a basis for each student. They claim, testing provides teachers with a great deal of information. For example, overall poor results could indicate that the curriculum needs to be reviewed and aligned with the content upon which state standards are based; poor results could also mean that teachers need to modify their instructional methods. Another likely indicator of the same problems would be if teachers saw poor Masut 3 performance by their students in certain areas. Test results could also help teachers to clarify those areas in which they may need professional development. Finally, teachers gain a great deal of information about the performance of individual students that enables them to meet the particular needs of every Frequently Asked This is what they are striving for, but the sad truth that the unions live with is that some students really do not get the particular needs the Department of Education believes that the Standardized tests give these students. Furthermore, the stakeholder that is against Standardized tests is the local teacher unions. They believe that standardized tests do not solely grant the school or university the level of intelligence that is needed to evaluate students. The cut in curriculum mentioned earlier is what they believe limits growth. In fact, to late education researcher Gerald W. Bracey, PhD, qualities that standardized tests cannot measure include creativity, critical thinking, resilience, motivation, persistence, curiosity, endurance, reliability, enthusiasm, empathy, self-awareness, self-discipline, leadership, civic-mindedness, courage, compassion, resourcefulness, sense of beauty, sense of wonder, honesty, - ProCon.org), which is part of the full picture of what makes education worthwhile. The statistics are also alarming, because there is direct evidence that only certain subjects in school are being taught. According to an online source I used for my research, national 2007 study by the Center on Education Policy reported that since 2001, 44% of school districts had reduced the time spent on science, social studies and the arts by an average of 145 minutes per week in order to focus on reading and math. A 2007 survey of 1,250 civics, government, and social studies teachers showed that 75% of those teaching current events less often, cited standardized tests as the - ProCon.org). These local unions within public schools are Masut 4 concerned that test prep may be too stressful for some kids, eventually resulting in health issues as well (Kate and Motoko). Consider also that if these impressionable students do not learn critical social skills or learn about current events they may not have such a successful future, no matter what their scores may be on the FCAT, SAT or ACT. In conclusion, there are two main stakeholders that are invested in the topic of Standardized testing. These two stakeholders are the U.S. Department of Education and the local teacher unions within the public school systems. Both of these parties want the best possible education for their students, but they do not know how to agree on the method or methods to achieve this end goal. Therefore, a compromise would help these two parties come to a common ground that will overall help students of all age groups within the education system. The compromise that would be the best to propose is to adjust the current standardized tests to also account for the progress of students in a particular grade (i.e.- kindergarteners should learn about the calendar, months, counting, etc.) For the Department of Education, they would have to give up their control of the testing system and for the teacher union they would have to readjust their current lesson plans and spend more time helping individual students. It will be less of a stretch for both stakeholders, and it would be easier to use this compromise to make the first step into a better education system to eventually benefit both parties by benefitting the students in the public schools. In order for this to take place, first the Department of Education would need to look at the statistics and recognize that there is an issue with the current testing system. The teachers in the union would need to provide the Department with evidence that students need a better testing or performance assessment and the Department would need to sit down with some school boards and consider some options to better fit the culture and the environment that the school is surrounded by. This way, the schools and the Department of Education can reach their goal of Masut 5 helping students reach a better score and overall better education that will eventually lead them to further their education in college. Masut 6 Works Cited Fact Sheet: Focusing Higher Education on Student  Fact Sheet: Focusing Higher Education on Student Success U.S. Department of Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fact Sheet: Testing Action  Fact Sheet: Testing Action Plan U.S. Department of Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Is High-Stakes Testing  Is High-Stakes Testing Working? Penn GSE. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Standardized Tests -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Taylor, Kate, and Motoko Rich. Unions Fight Standardized Testing, and Find Diverse  New York Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Testing: Frequently Asked  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.