Brown 1 Jonathan Brown Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 910 27 February 2017 ACLU fighting for American Rights ACLU has been around since 1919 standing up for American civil rights (ACLU history). Whether it is appearing in court for an individual or even spreading a message on rights being violated. A very effective way to spread this message can be through pictures or propaganda. Words can only go so far before people either get bored of it or not care. To counteract this, pictures are used to quickly grab the attention and cause almost an immediate response. The ACLU perfects this with the two pictures at the end of the document. What about these pictures though causes people to get fired up or feel a certain emotion to side with ACLU and receive this hidden message? Images and symbolism go far deeper into the human mind than words could ever. The first image used by ACLU below is the patriot act image. The patriot act was passed back in 2001 after the terrorist attack of 9/11. What it stated was that authorities now had the power to use investigative tools, previously only used to drug trafficking and organized crime, to now investigate possible terrorist cells and activities that could harm the US (What is the USA patriot web). People at first were ecstatic of this act to try and feel safer after the horrors of 9/11; ACLU felt differently though. The image portrays a patriot that is part machine, the government, going through private files while an innocent woman is tied up behind him crying. This symbolizes that the patriot act is an invasion of privacy, breaching the American civil rights to see personal files. With the women crying and the maniacal look of the patriot, this image is a perfect use of pathos. Pathos is used to convey emotion, the first emotion that Brown 2 someone should feel seeing this image is betrayal along with anger. This image is meant for someone to feel an almost call to arms, to rise and fight this sinister act for what it is. In lettering underneath, it says to protect you from your is also a use of pathos. It is stating some information that ACLU is trying to inform the viewer of something they might not have known about the Patriot Act. This image spreads such a powerful message to people to get them to join ACLU against a sinister action against them. ACLU knows how to play the field from this. The second image presented by ACLU conveys a different message than to rise up against an oppressor. This one will be called the Lady Liberty picture for this documents purposes. It is not as much of a rise with ACLU, more of a ACLU stands with the people of the United States. This message is also conveyed through Pathos predominately. The way the women stands, proudly and with great strength makes the viewer feel powerful and confident with ACLU. This could also be argued as part of the ethos method as well. The lettering on the side freedom is a message about ACLU. ACLU is the way forward by making sure Americans rights are fought for and protected. The image also conveys that ACLU will fight for these rights peacefully and legally, with the women holding a microphone and binder as her tools. This represents that the voices will be heard and their rights will not be forgotten. Lady Liberty is also supposed to target a specific audience, and that is women. With the main character of the poster being a woman, standing proud and strong wearing the American flag, it goes to show ACLU is stating that they stand with women and their rights and that they will fight for said rights and make only progression in the country. These two images spread more of a message than any text could a lot faster. Whether against a sinister act or showing that ACLU stands with the American people, images are very Brown 3 effective at spreading messages. Both images, however, both contain a message that can and should be seen in every ACLU picture. The message that ACLU fights for the rights. The main slogan, a motto, of the ACLU is that they fight for the American basic human rights no matter the cost (ACLU History). Both images have the common message and are shown differently, the Patriot Act image has it shown that ACLU is standing against this plot and that the people should know about it as well. Lady image conveys this by showing they stand with the people, especially women, proudly and confidently and that they will move forward to gain their rights. Especially where rights have been overshadowed by other events going on in the world (Faraj). ACLU have chosen their audience perfectly and spread their message perfectly through their images. Images and symbolism have always been the greatest way to impact everyday lives. They have a certain way of haunting and conveying such emotion so spread a message better than any article or written words. ACLU has caught onto this and used it to spread a message that they are there to help the American people. Using Pathos, Ethos, and Kairos the organization has created images to spark even the fewest represented to side with them and feel safe with them. Pathos being the most used one in both images to convey emotion, whether its anger and an urge to rise against something horrible in the Patriot Act image; or to feel confident and strong from the Lady Liberty picture. Both are such strong emotions and will encourage people with image better than any article or news headline. Emotions are what get people to act for or against something. Brown 4 Works Cited ACLU  American Civil Liberties Union. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.aclu.org/about/aclu-history>. What is the USA Patriot  What is the USA Patriot Web. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.justice.gov/archive/ll/highlights.htm>. Faraj, Jabril. Rights and Inequality in  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 19 Aug. 2013. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Images used: =2&biw=1920&bih=974&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiAtLWCu6LSAhUB M: Brown 5 Brown 6 =2&biw=1920&bih=974&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiAtLWCu6LSAhUB bM: