Smith 1 Andrew Smith Mr. James Josue ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Play and Get Paid Over the past few decades, college athletics have been getting vastly more popular. Almost every professional sport that is being played by professional athletes is also being played at the college level by college athletes. The association known as the NCAA is the umbrella under which all college athletics are run and played. Last year alone, the NCAA received 876 million dollars in revenue from ticket sales and television broadcasts, and the number is only expected to rise. So where does all of this money go? The NCAA claims that it is a nonprofit organization and that 90% of its revenue goes back to the athletes (NCAA). But they cannot directly pay student athletes as it is against their regulations. Many student athletes find this unfair and believe that they should be paid for their time and effort. In order to solve this issue, there needs to be a compromise put in place. One possible compromise that benefits both the NCAA and the student athletes involves the student athletes receiving a stipend of 5000 dollars from the NCAA for food, clothes, and other college expenses. On one side of the discussion, there is the NCAA. The NCAA strictly prohibits paying college athletes in any way. According to NCAA president Mark Emmert, paying college athletes would destroy the framework of college sports (Dalhberg, Tim). If these athletes were payed, then college sports would pretty much be converted into minor league sports. And everyone knows that minor league sports very popular. Who can say that they watched a Smith 2 minor league hockey game on TV? Probably not many people because minor league sports heavily broadcasted or even talked about. Emmert also states that part of the fun of watching college sports is knowing that these athletes are part of the student body and that they are playing because they love the game, not because they are getting paid (Dalhberg, Tim). Not to mention that according to the NCAA, paying students to play would be in direct violation of the first NCAA rules created in 1905 (NCAA). It is also clear that college athletes are playing voluntarily. No one is forcing them to play. One final point as to why college athletes be paid is because they are going to college for an education, not to be paid. Even though college is the best place to be recruited for the pros, it is also possible to make it to the pros without going through college first. These athletes know that they are getting paid and yet they still play anyways. If they were that upset about it, then they would propose a strike against the NCAA. But clearly, not that big of a deal to these athletes. On the other side of the discussion, there are the college athletes themselves. According to a survey done by the NCAA, division 1 football players practice for an average of 43 hours a week (Edelman, Marc). a full time job! Not to mention that these athletes also have classes and homework to do. They have no time for any sort of job. And yes, many college athletes do get scholarships and stipends but not all of these athletes get scholarships and the stipends the do get are only 2000 dollars a year according to USA Today (Walch, Jared). only 77 dollars a week for gas, clothes, or any other things the students want or need to buy. not much compensation for making the NCAA billions of dollars. There is also the case of Johnny Manzel when he got suspended for selling memorabilia with his autograph on it. According to NCAA, this type of profit is illegal (Edelman, Marc). But for some reason, okay for the NCAA to advertise the games with billboards and commercials in order to Smith 3 make ticket revenue. It is also unfair that EA Sports make millions of dollars each year off of college video games and none of the profit goes to the students themselves. In pro sports video games, the players get part of the profits. Because of this controversy, EA Sports have discontinued college sports video games. The games were making too much profit for the athletes to not be able to get any of it. There is also the debate that by paying college athletes to play, they will stay in school for the whole four years to get their degrees. According to USA Today, many athletes leave for the pro drafts early because they need that first paycheck in order to combat their low socioeconomic backgrounds (Walch, Jared). One final point made by the student athletes as to why they should be paid is because they miss school to play on nationally televised games. According to Forbes, college basketball athletes miss up to a week of school for the March Madness tournament and several other days for weekly scheduled games (Edelman, Marc). This type of commitment requires some sort of compensation. It is not fair to ask them to miss classes in order for them to basically volunteer. It is clear that neither side of the discussion, neither the NCAA nor the student athletes will give in. The only reasonable thing to do would to form a compromise that generally favors both sides. A compromise that provides a little more money for the college athletes. Not too much money but just the extra money that they deserve. This compromise must also obey the rules of the NCAA in which college athletes cannot be paid. So if they be paid, then how do you compensate them for their efforts? A possible compromise would involve the NCAA giving a 5000 dollar stipend to each NCAA athlete (Rose, Jalen). This would result in about 200 dollars a week for the athlete to use as spending money for any wants or needs they may have. Plus, there could be bonuses for players who perform the very best. For example, players of the week receive an extra 500 dollars Smith 4 and the Heisman winner in college football gets an extra 2000 dollars. With this compromise, the NCAA have to rewrite any of its rules and can remain a nonprofit. But, with any compromise, there is a negative side effect. It may make the game a little more like the pros in which people play for the money and not for the game. But, with that said, this compromise is a step in the right direction. In conclusion, the discussion of whether or not college athletes should be paid has two main sides. The one side is led by the NCAA which believes that college athletes should not be paid because it takes away from the college game and because it is against the rules. The other side is led by the student athletes that state that their time and efforts deserve some sort of compensation. So a possible compromise would be to stipend the athletes around 5000 dollars for gas, clothes and other wants of a typical college student. Smith 5 Works Cited Dalhberg, Tim. President, Paying College Athletes Could Destroy College Diverse. June 19 th , 2014 Edelman, Marc. Reasons Why College Athletes are Forbes. January 14, 2016 NCAA. does the money National Collegiate Athletic Association. Nd. Rose, Jalen. College Athletes, A Reasonable Huffington Post. May 25 th , 2011. Walch, Jared. Athletes be USA Today College. The Daily Utah Chronicle. October 20 th , 2016