Carver 1 Matt Carver James Josue ENC1102 12 February 2017 The Controversy of Capital Punishment in the USA Capital punishment, otherwise known as the death penalty, is a government practice where a person is put to death as a punishment for a crime. Although the crimes that receive this punishment vary between the states, the federal government applies the death penalty to crimes involving treason, terrorism, espionage, federal murder, and large-scale drug trafficking. Justice For All (JFA) and National Coalition Against the Death Penalty (NCADP) are two organizations at odds with each other due to their vastly different views on the worth of the death penalty. JFA embraces the death penalty for its effect on crime deterrence, constitutionality, and ethical purpose; meanwhile, NCADP pushes for the end of the death penalty due to its immorality, cost effectiveness and safety. While NCADP and JFA have differing views on the death penalty, qualities both stakeholders share are desires to enforce an ethical punishment, a cheaper financial solution, and an outcome that deters crime to ensure public safety in the USA. The JFA organization is an avid believer that the strongest crime deterrence available is the death penalty. As a result they state that the death penalty is worth any risk or cost, because it keeps violent crime rates lower (JFA 2017). 63% of Americans support the death penalty and 31 states practice it, meanwhile only 19 states chose to abolish it. The majority of the support is enough to rank America 5 th in the world in the leading number of death penalty Carver 2 executions (Gallup 2014). Contrary to popular belief, the majority of Catholics and Protestants approve of the death penalty and insist it is ethical. On the other hand, people with no religious backgrounds tend to have a stronger demand for the end of the death penalty (Gallup 2014). JFA believes executions of the people who qualified for the death penalty are approved ethically simply because they deserved it for what they did, whether the crime was murder, treason, etc. Although abolitionists of the death penalty argue that the capital punishment system is unjust and racially discriminating, JFA states that there is no substantial evidence to prove it. Since 1973, 157 people put on death row have been proven innocent (Death Penalty Information Center 2017). Moreover, JFA insists that the overall deterrence effect is worth the few small mistakes in the system and lost lives, due to the overall safer environment it will bring to the whole population. In other words, according to JFA, the risk of executing a few innocent people is worth it for the greater good of the safety. On the contrary, NCADP calls for the abolition of the death penalty due to its high cost, immorality, application of racial bias and in order to save innocent victims from being executed. The cost of an inmate on death row is up to 10 times more expensive than an inmate on a life sentence with no parole. This is due to various factors such as a longer and more complex process filled with more appeals and retrials, as well as an extremely increased pricing in death row prisoner housing. Housing costs have tripled since 1998 and the lengthy processes take several months, racking up large legal bills for the state (Newton 2016). NCADP believes that killing people is immoral and even the worst criminals and murderers should not be put to death. The organization believes the deterrence of a life sentence with no parole is just as strong as the death penalty which can be seen as an easy way out for some criminals. A life sentence with no parole forces an inmate to live out the rest of their life behind bars with no chance at all of ever Carver 3 leaving. Racial bias in the death penalty is observed from a study showing murderers who killed a white man were given the death sentence 2.5 times more than murderers who killed a black or Hispanic man. The gap broadens even more so when a white female is the victim; those murderers are given death sentences 5 times more often (NCADP 2016). Inmates that are on death row realize they will be put to death eventually, so they act out more often and are more dangerous than the average inmate. As a result, prison guards and other workers are attacked and injured, put in way by death row inmates (Daems 2011). All of these factors add to the push for a nationwide and then worldwide abolition of capital punishment. In spite of their differences, a compromise is attainable between NCADP and JFA, because they both desire crime deterrence for public safety, lower costs, and an ethical and just process. A possible compromise is to abandon death penalty executions and transition to a life sentence with no parole. Polls show that more people fear a slow timely death from life imprisonment and prefer being put to death. Furthermore, this supports the idea that crime deterrence will be just as strong if not stronger without the death penalty (Gallup 2014). The pros of this compromise include costs 10 times less expensive than the death penalty, more safety for prison guards and workers, no easy way out of jail time (like executions provide) and it still deters crime effectively (Radelet 2015). On the other hand, the cons of this solution are indicted innocent citizens will have less opportunities to appeal and get out of their life long sentence. Also even if all the claims of racial bias were abolished with the death penalty, there is no way to determine if life sentences will be given with any more equality to different races and ethnicities. Although JFA must stray from using the death penalty, this compromise relieves any ethical debates against executions, saves money otherwise spent on inflated death row costs in the court room and housing. This resolution also unites the country under one policy instead of dividing it Carver 4 over questions of proper punishment. JFA stated their main goal is maximum crime deterrence and public safety; this is much more attainable through life sentences with no parole. Since the majority of people in the USA fear life imprisonment over death, transitioning away from the death penalty will have stronger crime deterrence, thus creating a safer environment. Overall, the pros of this compromise far outweigh the cons for both organizations, because NCADP eliminates the death penalty and JFA achieves their most important goals. As a result, the compromise between NCADP and JFA has potential to set a new standard in the USA by enforcing crime deterrence in a less expensive and more ethical procedure. Working on creating a more justifiable and equal justice system with no bias will always be a goal, but unfortunately there is no clear evidence or ways to measure it and prove bias is around due to the multiple factors at hand. Modern technology and forensics has improved exponentially in the last decade so in most cases there innocent victims given death or life sentences. In the rare circumstance that they do occur, the justice system must be able to correct these errors and cite more conclusive results, so no more innocent people spend their in jail. With this compromise between JFA and NCADP, life in prison with no parole becomes the modern solution to preventing major crimes and creating an ethical, balanced, and more secure justice and prison systems at a substantially lower cost in the United States of America. Carver 5 Works Cited Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Daems, Tom1. A Peculiar Sociology Of  Oxford Journal Of Legal Studies 31.4 (2011): 805-823. Humanities Source. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. penalty By: Issitt, Micah L., Newton, Heather, Salem Press Encyclopedia, January, 2016 Death Penalty Information Center. DPIC, 2015. Web. 5 Nov. 2015. Gallup, Inc. Support for Death Penalty  Gallup.com. 23 Oct. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Justice For All - A Criminal Justice Reform  Justice For All - A Criminal Justice Reform Organization. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Radelet, Michael L. incremental retributive impact of a death sentence over life without University of Michigan journal of law reform 49.4 (2015): 795-815. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 25 January 2017.