Clary 1 Dominique Clary 27 February, 2017 Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 Vegetarianism and Images Are They Really Effective? The meat that many eat today across America come from factory farms where animals are treated as machines. main goal is to protect the rights of animals in the food industry, clothing, laboratories, and the entertainment industry (Our Mission Statement). They do not limit themselves to just these areas, PETA works in a wide variety of other areas as well. Such as, the inhumane killing of rodents, birds, and other one may consider as pests as well as unjust treatment of domesticated animals (Our Mission Statement). Constantly PETA is helping animals across the globe to have better treatment, while also helping various people along the way to live a much healthier lifestyle. Eating animals is bad for our health, increasing the risk of developing various diseases and illnesses, including heart attacks, strokes, cancer, diabetes, and These are all very serious that can develop over the course of time. Heart Disease is one of the leading killers in the United States, this can be directly linked to meat consumption. By buying into these meat products for consumption people are essentially paying for their own death. Essentially, by not eating meat one gives way to a much longer and healthier life. PETA supports the movement to become vegetarian and even vegan, they offer viable information about the treatment of animals and the benefit of this lifestyle change. PETA answers the most common questions people may have in terms of what, how, and why to stop eating meat. In their article PETA states: it comes to vegetarianism, the number one question on most minds is, do you The answer: Clary 1 Anything we want! There are vegetarian alternatives to almost any animal (Vegetarian 101). PETA makes it clear that no matter what one is craving there is almost always a vegetarian option to go for. No matter if the common classic American meals like burgers, ribs, or chicken there is a vegetarian option for all. In simpler terms, being a vegetarian is much simpler than it seems. Despite the ads published by various corporations such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) people continuously pay for this treatment to be done to these animals for their consumption (Vegetarian 101). This may because of minimalistic advertisements. However, the images advertised by PETA did not fully portray this to an extinct where it would have a lasting effect on its audience. Therefore, visual arguments did not represent their mission adequately. Although people are gradually becoming vegetarian more and more PETA still must look for ways to attract newcomers to stop this cruel and unjust treatment. This is what PETA attempted to do in both Figure 1 and 2; a way to portray the feeling of what it is like to be an animal that is used for humans. In these images PETA exemplified a moderate use of ethos, however possibly not enough to fully account for their credibility. In Figure 1 PETA establishes there credibility by using their trademark name This is a trademark that can be found on all of images thus, allowing the viewer to recognize that it is coming from a legitimate constant source. This is the only trace of ethos that this image has. In Figure 2 PETA once again establishes their credibility through the use of their signature trademark Once this again this aids to provide the viewer with the knowledge that it is coming from a reliable and legitimate source. Additionally, they use the bandwagon method to possibly attract more viewers to pledge to be a vegetarian. Nicole Williams a famous public figure works alongside PETA to shed light on this issue of using animals for their skin. If a viewer is to see Clary 1 Nicole Williams they may feel more inclined to follow along in her footsteps. As a whole PETA lacked a lot of credibility here in that they did not give enough evidence as to how they were credible. The ethos in these images did not fully exemplify goals and missions. An appeal to emotion in a very good tactic to grasp a attention. PETA attempted to use their minimalistic images to connect to the inner emotions of guilt. Figure 1 was utilized to portray the idea of meat being considered murder. In the Figure 1 a woman is seen laying on a grill dead on a fire ready to be cooked. PETA wanted to evoke the emotion of guilt and to possibly have the audience relate the feeling they had of grilling a human to that of an animal. By trying to connect the emotions one may feel for a human to that of an animal PETA may be able to have viewers understand just exactly what they are trying to advocate for. This was an attempt to push the idea that animals should not be eaten just as humans are not to be eaten. PETA not only stands for the protection of animals in the meat industry but also in the clothing industry (Our Mission Statement). When viewing Figure 2 it is evident how PETA attempted to advocate for the elimination of the usage of animal skins for leather. In the image it is clear that Nicole Williams shows discomfort on her face, which is very similar to that of which an animal would feel. The brute force of the hands pulling the skin off of her back attempts to show how uncaring, and harsh the workers handle the animals. Additionally, the fact that they are a hands symbolizes how rough and brash the workers are with removing the skin. The blood coming down her back may also evoke a feeling of discomfort and remorse in viewers who wear or use leather. In the top right corner of Figure 2 states: leather jacket or upholstery was (Leather Is a Rip Off). This quote here also ties into the central feeling of guilt that these images were trying to portray. One may read this and think of the items that they own that are made with leather and relate it to this image of skin being ripped Clary 1 off such as an skin would have been. Overall, PETA did an adequate job with portraying a decent amount of pathos to induce a feeling of guilt in the viewers. PETA lacks greatly in the areas of Kairos and logos. These two rhetorical devices could have been used to establish more credibility, offer more knowledge to the viewer, and bring about a much larger call to action. In Figure 2 PETA makes a minor attempt at Kairos by using a contemporary public figure, Nicole Williams. However, this is not something that a viewer would deeply think about as a call to action. Additionally, in the images PETA did not include any sort of scientifically data to possibly let know just how many animals are possibly killed in the meat industry. Or even to inform viewers on the benefits of their health by switching to a vegetarian diet. These are both factors that could have aided in advertisements however were not present at all. As a result of this PETA did not successfully portray this to their audience. To conclude with PETA did not successfully manage to use these images to portray their mission adequately. Therefore, PETA lacked in conducing some sort of real emotion or action taken by its viewers. These images did not have a lasting effect on the viewers. Clary 1 Clary 1 Works Cited Vegetarian  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/ Mission PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/about-peta/ PETA. Leather Is A Rip Off. E! News http://www.eonline.com/news/peta PETA. Meat Is Murder. Adorns Ottowa Ribfest with half-clad woman of BBQ for Is