Brittany Badertscher Professor Roth ENC 1101 02-19-2017 Final Draft Throughout recent years the political movement of equality has made a huge move in a positive direction, but has not ended to say that men and women have equal rights. For centuries women, have been deprived from social influence due to the lack of gender equality. The approach in finding gender equality, lies within having more political figures as women, especially with controversial issues such as birth control, planned parenthood, the Gag Rule. Women already have personal involvement in these types of issues, so this previous engagement will create a righteous impact on the choices for the country of the United States, as well as eliminating the perspective of sexism. The question is, will this approach of having women more politically involved effectively work towards social and political issues? It took several years for women to earn basic civil rights, its time where these rights are in full affect as men. After all men are not the ones creating the future generations of America, why do they deserve complete control in deciding what happens to a body? The fight of gender equality all started in 1848, when Elizabeth Stanton and Lucretia Mott in Declaration of meet at an Anti-Slavery Convention after they were not allowed into the convention due to the ladies being females purely, (Stanton pg. 207). The anger that ran through these ladies, motivated them into creating the Declaration of Sentiments, within every rule and regulation this document states the importance of gender equality as well as the privileges and rights women deserved. The support from Declaration of states that its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to affect their safety and provides a core foundation for women to step forth in this political world, make a change in feminism as well as sexism. If women have as much free will as men, then they should be included in the choices about their bodies with no other outside influences. In era with our current president Donald Trump, he has been slandered by the media with several acts of degrading women, but social media slander can only go so far. In 2009 former president Obama rescinded the Gag rule; the gag rule is a regulation that prohibits government funded planned parenthood clinics to inform patients and their families about abortions. When Obama rescinded this regulation, it gave these government funded clinics the right of free speech, giving them the chance to inform every woman about all their options in the safest way. By instating this policy again, it forces women of America to proceed with their procedure beyond the borders of America and to enter the world of unknown outcomes if their choice of procedure is unsafe. According David Campbell and Christina Wolbrecht in the article Jane Run: Women Politicians as Role Models for they state contributing to familiarity and ease with politics and political ideas, greater propensity for political discussion may contribute to greater likelihood of anticipated political involvement. Creating a sense or opens a comfort zone for the audience of women these issues, allowing the right of freedom of speech to be fully instated with confidence. So that if women were in more political control of the issue of abortions, it would open the gate of knowledge, allowing a window for women of America to feel comfortable enough to tackle these sensitive controversial issues. An informed audience is the best audience due to the sense of involvement that is established once people are aware and informed of what actions in which are being taken. If more women were politically involved in the Gag rule policy, they could have power to inform the women of America, allowing comfort and confidence in process of deciding about this social and political issue. The support from Pathfinder.org on January 23, Trump not only reinstated this rule but is now creating a all the way to Mexico City. This brought a lot of turmoil to women and their rights to do what they want with their bodies freely. Now that this rule is instated again, any clinic that informs any women about all their options will be immediately shut down. Pathfinder supports this argument when they state will reverse decades of progress on reproductive, maternal, and child health by increasing unintended pregnancies, unsafe abortions, and maternal and newborn (Pathfinder International 2017.) If women do not have the right to choose what happens to their bodies in the United States, they will go somewhere where their rights can be expressed freely, creating harmful effects to their bodies if an abortion is not done properly, deaths could even come about if not done right. The need for women in a political influence, will allow the spread of education on this matter, so that the shift of importance is focused on our constitutional rights and how the people of America expresses them. The focus is not on women and their deserved rights, nor freedom of speech to be informed about their options. No one is to say where focus is valued, but if it is not for the rights of the American people, especially the women of this great country, then to say he is making Great Whereas foreign countries such as Spain, has made more of an effort of political involvement, and has seen the positive outcome of this decision. Joni Lovenduski examines the country of Spain in the book Feminism and Political where the first step in gender equality was recognizing where the problem truly lied. Where Lovenduski states agreed that the low presence of women in top positions in the party and the state was a problem (p.179. Thus, in doing so to fix their they transformed their staff as over half of the chairmen being women, participants. This type of action eliminated the issue of sexism as soon as the government officials enter the office, allowing real issues to be tackled and accomplished. These critical issues seem minor to some of the global issues, but it these minor issues that step in the way of tackling more important issues. By allowing more women to participate in the decision making of these issues, creates an outside perspective that will influence current decisions positively. This perspective could even change the policy of the gag rule, perhaps allowing women to be informed about their options, rather than to run to the next country with an unfamiliar procedures and unknown options with mysterious outcomes. The problem lies within the strange persona of women being involved, that it is viewed as normal for women to be outside of political issues. If the problem lies within being outside the involvement, then the solution lies within being in the center of involvement. Bibliography Stanton, Elizabeth Cady. Declaration of Sentiments  America (2000): 207-209. The Declaration of Sentiments is the first signed document advocating rights. This article discusses the historical background of this event; how Elizabeth Stanton originally attended an Anti-Slavery convention with her husband but was unable to attend due to the fact she was a woman. It was then she started to revolt and fight for rights with another lady she had meet at the convention named Lucretia Mott. Together the two ladies mainly created the Declaration of Sentiments, where the article states each right and privilege for equal rights. Throughout the document, it is stated in detail about the importance of these rights to women, and the strict policies in abiding to the regulations. This article is extremely useful for the introduction paragraphs to give a strong leading outline, to explain the historical events leading up to the current issues of the research question. Analyzing where right originally came from, opens a compelling argument as to say that suffrage women have been facing for equality has gone far enough. Since 1848, women have struggled for liberation and have shown over time that their influences can bring a country more advantages than disadvantages. The article provides information to create the foundation of the argument in of how rights began and how they still struggle to proceed forth. Lader, Lawrence. The Margaret Sanger story and the fight for birth  (1955). This article is the story of how Margaret Sanger opened the first birth control clinic in Brooklyn, New York in 1916. Since the article is written by Margaret Sanger herself, she explains the trials and tribulations she went through to open the clinic in the time era where the movement of rights had just begun. She starts by explaining her motivation for opening a clinic, as well as teaching them about birth control. One of the biggest tribulations being that the clinic shut down only after ten days and Sanger was arrested the article also includes her personal involvement, for example having friends that reach out to her for help as far as conceiving children went. attachment was very deep with creating American history, and this article is a great source in connection to the introduction paragraphs as well the main paragraphs in depicting the importance of control in political issues such as the fight for birth control. The support of this article will create a smooth transition into each paragraph of the essay, thus making the ideas clear and concise. Annas, George J. The Supreme Court and abortion  (2007): 2201-2207. This article covers the issues of the supreme court and their decisions based off cases on abortions. The main cases discussed in the articles explain that throughout history and with current political influences, unconstitutional decisions have been made about the rights of women and their right of choice to their bodies, as well as doctors and physicians with their right to freedom of speech to be able to explain every option their patients have. One of the biggest issues the article explains is the difficulty between the morality of modern medicine with physicians and the legal limits forced to obey to on abortions rights. Analyzing each flaw within every case will help build a well-supported essay in tying up the essay in the final paragraphs. The cases show how unlawful each policy was in consideration to each case and how if it for other out influences like the strong perspective of sexism, that maybe these legal cases have even been a case. Although this article focuses on abortion trials and the unjust of each of them, I think including these types of cases will provide a well-balanced evidence base in not only my claim about all forms of birth control and planned parenthood. Global Gag Rule  Pathfinder International. N.p., 27 Jan. 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pathfinder.org/global-gag-rule- 101/?gclid=CPylh6H96dECFdU6gQodTY8Iqg>. This article covers the most recent act of suffrage when it comes to the right of their choice of their bodies. The article explains how the new president Donald Trump instates the Gag Rule again after former president Obama signed off to eliminate the policy, where government funded planned parenthood clinics are unable to inform patients about all their options in consideration of their pregnancies. Where if these clinics were to provide this kind of information they would be shut down by the government. With more than enough support and data to explain the flaws in this policy of how women are forced to face unsafe procedures in abortions in other countries, or faced to try unsafe procedures in the US they could essentially kill them as well if the practice is not done properly. Pathfinder International will provide a successful support system in wrapping up the final paragraphs by tying them all together based off these core issues women have been fighting for, for years and yet women today are still having to deal the same controversial issues of planned parenthood, birth control, and abortions. The fight demands for an end at once, explaining how these policies are unlawful as well as hurt the people of this nation, by stripping away their giving rights of freedom of speech and freedom of choice. Lovenduski, Joni. State Feminism and Political Representation. Cambridge: Cambridge U Press, 2005. Print. This book covers several different countries and their attempts with involving women more into their government systems and the outcomes of each attempt. In each discussion, Joni Lovenduski depicts each individual attempt and explains the countries reasoning in efforts of making an involvement. Where with some countries have failed in the process of having more women in political positions, Lovenduski explains the background history for the demand of involvement with each country. Therefore, creating great support in a similar claim to my essay of explaining the importance of involvement in the political world. For example, in the novel Lovenduski examines Spain and their decision to have more women in the government office, she explains how the decision impacted the country positively in aspects of the having more of their citizens politically involved as far as voting, appearing to political events, etc. This source pertains exactly to my research question, and provides full support by how other countries around the globe have followed the same actions and received different outcomes. The source provides a persuasive appeal, in aspects as a bandwagon approach, stating that if other countries can make this movement of gender equality, then America can make the effort in forth towards a social movement. Campbell, David E., and Christina Wolbrecht. See Jane Run: Women Politicians as Role Models for  The Journal of Politics 68.2 (2006): 233-47. Web. The authors in the article describe the influence women have on adolescents, during the growth process. This information pertains to my essay in aspects of achieving the positive influence women can have on children as well as political issues. The discussion of how the issue of women being visible for centuries was one of the sources behind sexism and gender equality. How this issue turns into a snowball effect, throughout the years of history. The article uses a cross section analysis to depict the variables of where women are viewed and how the problem of gender equality has transformed into what now a day is call sexism. By emphasizing these problems, this article uses the issue of sexism to explain how if women became more involved, it would allow young peers, specifically young females into becoming more of activist in the feminist movement. The article describes how a influence brings comfort into an unfamiliar topic or intimidating issues young children are afraid to talk about. By providing factual support towards my claim, allows this source to bring my essay a strong tone of voice in the argument of the issue. With a topic, this controversial, a strong approach is needed in pertains to answering the research question.