Imani McCalla 1 Imani McCalla James Josue ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Meeting the Nutrient Needs of Babies It is a known fact that there are essential nutrients and interactions babies need in order to develop properly. It has been an ongoing debate whether or not it is better to breast or formula feed babies. is the feeding of a baby with the milk from his/her (Cambridge Dictionary). A lot of mothers formula feed but it is seen that today breastfeeding is becoming more popular once again. According to the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, in 2011, 79% of new-born infants started to breastfeed, however breastfeeding does not continue for as long as it is recommend to continue (Centre for Disease Control and Prevention). This indicates that although mothers will start with breastfeeding they still formula feed babies while they are still quite young. Statistics show that breastfeeding rates declined significantly by the time babies are 6 months old and only 40.7% of US Nationals exclusively breastfeed up until 3 months (Centre for Disease Control and Prevention). Companies such as Enfamil market their baby formulas in a way that convinces mothers to buy them because it seems like the more convenient option. However there are organizations such as Breastfeeding USA who are trying to get mothers to breastfeed and to breastfeed as long as it is recommended they should. Both Breastfeeding USA and Enfamil make it their concern to provide the best way for babies to be fed, however they do not promote the same means of feeding. They can come to compromise Imani McCalla 2 that both of them will benefit from, a compromise that encourages both means of feeding they promote. Enfamil is a company that makes formulas for children from baby stage up until age 5. They are the most recommended brand by paediatricians. Enfamil tries to make everything they do revolve around babies and children for happy Enfamil infant also has DHA (Docosahexaenoic acid) shown to foster learning ability from infancy through age 5. Enfamil also has a staged nutrition product line that helps to support new-born, infant and toddler milestones. Enfamil states, commitment to providing the very best infant and toddler nutrition products has made Enfamil the number 1 brand that paediatricians recommend to their Enfamil is trying to make their products better as they now have products that are non-GMO. Enfamil also tries to create formula that is as close to breast milk as possible however it is not as good as breast milk. Also their products are not organic, although they are trying with the non GMO line, the still have more to do. Breastfeeding USA is an organization that supports breastfeeding. mission of Breastfeeding USA is to provide evidence-based breastfeeding information and support, and to promote breastfeeding as the biological and cultural USA). Breastfeeding USA was incorporated in the state of New York on November 17,2010, then in October 2014 breastfeeding USA reached 500 members and in December 2015 Breastfeeding USA celebrated its 5 th anniversary. Breastfeeding USA provides information so that mothers can make the best decisions as it relates to birth infancy and growing up. Breastfeeding USA also provides a lot of information including the benefits of breastfeeding for mothers to be aware. They provide counsellors and professionals to help guide mothers. The counsellors they provide are experienced mothers who have completed a breastfeeding education program. Imani McCalla 3 Breastfeeding USA and Enfamil are separate entities and have no relation to one another. Their only connection is that they both have views on the way babies are to be fed. Enfamil tries to create a product that has all the nutrients babies need and is trying to be as good for babies as possible. Breastfeeding USA promotes breastfeeding for babies to get the best nutrients they can to develop properly, lowering the risk of complications and allergies. Although both stakeholders have different views, they both want babies to receive the proper nutrition for development. Since both stakeholders want to provide proper nutrition for babies, they could collaborate and come up with the best option possible. They both understand that mothers need to provide the best food possible (breastmilk). According to WebMD, milk provides the ideal nutrition for infants. It has a nearly perfect mix of vitamins, protein, and fat everything your baby needs to (WebMD) So they know that breastmilk is the ideal food but they also recognize there may be circumstances that mothers may not be able to breastfeed which is where formula becomes necessary. They can come together to develop the best formula for babies using organic products which are healthier and lowers health risk. They can develop a formula that is as close to breast milk as possible. They can also identify when both methods are necessary and advertise formula as an alternative to breastmilk when breast milk is unavailable. According to the baby centre, perfectly safe to supplement a breastfed diet with (The Baby Centre). Based on this information, they can advertise that both methods can be used simultaneously. They should not advertise one being better than the other but both as good methods but should be used hand in hand with each other. In conclusion, both Breastfeeding USA and Enfamil are both concerned with babies getting the proper nutrition to grow into healthy children. Breast feeding USA promotes exclusive breastfeeding and Enfamil promotes formula for babies but with the compromise Imani McCalla 4 proposed both stakeholders can benefit. They can come together to ensure the best nutrition for babies using both methods and help mothers to have healthy babies by benefitting from both methods with the convenience of both. They can come together to create a natural formula and promote that when one method is not available, the other can be used. Imani McCalla 5 Works Cited Breastfeeding and Supplementing with formula. Baby Centre Expert Advice Breastfeeding overview. WebMD http://www.webmd.com/parenting/baby/nursing-basics#1 Breastfeeding Report Card United States 2014.Centre for Disease Control and Prevention https://www.cdc.gov/breastfeeding/pdf/2014breastfeedingreportcard.pdf 29, January 2017 Cambridge Dictionary. Cambridge University Press 2016, dictionary.cambridge.org/us. Accessed 29 January, 2017. Enfamil https://www.enfamil.com/nonGMO 29, January 2017 Knorr, Sharon. Statement on Breastfeeding. Breastfeeding USA https://breastfeedingusa.org/node/145/ 29, January 2017