Patel 1 Dhvani Patel James Josue 01-29-17 Should Marital rape be punished as severally as rape. We live in the 21 st century, where change is prevalent and progressive. The change is also one of the leading correlative factors to questioning the validity and the norm of certain issues. One issue would be, whether or not martial rape should be punished as severally as rape. It seems like a proposed question common sense but in reality there serves to be stakeholders that justify it equally. The issue is not whether the act is correct or incorrect, the issue is knowing the act is incorrect but having no lawful specific punishment to do so. Marital rape is an issue that has been going for ages, also an issue that has been prevalent in areas all around the world. The debate answer seems so very obvious, but there a proposed statement that allow for us to understand the different perspectives. Understanding the stakeholder view in the perception of the law would serve to say that, marital rape should not be classified as rape but more so as a domestic violence charge. (Howard, Warner, Renzulli, print. 505-531). The Law is your first stakeholder and the accused are your first stakeholder. This serves to show that there is a consensus on the fact that, the act is wrong but the debate lies within the charges. This itself proposes questions, why is it okay for the term marriage to hold to propose a difference consequence. The common ground though is the fact that rape is wrong, it matter what form or shape it takes. It is wrong and not justified no matter the reasoning may serve or under what it is occurring under. Patel 2 The second stakeholder would be the one of the victim, also known as the defendant. The stakeholder of the victim serves to show that no matter what the context is, the pain, hurt and struggle both arise in a similar stance. Marriage, does allow forceful intercourse to be lawfully treated differently. It until recently that the UN classified marriage rape as a human rights violation. (Isidewith.com, web.). It would be valid to claim that it held from violence and abuse thus leading to this account. Keeping that in mind, it be justified to treat the case far more strictly then the other the forms of rape? Because at that point, it is not only rape but it is also the incorporation of an abusive relationship. This would propose 2 different charges with 2 different sentences, it is very unusual to have a case of marital rape alone, but very much so possible. Thus the presentable question of how whether or not rape should be treated the on par with rape or higher or lower. It until the 19 th century that marital rape was considered wrong. It was due to the movement in the 19 th century that brought about this change. Once again, in relation to the stakeholders. The issue knowing whether this is right or wrong, the issue is understanding the severity of it. A study done in 2001, a survey was given to multiple students to assess the severity of a situation. The least severe situation was marital rape. So even considering the law based order, there still serves to change the conversation. (The Canadian journal of women and law, Kirkland.) The stakeholder upon the other side, who can be said to either be a lawyer or the accused would serve to propose the question of who decides what rape is in marriage and if there is enough evidence to treat the case as extensive it to be called rape. It sounds absurd but in the eyes of the law, these questions are proposed. The stakeholder also serves to bring upon the statement that, in the terms of religion this as much of a heinous crime as rape without a marital relationship. It is a propositional statement but this is taken into account for an argument. Patel 3 Those who believe that martial rape be punished as severally claim that marriage cause for such an account to be taken that extensively, and because it is marriage, it should charge as abuse. Taking account of both of the charges, having a rape charge is far more impactful and straining then a charge with abuse. And due to the holy bond of such an accusation be as severe. This is actually an argument presented by the stakeholder. The irony is that; the stakeholders do have common ground on the fact that it is wrong but they fail to agree upon how extensive the charges should be upon a person. Another valid point brought up would be looking upon the, use of this case. According to some lawyers, the definition of marriage was where the case truly lies upon. The variation in meaning serves to hold another flaw within itself. Marriage does not give man the power to have sex with his wife whenever he chooses or pleases. But the social contrast of marital rape not only here but in other country, serves to say that marriage is the willing given to a man to have autonomy over a body. (Thenewsminute.com). Another valid point brought forth in one of the sources is the fact that proving rape is always based upon circumstantial evidence, (CEO of International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care. Gettu. Web.) Also, it is hard to prove marital rape due to the fact that a DNA sample would be taken, and then off that basis we would have to prove that the intercourse was not consensual. (Thenewsminute.com) The proof would need more substantial evidence, so even when proven we would have to take into account the past history. The whole issue of this debate is very confusing because no matter what the proof is, the case can be taken in either form. The proof can either serve to show whether the case is just abuse but both abuse and rape, or just an accusation. Due to taking this issue as one more Patel 4 prevalent in 3 rd world countries like, India where there Is no law for marital rape, such occurrences are considered the Both stakeholders can be said to hold their stance in place, but to an extent, the stakeholder for punishing marital rape just as abuse would be the conditional statements of those who have a lower literacy level. There are other 3 rd world areas that even acknowledge this even though the UN states it is a human rights violation, and due to areas with such social stigma, things like this often go unreported. The stakeholders of the accused also serve to argue that, marriage is a direct implication of consent. They also serve to hold the theory that, rape occurs due to the the theory that, men want to retain traditionally held power in society to protect themselves and their (sciencedirect.com, web, pg 332, Martin et al s 20017 theory). Another theory to serve this stakeholder correct would be that, would pursue such actions due to an anticuckoldry meaning to say that such occurrences occur due to causes that were there long before such an incident took place. Conclusively, both stakeholders do have a statements that can be used to debate the topic. They both propose a valid point in the eyes of the law, we take into account the validity in terms of social construct because if the case, we would be biased towards the debate. (A.T. Goetz et al. / Aggression and Violent Behavior 13 (2008) ) So keeping all these factors in mind, one can ask if marital rape should be punished as severally as rape itself is a justified question, and a valid comprise one can hold is treating the case according to the health effects that are presented. The health issues in relation to the case will prove the extensiveness of it. An understanding how extensive the case is will help decide upon a sentence more justifiably. Since Patel 5 the whole issue lies upon the idea of explaining the case sentence, this would serve to show that both sides of the law are maintained. Patel 6 Citation Justice, Misuse and Proof: Why the Legal Debate on Marital Rape Is Wrongly Set  The News Minute. N.p., 20 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Civil Society Stakeholders Brief Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women on Lebanon, United Arab Emirates and Malawi N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Canadian Journal of Women & the Law. 2016, Vol. 28 Issue 1, p230-240. 11p. rape: a student assessment of rape laws and the marital Violence against women Kirkwood, Mary yr:2001 vol:7 iss:11 pg:1234 -1253 Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Spousal Rape: The Diffusion of Legal Sociological Perspectives. Jennifer McMahon-Howard, Jody Clay-Warner and Linda Renzulli Sociological Perspectives. Vol. 52, No. 4 (Winter 2009), pp. 505-531 Student Assessment of Rape Laws and the Marital Marital Rape. MARY KAY KIRKWOOD DAWN K. CECIL, November 1, 200. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. A.T. Goetz et al. / Aggression and Violent Behavior 13 (2008) Sciencedirect.com/journal Patel 7