Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Composition 1 February 19 2017 Why this past election was so impactful, and why? This past election has left a great impact in its wake, from acts of discrimination, prejudice, and social injustice. If your future children had the opportunity to witness such an election, would you want to teach them right from wrong? I strongly believe we witnessed what will soon be taught in our history textbooks for years to come. Whether you voted for Trump, Hilary, or a third-party candidate, there were transgressions on all sides of the spectrum. This past year so many issues have finally been brought into the light, and although a clear majority is not happy about our new president, it became very necessary in show casing what America values. As well as what Americans hope to change coming forth from this latest election. As Joel Stein states, presidential elections have focused on issues like how to structure the income tax, or what the best health care system is, but this time addressing core issues that divide us: racism, sexual assault, Islamophobia, immigration, elitism, anti-Semitism, authoritarianism and whether to require drug tests before political Instead of just discussing what policies needed to be implemented, the candidates said things that brought forth disagreements regarding racism and sexual assault. This leads me to ask, why this past election left such an impact and why it will be taught for years to come? Stein, Joel. This Is the Most Enlightening Election in More Than a Century and  Time. Time, 21 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This source talks about this past election and how this time addressing core issues that divide us: racism, sexual assault, Islamophobia, immigration, elitism, anti-Semitism, authoritarianism and whether to require drug tests before political debates. This source is Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Composition 1 February 19 2017 credible because it was written by an American journalist who wrote for the Los Angeles Times and is a regular contributor to Time. Although the article is partially opinion he makes lots of good points relating to my thesis topic. As well as using representative Keith Ellison, who is black and the first Muslim elected to Congress as someone he spoke with about these issues. This article relates to the thesis statement by giving examples how the election was good for minorities, women, and immigrants by making their plights more obvious. While also discussing the polar end of that being that the election has mobilized and empowered white supremacists and misogynists. This relating back to the thesis question by giving reason as to why this election made history; being that it has been a huge era for activism. Just throughout the past year we have seen so many individuals and groups coming forth and standing up for what they see as right and just. Whether that pertains to a candidate being unjust, and prejudice to a group. Without the acts of discrimination and bias we saw this election we would still see it being pushed aside, and because of this we have the grounds to say this is wrong, now how can we change it. This source talks about those points as a stepping stone for future years and what we as Americans can come together to do to stop the bias and binary that we allow a specific group to display without reprimand. Hill, Anita. Opinion Anita Hill: election is disappointing for feminism. But not the final  The Washington Post. WP Company, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This source written a professor of social policy, law, and studies at Brandeis University discusses the hardest glass that Hillary Clinton sought to shatter, the impact it had on women as well our country and how from that we must return to addressing the Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Composition 1 February 19 2017 other challenges that women face. This source relates to my thesis topic by talking about the impact the election had primarily on women. Discussing the barriers to gender equality, pay inequality and how the latest election caused a stir and brought such topics to light. This article relates back to my thesis statement by bringing up topics such as how this election set into action one of the largest march that has happened. Anita Hill states Jan. 21, women from all identities and circumstances will march in Washington and in cities around the globe in numbers too great for Trump to ignore. Yes, women are moving past the election, but not as spectators, as participants in our democracy -- as Being as she was correct and it was such a large movement for not only women but transwomen and women of color and the LGBTQ community and all those who support feminism and what they believe is the right path for change in the world. It became not only a march on Washington but a march around the world and should show in our history books as a day to never forget. A day that stood or more than just people protesting the election or our new president but a day protesting the wrong in the world. Powell, Kashif. Studies in  The Year of the Ballot or the : A Discussion of Race, Revolution, and the 2016 Election: Studies in Communication: Vol 39, No 4. N.p., 1 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This source talks about Malcolm X and the force of his words pertaining to November of 2014 when Ferguson, Missouri became the home of the uprising for black liberation. It discusses the city of Ferguson erupting with the revolutionary force of the bullet. That pertaining to my thesis question in terms of the important impact that started leading up to such an election. Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Composition 1 February 19 2017 Kashif received his doctorate from The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in Performance Studies, his degree from California State Univ., Long Beach in Rhetoric and Communication Theory, and his degree from Morehouse College in Political Theory. He is a past recipient of the U.S. Dept. of Jacob K. Javits doctoral fellowship, and Northwestern Black Arts Initiative Postdoctoral fellowship. In this article, Powell states inability to verbalize the injustice faced by American citizens and blatant disrespect are indicative of the frustratingly slow pace of developing the racial consciousness Malcolm X called for fifty years This entail showing the means behind some of the movements and protests we have seen this election. Groups like Black Lives Matter having a large impact on not only the past presidential election but a large impact on the world. This relating to my research question being that this is a very controversial topic we will continue to talk about in school and discuss with our peers and friends until we finally see social and political change pertaining to how people of color are perceived in the everyday and media biased world. This being a topic that needs to be discussed more often, and in doing so during this past election with the Black Lives Matter Movement being we will continue to educate and update out textbooks with such as they impacted so widely. Anand, Bharat. The U.S. Problems Are Much Bigger than Fake News and Filter  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. In this source, Anand says presidential transition has been marked by the same attitude: if only the media were less distractible and headlines more Goes on to further discuss the impact the social media world held during this past election as well as the impact it has on marketing elections and getting information out to the people/voters. Anand received an AB in Economics, Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Composition 1 February 19 2017 magna cum laude, from Harvard University, and his PhD in Economics from Princeton University, where he was nominated to the Princeton Junior Society of Fellows. In the question of history making in this past election it has seen such a huge social media impact compared to the rest, a generation of younger voters being given information on a platform unlike other years. This source discusses hot it may have caused added problems being that not all articles are factual, many being biased towards one party. While on the other side it allowed for a platform of younger voters to share and disperse information. Leaving in its wake an election that marketers and companies trying to promote a candidate will learn from for future reference as well as the next generation of voters. This relates to my thesis statement by expressing the impact social media played this election compared to other years, surely a topic that will be discussed for years to come relating to the influence it had on the outcome of this election and continue to see today.