Reed 1 Hannah Reed Mr. Josue ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Health Care with Public Insurance The medical field in the United States have made tremendous advances in the past few decades that today most illnesses and diseases can easily be treated or prevented. However, research has shown that some of these epidemics, that should not be problems anymore due to our medical advances, are common in areas with lower-income citizens. With all the aids, such as Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, this seems odd since they were created to benefit those with lower incomes to be able to afford going to the doctors. The reason for this problem is that the US Department of Health and Human Services, which supplies these aids, are not reimbursing physicians at a full rate after patients use their insurance (Dayaratna). This is causing the citizens depending on public health insurance to feel discriminated against. With physicians wanting full reimbursements and the US Department of Health and Human Services wanting equity at a cheaper price, a compromise of adding more funding to Medicaid will satisfy both of these stakeholders. In order to decide on a compromise, the goals of each stakeholder must be investigated. According to the government official US Department of Health and Human Services website their mission is to and protect the health and well-being of providing for effective health and human services and fostering advances in medicine, public health, and social This means that not only do they want everyone to have Reed 2 access to health insurance, but also to reach equity with health care. Just because someone is poor does not mean that they should not be able to receive proper care from a physician because they cannot afford it. The US Department of Health and Human Services aids these individuals in need through programs and documents, such as the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, and Medicare. Many non-governmental organizations, such as the American Public Health Association, support these programs because many health depends on these services (Adepoju et al.). With outside support for these programs, cutting funds or even removing them will be incredibly difficult and cause even more controversy. These programs and Acts were put into place to create equal access to health care to all US citizens. While this is an ideal system, there is a problem slowly arising with physicians. Physicians are here in the world to help and protect others from illnesses and diseases. To do this, however, money is needed to pay for all the expensive machines and medications provided to patients. Revealed in a study done by Kevin Dayaratna typically pays physicians 56 percent of the amount that private insurers This means that health insurance provided by the government is reimbursing physicians at a low rate. Physicians are now becoming more picky about who they treat based on the type of insurance they have. Citizens who have public insurance are being rejected and feeling discriminated against because they are not able to receive the proper care that they need compared to those with private insurance (Alarcon- Espinoza et al.). However, the proper care that they need is not completely covered, so physicians cannot afford to lose out on that much money. Over the past few years this problem has grown more and more and without any change Medicaid will eventually become insufficient in the eyes of physicians. Reed 3 This overall conflict over Medicaid is fought between the US Department of Health and Human Services. Medicaid has become more of a problem ever since the Affordable Care Act was enacted in 2010 Under this Act, the goal was to get everyone to have access to health insurance. This pushed many of those without insurance before to fall under the Medicaid branch. Since more patients have been covered by Medicaid, physicians are losing more money due to the low reimbursement rates. Research is now being done all over the country to see how these Medicaid rejections are affecting citizens. While this is affecting many adults, it is also affecting millions of children that are dependent on a parent that relies on this public insurance. Research done by various researchers was done in 2011 to show the effects on these children. According to the article of US children currently have at least 1 of 20 chronic health a majority them suffering from obesity. Out of this 43%, 29.1% of these children suffering fall under the branch of public insurance, such as Medicaid. In the same article, another statistic shows that only 45% of children in the U.S scored a positive score on a survey. These findings show that Medicaid plays a vital role in about half of the United States lives and that rejecting it is affecting the future generations heavily (Bethell et al.). With epidemics increasing, such as obesity, access to health care is becoming more crucial, therefore this problem between physicians and the US Department of Health and Human Services needs to be resolved. To fix this on-going problem, a compromise between the two stakeholders must be put in order because the situation now is only getting worse. The thing that both physicians and the US Department of Health and Human Services have in common is to provide aid to those in need. Since they both share a similar goal there must be a way that will leave both parties satisfied. One of those ways is to repeal the Affordable Care Act which was enacted to provide health care Reed 4 to all US citizens, despite its flaws with vagueness on the available insurance packages (Ward et al.). This Act made many uninsured citizens fall under the Medicaid branch. Medicaid has always had a problem with low reimbursement rates, but now with more people covered under it that only made the problem worse. By eliminating this Act the government could put more focus and funding into fixing the Medicaid service. If the initial problem with Medicaid is fixed it can expand to covering more people, but without solving that moving forward will only expand the problem. A way to fix this Medicaid problem is to increase the access to private insurance. Many of these private insurances are either funded through work or easily affordable by those with higher-income jobs. This shows it is not easy for those making minimum wage to afford this type of insurance. This could happen in a few ways, one being that private insurance can be brought into more work places and allow their workers access to it. Another way is to create many different plans of private insurance, so those with a lower-income and depending on Medicaid can afford it. Making a switch to a private insurance is a positive move because physicians are reimbursed at a higher rate, therefore will not reject patients. This would make the pool of Medicaid recipients even smaller, which will increase their reimbursement rates. After all the problems with Medicaid are solved through decreasing the amount of users, the Affordable Care Act could be placed back to ensure everyone is covered by some type of health insurance. In the end, the only way this problem between physicians and the US Department of Health and Human Services is going to be resolved is by implementing a compromise that satisfies both sides and their needs. A possible compromise being to repeal the Affordable Care Act and help better Medicaid and fix the minor problems. By doing this the US Department of Health and Human Services will not have to deal with an insane amount of Medicaid recipients Reed 5 and physicians will be receiving adequate reimbursement rates. Even though this process of change will take time, it can only lead to a better health care system compared to what it is now. Reed 6 Works Cited Adepoju, Omolola E., Michael A. Preston, and Gilbert Gonzalez. Care Disparities in the --Affordable Care Act American Journal of Public Health 105.S5 (2015): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. < http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=607534ff-d4b8- 4b86-b169- 65e9d16656ce%40sessionmgr120&vid=0&hid=117&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=110594928&db=aph>. Bethell, Christina D., Michael D. Kogan, Bonnie B. Strickland, EdwardL. Schor, Julie Robertson, and Paul W. Newacheck. Profiles, Duration of Coverage, Availability of Services, Quality Measures, Measuring Family Experiences of Care, State Quality Measure Needs, Reporting Quality: A National and State Profile of Leading Health Problems and Health Care Quality for US Children: Key Insurance Disparities and Across-State Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act Supplement 11.3 (2011): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. < http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=efa05afb-464c-4e1c-ae67- a1abdf08af37%40sessionmgr104&vid=0&hid=117&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#AN=S1876285910002500&db=edselp>. Dayatana, Kevin D. Show: Medicaid Patients Have Worse Access and Outcomes than The Privately The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 7 Nov. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. Reed 7 2017. < http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/11/studies-show-medicaid- patients-have-worse-access-and-outcomes-than-the-privately-insured>. Han, Xinxin, Kathleen Thiede Call, Jessie Kemmick Pintor, Giovann Alarcon-Espinoza, and Alisha Baines Simon. of Insurance Based Discrimination in Health Care and Its Association With Access to American Journal of Public Health 105.9 (2015): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=b0278090-0b24-4322-a775- 5d6186bca8da%40sessionmgr104&vid=0&hid=117&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=103315957&db=eue>. Health Equity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 < https://www.apha.org/topics-and-issues/health-equity>. Ward, Andrew, and Pamela Johnson. Health Care and Basic Needs: Health Insurance Pans and Essential Health Care Analysis 21.4 (2013): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. < http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=3038699b-4f3f-4c4c-9f8e- 702316d4e951%40sessionmgr102&vid=0&hid=117&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=edsgcl.347048308&db=edsgao>.