Lanzino 1 Eduardo Lanzino English Composition 1 2/5/17 Musical development among kids Thousands of middle school and high school students today are enrolled in some type of music class. The question that has always been asked is does it actually influence the students performance in school? Throughout the years, an increasingly larger amount of research has been devoted to seeing whether the conclusion was right. All these studies included many different viewpoints on the subject, such as whether the musical ability and understanding changes cognitive function in the person, or if putting the students in the activities simply keeps them focused in school instead of doing something that would hinder their progress. Definitely the major and concrete facts that have been proved repeatedly over different experiments via psychologists, scientists and universities is that, the ability to read and comprehend music on paper helps the comprehension and critical thinking skills that a student would have when working in their English classes. Mathematically, students now who have a contributed in a music class, do better in the analyzation and simplification of problems that they were given, compared to other students who were put in different classes other than music. Miendlarzewska, Ewa A., and Wiebke J. Trost. How Musical Training Affects Cognitive Development: Rhythm, Reward and Other Modulating  Frontiers in Neuroscience. Frontiers Media S.A., 20 Jan. 2014. Web. 19 Sept. 2015. Specifically addressed in this article, is overall functions adapt in musical training and has an entire section devoted onto how this changes a person as an adult versus others who do not train. Regarding the development in children it goes ahead and discusses the methods of how Lanzino 2 to actually record and create these experiments, and what exactly they each focus on. The publisher went extremely into depth on the different parts that were analyzed such as motor skills and rhythm control that are regarded as near-transfer effects, or increase in comprehension of vocabulary and subsets of general intelligence tests, that are far-transfer effects. Throughout its entirety, the writes relate to the question by giving specific details on the subject, both on adults and children. On the focus of people in school, it shows us that it does in fact help increase many motor functions and cognitive functions that not only benefit the student, but it achieves this in a unique way that stands out from the other activities that would help a student, such as any other arts or sports activity they would participate in. Listening and communication is definitely emphasized as these are main components that they would use in musical training, which then reflect unto their classes and performance outside in school. Winner, Ellen.  Effects of Instrumental Music Training on Brain and Cognitive Development in Young Children. The Dana Foundation, June 2005. Web. 20 Sept. 2015. The entire research paper is an explanation of the experiment done to prove the cognitive function on children, specifically 5 and 7 year olds, and over a span of 2 years 40 students get private lessons for orchestra, and 28 became the control group, at the end of 2 years they did an MRI, and then did numerous tests and assessments to help better understand the change specifically in development. Results specifically show significantly increased growth compared to the control group, even after a single year. MRI showed the change in plasticity in the brain as well advocating that the students become increasingly better than other students who would not do music. Lanzino 3 This article advocates the pretense how Music benefits children, especially at the younger level as it amplifies their growth. The significance of this post is that it was actually one of the first extensive experiments on the topic and allowed for more researchers to support the argument, they continued to do the experiment on the same group of students for another 3 years and found that they completely outperformed others in mathematics, vocabulary, motor skills, and general intelligence tests. Board Of Education. Research Suggests Positive Impact of Music  EDgov Blog. Department of Education, July 2013. Web. 20 Sept. 2015. This is an example of how the board of education did case studies on students who excelled in music and got accolades that showed both their musical ability, and scientific ability. Many of the students went on to go to med school or neurology and studies showed that there was a significant amount of musicians that went on to grad schools while their classmates stuck usually to the undergrad level. Also they went through biological studies that showed how the musical training allowed for greater stimulation in the firing of neurons when the student is given something to listen to or comprehend. The U.S government not only contributes to the argument putting their point of view and stating the facts that happen, but they add the biological aspect in which a person would change when they excel at music. They also show cases in which the student had grown up to become a very successful student, and more importantly, how their musical foundation supported them into becoming who they are today. This adds bigger emotional impact through anecdotes in which people have succeeded and overcame obstacles, and have attributed to their musical development in the helping of that. Lanzino 4 Effects of Three Years of Piano Instruction on Academic Achievement, School Performance and  Effects of Three Years of Piano Instruction on Academic Achievement, School Performance and Self-Esteem. University of Texas, Apr. 2004. Web. 20 Sept. 2015. The article goes to define the Psychological aspects that attribute to the confidence to a student when they are a part of a musical program. Its control group was mainly on groups of students whose family income was below 40k and the university had supplied all funds so that the students could do the experiment. It ultimately showed that it created a catharsis for students and ultimately made them have higher self esteems in the process, but in this case it did not actually correlate to creating higher marks to the academic performance. Psychological states of students are ultimately very important in their lives and so although it only did contribute to their musical ability and confidence, it still shows the improvement that it brings to a student overtime. This is also one of the most cited and used research data points in any source regarding this topic showing how the debate of the question actually started. Rudi, Sarah J. Wilson, and Margot Prior. The cognitive and academic benefits of music to children: Facts and  Educational Psychology 26.4 (2006): 579-594. This article discusses the topic of how both listening and learning how to play music affects the childs development and learning abilities. The Mozart  is the phenomena that became quite popular in which letting a child listen to mozart in childhood development makes them more capable in learning. It goes on to show that the idea is not exactly true, it only improves a small percentage of the total number of participants, but it did soothe special Lanzino 5 disability children allowing for greater focus. It also goes into great detail about how music in the background of actual classrooms, in which classical music can actually affect the way people during tests process info by calming the nerves that calm with the test. This Article is also one of the most read and viewed books online specifically introducing the idea of integrating music into the classroom. Mark, Michael, and Patrice Madura. Contemporary music education. Cengage Learning, 2013. This book is an extensive and thorough explanation using the majority of work that has been come with until 2013 about both music education and music impact on education to the world. it is completely abundant in statistics, experiments, researched theories from credible authors, scientists, psychologists, and professors who have accolades in their field. It goes through the entire transformation of music education and the impact that it has had to the students who have been in these art programs.