McVety 1 Colton McVety Sarah Roth ENC 1101.018 February 6, 2017 The Affect the Space Race Had on the Twenty First Century In the 1950s and 1960s the United States and the Soviet Union were on the brink of war. The biggest battle of this war, the Cold War, was known as the space race. Nations around the world channeled millions of dollars into competing to be the first into space. On October 1, 1958, the United States Air Force passed the responsibility of the space race to a brand new organization named NASA, short for The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Wilson, 2015). For the next 11 years, America and The Soviet Union fought to be the best. The Soviet Union succeeded in being the first space vessel, both manned and unmanned, in space. America was the first to successfully land on the moon. During this time, and still to this day, engineers working with the space program have developed a multitude of inventions that have changed our daily lives and even the world. Inventions that developed from their research range from simple, everyday things such as toothpaste, to advanced medical technologies like artificial limbs. How has the space race helped shape modern day technology and the global political stage? Appel, Allen, IV. Beyond the iron curtain: twenty-five years after the fall of the Soviet Union, new books explore what we have yet to learn from the Cold  Publishers Weekly 2016: 25. Literature Resource Center. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. McVety 2 This article is all about the life of the Soviet Union, not just the space race but also the nation in general. about the fall of the Berlin wall, the spy planes and technology invented on both sides. One of the main things it mentions is communism and the atomic bomb; this article refers to this as mutually assured destruction. Nuclear bombs were agreed that they should never enter space for that would create a whole other playing field of war. This article is important because a background source on the how America was able to bankrupt the Soviet Union and therefor create the end to the mass spread of communism through the world. It focuses on the murders betrayals and outlines the event happened during the cold war and through this connections to the space race can be made. This article is also reliable because it is one of hundreds published through publisher weekly, a well known scholarly article. Caselli, Leonardo P. Space Demilitarization Treaties In A New Era Of Manned Nuclear  Journal Of Air Law & Commerce 77.4 (2012): 641-669. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the fact of what happens now with space demilitarization treaties now that the Cold War is over. It brings the historical aspect of what these treaties and advances intended to do and connects them to what exactly it can mean for advances today. By shutting down the Space Shuttle program NASA has now changed its main focus from exploring orbital projects to exploring deep space. It also again brings in the nuclear aspect of space, this time as a power source/supply instead of weaponry. Due to McVety 3 the fact that space-based nuclear reactors are the only way that deep-space missions, such as a manned mission to Mars, would be possible, the old space laws and framework from the times of he Cold War must be reexamined (Caselli, 2012). The Journal of Air Law & Commerce has been around since 1930. It is one of the oldest running scholarly publications in the English language according to the SMU law review. It focuses on legal and economic issues which impact the space and aviation society. This makes this article very validated and accepted throughout the scholarly community. It discusses legal problems, such as treaties, that have to be looked at now that technology is advancing and what we want to accomplish is changing. It gives in depth explanation of what past technologies were and why they may have been banned before but are now key to what we are looking to do in the space community today. Dan Lockney. NASA Technology Benefits our  Spinoff, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Since early human civilization technology has been advancing, from the wheel and spear to artificial drones and robotic technology. There have been many advances in technology connected to the research and engineering that stems from NASA and the space that have unknowingly changed everyday lives. Things such as enriched baby food, improved radial tires and solar panels were invented due to the space race. Many private companies use solar panels in satellites that give us GPS, Internet and military uses. Also solar panels are a renewable power source that once developed further could change the world. Goodyear- a company that worked with NASA- originally created a material five times stronger then steel and used it as a cord for parachutes, but once put into the real McVety 4 world is was used on tires, and allowed for tires to be used for another 10,000 miles. (Lockney, 2017) The source comes straight from the official NASA webpage, discussing and giving information on inventions made by NASA through its time. This article talks about a wide variety of discoveries, inventions, and technological advances that NASA has created up to this date. Each year the site comes out with a list of every invention that was created in that year before. This simply lays out the inventions and discoveries that have impacted the world since the start of the program. Neufeld, Michael J. Wernher Von Campaign For A Nuclear-Armed Space Station,  Space Policy 1 (2006): 52. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the idea of not just peacefully exploring space but the concept of having an battle station to achieve (Neufield, 2006) The thought was brought up by Wernher von Braun, who is thought of as one of the leading rocket scientists of his time. Even to this day his name is known in the space- loving community. In the the nuclear arms race was changing very quickly as well and his ideas allowed for America to move ahead in the space race. This jump to being able to launch weapons from outside of the atmosphere pulled America ahead in the races, both space and weapons. This source comes from a journal known as Space Policy. It is a long running, scholarly journal that focuses on many things including political, economic, industrial, McVety 5 historical, legal, cultural, and social contexts of special activities (J. Stuart, Space Policy editor). Since it began in 1985 there have been 38 volumes of this journal published. It has a peer review system to make sure that articles are factual and useful along with well written. Some volumes have included publications of things as important as treaties, space agency plans, and even government report that relate to the space community. The Space Race  New Scientist 194.2599 (2007): 16. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. This article is a republished version of the original article announcing the start of space race between America and the Soviet Union. It gives an idea into how the people are feeling about the space and gives a more public version of the affects it was having on the people in the US and the Soviet Union. It explains what needs to be accomplished in order to reach outer space and then the moon. Also it explains the historical significance of the event. New Scientist, has been around for over sixty years publishing scientific articles, relevant to the important technological advances of the time, this specific article was a looking back at the impact it had on our country and the space program. This article is relevant because it shows a more historical significance that can be used and explained to prove the change in political status and structure of time periods. NASA History  NASA. Ed. Wilson, Jim. NASA, 17 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McVety 6 The United States Government founded NASA in 1958 in response to the Soviet Union pulling ahead in the space race. Since the Soviet Union successfully launched Sputnik 1 into low Earth orbit in 1957, they had become the first to make it to space. intention was then to be the first to send man into space. Although this goal was technically not achieved, many others were. the last 57 years NASA has continued to push the boundaries with cutting edge aeronautics research that has dramatically changed the way we build & fly along with many other advances (Wilson, 2015). The source comes straight from the official NASA webpage, discussing the past of the program. The story of NASA is relevant to understand how it shaped and changed the fundamentals of where the space race started, why it started and how it has affected the world. Due to their commitment in the space race, numerous unintentional advances were made in technology and human life. Through understanding the trials NASA went through to reach where we are now it is easy to comprehend how the Soviet Union went bankrupt in the course of competing. Which is also later relevant to how the world was constructed through the space race.