1 Sarah Roth ENC 1101 24 January 2017 Child Marriage and the Law Worldwide Child marriage, the act of marrying young women or boy before legal age, is a common worldwide practice that affects the lives of children under 18. Child marriage affects girls in far greater numbers than boys. Up to 43% of girls in some countries get married before the age of 18. In many countries, parental consent is legal and the parents can choose who their daughter marries. Child marriage occurs in both high and low income countries but it is more common in the latter. Poverty is considered to be the biggest reason why girls get married at a young age (Girls not Brides, 2002). A large number of parents are not able to feed their children so they decide to marry off their child. They exchange money with a man who is marrying their daughter and hope that she will have a better life, which rarely happens (Nasrulah, 2014). The majority of child brides are at a higher risk of sexual, physical and psychological violence throughout their lives when they are forced into marriage (Child Marriage n.d.). However, in some cases girls choose to get married at a young age they could be running away from a worse situation so marriage is their better option. How can the law protect young women from being forced into child marriage? 2 Girls Not Brides. About Child Girlsnotbrides, http://www.girlsnotbrides.org/about-child-marriage/. Girls Not Brides provides good and clear information about child marriage. They explain what child marriage is, where it happens, why it happens, what the impact is, how we could end it and what the law says. The website also has a link about voices. There you can find many stories from girls all around the world who have personally experienced child marriage. One of the stories is from Nigeria that shows that child marriage is a common thing there. Like the topic says will start if a girl married by the age of 15. Up to 43% of girls in the country get married before the age of 18. This website also provides three challenges to enforcing laws that prohibit child marriage: Lack of awareness and training among law enforcement officials and other relevant professionals to ensure that laws are understood, implemented and enforced, lack of birth and marriage registration and discrepancies between formal and religious or customary law on the minimum age of marriage. A source like this with personal stories could help me a lot with my research paper because it shows how some countries go under the law of child marriage. This source is credible because they have true stories told by young girls who have personally experienced it. accounts of this issue are the most credible sources. They tell more information about this practice, such as how it works, their experience from moving from home to a and why it happened. The sad thing is the girls also describe the violence that happens in their marriage and early pregnancy. The three points that were given above can support my research question by explaining why enforcement of laws is difficult. 3 ICRW. Child  International Center for research on women, http://www.icrw.org/issues/child-marriage/ ICRW has a lot of good information about child marriage and the reason behind it. It provides a good counterargument that will protect girls from sexual assault or Typically stories of child marriage include forcing children against their will into abusive situations and sexual harassments. This source tells a different story where they say that child marriage could be a good thing and protect girls from sexual assault or harassment. Furthermore, they also describe how early marriage can have a negative effect on the next generation such as educational achievement. It also has personal experiences and information about sexual and reproductive health and rights. It has a good counterargument for my essay because they have a different point of view on these issues than the personal experienced. The website says that will protect girls from sexual assault or but when a girl is forced into a marriage they are at a higher risk of sexual, physical and psychological violence throughout their lives. The website has information about sexual transmitted infections such as HIV/AIDS. That involves in their health because some of these girls get infection which could ruin their lives. 4 Sameeksha Trust. Restraining Child Economic and Political Weekly, vol. 44, no. 15, 2009, pp.7. This article, Restraining Child Marriage, focuses on the restraining of Child Marriage. About eight decades since a law against child marriage was first enacted, the practice is still somewhat rife. The National Family Health Survey-3 (NFHS-3) has found that about 44.5% of women aged 20 to 24 were married before the age of 18, 22.6% were married before 16 and about 2.6% of women were married before the age of 13. These numbers are quite high for the number of girls that are getting married before legal age. This journal also shows what the law has done to help child marriage in 2006. They gave the child bride and bridegroom the right to get their marriage declared void. This journal provides good information about legal marriage that has been researched by the National Family Health Survey-3. It also describes what goes on in these relationships, such as violence increases, the girls have more insecurity, increasing dropouts from post- primary schooling and some girls experience neglect in physical and cultural development. The inclusion of the current laws in this article helped to shows what already has been done about it. They tried to decrease child marriage with giving the child bride and bridegroom the right to get their marriage declared void. This can be very useful for the essay because the research question is about how the law can protect young women from being forced into child marriage. 5 Nasrulah, Muazzam, et al. Knowledge and Attitude towards Child Marriage Practice Among Women Married as Children-A Qualitative Study in Urban Slums of Lahore, BMC Public Health, vol. 14, no. 1148, 2014. This journal is about knowledge and attitude towards child marriage practice among women married as children- a qualitative study in urban slums of Lahore, Pakistan. In this journal, nineteen women who were married at the age 11-17 agreed to participate in a interview which was tape-recorded by trained interviewers. Most of these women were poor, uneducated or worked as housemaids. They all were satisfied by their decision to get married the age of 18 and even condemned banning child marriages. They saw marriage in a positive way, that they would live a better life, get education and be in a better environment. This source could help explain the statement that was put in the introduction when in some cases girls choose to get married at a young age because that is their better option often because they are running away from a worse situation for example abusive home, sexual assault by father or family so their choice is to run away. Not every girl gets into a bad and abusive relationship, there are some that get a better life and education. With the age difference it can be hard for the bride to see her husband as a loved one but instead they see it as a way to a better life. 6 Rangita Silva-de-Alwis. Legislative Reform Initiative Paper  Child Marriage and the Law Jan. 2008: n. pag. Web. This online magazine by UNICEF provides good information about current law and suggestions about how to improve these laws. It lists couple of points on what should be voided: sale of children for the purpose of marriage should be made null and void, the law should also follow for a residence for the girl child in the event of the nullification of the marriage. Penalties must also be established for example stricter criminal and civil penalties should be made applicable to anyone who officiates or participates in such a marriage. Punish those who are responsible for perpetrating child marriage and that marital rape need to be recognized as a penal offence, both under the specific statute dealing with child marriage and also under general criminal law of State parties. I could find a lot of good information in this source that can help me write this paper. Many countries have laws about child marriage but many of them follow the law. This is an issue that still occurs in our world and needs to be fixed. If child marriage be stopped now then it be in the future, so what needs to be done is to fortify criminal laws about child marriage and stimulate awareness of this issue. 7 The Hidden World of Child  TakePart. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. The article, The Hidden World of Child Grooms is about a man named Parshuram Harijan. He got married at the age of nine and in this article he describes his wedding day as a shameful moment. The traditional in Nepal is to wear a piece of fabric wrapped around the legs and knotted at the waist. This was Harjians first time wearing this outfit and when he needed to go to the bathroom he undo his formal wear so he urinated over himself. Parshuram Harjian tells us his experience of being married only nine years old and before the age of 14 he had been married twice. He is an ally in the fight against child marriage. Child marriage also occurs for boys and UNICEF estimates that 156 million men were married before age 18, in comparison with the 720 million underage women. This issue has been far less studied and researched and often when people hear the word child marriage, they think about a young women being married before legal age. I for example started to write this essay only focusing on the bride but a good comment from another student made me think differently. However, this paper is mainly about child brides but having information about child grooms can make the paper more interesting.