Rodriguez Rojas !1 Roxana Rodriguez Rojas Instructor Brenden Jackson ENC1101 2/22/17 The Impacts Animal Agriculture has on the Environment Around the globe, consuming animal products has become a normal part of many diet. There is plenty of information that is in favor of having a meat-based diet but do not take into account of what impacts animal agriculture has on things other than humans. EPA.gov defines animal agriculture or (animal feeding operations) as, operations where animals are kept and raised in confined Many people mindlessly consume these foods without even realizing what kinds of effects it has on the environment. The waste these farms produce do not just disappear and being in these is not always sanitary. Farmers have their ways of keeping things relatively disease-free but at what cost? With the growing global population and an increase of living standards, the world is being forced to produce more food at a faster rate. This demand for food is almost unprecedented and alarming. I am curious to see if animal agriculture is truly healthy for the planet and if the costs outweigh the benefits when looking at it in an environmental perspective. My research question for the semester is: what kinds of impacts does 21st century animal agriculture have on the environment? Abdalla, C.W. and J.L. Lawton. Environmental Issues in Animal  Choices : The Magazine of Food, Farm, and Resource Issues, no. 3, 2006. EBSCOhost, Rodriguez Rojas !2 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsagr&AN=edsagr.US201301113507&site=eds-live. In this article, impacts of water sources, the atmosphere and human impacts are discussed. The beginning discusses how animal agriculture effects sources of water such as ground and surface water. This pollution can come from animal waste such as manure, bedding, feed, and dead animals not being regulated properly (Abdalla and Lawton, et al, 177). Aside from water quality, air quality is another issue linked to animal agriculture. include the possible effects of ammonia and particulates on respiratory systems (e.g., asthma) and prolonged exposure to odors on mental health effects (e.g., (Abdalla and Lawton, et al, 177). The authors also state concerns that are also rising from bi-products that arise from air pollutants called bioaerosols. These bioaerosols can have negative effects on human and animal health when released into the air. The article also mentions how cattle release high amounts of methane, a greenhouse gas (GHG), from their manure. The increase of the amount of cattle being raised only further increase the amount of GHG emissions (Abdalla and Lawton, et al, 177). Charles W. Abdalla received his PhD in Resource Economics from Michigan State University in 1985. He is currently a professor of Agriculture and Environmental Economics at Pennsylvania State University. His areas of expertise include: natural resource economics, environmental and energy policy analysis, water resources management, institutional economics, and public issues education. The authors examine what animal agriculture does to the environment and associated risks of mismanaged farms. The periodical goes through 3 major environmental impacts animal agriculture has and even relate it to human health impacts which Rodriguez Rojas !3 can also raise concern in readers. This text is also helpful because it specifically focuses on current animal agriculture which is what I am studying. McAllister, Tim A., et al. Greenhouse Gases in Animal Agriculture--Finding a Balance between Food Production and  Animal Feed Science and Technology, 2011. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsagr&AN=edsagr.US201400016668&site=eds-live. This article concentrates specifically on greenhouse gas emissions. The information is based off of a conference held in Alberta, Canada in 2010 to discuss the greenhouse emissions from animal agriculture (McAllister, et al, Abstract). The meeting discussed how methane affects the atmosphere and the methodology behind measuring the emissions. According to the article, these greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are linked to more severe weather patterns around the world which is beginning to spark concern of anthropogenic origins of It also mentions that global population increases will then create higher demand for food production and increase the amount of livestock which will then create more GHG emissions. (McAllister, et al, Introduction). Tim A. McAllister received his PhD from the University of Guelph and is a Principal Research Scientist. His research area is rumen microbiology and nutrition as well as beef production. He is currently working on almost 20 projects that all pertain to animal agriculture and has published countless research publications. This article ties in with my research question because it focuses on a huge environmental impact. Since there are going to be six sources that I am able to use for this paper, I decided to use a few that will have information on a single large impact. Rodriguez Rojas !4 Sharifi, Mohammad, et al. Environmental Impact Assessment Of Chicken Meat Production Using Life Cycle  Information Processing In Agriculture 3.(2016): 262-271. ScienceDirect. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. doi 10.1016/j.inpa.2016.10.002. According to the article, this study examines the environmental impacts of chicken meat production during the summer and winter months where production is highest. The people who studied these effects used assessment (LCA) a technique to assess the environmental impacts of a product, process, or activity over its life (Sharifi, et al, 2.3. Life cycle assessment methodology). The areas of environmental impact that was being studied included all parts of the environment such as depletion of ozone, human impacts and aquatic impacts. According to the article, world population is expected to reach 9.2 billion by 2075 which means increased agricultural productivity. The author then mentions that agricultural emissions account for about half of all GHG emissions produced globally. Mohammad Sharifi has a PhD and a MA in Agricultural Mechanization Engineering, as well as a MA in Agricultural Machinery Engineering from Tehran University. He has done numerous supervised theses and dissertations, has written multiple articles, and has attended many international conferences mostly discussing energy and agriculture. This article is great for my research because it focuses on a specific kind of animal agriculture that is used in many countries around the world. The article looks at many different areas of environmental impacts and is safe to say that many of these issues that happen in Iran may easily be found in different parts of the world. Russo, V., and H. von Blottnitz. Potentialities Of Biogas Installation In South African Meat Value Chain For Environmental Impacts  Journal Of Cleaner Production Rodriguez Rojas !5 (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro. 2016.11.133. This article is focused on environmental impacts and ways to reduce emissions from animal agriculture in South Africa. It looks at many different type of animal agriculture and fixates on the waste management of meat production once the animal has been slaughtered. The article states that farming is the largest user of natural (Russo and von Blottnitz, et al, Introduction). That in itself is already showing how large of an impact animal agriculture is already having on the environment before the animals are even slaughtered. During production, they release high amounts of through their manure as well as just breathing. The authors want to come up with solutions on how they can reduce waste and emissions in different sectors of meat production since they account for such a high amount of GHG emissions. Valentina Russo has received her PhD in System Engineering and has her MA in Homeland Security. She has almost 50 published works and has extensive research experience in her field. Harro von Blottnitz is a professor at the University of Cape Town in the Department of Chemical Engineering. His skills and expertise include Life-Cycle Assessment, biogas, biodiesel, energy, and waste. His disciplines are environmental engineering and chemical engineering. He is currently working one project dealing with food systems and alleviating poverty and has over 50 published works. Their article is very helpful because while it is looking at environmental impacts it is also giving a new perspective by ways in which to reduce these emissions and impacts. By looking at multiple effects and multiple sectors of meat production, I am able to get a broader sense of the kinds of impacts animal agriculture has on the globe. Rodriguez Rojas !6 Akhtar, Aysha Z., et al. Current Issue: Health Roles in Animal Agriculture, Climate Change, and Human  American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol. 36, 01 Jan. 2009, pp. 182-187. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2008.09.043. In this journal, the author focuses on the steady increase of human consumption of meat and animal products. The author highlights the fact that the U.S. only has a small percentage of human population, yet, produces a substantial amount of animal meat for the world. The journal also reminds readers that global population is clearly increasing which results in a higher demand for meat and other animal products. Many small farms are being replaced by industrial farms to keep up with the increasing demand of meat. Akhtar mentions - animal agriculture contributes 18% of annual anthropogenic greenhouse gas (Akhtar, et al, Climate Change and Environmental Degradation) and highlights the true impact of what it does to the atmosphere. Later on in the section, Akhtar reveals how much land surface meat production can actually take up while commenting on the amount of resources it takes to feed these animals. Those resources that are being used for these animals can actually help alleviate food shortages around the world according to the author. Her final piece of evidence of environmental impacts talks about how animals agriculture negatively impacts water quality from pesticides, fertilizers, and manure that runs off from these industrial farms. Aysha Akhtar is a graduate of Eastern Virginia Medical School, has completed her general medicine internship at Washington Hospital Center and her residency for neurology and preventative medicine at the University of North Carolina Medical School. She is a double Board-certified neurologist and preventive medicine/public health specialist and works for the Office of Counterterrorism and Emerging Threats of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Rodriguez Rojas !7 (FDA). Akhtar also has written numerous peer-reviewed journals and reviews in her field of study. Her journal is helpful for my paper because it specifically states what the environmental impacts of animal agriculture are while specifying why these things are happening and mentions how things have changed since the past. Webster, John and Joyce The Meat Crisis : Developing More Sustainable Production and Consumption. Routledge, 2010. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=339081&site=eds-live. This article is much different than the others simply because it discusses things, such as feeding processes of humans, animals and the sustainability as well as going through what we as a species are doing wrong. The authors advocate for turning to more farming processes while listing the benefits to the environment in doing so. They claim that by raising animals according to wet and dry seasons, there will still be enough vegetation for the animals and enough meat for humans during the differing seasons. The authors also go through how the need for large quantities of land will decrease by moving away from industrial practices as well as the amount of methane and other greenhouse gasses will decrease through these changes. By radically changing the way in which humans produce animal products, there can be huge environmental benefits that go along with it. Joyce is the ambassador for Compassion in World Farming and has worked with large governmental organizations such as the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. She has published works and has spoken to UK and New Zealand governments on the welfare of farm animals. John Webster graduated from the University of Cambridge and later received his PhD from the University of Glasgow. He was a professor of animal husbandry for Rodriguez Rojas !8 27 years and Professor Emeritus at the University of Bristol. He was also one of the founding members of the Farm Animal Welfare Council and has proposed the of farm animals that has gained global recognition. This article takes a new view about my research question. While it does say the kinds of environmental impacts animal agriculture has on the world it also proposes a solution to help with pollution and emissions that are the products of raising livestock.