Taylor Nipper Professor Jackson ENC 1101 2-13-17 According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-V (5 th ed., 2013), dissociative disorders are classified into three main types of dissociation: dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and depersonalization/derealization disorder. In preceding editions of the DSM, dissociative amnesia was a fourth category but has since been combined with dissociative amnesia. People with dissociative disorders most likely have faced some type of trauma including but not limited to rape, an accident, combat, incest, or a natural disaster. Dissociative symptoms start to emerge when the stressor becomes so extreme that it negatively effects daily life and functioning. Because of the overwhelming stress of the incident, the patient turns to dissociation as a defense mechanism which separates the event from the conscious mind and allows them to evade the emotional distress and anxiety that they once felt. These conditions involve disruptions of awareness, identity, perception and memory. Women tend to develop this disorder more than men, and most diagnoses are done before the age of 30, however some doctors still argue the validity of this condition. After doing a substantial amount of research, I hope to be able to answer the question: What causes someone to turn to dissociation, and once they have, what can be done to help achieve in daily life? Prerost, Frank J. Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health. Jan. 2016, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. The first source that I looked at for this paper was a general research-starter. Prerost identifies three major categories: dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and depersonalization/derealization disorder. The most popular symptom of dissociation is amnesia. A person with dissociative amnesia can no longer remember the trauma that caused the disorder. Identity disorder, also known as multiple personality disorder is when the person develops two or more distinct personalities. These personalities can range in age and gender and in other characteristics such as shyness or how outgoing that personality is. Depersonalization is the idea that the self becomes strange or different and they enter an almost dreamlike state. This entry gives general information about dissociative disorders that helps to understand the basis and acts as a stepping stone for future and more in depth research. I learned general terms and categories that I can now search specifically to find more articles. This source relates to my research question because it talks about what leads to dissociation and at the end goes over treatments which intend to cure this disease and help them achieve normality. This source is peer-reviewed and was published in the Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health in January of 2016. Frank Prerost received his Masters and Doctoral degrees from DePaul University. a licensed clinical Psychologist, has published many times in psychology literature, and is a national reviewer for several academic journals. Spring, Carolyn. guide with dissociative identity Healthcare Counselling & Psychotherapy Journal, Vol. 11, Issue 4, Oct. 2010, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017 guide with dissociative identity was from the Academic Search Alumni Edition Database. Here they mention that many ideas of these disorders come from Hollywood representations such as the movie and book Sybil, but there is so much more to it than that. People also tend to believe that the condition is very rare, when in fact 1-3% of the general population is affected. Mostly this is caused by childhood trauma and it is the failure of normal developmental integration that causes the separation and the parts of the personality. Dissociative disorders characterized by integrated functions of consciousness, memory, identity, or perception of the environment, meaning that memories and feelings may not go The treatment for Dissociative Identity Disorder (DID) is long- term, one on one psychotherapy and typically extends for five or more years. As said above, this article provided me with many key bits of information that are helping me to answer my research question. This source helps me to answer my research question by providing a good amount of information on the treatment of dissociative identity disorder and also talking about the diagnosis. It discusses how to work with the alter personalities and helps me to understand what the patient is going through. I found this source on the USF Library page and it was originally published in the Healthcare Counselling & Psychotherapy Journal in October of 2011. After doing research about the author, Carolyn Spring, I found that she was diagnosed with Dissociative Identity Disorder in 2006. Before this she worked in social care, working therapeutically with children suffering trauma and abuse. The fact that she lived with this condition, went through treatment, and now works to teach and tell about it proves her credibility. Blum, Harold. and Its Psychoanalytic Inquiry, Issue 5, Vol. 33 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Sep/Oct2013, p427-438. 12p. doi: 10.1080/07351690.2013.815058. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017 This article was of use to me because it put into perspective the type of people that can be effected by this disorder. Although not always true, many cases include an adult bipolar patient with a brutally traumatic childhood and/or dysfunctional family. Dissociative disorder can be temporary or long term, as the personalities are altered states of consciousness and the patient is often not consciously aware of the divided self. I found this source using the USF library website. It is peer reviewed and is an article originally published in the 33 rd volume of the Psychoanalytic Inquiry. The abstract helped me to get an idea of what the article was about and showed me the relevance to my topic and research question. This source has a slightly different angle and some unique information and research that I had not seen in any of the similar articles. It also solidified some of the research I have already gathered. The author, Harold Blum is the past Editor-in-chief of the Journal of American Psychoanalytic Association, and has created over 170 psychoanalytic papers and a number of books. He is a Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the Psychoanalytic Institute of the New York University Medical Center. Blum is recognized as a true Freud scholar in addition to receiving the Sigourney award in 1990, the most prestigious in psychoanalysis. Brand, Bethany, Loewenstein, Richard J. Disorders: An Overview of Assessment, Phenomonology, and Academic Search Alumni Edition. Vol. 27, no. 10, Oct. 2010, pp. 62. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017 This article starts off by discussing how dissociative symptoms provide a detachment from or a protective containment of overwhelming experiences. The author compares this disease to an defense where the animal freezes in the face of predation when the fight or flight instincts are tested. The article lists several things that are altered by dissociation including: memory, consciousness, awareness of self and/or body, awareness of environment, and identity. Later in the article, it talks about the prevalence of dissociative disorders stating that it is the most prevalent in general population studies. Lastly, it goes into detail about specific disorders such as dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and how to differentiate and treat them. This article contributes a lot of reliable and relevant information for my paper about treatment and aftercare which is a specific part of my research question. The article comes from the Academic Search Alumni Edition database and was peer reviewed. It was published in the Psychiatric Times magazine. As stated in the above paragraph, the article starts off by describing things that can lead to dissociation as well as comparing it to something more easily understood. This helps answer the first part of my research question. The author, Bethany Brand is a clinical psychologist. She specializes in the assessment and treatment of two trauma related disorders, one of which is dissociative disorders. Brand maintains her own practice and is the Martha A. Mitten Professor of Psychology at Towson University. Cronin, Elisabeth, Brand, Bethany L., Mattanah, Jonathan F. impact of the therapeutic alliance on treatment outcome in patients with dissociative European Journal of Psychotraumatology, Vol. 5, p1-9, 2014, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds. Accessed 15 Feb 2017. The article starts off by defining dissociation and stating that the APA (American Psychiatric Association) has named dissociative identity disorder as the most severe of all dissociative disorders. Understanding and treatment is a challenge for the mental health field despite being found in 1% of the population and 5% of inpatients (International Society for the Study of Trauma and Dissociation 2011). The therapeutic alliance is made up of three main variables: an and agreement on goals and tasks between the patient and therapist. (Martin, Garske, & Davis, 2000). The authors, Cronin, Brand, and Mattanah state that a strong therapeutic alliance is necessary. At the end of the article, the findings are stated, patient- therapist alliances scores were average to strongly correlated with lower levels of PTSD, distress, and dissociation symptoms. This source was a great find in reference to my research question. The clinical research article described in detail the experiment and treatments used. They stated that there was some correlation and improvement due to the therapeutic alliance. This helps me to answer the part of my research question where I ask about how normality can be achieved on an everyday basis. Elizabeth Cronin is one of the three very credible authors; she got her Ed.M. at Graduate School of Education and her Psy.D. at the Massachusetts School of Professional Psychology. Bethany Brand, as stated above has her Ph.D. and owns her own practice. She has presented research and done clinical training all over the world. Lastly, Dr. Mattanah started as a professor at Towson University in 1999, and has since been promoted multiple times to become a He teaches advanced courses and research methods while maintaing his own practice and specializing in patients with forms of psychopathy.