Nicolas Saladino Brenden Jackson Composition 1 2/21/17 New Technology in the Field of Prosthetics Introduction: For my research paper I am going to look into the field of prosthetics and how new technology is impacting it. New technology is created almost everyday and it can have a variety of uses. My focus is on prosthetics because I am interested in Biomedical Engineering and have a general interest in technology. The plan for this paper is to specifically look at limbs first and seeing how technological advances have impacted them. Then, looking into prosthetic organs and cognitive prosthetics which have been in development for a while, but are just now gaining attention. The question this paper is going to address is; what new technologies are being implemented into the field of prosthetics and how are they helping evolve the devices? Extensive research has been completed in this field and there are plenty of articles as well as research available for this topic. The purpose of this first project is to expand my knowledge of prosthetics while I complete the three projects in Composition 1. Source 1: Wagner, H., et al. The Effects Of New Technology Adoption On Employee Skills In The Prosthetics  International Journal Of Production Research, vol. 46, no. 22, 15 Nov. 2008, pp. 6461-6478. Business Source Premier, doi: 10.1080/00207540701432623. The source discusses the potential implementation of rapid manufacturing (RM) in the field of prosthetics. Prosthetics take a long time to fabricate and build, which is part of the reason why they are expensive. The article focused on the impact on workers, but included the impact on processes, materials, and costs. The researchers found that rapid manufacturing would have a big impact on the field of prosthetics by revolutionizing the amount of time required to build them. The designers of prosthetics would benefit, while the individual crafters would be effected in a negative way. However, rapid manufacturing could produce a lot more devices to benefit the entire system and the technicians could help fix the massive amount of new products if there were issues. This article ties into my paper, because it discusses the implementation of rapid manufacturing into the field of prosthetics. Rapid manufacturing is a relatively new technology and is revolutionizing the field. Rapid manufacturing will not only help decrease the cost of prosthetics and allow many more people to purchase them, but the massive amount of new prosthetic devices that will be released will need maintenance and service from daily use. This means that the many technicians employed by prosthetic manufacturers can easily transition to repairing them instead of building them. The five researchers who conducted this study have a lot of experience in the field of prosthetics, as well as looking into the implementation of rapid manufacturing into various fields. Helen Wagner who headed the research paper is the head of public relations at 3M. She undertook this study to see how workers would be affected and how public insight would change. This source provided a lot of information that will benefit me in answering my research question, as well as write my paper. Source 2: Mangera, Taahirah, et al. Light Metals For The Functional Requirements Of Developing World Lower Extremity Paediatric Prosthetics: A Review Of Current Material & Technology  Materials Science Forum , vol. 828-829, 11 May 2015, pp. 499-505. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/MSF.828-829.499 This source discusses the functional requirements of pediatric prosthetics in the developing regions of Africa. According to the study, there are significant advantages of light metals in prosthetics especially in developing regions because they are more common. This paper went in depth into how prosthetics are made and how research and development is needed in certain aspects of the production. The paper especially emphasized the variability of light weight alloys and how there inclusion into modern prosthetics is improving the entire production system. The light weight alloys will improve on tailoring the prosthetics for the individual patients and improve there functionality. This research paper is relevant to my research because light weight alloys are generally new to the field of prosthetics. In years prior, heavy metals were used by fabricators so that the prosthetic could support weight and last for a longer period of time. However, recent developments in light weight alloys have allowed them to be used in prosthetics and improve upon the older heavy metals. Lightweight metals are another new implementation that is changing the field of prosthetics in modern times. This new technology is being implemented in many parts of the world and especially in developing regions because of the accessibility to light weight alloys is more common. The three researchers who conducted this study and evaluation have years of experience in prosthetics, and were well qualified when they conducted this study. Taahirah Mangera, who spearheaded this study is an active professor at the University of the Witwatersrand. She has numerous research papers published in regard to engineering, and prostateics for the third world. This source was the first source to contain information about modern developments in prosthetics and is definitely going to help in conducting my research. Source 3: Jamieson, Matthew, et al. The Efficacy Of Cognitive Prosthetic Technology For People With Memory Impairments: A Systematic Review And  Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, vol. 24, no. 3/4, 29 April, 2013, pp. 419-444. Academic Search Premier, doi:10.1080/09602011.2013.825632 This research study showed the impact of cognitive prosthetic technology which is still fairly new. The researchers conducted a study to measure the impact and effectiveness of cognitive prosthetics. The researchers concluded that cognitive prosthetics work and have a very high acceptance rate. However due to their new entrance into the medical field, these cognitive prosthetics are not yet funded by major healthcare systems. This paper included a lot of details into the prosthetics and how they work. The researchers clearly and vividly explained the benefits and implementations of these prosthetics. This paper contained a lot of qualitative qualitative as well as quantitative results for me to study and learn from. This research study is relevant to my paper because it contained extensive information regarding cognitive prosthetics. Cognitive prosthetics are very new to the medical field and are just starting to gain traction with major healthcare systems. The researchers conducted this study to show just how effective the technology was in order to promote these new prosthetics. This research study had a special connection to me as well because members of my family have suffered from and this new technology could benefit millions of people. The researchers conducting this study were well qualified for the research they conducted. Matthew Jamieson who headed the study is an acting professor at the University of Glasgow, and had numerous research studies contributed to his name. This source will be of benefit to me in writing my paper because it contains so much quantitative information regarding the implantation of prosthetics. Source 4: Smith, Douglas G., and Ernest M. Burgess. The Use Of CAD/CAM Technology In Prosthetics And Orthotics- Current Clinical Models And A View To The  Journal Of Rehabilitation Research & Development, vol. 38 no. 3, 1 May 2001, pp. 327-334. Academic Search Premier. This Academic journal was performed by researchers under the Department of Veterans Affairs. The researchers conducting a study into the new implementation of CAD/CAM technology in prosthetics and orthotics. Nowadays, CAD/CAM is widely used and pretty much everywhere. However in 2001 when this study was conducted, CAD/CAM was fairly new and just being implemented. The researchers discovered how CAD/CAM would effect the field of prosthetics, and what benefits would it entail. This journal study was interesting, because it provided a look back into 16 years ago when CAD/CAM was just coming about. This paper showed how new technology was revolutionizing the field of prosthetics, even though it is considered older technology now. This academic journal was very interesting to me because of the historical context behind it. CAD/CAM is used almost everywhere today in order to build the things we use. In manufacturing, CAD/CAM has come so far along that assembly lines can essentially operate on their own. However in 2001, very few people knew what this technology was or how it would affect us in anyway. It was interesting to observe how of the researchers approached CAD/CAM, and view their skepticism towards it. Once they discovered its implementation and realized how beneficial it would be, they were very excited for this new technology. The researchers conducting the study were well-qualified, and served under the Department of Veterans Affairs which added to their ethos. Doctor Douglas G. Smith led this study and is a current professor of Orthopaedic Surgery at the University of Washington in Seattle. He serves under the schools medical program as well as the Seattle Veterans Administration Medical Center. Source 5: Zettler, Patricia J. Is It Cheating To Use Cheetahs?: The Implications Of Technologically Innovative Prostheses For Sports Values And  Boston University International Law Journal, vol. 27, no. 2, 1 July 2009, pp. 367-409. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. This research study focused on the implementation of prosthetics in sports. In 2009 when this article was written, prosthetics and sports really merged yet. The researcher set out to find a way to implement prosthetics into sports and see how the world of sports was going to incorporate them. Zettler into individual sports, and specific areas where prosthetic could become the most useful. Her overall concern throughout was would prosthetics be considered cheating. She was able to come to a conclusion for each area she looked into and discovered how the world of sports was going to accept them. This paper looked into the newfound implementation of prosthetics into sports in 2009 and provided a lot of historical context about prosthetics at the time. This article ties into my paper, because the researcher delved into the field of prosthetics, specifically how they were revolutionizing the field of sports. it was interesting to see how she looked at the individual areas of sports and discovered implementations for prosthetics in each one. Patricia Zettler is a professor at Georgia State University and emphasizes on law. She has completed numerous research studies regarding medicine and science and how the laws will change around them. This paper was very beneficial in increasing my knowledge of prosthetics especially in sports. Source 6: Eshraghi, Arezoo, et al. 100 Top-Cited Scientific Papers In Limb  Biomedical Engineering Online, vol. 12, no. 1, 1 Dec. 2013, pp. 2-20. Academic Search Alumni Edition. doi: 10.1186/1475-925X-12-119 The final source used for this research paper is actually a collection and summary of 100 academic journals regarding prosthetics. The authors provided a brief summary of a majority of the articles, as well as a general overview of where the articles group under. It was interesting to see how the articles divided up and fell under similar categories. This article was extremely helpful because it includes information from a vast amount of other journals and condenses it into summaries. It is important to note that these summaries were created by the author of the journal cited and could have bias in them. I cross referenced the summaries with the articles that they described and found very little bias. This academic journal was very beneficial and crucial in regard to increasing my knowledge of prosthetics and where the direction of the research was heading. This journal included a lot of information about practically every sort of prosthetic as well as a synopsis of the major ones. Arezoo Eshraghi led this research study and is currently pursuing a PhD in Biomedical Engineering at the University of Malaya. She completed years of work in the field of prosthetics and has had the reigns for numerous research studies. She has been awarded immensely for her work and has numerous grants to work with.