Ward 1 Robert Ward Mr. Brendan Jackson ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Project 1: Annotated Bibliography (Early Draft) As technology gets more advanced, only natural to assume that the technology will be used to make our lives easier, or more comfortable. Since the beginning of recorded history, man has created new technological innovations in order to find more food, to be more comfortable in our homes, and to defend ourselves from danger. The line between science-fiction and fiction is becoming more blurred by the day, as some of our brightest minds come up with ideas and innovations once deemed impossible. And to that, I have one question. How will industrial automation impact the American working class as technology continues to get more advanced? Mayer, Social Impact Of Automation Trends And Issues: An Human Centred Systems Engineering  IFAC Proceedings Volumes 41.17th IFAC World Congress (2008): 5251-5256. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. abstract impact of automation trends and issues: an human centred systems engineering sought to answer a few very important questions regarding automation and control technologies and the new behaviors that correlated with their implementation in various industries and what roles those behaviors play in our society. Essentially, In this journal entry, I believe Mayer highlights the potential ethical and societal risks that could accompany large scale automation. Ward 2 Mayer was a member of a research team on innovative process at Nancy in Nancy, France. His record was published in sciencedirect, and has been peer- reviewed and found sound within the academic community. Coeckelbergh, Mark1, mark.coeckelbergh@dmu.ac.uk. The Tragedy Of The Master: Automation, Vulnerability, And  Ethics & Information Technology 17.3 (2015): 219-229. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Markl Coeckelbergh approached automation using the master-slave dialectic in his journal, Tragedy of the Master: Automation, Vulnerability, and He touches on various points, such as distance from the environment, as well as vulnerability to dependence on the master-slave relationship. This journal entry proposes observations in areas such as worker drive, and dependance on the automation itself. This journal expands more on the timeframe in automation, and I will use to expand on certain ideas that are relevant to my topic question. Oesterreich, Thuy Duong, and Frank Teuteberg. Understanding The Implications Of Digitisation And Automation In The Context Of Industry 4.0: A Triangulation Approach And Elements Of A Research Agenda For The Construction  Computers In Industry 83.(2016): 121-139. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. the Implication of Digitisation and Automation in the Context of Industry 4.0; A Triangulation Approach and Elements of a Research Agenda for the Construction will touch on one of the major topics of my paper, and the implications and effects of automation in a labor intensive work environment for your average working class Ward 3 employee, such as construction. This journal entry goes in depth into how the industry has drastically changed due to automation and digitisation, effectively employing the Industry 4.0 concept. Computers in Industry is a peer reviewed journal that discusses the potential changes and implications that could be derived from the introduction of technology into a variety of industries. While this specific entry covers the construction industry, I feel that it ties along perfectly with my research topic, the effects and implications of automation and the average working class worker. Due to the popularity of the journal, Tueteberg and publication is a testament to their superior knowledge on the subject. Jipp, Meike, and Phillip L. Ackerman. The Impact Of Higher Levels Of Automation On Performance And Situation Awareness: A Function Of Information-Processing Ability And Working-Memory  Journal Of Cognitive Engineering And Decision Making 10.2 (2016): 138-166. PsycINFO. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. In this case study by Meike Jipp and Phillip L. Ackerman, they examine observations between automation and their effects on the present workers cognitive complex functions and information analysis in an air traffic control tower, and how their performance differed between manual and automated process employment. In regards to the credentials, Jipp Meike studies at the German Aerospace Center (DLR), in Braunschweig, Germany, and Phillip L. Ackerman studied at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia. Their case study was published in the Journal Of Cognitive Engineering And Decision,an accredited and peer-reviewed scientific publication. Ward 4 Waldman, Cuff. The Evolving Contours Of Productivity Performance And Automation Investment In U.S.  Business Economics 4 (2016): 213. Academic OneFile. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. In this publication, Cuff Waldman observed the productivity of workers, using survey- generated data on automation investment. Waldman uses this data to see how widespread automation investment is in the US, as well as different variables such as company size, location, and objective. He also goes over the definition of automation, in order to obtain a broad picture of the behavior involved with the implementation of automation. Using the information found in this study, I will be able to present various trends and sets of data to adequately portray the impact of automation technology on the modern worker, as well as give a broader definition to the term automation, and what that could entail for various industries. Cuff case study was published in Business Economics, a highly respected and accredited scientific publication. Ward 5 Maas, Ger, and Frans van Gassel. The Influence Of Automation And Robotics On The Performance  Automation In Construction 14.20th International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction: The Future Site (2005): 435-441. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. In this case study, Ger Maas, and Frans Van Gassel observe the relationships between developments in new technologies in the construction industry. In this study, the authors take a positive outlook towards automaton, and formulate a few hypotheses on how it could be used to play a key factor in changing the world through a more productive and responsible construction industry. They also review the developments of automation in construction, and how it can be used in conjunction with the Technology Matrix. I will use this study to highlight a very large industry with a large population of working class citizens, and how they have been adapting to these new technological changes over the last decade. The study was published on ScienceDirect, a peer-reviewed scientific publication.