Oshman 1 Abbey Oshman Instructor Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 February 5, 2017 The Impact Education in Developing Countries has on Cognitive Health Development In America, education seems to be the core of having a successful life. It is almost expected that people go to school from the time they are able to talk to whenever they graduate from college. It is forgotten living in such a structured country, that education is not as important to people that live elsewhere. Education in America has such a huge impact on every life as a whole. It determines where people may live, the job they may get, and even the people they might surround themselves with. Now, try imagining life with no firm school system. Possibly getting to go to for a couple years here and there, but nothing stable. The basics of learning would be withheld from us, and that would honestly change everything. Education is such an important aspect of life, and I think it is taken for granted very often. That is why I chose a topic that focuses on education, but not how we as Americans see it every day. I am focusing on this to bring awareness to the struggling education systems in developing countries and also because I want others to know that education is a privilege. It is said that today there are 113 million primary age children not enrolled in school and that 1 out of 4 adults in developing countries are illiterate due to the fact that they have little or no educational background (isites.harvard.edu Most of us treat education as a task while there are people in other Oshman 2 countries that would give up anything to have the opportunities the people in America have when it comes to education. My research question for this semester is: How does the structure of education in developing countries affect their cognitive health development? Epstein, Marc J., and Kristi. Yuthas. Redefining Quality In Developing World  Innovations: Technology, Governance, Globalization (Project Muse) 8.3 (2013): 197. Supplemental Index. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Retrieved from https://muse-jhu- edu.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/536519 The main focus of this article is to acknowledge the importance in changing the quality of education in developing countries. Most children living in these countries are severely impoverished and can only hope that their education will help them escape from that. According to Epstein, many children and families in these countries look at schooling as and irrelevant to everyday (Epstein and Yuthas, 6) because the quality of the education as it stands now, is not as beneficial to their life after school. The authors of this article have come up with a solution that they believe will help turn the quality of education around in these developing nations. Epstein says, need skills they can use immediately to enhance their health and economic well-being and to contribute to the development of their (Epstein and Yuthas, 8). These new skills and ideas that they believe should be focused on more are entrepreneurship and financial literacy, health education, and practicing empowerment. The main concepts they learn in school are basic math, language, and science, and while all of that is great, Epstein notices it is all done by continuous repetition and memorization (Epstein and Yuthas, 12), so the students do not end up gaining much from it. If the new ideas mentioned earlier were more solely focused on, the authors strongly agree that it would improve education Oshman 3 in developing countries dramatically, where children can actually put their knowledge to use. This new education would involve learning how to actually manage money, how to be healthy, and it would show the kids what it means to live in a supportive environment. Marc J. Epstein is the Distinguished Research Professor of Management at Rice University, Texas. He has his Ph.D. in Philosophy in Business Administration and he is widely known as a global leader when it comes to sustainability and innovation as he has worked with both corporations and not-for-profit organizations (AmazonBooks J. Kristi Yuthas is currently the Swigert Professor in Information Technology at Portland State University, Oregon. She received her Bachelor of Science in Finance and her Ph.D. in Business Administration from the University of Utah. She now focuses on using her knowledge in business to help others, as her professor description states people out of poverty through business (Pdx.uedu This article is a credible source as both of these authors have had experience in teaching others in educational settings and both have knowledge when it comes to finances at a global level. This article as a whole relates to my topic of education in developing countries affecting child mental development because it shows how receptive children are to the education they are experiencing today and how they would change as a person mentally if their educational resources were improved upon. This article helped prove that the quality education of basic entrepreneurial and job skills, health maintenance, and critical thinking skills will enable students to make effective choices in all aspects of life (Epstein and Yuthas, 12 & 13). Epstein shows that education really is the core of child development, and when it is bettered, the child will benefit as a whole. Oshman 4 Woldehanna, Tassew. Inequality, Preschool Education And Cognitive Development In Ethiopia: Implication For Public Investment In Pre-Primary  International Journal Of Behavioral Development 40.6 (2016): 509-516. ERIC. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. DOI: 10.1177/0165025415627700 This article mainly talks about how important preschool is to the cognitive development of children. Children in other countries do not always start school as young as Americans do, and that is where their development goes wrong. According to Woldehanna, if children start young it is more likely that they will go further and finish school because they feel more confident in what they have already learned. In this study it is found that first grade without having any exposure to a preschool in turn results in high school failure and dropout rates, especially for children of the poor and rural (Woldehanna, 2). This article mostly focuses on children in Ethiopia and how their school systems are not public. This means that not everyone gets to go to school from the beginning. From this, Woldehanna was able to see the difference in cognitive development between the children who do go from the start and the ones that do not. There is an extreme difference in these statistics and that is why most families (including the young children) work as hard as they possibly can to get their children in school. Woldehanna says that children who attended even just the lowest level of schooling in Ethiopia tested on average 31.2% higher than children with no schooling on a basic life skills test (Woldehanna, 6). Going to school at an early age substantially improves the cognitive development and prepares them for their later years of school and work (Woldehanna, 7). As seen in the study, most children do not get this skillful experience and that is why the economic standings of most developing countries are where they are today. Oshman 5 Tassew Woldehanna is the Principal Investigator for Young Lives (which is an international study of childhood poverty) in Ethiopia. He is a Professor of Economics at Addis Ababa University. He holds a Master of Science in Agricultural and Environmental Economics and Policy and a PhD in Economics from Wageningen University, Netherlands (younglives.org He is a very credible source as he has been working on research for years build evidence for in this world. This article as a whole relates to my topic again because it shows how children in a poverty stricken environment deal with education. Preschool attendance in Ethiopia is basically perceived as a luxury service provision rather than a says Woldehanna. That just adds to my whole point of choosing this topic, to get more into the struggles these children have to deal with as a result of having an educational system that is not easy for everyone to partake in. I chose this study because I feel like it truly shows the importance of how education is needed all around the world. Fuchs, Regina, Elsie Pamuk, and Wolfgang Lutz. Education or wealth: which matters more for reducing child mortality in developing  Vienna Yearbook of Population Research 2010: 175. JSTOR Journals. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1553/populationyearbook2010s175 According to author Regina Fuchs, education does not only effect own development, but passes on to the development of children. This article shows studies where surveys and education tests were done to show how education and child health outcomes are directly related. This article or Wealth: Which matters more for reducing child mortality in developing differs from some of the other articles I have studied because Oshman 6 it focuses more on maternal health transferring to children, and how it flows through the family. According to one of the studies done, including results from multiple developing countries, a education can severely impact the life of the child, additional year of schooling was associated with an average 7% reduction in child (Fuchs, Pamuk, Lutz, 176). It was also said here, that a high percentage of mothers that have children who live on past primary school, went through the entire education process themselves. Majority of them finished school, allowing them to gain knowledge on how to raise a family, that led to having a healthy baby and knowing to send them through school as well. Pamuk believes that education of women is so important in these developing countries because they are the primary influence in lives, and it will cause a chain reaction. Women can provide children with new knowledge on behaviors, including personal behaviors related directly or indirectly to (Fuchs, Pamuk, Lutz, 181). One of the studies done in Kenya showed how much maternal education impacted the children, in the education they received and how they grew up, went to school, and improved their family wealth. Fuchs strongly believes that women influence the lives of children severely in developing countries. In this article, we can see how significant education is, not only for the children, but for the parents too, because that is how it leads to the cognitive development of children. Author, Regina Fuchs has a Degree and a Doctoral Degree in Social and Economic Sciences and studied World Population and Demography along the way. Elsie Pamuk and Wolfgang Lutz are both a part of the World Population Program and do studies for the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg, Austria. Lutz has also studied Demography and Economics. All of these authors are very qualified in writing this article because they have Oshman 7 plenty of knowledge and experience in focusing on the topic of how economics and education affect the development of women, children, and their families. This article relates to my research topic because it shows the importance of maternal health and how the choices mothers make can severely affect the education of their children. Fuchs believes that the more education one has leads to more access in employment and self-employment. This then leads to higher income and more access to promoting health (Fuchs, Pamuk, Lutz, 183). This cycle will continuously flow through the family, creating a greater drive in the children to live a healthy lifestyle. Lee, Albert, et al. A Program In Hong Kong: Enhancing Positive Health Behavior For School Children And  Education For Health: Change In Learning & Practice (Taylor & Francis Ltd) 13.3 (2000): 399. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer In the article, Program in Hong Kong: Enhancing Positive Health Behavior for School Children and it talks about developing health programs in schools to improve the cognitive development in children as a whole, which will improve their life dramatically in all aspects. This article involves a study done at a school in China that focuses primarily on implementing strong health knowledge so that they will grow up and be of great benefit to their community. According to author Albert Lee, and adolescence are critical periods of growth and development, so schools can play the most important role in health promotion and health (A. Lee et al. 400). This study proved that making students focus on health studies and learning about the history of how education impacted people Oshman 8 in their country really improved their growth later in life. It gave children a point of view that they had never had before, or never experienced through their family if they came from a poverty-stricken family. Lee also said that over 70% of children agreed that the new level of education they were receiving helped them have a better understanding of the importance of health that they would have never known if they had gone into child labor at an early age like many children do. The last thing the study showed is that this intervention among the students was very helpful in preventing smoking and use of other drugs. This network changed what children were exposed to and decreased their interest in involving themselves in things that they had recently learned were harmful to their health and would decrease their overall mental development. The author of this article, Dr. Albert Lee focuses primarily on child and adolescent health through school settings, linking the community and primary health care. He is also currently a Clinical Professor at the School of Public Health and Primary Care at the Chinese University of Hong (cuhk.edu.hk As seen, he is very qualified in writing this article, because he makes a living off of teaching students about Public health and is continuously working on spreading this idea around his country and into the rest of the world. This article ties in perfectly with my research topic because it gives a study with evidence on how education is needed everywhere, no matter if going straight into child labor seems to be the most beneficial thing to do. Education goes way past the amount of years one is in school, it has a life-long effect. The statistics in this article showing the amount of students that stayed away from drugs and said they learned information they had never even heard of, is reason enough for every country to make education a top priority and enforce it among all children. Oshman 9 Hanushek, Eric A., Victor Lavy, and Kohtaro Hitomi. Do Students Care about School Quality? Determinants of Dropout Behavior in Developing  Journal of Human Capital 2008: 69. JSTOR Journals. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1086/529446 In the article, Students Care about School Quality? Determinants of Dropout Behavior in Developing it talks about how the difference in the quality of schools in Egypt affects how students progress in their education over the years. The study done in this article reviewed students in grades 3-6 from both rural and urban schools in Egypt. The authors explained that it is very common for students to drop out of school as they get into higher grades. This study showed that students in better quality schools either dropped out later or not at all compared to students in lower quality schools. The of schooling in this case was based on the content of the curriculum, the facility, and the quality of teachers and their methods (Hanushek, Lavy, Hitomi, 73). The study done shows that student growth in achievement is very much affected by the specific school itself. In Egypt, it was said that one year in the best school can be equivalent to more than two years in the worst school. Some of those best schools were found in the urban areas, as the results from the experiment show that the quality of schools in urban Egypt was percent above that of the rural schools tested (Hanushek, Lavy, Hitomi, 84). According to Hanushek, higher skilled individuals tend to be the ones who stay in school and end up joining the work force after school. By the study done, this article proves that a student attending a lower-quality school is more likely to drop out over one that is of better Oshman 10 quality and has greater resources. Students recognize quality differences and by the results, it shows that they act on them. The authors of this article are all very qualified to give the information they have to support my research topic. Eric A. Hanushek is the Paul and Jean Hanna Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution of Stanford University. He has his Ph.D. in Economics and is also a leader in the development of economic analysis of educational issues, which directly relates to my research (stanford.edu Victor Lavy has his Ph.D in Economics as well. He is now a professor at Hebrew University and is a part of the National Bureau of Economic Research. Kohtaro Hitomi received his Bachelor of Science in Economics and is now a professor at Kyoto Institute of Technology. These authors are very knowledgeable on the subject of economics and educational issues around the world. This article directly relates to my research topic because it focuses on how the quality of schools leads to the quality of education being received. Then it goes into how the students react to it, which could then affect their whole life. The authors of this article showed that how a school is set up can truly affect the development of a student. According to Hanushek, the quality of a school affects how children learn and the information they retain, and this goes past just the years of schooling. Tavares, Priscilla Albuquerque. The Impact of School Management Practices On Educational Performance: Evidence From Public Schools In  Economics Of Education Review 48.(2015): 1-15. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1016/j.econedurev.2015.05.002 The article, The Impact of School Management Practices on Educational Performance: Evidence from Public Schools in  is mainly about proving how important a strong Oshman 11 administration is to a successful education for students. The studies done in this article show evidence that elements of school management are associated with educational outcomes (Tavares, 2). One of the studies, shows that the improvement in the administration of schools in Paulo impacted the students so highly that their comprehension test score average went up nearly 40%. This article focused on the fact that attitudes of the administration matter as well. It is not just about how students are taught. The article shows that if students are getting attention from administration and feel that they are a part of a well-run school, they are progressively learning more. Tavares stated that schools should be like having a good management, because that is what will make for a successful outcome, whether involving education or business decisions (Tavares, 2). Another strong point mentioned, was that if a school does well in this country, and meets certain requirements, the executive administration earns a higher wage that year. This makes the administration want to continue to better the education for their own sake (Tavares, 4). This also causes other schools to step up to the plate so they can get more money. This increase in the administration involvement, leads to an increase in the knowledge on the subjects. According to Dr. Tavares, an administration working hard makes students want to work harder as well, so they can one day understand that success. She believes that administrative changes can be the most beneficial move to improve learning skills for students in developing countries. The author of this article, Priscilla Albuquerque Tavares is a professor at the School of Economics of Paulo. She holds a Ph.D. in Economics and is currently a researcher in the areas of Economics of Education and Labor Economics. Tavares also worked for the Government of the State of Paulo until 2009 (eesp.fgv.br/ Dr. Tavares Oshman 12 is beyond qualified in writing this article as she has studied economics along with how it can affect education. Also, working for the government gave her more of a behind-the-scenes look at how schools are and should be run. This article relates to my research question in that it shows how the way schools are run can have the biggest effect on the performance of students. It is not just about the way students are raised or how they are taught that affects their cognitive development. The way their learning environment is set up and how it is run has a huge impact on the way students learn and retain information and how it all carries on with them throughout their lifetime. This article proved that statement greatly and allowed me to gain a new perspective on how important the school system is to improving the cognitive development of children in developing countries.