Student !1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Fight Won Once The War Is Over Only one percent of the United States population is composed of our military (National Public Radio). On active duty or in the reserves, our Marines have dedicated their lives to protect us since their establishment as the Continental Marines in 1775. They are Few. The (Schogol) To honor those who have fallen and to give back to those who survived, it is the Wounded Warrior aim provide leadership and care to combat and non- combat wounded, ill, and maximize recovery as [our return to duty or transition into civilian (United States Marine Corps Wounded Warrior Regiment). The Wounded Warrior Project (WWP) was founded in 2003 Virginia by veterans and friends who took action to help the injured service men and women according to the main website. As a sub-branch of the WWP the USMC Wounded Warrior Regiment (WWR) does the latter by adhering to the maxim a Marine, Always a (Sturkey), with programs that focus on hope and overcoming challenges with and recovery through four lines of operation: mind, body, spirit and (USMC WWR). The WWR uses two images to portray pride and uniformity as a means of healing and recovery to appeal their program to Marines and their families. Figure 1 below displays pride and unity in that regardless of injuries, the veterans march in formation along the pace of their uniformed commander. The pride of always being a Marine after discharge from service, is used in Figure 1. No matter their injury, these Marines laid down Student !2 their lives to serve and should for the rest of their lives be granted the privilege of being a Marine. In the spirit of esprit de corps, Marines will always have a place within ranks even in a transition to civilian life. Their rank is visible in that, regardless of physical condition, they all wear the same uniform. Yellow and red are the chosen colors of the Marine Corps in-turn making the wounded proud to be wearing colors the rest of the Marine Corps shares. As explained by Hoffman and Wiggs in Rhetoric Really Matters, shading and close-up shots pathos to evoke an emotional colors have the opposite emotional effect. Details [in the are working to create that feeling [of If elements contradict that it gives the image a powerful message for the viewers to think about (Explorations, p. 341). The darkness seen in the image above is from the wheelchairs, provoking sorrow. In contrast, the bright colors of the uniforms exchange the sorrow for hope. Figure 1 Student !3 Some may argue against the support of discharged Marines, however, the credibility of these wounded veterans is in their injuries. The uniformed Marine marching at their side shows the Marine leadership of their wounded brothers and sisters, giving the cause more credibility through support. The use of a track further establishes such support towards the veterans using distances and time marched. This shows dedication and willingness to help those wounded. Furthermore, the wheel-chair-bound Marines portray the overcoming of adversity, since they are marching and retaining perfect formation with those fortunate enough to walk. The minds are healed through structure of training which establishes kairos vis- a-vis the track they walk on. Their bodies are healed through physical preparation which establishes ethos vis-a-vis their formation regardless of injury. Their are high from the pride that goes along with participating in something greater than themselves. Along with the family-like support they are receiving with the uniformed Marine machine beside them. Figure 2 Student !4 Figure 2 above displays pride and unity in that the Marines are playing a game of ice hockey in United States jerseys. The rules have been changed and the veterans let their injuries stop them from being active (USMS WWR). The rhetoric in Figure 2 represents all four lines of operation the WWR intends to give the veterans through healing and recovery on the hockey rink. Healing and recovery of the mind is established by the Marines working as a team through unity. Recovery of the body is bright on by the healing that physical training reinforces in their strengths regardless of injury. Healing of their spirits is established by being on a team that works for a common mission. Lastly, having the support of both their teammates and the Marine Corps, in a family-like environment. The families of the above Marines and other Marines can be proud that no amount of physical activity is off limits for the wounded. The credibility is in their injuries showing the overcoming of setbacks and hardships as well as their uniform showing authority in hockey. A passion in hockey, after service of this nation, can progress into wearing USA red-white- blue jerseys, sharing the colors of our nation in a WWR event is a way of recovery through pride. The willingness of organizations and companies to accommodate for their injuries is shown in the standard rules and regulations for hockey having been altered and for these wounded Marines. While pathos in Figure 2 may seem to be saddening in knowing that most of these players can never walk again, looking deeper, dedication and determination are portrayed through these Marines. Such attitude to their physical conditioning possibly means their feelings towards their supposed disadvantage are more of a challenge to overcome than a setback in life. A challenge to logos is presented in Figure 2 in that regardless of the ability to stand on two feet to play hockey, as long as one has the support of their family and the Marine Corps, and know the rules of the game, any sport can be played. Lastly, kairos in Figure 2 is used to show a Student !5 moment that these wounded Marines found strength to overcome their loss of limbs. This split-second in time can be a driving factor to continue progressing in their physical and hope to compete in the future. The Marines playing this match have healed and in process of recovery. As United States citizens, we were given the gift of freedom by our servicemen and woman. The is not over once the wars have been won because many return home only to be accompanied by the horrors of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. Those who remain after service have far more than that of ninety-nine percent of Americans can ever think of giving up. It is our obligation to recognize their and give back what they gave up upon enlistment or commission in our military. The two images I analyzed express that even after a war is won, the is not over. The has become, for the wounded Marines, a transitioning into civilian life and overcoming the adversity of injuries. The Wounded Warrior Regiment uses these two images to display a sense of pride and unity. Wounded Marines and their families are drawn to the programs from a process of healing and recovery of their minds, bodies, spirits and family connections. [WC: Student !6 Works Cited By The Numbers:  National Public Radio. NPR, 3 July 2011. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/2011/07/03/137536111/by-the-numbers-todays-military>. in Rhetoric and Rhetoric (Really) Matters. XanEdu, edited by Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, 2016, pp. 331-351. Schogol, Jeff. Marine Corps may replace Few, The as its recruiting  Marine Corps Times. N.p., 26 Sept. 2016. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. Sturkey, Marion F. Warrior culture of the U.S. Marines. Plum Branch, SC: Heritage Press International, 2003. Print. USMC Wounded Warrior Regiment. Wounded Warrior Project, 2017. Web. 13 Jan. 2017. <http://www.woundedwarriorregiment.org>. USMC Wounded Warrior Regiment. Athletes Representing the Veterans Team. 2014. Pendleton, Calif. Flickr. <http://bit.ly/2j2d33a>. Accessed 13 Jan. 2017. USMC Wounded Warrior Regiment. Service Members Participate in a Hockey Game. 2012. Arlington, Va. Flikr. Web. 13 Jan. 2017. <http://bit.ly/2j7X45J>.