Tiffany Gryszko Kevin Ip ENC 1102-002 02/12/2017 Embryonic Stem Cell Research Controversy Embryonic stem cells are unspecialized cells that are derived from the embryo. Since these cells are pluripotent, they can transform into any type of cell in the body and become a specialized cell. These cells are very popular in scientific research since they are pluripotent. Adult stem cells are the other type of stem cells that are more specialized and are found in all kids of different tissues. Unlike embryonic stem cells, adult stem cells are present in the fetus and after birth but not found in the embryo. They serve the function of tissue replacement and repair. Embryonic stem cell research is a controversial issue, in which the Catholic Church opposes the use of it whereas embryonic stem cell researchers supports it. Both stakeholders have a goal to preserve human life although they have very different views on how to go about it. According to the United States District Court, most embryonic stem cells are derived from eggs that have been fertilized in vitro and then donated for stem cell research with informed consent from the donors (The American Law Register). Stem cells have the potential to cure many degenerative diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease by replacing or rebuilding damaged cells. Finding a cure for numerous disease using embryonic stem cells would advance medical science drastically. The compromise between both stakeholders would be to ban the creation of embryos for the sole purpose of embryonic stem cell research but allow the use of embryonic stem cells from embryos which have been derived in vitro with the consent from the donors. The Catholic Church believes that stem cell research is ethically wrong because they believe that by using human embryonic stem cells, human lives are ending. Thus, the Catholic Church believes that using embryonic stem cells for research is a sin. The Catholic Church has a great influence over politics in the US since most the population identifies themselves as Christians. The Christian Coalition of American is very involved as it distributes literature to voters, lobbies Congress, and supports political action on local and state levels. Abortion is the major moral issue that surrounds embryonic stem cell research. In vitro fertilization is the fertilization of eggs by sperm outside of the body in a test tube or petri dish. Once the eggs have been fertilized, the eggs divide and become embryos. After about 5 days, the embryos have several cells that begin dividing and proliferate. During in vitro fertilization, the embryos are usually inserted into a womb 3 to 5 days after the fertilization has occurred (MedlinePlus). The rest of the embryos that are not used are usually frozen for future use or donated to research with the consent of the donors. The Catholic Church points out that an embryo is the earliest stage of life and has the potential to become human and thus has the right to life (Verdu, 607-08). Embryonic stem cells are attained by removing the inner cell mass from the inside of the blastocyst, which destroys the embryo and thus makes this such a controversial issue. Scientists are continually looking for a way to obtain embryonic stem cells without destroying the embryo but have not yet found a successful way. If they were to find a way to do this, then this topic would be much less controversial. The Catholic Church believes that when you destroy an embryo, you are terminating an innocent human life. According to teachings, each human being is responsible for their own actions and thus each human must make their own decisions on life or death, no one can make that decision for them. When a human embryo is destroyed, someone has to make that decision because the embryo has not yet developed and does not have a say. It is also explained that individual human beings are not objects or raw material that can be used for the good of society, even if it would improve someone health. Influential people associated with the Catholic Church such as Pope John Paul II have given their opinions on stem cell research as well. In his argument against stem cell research he has stated: for the creation for research purposes of human embryos, destined to destruction in the process. A free and virtuous society, which America aspires to be, must reject practices that devalue and violate human life at any stage from conception until natural  (Fox News). People such as John Paul II, have great influence over the greater population and can easily sway opinions. Researchers argue that embryonic stem cells have the potential to cure many different degenerative diseases. This could help alleviate the suffering of thousands of people. The great thing about embryonic stem cells is that they are unspecialized cells. They have the ability to become specialized into any type of cell. As of 2009, there are about 400,000 human embryos in freezers of in vitro fertilization clinics that are not being used and most likely will not ever be used (Rowley). Parents of the embryos used for in vitro fertilization have the option to either freeze them or donate them to research. In the United States, federal funding is prohibited for research in which a human embryo was created specifically for research or in which a human embryo was destroyed or subject to injury or death. These prohibitions were stated in the Dickey-Wicker Amendment, which was first enacted in 1996 and is reenacted every year since then (The Embryo Project Encyclopedia). Embryonic stem cell clinics and researchers have to rely on private funding since it is very difficult to attain government funding. Many people travel to other countries for cures that use stem cells because of the strict regulations in the U.S., countries such as Singapore have much more liberal laws concerning funding of stem cell research. In 2013 the National Institute of Health (NIH) gave $146.1 million for Human embryonic stem cell research, $431 million for non-embryonic human stem cell research, $153.7 million for embryonic non-human stem cell research, and $612.8 million for non-embryonic non- human stem cell research (NIH Stem Cell Research Funding). The amount of funding that the NIH has given towards embryonic stem cell research is much less than the amount of funding that was given to non-embryonic stem cell research. Many stem cell researchers in the U.S. must rely on private funding since government funding can be difficult to attain. Since embryonic stem cell research was only developed in 1984, it is still considered a relativiely recent discovery and thus there is no maximum storage period set for freezing embryos. According to the Pacific Fertility Center longest time a human embryo has been stored is 25-30 years and, typically, patients that have left embryos in storage for this long are not coming back for Fertility Center). Keeping embryos frozen is costly as well since the tanks and frozen embryo banks have to be maintained. Parents of the embryos have to take into consideration if they want to have more children in the future. If they plan on having more children using in vitro fertilization then it might make sense for them to keep their embryos frozen. They also need to consider a time period, because they most likely will not be having children 20 plus years later. In the United Kingdom, they have regulations on the time limit for how long embryos can be kept frozen. They do not allow embryos to be kept frozen for more than 5 years, unlike the U.S. where embryos can be frozen indefinitely (Pacific Fertility Center). Embryonic stem cell research is a controversial topic and will continue to be until someone finds a way to make the research ethical in the eyes of the Catholic Church. A reasonable compromise can be met though. The creation of embryos for the sake of research should not be allowed since it is unethical but the use of embryos that will be discarded and destroyed anyways should be allowed. The parents of the embryos that were created for the use of in vitro fertilization should be able to decide whether they want to donate the embryos to research or freeze them. If they know they will not ever use them then it would make sense for them to donate the embryos to research where they could potentially cure other people. This is similar to abortion, where the parents decide whether they want to keep the child or not except for the fact that the embryo is still microscopic. There should be a time limit for how long parents can keep their embryos frozen in the U.S. just like in the UK. The time limit in the U.S. should be at most 20 years. After the 20 years have past, the embryos should be donated to research instead of being discarded. Frozen embryos can be thawed and used just like fresh embryos. The Catholic Church and Embryonic Stem Cell Researchers both have a common goal of preserving life. Although the Catholic Church may not see it this way, the use of discarded embryos for curing degenerative diseases is helping to preserve life. If the embryos that will be destroyed anyways are being used to save the lives of others, then life is being preserved. It would not be right to keep thousands of embryos frozen indefinitely if the majority of them will not be used anyway. There should be a time limit of 20 years for keeping embryos frozen. It is extremely rare for people to have children 20 years after having a child or children from in vitro fertilization. Once a woman reaches menopause, she cannot produce anymore children. If she cannot have children anymore then her frozen embryos will not serve her good but could serve the good of others through research, leading to potential cures of degenerative diseases. Works Cited The Embryo Project  Dickey-Wicker Amendment, 1996 The Embryo Project Encyclopedia. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Frequently Asked  NIH Stem Cell Research Funding, FY 2002-2013 [Stem Cell N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Hogan, Kelly A. Stem Cells and Cloning. San Francisco: Pearson / Benjamin Cummings, 2009. Print. In Vitro Fertilization  MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Rowley, Janet. Embryonic Stem Cell Research Does Too Much Good to Be Evil, Says Janet  U.S.news. N.p., 23 Mar. 2009. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Sperm and Embryo  Embryo Freezing (Embryo Cryopreservation) Fertility Preservation. Pacific Fertility Center, n.d. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. United States District Court. District of Minnesota. The United States v.  The American Law Register (1852-1891) 20.7 (1872): 424. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Verdu, F. J Med  Post Script (2004): 607-08. Print.