Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Heart Organization The Heart organization was founded by Josh Lannon in 2002 in order to create a special facility for active and retired members of the United States Army who are dealing with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), addiction and chemical dependency. The Warriors Heart foundation, per their website, private treatment to adult men and women 18 and older who are seeking inpatient treatment for chemical dependency and co-occurring psychological disorders relating to PTSD or the psychological effects of MTBI (mild traumatic brain . The organization is backed by a handful of nonprofit organizations such as Semper Fi funds and Mi22ion, who help to back their mission statement which according to its founder is, heart is founded by warriors for This statement is the backbone of the organizations efforts. They feel that they are better able to give the proper help to active and veteran soldiers due to the fact that they are founded and funded by those of the same background. This commonality is what gives Heart the edge in taking care of the problems of those warriors who struggle with PTSD and other disorders. By using compelling images, testimonials and ample amounts of information backed by visual and rhetorical appeal, the Heart organization is geared toward persuading veterans that they are the most reliable rehab program built by veterans, for veterans. One compelling image (see Fig. 1) that appears side by side with the mission statement at the top of the home page is that of a modern American Soldier grasping his assault rifle with a rustic Spartan like warrior standing as the shadow of the soldier holding onto his spear. The Student 2 effectiveness of this image stems from its use of lowlight and rustic colors as well as the positioning of the characters and how they resemble each other but from different time frames. The rustic Spartan is standing nostalgically over the right shoulder of the modern soldier as they gaze off into opposing directions, as to display looking towards the past and future. Also, the fact that the modern soldier has more of a 3-D image as opposed to the two dimensional look the Spartan carries, plays as another factor contributing towards the difference in time. The collective of this image and its subtleties create a powerful influence on the overall message this website attempts to convey through its imagery while accompanied by its mission statement. The image provides the perfect amount of nostalgia and confidence, in making the soldiers view themselves and their legacy prior to their injuries, reminding them that the Heart organization can play an integral role in gaining back a positive self-image along with sound mental health. The visual appeal used to make this photo an effective influential piece of this website displays its rhetorical appeals as well. One rhetorical appeal that validates this image is Ethos, or the appeal to credibility or authority (Lane et al. 20). By using both the likes of a modern and classical representation of a warrior the website does well to connect itself with authority, bringing credibility to both itself and its sponsors. Often modern day soldiers get overlooked, but when you compare them to the likes of a warrior of past times such as a Spartan, they can be accompanied by the legendary status that Spartans are held to. Though logos may have been very apparent in this image, the other rhetorical appeal that may have gone under the radar is Kairos, or the appeal to timeliness. (Hoffman, Sawchyn 41) Kairos goes hand in hand with the ethos that is also presented in this image. Many soldiers and veterans especially may not view themselves as that of a warrior, especially if battling with disease or drug addiction momentarily. By viewing the modern day soldier they can connect it to themselves or what they used to represent, but when Student 3 paired with the timelessness of a Spartan warrior it gives the viewer a sense of invincibility, that the service they have endured will have an everlasting impact on their life. Giving a lifetime of validation, that all of the previous work they endured will cement them in history as the warrior they truly are. Furthermore, another compelling image (see Fig. 2) that the Heart chose as a representation of themselves and their website is the image of two middle aged men sitting next to each other on a mat wearing blue colored martial arts uniforms. The two men are sitting cross- legged next to each other as if engaging in conversation after a group workout. The design elements that are most impactful in this photo are its colors, mostly blue from the uniforms, and the linear style of the photo as the two men sit comfortably across from each other. The color blue sets the somber like mood as most of the patients are dealing with some type of struggle. The fact that the two men are sitting equally by each other and talking face to face, brings forth a sense that they are willing to help and are very understanding. There is a very empathetic undertone given by the color pallet used, as well as the stance each individual is sitting in. The rhetorical appeal most apparent in this photo is pathos, or the appeal to emotions (Gayle Lee et al. 37). Pathos is conveyed through the commonality both of the men in the photo share. Both are wearing the same color uniforms and are fist bumping in unison as a sign of togetherness and or teamwork. Due to the fact that they are on the ground together, it can play as a metaphor that some of the patients may feel knocked down but through their help they will have the means to get back up. Many similarities between the men in this photo help to portray their message that they are trying to help people just like them, warriors. Another rhetorical appeal that speaks volumes in the photo and goes hand in hand with the pathos previously displayed, is ethos, Student 4 or the appeal to authority (Lane 20). Though both of them are wearing the same uniform, one looks more confident while the other looks unsure. Displaying a role of a master and sensei, often accompanied with martial arts. This is a subliminal message to the viewer as to how the Heart organization can be the stern hand of guidance and authority that the patients need in order to get the proper treatment to be nursed back to health, similar to that of a sensei and its disciple. Again, bringing validation to the fact that the Heart Organization is first in line when it comes to catering to the needs of a struggling warrior most promptly and precisely. By artfully displaying rhetorically powerful images on the website, the Heart organization has successfully established themselves as a front runner for the healthcare of soldiers and veterans battling with Post traumatic stress disorder and chemical dependency. Through the use of rhetorical appeals as well as a handful of compelling images the Heart organization has done well to solidify themselves as one of, if not the best facility to deal with soldiers and veterans alike through rehab, restoring them to their fuller selves. (WC:1212) Student 5 Works Cited Gayle Lee et al.. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-41. E-text. Hoffman, Allyson, Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-47. E-text. Lannon, James . Warriors Heart. Geek Powered Studios, March 2016 <http://www.warriorsheart.com/military-veteransfacility-short- Date accessed 19 January 2017 Mckee, Jessica, Mcintyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-32. E-text Student 6 Figure 1: 5428793 I could not select the original image to copy it, so I had to click on the link provided below it which led me to the whole original picture with which the piece being used was grabbed from. The part in which I will analyze is only that of the soldier on the left with the warrior shadowing behind him as used on the website. Student 7 Figure 2: http://14815-presscdn-0-43.pagely.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/Martial- Arts-Training.jpg