Deautriell 1 Nicolle Deautriell Hannah Lay ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Animals in the Zoo Zoos are a cultural phenomenon that have been around for almost two hundred years (Kawata 38). All over the world, people flock to the zoo to see the exotic animals, such as lions, giraffes, and pandas. However, starting in the 1980s, a great debate was sparked about whether caring for animals in a zoo is ethical or morally sound (Keulartz 337). Zoos, such as the San Diego Zoo in San Diego, California, believe that they are practicing conservation, the act of protecting animals and plant life, by looking after animals that are at-risk of extinction or dying out completely on earth. Animal rights organizations, such as the Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS), on the other hand, believe that zoos are unethical for animals. Although the San Diego Zoo believes that zoos are beneficial to the conservation of animals, the Captive Animals Protection Society believes that zoos use animals for entertainment, and therefore are unethical. However, they have common ground in terms of educating the public about animal conservation of primarily endangered animals or animals that are at risk of becoming extinct. To work towards a common goal, the San Diego Zoo can try to incorporate more animals on the conservation lists in their exhibits. Firstly, the San Diego Zoo believes that zoos are beneficial for animals. This California based zoo is to saving species worldwide by uniting expertise in animal care and conservation science with dedication to inspiring passion for (San Diego Deautriell 2 Zoo). They state that they will the fight against animal (San Diego Zoo). So, their mission is to help save animals from becoming extinct while trying to educate the public about ways to help save animals. According to James Borrell, the author of, Reasons Why Zoos are Good for 39 species of animals are extinct in the wild, but if it were not for zoos, then these animals would have completely died out (9). Additionally, zoos raise money for conservation efforts (Borrell, 9). Zoos, like the San Diego Zoo are trying to take steps toward keeping at-risk animals alive by collecting money from supporters of their cause. The San Diego Zoo has a website that allows the public to donate money toward animal conservation (San Diego). Furthermore, zoologist Brian Bertram, author of About states that animals are provided with appropriate environmental conditions, with freedom from predators, and with veterinary care, so all of those natural causes of suffering do not apply to (202). Bertram is claiming that zoos not only feed animals, but give them the proper shelter and care they need to survive. Bertram also argues that animals in the wild, like the zoo, have boundaries that they cannot cross, even though it is not the same as animals in captivity (201). So, while some people believe that zoos are inhumane and harmful, other people believe that zoos help the conservation effort for animals. The animals rights groups, Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS), believes that zoos are harmful to the well-being of animals, and are unethical. CAPS believes that zoos negatively impact the conservation effort of animals because instead of housing animals in exhibits to promote conservation, conservation is carried out by working in the natural habitat to protect individuals and entire (Captive Animals Protection Society). They presume that animals belong in their natural habitat and should not be caged for (Captive Animals Protection Society). CAPS is stating that zoos Deautriell 3 only care about how many people they can bring to their exhibits and not about the actual animals that are caged in these exhibits. Ken Kawata, author of Circus Wagons and Imagined Nature: A Review of American Zoo Exhibits, Part wrote that have become a bifocal ellipse, embracing conservation and the almighty U.S. dollar, instead of a single- focal, perfect (360). Kawata is asserting that a primary purpose is not just the well-being of the animals, but the revenue zoos can bring in, which can detract from the efforts to put the animals first. Kawata also claims that zoo designers try to eliminate visible barriers between the animal and zoo visitor, without taking into account the animals needs (358). Furthermore, animals usually spend the night hours locked in cages that are separated from their animal counterparts, but are in close proximity of them (Kawata 353). Kawata also notes that animals are moved to the display exhibits during the hottest hours of the day for visitors to see them (353). A study was conducted on lions and pandas, and researchers found that these animals are most active during the early morning and late afternoon hours, which is when they are put inside cages (Kawata 356). As a result, CAPS believes that zoos not only harm animals, but also negatively impacts conservation efforts. While these two stakeholders are on opposing sides of this topic, they both believe that educating the public about conservation is important. The San Diego Zoo and the Captive Animals Protection Society both are on a mission to inform the public about the importance of animal conservation. There is strength in numbers. When fighting to save animals at risk of extinction, the more people who are educated or involved, the more of an impact can be made. David Sobel, author of Beyond Ecophobia, contended that must allow people to connect with nature and love the Earth before we ask them to save (Keulartz 343). This means that for people to get involved in the fight to protect animals from extinction, they need to be educated Deautriell 4 about the environment, so that they can learn to appreciate it and value it enough to save it. Both stakeholders believe that public education of animal conservation is vital. To reach the common goal of educating the public about animal conservation, the San Diego Zoo can try to incorporate more animals on the conservation list into their exhibits. The animals on the conservation list are those that need protecting, and may be at risk of extinction. If zoos house only animals that are not on the conservation list, then visitors will not have the opportunity to even be exposed to at-risk animals. Kawata states that is a concept acquired through the development of an understanding of both the structure, behavior and diversity of animals, their need and habitat as well as environmental other threats to (346). By zoos housing more at-risk animals, the public may be able to develop the concept of conservation by seeing the actual animals and learning about their way of life. If the San Diego Zoo incorporates more at risk animals in their exhibits, the public will become more exposed to the conservation efforts by reading the signs that accompany most zoo exhibits. Right now, zoos only house in seven (15%) threatened species of terrestrial (Keaulartz 341). Since large sums of money are already being donated for conservation exhibits, these organizations will most likely lend money to bring in more at risk- animals to the San Diego Zoo because it does concern animal conservation (Kawata 356). Additionally, since zoos can collaborate with each other, the San Diego Zoo can exchange animals with other zoos so that there can be more room for them to house threatened species (Keulartz 346). This will ensure that animals in the zoo will not have to be thrown back into the wild where they are not acclimated to that lifestyle. This solution will benefit both the Sand Diego Zoo and the CAPS organization because this will help educate the public more regarding animal conservation. Deautriell 5 The San Diego Zoo and the Captive Animals Protection Society have been at odds for quite some time, so one would expect for a compromise to already be set in place. However, the opposing stakeholders have never agreed on a compromise because conservation has not been in dire need until recently. According to Keularts, tens of thousands of acres of rainforest are being lost on a daily basis (343). That also means that animals that are living in the rainforest are losing their home. This is just one of the many problems that are occurring right now. Additionally, other propositions that have been put in place are not efficient, like creating larger habitats for animals when zoos have only a limited space (Keulartz 344). Therefore, due to the lack of urgency and inefficient policies previously proposed, these two opposing stakeholders never came to a solution. To conclude, animals in the zoo is a heated debate that is currently ongoing. Animal rights groups, such as CAPS believe that zoos only use animals as a form of revenue and are harmful to the conservation effort. Zoos, such as the San Diego Zoo, believe that zoos are leaders in the fight toward animal conservation. Both sides, however, do believe in the need to educate the public regarding animal conservation. To do that, the San Diego Zoo can try to incorporate more animals that are at-risk of extinction into their exhibits. In the future, if the San Diego Zoo incorporated more animals on the conservation list in their exhibits, then more people will have the opportunity to increase their education on animal conservation. By visiting the zoo, people will be able to read the signs or listen to the employees educate them about the animals in the zoo that are on the conservation list, and why it is important to help save them. Deautriell 6 Works Cited Bertram, Brian. About Biologist, vol. 51, no.4, pp.199-206, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=533c4988-cede- 41c0-8463-254f33b30076%40sessionmgr4007&vid=4&hid=4208. Borrell, James. Reasons Why Zoos are Good for The Biologist, vol.63, No.9, pp.9, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer? sid=8328d42d-5109-411d-8548-5159670dd0f6%40sessionmgr4010&vid=5&hid=4208. Captive Animals Protection Society. Papertank, www.captiveanimals.org/about-us. Accessed 24 January 2017. Kawata, Ken. Circus Wagons and Imagined Nature: A Review of American Zoo Exhibits, Part Der Zoologische Garten, vol. 80, no.6, pp.352-365, www.sciencedirect.com .ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0044516911000633. Kawata, Ken. Thoughts on Zoo Animal Collection and Conservation: A Historical Der Zoologische Garten, vol.82, no.1-2, pp.26-39, www.sciencedirect. com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0044516913000178. Keulartz, Jozef. for Conservation? Zoos at Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, vol. 28, pp.335-351, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=51a56ff6-3422-49b2-966b-644ebb70e5eb%40sessionmgr 120&vid=13&hid=113. San Diego Zoo. Zoological Society of San Diego, zoo.sandiegozoo.org/. Accessed 24 January 2017.