Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 2 February 2017 An Illegal Existence A constant and growing problem that every city within The United States is facing is homelessness. Following the growing epidemic of homelessness comes questions about how to properly deal with the homeless. Many cities result to criminalizing the homeless instead of helping them create a more stable and successful life. Such inhumane criminalization occurs in the form of made from metal placed in areas with large homeless populations to prevent soliciting or sleeping in those areas. Other ways cities are criminalizing homeless are by arresting anyone sleeping in a public place or fining, and possibly even arresting, people seen feeding the homeless. An organization established to help combat the criminalization of the homeless is The National Coalition for the Homeless. Their goal is to help homeless people regain a steady lifestyle, combat and question the criminalizing laws set in place, and potentially end homelessness all together. One of the strategies used by the organization to help reach their goals is the publication of digital media with facts about criminalization. The media by The National Coalition for the Homeless uses rhetorical strategies to convince the general public that homeless people should not be punished, and that more humane ways in coping with the epidemic of homelessness should be set in place. Figure 1 released by The National Coalition for the Homeless is a black and white poster depicting a man sleeping beneath a palm tree. The man lacks the typical comforts associated with Student 2 sleeping, such as a pillow and blanket, and instead is forced to lay on his bent arm. A contrast occurs between the palm tree and the image of the sleeping man. The palm tree is a digitally drawn and slightly unrealistic image while the image of the homeless man is a cutout of an actual photograph. While the image is the most visually appealing aspect of the publication, the bulk of the image is composed of text describing the inhumane laws within Honolulu and persuading the public to take a position within the issue. A way that The National Coalition for the Homeless informs and persuades the public to combat the criminalization as detailed within Figure 1 is through rhetorical strategies, defined as rhetoricians engage with their (Lane et. al.) Since the man in the photograph lacks the typical sleeping comforts, the viewer is able to sympathize and place themselves in the situation, a form of pathos. They might recall a time they had to sleep on an uncomfortable mattress or pillows, and then contrast their brief and slight discomfort with the constant bedtime struggles that the homeless population faces. Another example of pathos that Figure 1 exhibits is the large bold words proclaiming and out in Honolulu. Go to sleep. Go to The simple sentence structure and meaning placed behind the words makes the viewer feel that the situation in Honolulu is unfair. Sleeping in public is such a common occurrence that even the viewer or their friends and family could be jailed for such an innocent act. The second rhetorical appeal, kairos, or the appeal to timeliness, is present in Figure 1 due to the present and ever growing matter of homelessness. The image has an array of small text describing the solution of placing homeless in public housing that would need to be constructed immediately. It is an urgent matter to get the homeless housed and safe, not in jail. As the Student 3 epidemic of homelessness is growing, so is the occurrence of criminalizing laws, so public housing would need to be funded and created in an urgent manner. Figure 2 released by The National Coalition for the Homeless also illustrates criminalization of the homeless through a simple pop art image. The Andy Warhol style soup can has people deserve food written upon the iconic symbol. The bright red, white, and navy blue image is simple, yet impactful in getting the point across to viewers and punctually illustrates the current issue surrounding homelessness. The rhetorical appeals of logos and pathos occur within Figure 2 as means of illustrating the criminalization of homeless. Figure 2 uses logos, the appeal to logic, within the statement people deserve food written upon the can. Of course the public understands that logically everyone deserves food, regardless of their living situation or income. Food is a basic human right to everyone in the world. Being homeless does not impact whether or not someone to be fed. The strategy of pathos, an appeal to emotion, is also present within Figure 2 through the image of the soup can. The soup can is one that is recognizable to most Americans. Many people have enjoyed a can of soup that has quenched their hunger at some point in their lifetime, so the illustration of that specific can of soup makes a viewer reminisce on that moment. The viewer can then imagine the homeless situation, relate it to their own, and sympathize. The most important part of Figure 2, however, is the words NO MORE: The Criminalization of Efforts to Feed People in since it illustrates the harsh situation of criminalization that is not only occurring to the homeless, but also those that are trying to help them become fully functioning citizens. Because there are so many homeless in need of food, many within the general public are attempting to help feed them, but Student 4 end up getting punished themselves. Not only does the criminalization need to change toward the homeless population directly, but also toward the general public trying to help decrease the impending matter of the high rates of homelessness. Both figures from The National Coalition for the Homeless use images and rhetorical appeals to convince viewers that criminalization against the homeless is a growing problem within The United States. In Figure 1, sleeping outside will cause the person to be jailed, and in Figure 2, feeding the homeless is also a punishable offense. The visual rhetoric, defined by Sheffield as of communication that uses images to create meaning or to make an within both images illustrates that there are problems with the regulation of the homeless as criminals, and they should be helped instead of harmed. The stakeholder organization advocates for public housing to be build, as indicated by Figure 1, and for the act of feeding homeless to be de-criminalized by state, local, and federal governments. Both images share not only the same subject matter, but also the same rhetorical appeals and limited color scheme. The figures are both primarily black, white, and grey, colors often associated with gloom. The second figure has the exception of a recognizable soup bright red color. Not only is The National Coalition for the Homeless raising awareness about the criminalization occurring, but they are also attempting to combat criminalization and homelessness altogether by educating the public with persuasive images. The figures used by the organization are mainly for the general public to coerce lawmakers into creating more humane laws for the homeless that do not involve jailing them for their existence. Through the use of rhetorical appeals, The National Coalition for the Homeless questions the humanity of lawmakers and challenges the general Student 5 public to speak about the rising epidemic of homelessness and how to help the cause. (WC: 1,220) Student 6 Works Cited National Coalition for the Homeless. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily et. al. Rhetorical Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Report: The Criminalization of Food-Sharing National Coalition for the Homeless. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Commons. Creating Commons Attribution, n.d. Web. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Student 7 Figure 1 http://nationalhomeless.org/issues/civil-rights/ Student 8 Figure 2 http://nationalhomeless.org/new-report-criminalization-food-sharing-practices/