D e m e l i e n 1 Feline Demelien Ms. Hannah Lay English 1102 12 February 2017 Should there be a ban on public smoking? Everywhere you go there is a chance that you have seen an ad advocating the ban on cigarettes and public smoking. For instance, The Americans for Nonsmokers Rights (ANR) is a prime example of an organization promoting the ban on public smoking. The ANR supports the ban on public smoking not only because smoking cigarettes harm the person smoking it, but it also harms the people who breathe in the smoke. On the other hand, the organization, The Smokers Association has a completely different perspective on public smoking. The Smokers Association supports the rights smoker because they have the right to smoke freely wherever they want, whenever they want. If smoking is what the person choose to do then so be it, because that person has control over their body. What can be gathered from these two organizations is that what they both want is what is right for the people. So, in order to appease both sides what these opposing viewpoints may agree on is actually going through with the ban on smoking in public. With this ban, technically you are not telling the smoker to stop smoking. they could do it in their homes and the nonsmoking population would not be susceptible to secondhand smoke. As mentioned previously, the mission to get rid of smoking has been around for ages. In fact, the mission to ban public smoking began in the early 1990s (Clune). This concern of smoking is due to several reasons. One of the main reasons is the danger of second-hand smoke or passively smoking. The organization, Americans for Nonsmokers Rights (ANR), rose for this D e m e l i e n 2 reason. In 1976, the ANR was formed because they wanted laws to be enacted to protect nonsmokers while in the workplace as well in the public (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). The reason for this is because not only is the user posing a threat to their health, but they are also putting others around them in danger of second hand smoke. For instance, in the United States alone about 53,000 annual deaths are attributed to passively smoking (Rivero, Persson and Romine). Even on the cigarette packages, there is a surgeon general warning that cautions the user that the substance they are about to use pose as a hazard to their health. But of course the user disregards this fact. It is also important to note that even though society recognizes that the dangers that tobacco poses on health, especially with all the statistics and laws implemented to prevent public smoking, it is still not enough to get the smoke point across. Although people understand the dangers that tobacco poses on the health of the general population, it seems as though that people do not understand the gravity of how second hand smoke actually kills. In an article published on website titled Secondhand Smoke, they mention how much secondhand smoke has decreased over the years, but still, 53,800 people die every year from second hand exposure (American Nonsmokers Rights So, even though the number is much smaller than what is was before, it is still enough. What is also important to consider is that even if a person constantly around a person that smokes, even the littlest exposure is harmful, as it states that, U.S. Surgeon Report, How Tobacco Smoke Causes Disease, confirms that even occasional exposure to secondhand smoke is harmful (Americans for Nonsmokers The tiniest bit of exposure to secondhand smoke not only increases the chance of dysfunction within your blood vessels it also inflames your blood vessel, which may increase the chance of a heart attack or a stroke, as stated in the article. D e m e l i e n 3 It is obvious where this organization stands on public smoking, with all the information given on the harmful effects of secondhand smoke. But what exactly is done to get rid of public smoking? The Americans for Rights (ANR) aids in on the creation of smoke free air ordinances. In another article posted by the ANR titles, The Effect of Smokefree Air Ordinances on Smoking Prevalence and Cessation, talks about the benefits of these ordinances placed. For instance, it was found that with the increase of prohibiting smoking, smokers who face these restrictions consume 11-15% less than average and the quitting rate is 84% higher than average. What was significant in this article was the amount of research that was done by different institutions that found with restrictions posed on public smoking, whether it be in hospitals or in the workplace, there was a major decrease in the amount of tobacco consumption (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). Even though the restrictions on public smoking seem to be helping people there is still that other side of the coin. For instance, the association, Smokers Association that feels that the restrictions take away the human rights of people. The Association completely repulse the idea of prohibiting public smoking because they feel as though the science that back up the danger of second hand smoke is absurd. This association also feel that science is used to justify prohibiting smoking, as stated in the constitution of the association, name reflects the original intent when it became clear that smoking repression, and the use of junk science to justify it, was going well beyond the petty prohibition to smoke in (Smokers This association feel as though scientific researcher, political messages, advertisements, or anything that sheds a bad light on smoking is all a front. The association sees these campaigns as a way to control beliefs and values. What the anti-smoking campaigns try to do is use the values of what people hold close to their heart D e m e l i e n 4 and manipulate it, to do what they want them to do. One of the articles of the constitution states, person is the owner of his/her own body, and has fundamental right to manage and control the own physical life and health (Smokers What this article means is that if the user of cigarettes wants to smoke, then no one really has the right to tell the user that they smoke. This idea of people having the right to exercise their right to smoke is also emphasized in the article, Why Strong Tobacco Control Measures  Be Implemented in the U.S. Military: A Qualitative Analysis. The article mentioned in the previous sentence talks about why military personnel may smoke. The military regard tobacco control policies as a threat to (Smith and The argument made from the article is that if something is legal, then why is it being restricted? Which brings back the Smokers point of completely disagreeing with any organization that attempts to disregard the right to smoke or try to manage the physical life. This association goes off the fact that a person has the right to do whatever they want to do to their body. Those who smoke cigarettes has the right to smoke cigarettes and should not get manipulate or have their rights disregarded all because other feel differently about smoking cigarettes. In the first article it talks about how the smoker can smoke wherever they want as long as it does not interfere with how others want to live. What is inferred from this first article it could be assumed that if a person that person chose to be in that environment. If the person did not want to exhibit secondhand smoke, then they would have not chosen to be in that kind of environment in the first place. So, there are two sides of the coin. What these two organizations do have a common ground. That common ground is the rights of the people. Obviously one side of the argument feels as though restrictions are needed when it comes to public smoking because nonsmokers have the right to breath in tobacco free air so that they are not in risk of any illness that result D e m e l i e n 5 from second hand smoke. While on the other hand, the smoker has the right to do whatever they want to do to their body physically, emotionally and mentally. Therefore, it is either you prohibit public smoking to reduce the amount of harm place on people or you respect the rights and values of people or propose a compromise. What these two different perspectives could agree on is actually going through with the ban on public smoking, but with a grandfather clause attached. Not only will the smoking not interfere with the non-smokers, but it also does not tell the smoker to stop smoking. The user could smoke in the comforts of their humble abode. Furthermore, this proposal does not technically take away the rights of the user. The user is able to freely do what they want to do with their body, whether it be good or bad. Also, the nonsmokers are benefiting from less smoke pollution in their air so there is less risk of any alteration when it comes to their health. In an editorial published by the AL editorial board, it states, way to move forward on this important issue would be to strengthen the anti-smoking proposal a little but not too much in order to appease both sides. A grandfather clause could be inserted... Since it is pretty difficult for these opposing sides to concur with each other it is best to implement a law, but not a strict one. By doing this you are able to appease both sides which may lead into a better future for the entire population. D e m e l i e n 6 Works Cited American Nonsmokers Rights . Secondhand  6 Jun 2016. http://www.no- smoke.org/getthefacts.php?id=13. 02 Feb 2017. Americans for Nonsmokers Rights. About  n.d. http://www.no- smoke.org/aboutus.php?id=436. The Effect of Smokefree Air Ordinances on Smoking Prevalence and  November 2004. http://www.no-smoke.org/document.php?id=205. 12 Feb 2017. US Surgeon  Mar 07 2011. http://www.no-smoke.org/getthefacts.php?id=30. 12 Feb 2017. Board, Retired: AL.com and Press-Register Editorial. Compromise on public smoking ban could  26 Jan 2012. http://blog.al.com/press-register- 12 Feb 2012. Clune, Sarah. The Real Reason Behind Public Smoking  8 July 2013. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/the-real-reasons-behind-public-smoking-bans/. 12 Feb 2016. Rivero, Luis R, et al. Towards the world-wide ban of indoor cigarette smoking in public  International Journal of Hygiene and Environmental Health (2006): 1-14. Smith, Elizabeth A and Ruth E Malone. Why Strong Tobacco Control Measures  Be  Military Medicine (2012): 1202-1207. D e m e l i e n 7 Smokers Association. The constitution of Smokers  24 May 2008. https://www.smokersassociation.org/the-constitution-of-smokers-association. 12 Feb 2017.