Seymour 2 Meagan Seymour Karen Hanson ENC-1102 27 February 2017 Intermediate Draft Project II Monsanto is a company with the largest income from Genetically Modified harvests whose only concern is their own financial agenda grows 80 percent of the United States genetically modified corn (Organic Consumers Association). A Genetically Modified Harvest, is a crop that has undergone mutations that have made it pest resistant, produce not only a larger harvest but a richer, and is used in most food products in the nation. In fact average, people eat an estimated 193 pounds of genetically engineered food in a 12-month (Sharp) according to AgMag. Many environmentalist, concerned parents, and citizens are concerned with and all GMO products. However new goal is to create their company to guarantee that every action leading forward is directly relating to their values and goals to improve. Including being environmentally aware of their destruction, preserving our world, holding value in their harvests, keeping an honest relationship with the public to propel their company to the top. The two images provided by Monsanto are an effective tool in supporting their claim that they are working towards a more effective, beneficial way of feeding our nation. Monsanto proves we will continue to advance and better our future through the use of rhetorical images that to relate to our progression in agriculture. Image A is a chart provided by Monsanto about the effects on the environment from farming at such a large scale. This chart mainly executes the tools of ethos and logos to convince Seymour 2 the audience they are aware of their effects on the environment and their advances towards a better approach to prevent harm to the environment. Monsanto uses logos consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane, Mckee, and McLntyre) in the way of stating facts and keeping the information easy to understand and to the point. The flow of the chart makes it easy to comprehend so anyone who is looking for this information, or even happens to stumble upon it can understand what is going on and use it effectively. Most importantly, the facts on the chart are informative and credible because they are provided by the Monsanto Company. The use of these rhetoric appeals makes this chart useful to the audience who is trying to find information about the effects on the Environment from Farming but might not have a heavy foundation prior. Monsanto argues that they are working towards becoming a better business, and one way they are doing that, is through keeping the public informed. In the video found on the social media page of Monsanto, they do just that in an educational video that it appeals to the public in many different rhetoric forms. The video discusses the different methods of farming, Conventional vs. Organic. It discusses the many similarities, and differences of the two methods of farming. It also supplies some background information on Genetically Modified Harvests and what qualifies the harvests as a Genetically Modified Harvest or Organic. Although it may seem this video is solely logos, this video has several other devices of rhetoric. Ethos is an important device when trying to convince an audience of something. Finding this video on the Twitter page of Monsanto gives the credibility that it is produced and approved by Monsanto, secondly the voice of the video gives off the impression of a well-educated woman, though the fluidness of her voice, vocabulary used, and ability to share information effectively. Another form of rhetoric appeal is the use of Kairos. Monsanto knows how hectic life can become and how little time we have to focus on issues other Seymour 2 than those occurring at hand and so their video is only a minute long. Creating an informational for people who are hurried on time is a great way to make the audience feel that their time is valued. Although this video contains a lot of information and stats, there is a bit a humor. When they begin to discuss the differences in fertilizer an image of a cow pops out of a porto-potty, appealing to pathos in this way keeps the audience engaged and entertained, making the video more successful. The use of these rhetorical appeals used in both the video and the image are helping Monsanto prove that they are bettering themselves as a company. The video overall has more content when relating to the different appeals; logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos were all presented in a way that made you feel Monsanto valued you, through keeping it to the point, credible, logical, and entertaining. A very important part of this video, that present in the chart was the appeals to pathos, according to Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Meagan McLntyre pathos is is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the Really Matters 37) this video does this through the humor in the video and the images of farmers and families that give you a human connection. Kairos, appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable (Hoffman) by making the video brief it appealed to an audience the might not have reached if the video was any longer. As Monsanto has successfully argued, they are working on improving their business, as well as improving the general knowledge of through their uses of image rhetoric, in spreading knowledge. These images bloom the positive possibilities of Monsanto and the importance of progressing by enriching the general public with knowledge on the Seymour 2 controversy in a way that is quick, comprehendible, reliable, and interesting. Monsanto will continue to grow, just as it has since 1901 Monsanto Company). Works Cited Monsanto Video about differences between conventional and organic farming and how that in incorporated into Monsanto. https://twitter.com/MonsantoCo/status/806183809620254721 McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print. Seymour 2 Seymour 2