Gharbi 1 Mohamed Gharbi Mrs. Hannah Lay ENC1102 047 12 February 2017 Circuses without Animals Circus is a sum of different kinds of trained animals and a variety of human skills combined together to create an entertainment show that has begun in London on the 4 th of April 1768. This date is a milestone in the history of Circuses, It is the date when they started making their first steps toward the world and made tours around the globe and succeeded to make a significant fan base, and as a result an American association has been established to enlarge this Circus community and educate the society about their history and help the ones who are passionate about it to be a part of making these festivals occupy more space, it is called the American Circus Educators On the other hand, even though there are a significant number of supporters for Circuses, there are many others who believe in the same thing. One of the most active opposing groups is that created their own campaign Circusprotest.org: Well, the name of the website said it all. Their mission is to forbid any kind of show that involves animals and share awareness about of the circus believing that Circuses is a dangerous place for both humans and animals Action Against Circus Despite the fact that the American Circus Educators believe that the Circus is an enjoyable festival that brings everyone together, and even though Circusprotest.org works on banning these kind of activities, there is a small common point that can help to find a compromise: both of them are looking after the safety and the benefits of the audience: CWI want to ban circuses because it can be dangerous for people and ACE want to Gharbi 2 make circuses an educative source. why I believe that the best compromise is that CWI should stop protesting against the circuses organized by the ACE as long as they are not using wild animals. Starting with the American Circus Educators, it is a community of 400 members divided between circus schools, artists, and educators. It is an organization founded by the American Youth Circus Organization (AYCO). Their primary mission is to teach, what they call, art of to different ages. They are also working to make the circus a way for and emotional and a way for a healthy life Furthermore, they want to train their successors to make Circus book a seat in the life of the American society, and that supports what Jenna Lowery wrote in her article rethink about the establishment of the ACE: She mentioned that ACE brings the past to the future and show circus from other perspectives through training, and (4). On the other side, we find another community that has formed a non-profit organization called CompassionWorks International, whose concern is all about protecting animals and insuring the right atmosphere for them. They even founded a specific campaign, supported by the donations of its members and their supporters, to protest against Circus called CircusProtest.org and forbid any further activity that treats animals as they describe them. Their mission includes banning any use of wild animals in fields that is based on entertainment or any kind of activities that can trigger their instincts, and represent the campaign at any local festival Action Against Circus This organization believes that Circus is a show where wild animals are treated mercilessly and horribly and it can be a dangerous place for both humans and Gharbi 3 animals when trainers try to change the instinctive nature of their beasts. Accordingly, the Article cruelest show on published by Current events magazines, presented a case from Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus when the trainer, Richard Chipperfield, had been bitten by a tiger and saved by his brother who shot the big cat five times and turned it dead. This case was described in the article as an expected result when a wild animal is forced to change his natural instincts (3). Despite the fact that this subject has been brought up in many occasions and different association has been founded to either support or object the existence of circuses, no serious actions has been taken to find a compromise. Obviously, The American Circus Educators and the CompassionWorks International stand in two different sides. However, there might be a common ground that can help them meet to pave the way for a compromise in order to put an end for this opposition. the common point between each mission statement is that they are both looking for the safety and the benefit of the society: CWI thinks that interest of the society is in banning the use of wild animals in circus Action Against Circus however ACE believes that Circuses can be an education way to develop the and the side of the audience In the same way, while CircusProtest.org is all about protecting wild animals from being abused, the word was not even mentioned in the mission statement and that can be a kind of confession that Circus is not all about animals. why, the best solution to reach a compromise between both parties is that CompassionWorks International stop its protests against Circuses as long as they are not using wild animals. And thus, the interest of the society is safe in both perspectives: for ACE, circuses can still be touring and sharing its education and advocacy, and for CWI, there be animals in circuses that can Gharbi 4 be abused or damage any life. Furthermore, as it is mentioned in the first body paragraph, ACE wants to make Circuses a way for and social Accordingly, a best example that can prove that circuses can be beneficial for the human being even without performing animals, is the research conducted by Kristy Seymour, a formal circus artist and practitioner working with children, who found out that training can enhance physical and social development for children diagnosed on the autistic (78). The idea of Circuses without animals is an appropriate compromise for both sides: in the first place, it be an obstacle for ACE to fulfill its objectives. They can keep organizing circus events that include clowns, jugglers, and other skilled performers. In the second place, it will help satisfying goals by protecting wild animals from whips and chains and make Circuses a safe and enjoyable place. To sum up, Circuses and animal abuse is a very critical subject since there are two major opposed sides, ACE which believes that Circuses are very necessary for the society, and CWI which believes that these festivals is an absolute danger for the audience and the animals. However not enough light has been shed on this topic, and serious actions should be taken. I am aware that finding a compromise will not happen overnight; It will require a lot of hard work and discussions to find an adequate solution that will not affect the interest of each side and at the same time, serve the interest of the society which should be the main objective in any compromise. Gharbi 5 Works Cited: About  americancircuseducators, http://www.americancircuseducators.org/about. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Lowery, Jenna. rethink White Tops, Oct. 2014, Vol. 87 Issue 5, Special section p4-4. 1p Scholastic, Inc. cruelest show on Current Events, a Weekly Reader publication, 27 Feb. 1998, Vol. 97 Issue 20, p3, 1 p. Action Against Circus Circusprotest, http://www.circusprotest.com/start-a- protest. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Seymour, Kristy. Training for Autistic Children: Difference, Creativity, and New Theatre Quarterly, 10 Jan. 2017, Vol. 33 Issue 1, p78-90. 13p