Schrum - 1 Jonathan Schrum Professor Karen Hanson ENC-1102.084 2/25/2017 Project 2 Intermediate Commercial fishing is an industry that has been around for decades upon decades. Thousands across the United States and many more countries count on fishing to provide for their families and loved ones. Should fishing be abolished, or so heavily regulated that it impedes directly on fishermen and their ability to catch fish, undoubtedly the oceans would benefit substantially. Many organizations such as Green Peace would believe this to be an acceptable policy while organizations such as the Florida Keys Commercial Association would suffer majorly as their main source of income and revenue has been stopped. These two groups and groups similar to them can easily come to terms and offer proposals on policy and laws that would benefit both sides of the issue. Fishing is a way of life for thousands of people and has been around for as long as one can remember. In the first image provided an argument based off of the rhetorical appeal Kairos is used. Basically it reinforces the idea that commercial fishing has been around for a long period of time. The relevance behind this image is that the boats pictured are of an older make and model supporting the fact that commercial fishing has remained relevant for long periods of time. An individual might not be able to distinguish the fact that these boats are older purely because it is not commonly known but one who has some general knowledge of fishing in general could distinguish that. This image could also be considered an appeal to emotion as it shows that Schrum - 2 fishing is a way of life that has been relevant for years and years. If it is suddenly stopped because of closures and regulations many individuals way of life would be completely destroyed. All in all this image successfully gets the point across that fishing should continue to provide for individuals and families across the country. Commercial fishing only focus on fish species, but other types of sea food as well such as shrimp, scallops, and lobster. The second image provided reinforces this idea with somewhat of a logos argument as it uses logic in discussing what could happen should fishing be halted in certain areas. For example should commercial fishing be abolished in certain areas, all sorts of different forms of seafood will be adversely affected. In the same general areas where fishermen might set lines for certain fish species, they also might possibly set crab traps or shrimp nets as well. Should these areas be closed to fishing, all other forms of catching seafood will also be stopped. This in turn will affect places such as grocery stores, seafood restaurants, and fish markets as the supply of seafood will be next to non-existent. Consumers around the country would not be able to find and consume seafood as easily as before. It is quite possible also that if they do find seafood it is from distant countries such as China and Taiwan as it has been imported into our country. This form of seafood is in no way the same quality of seafood that is caught in the United States as it has been repackaged and preserved multiple times before being put on the dinner plate. Even if one were to be okay with their seafood going through that process, they might not like the idea that antibiotics have been (How Safe is Seafood from Foreign Sources? 1) in fish samples coming from China. In all honesty information such as that alone should be enough to convince individuals that seafood in our country is a needed commodity that will become non-existent should commercial fishing be abolished. Schrum - 3 Both images do a successful job of getting across why they are relevant and overall how they support the Florida Keys Commercial Association and their stance on commercial fishing. As explained before, the first image is an appeal to Kairos as it shows that commercial fishing has been around for decades. It could also be described as an appeal to emotion as it somewhat calls out to say that fishing is a way of life and if it is halted many individuals ways of life would be in turmoil. The second image provided appeals to logic as it shows that commercial fishing not only targets certain fish species, but also various other types of seafood. If commercial fishing is halted in certain areas that means they can no longer fish for crabs, lobster or shrimp in said area as well. This idea appeals to logic by demonstrating that shutting down commercial fishing would affect more than just fish markets. Restaurants that serve seafood and grocery stores would all not be able to provide to their customers. All in all, people need to realize that while shutting down the industry of commercial fishing would do much good to our oceans, it would ultimately destroy lives around the country and cause a seafood shortage. Should groups with opposing opinions work to compromise on decisions, not only can conservation be of utmost importance, but also commercial fishing can continue to provide fishermen income and jobs. Schrum - 4 Works Cited Siegner, Cathy. Imports and Exports: How Safe Is Seafood From Foreign  Food Safety News. N.p., 11 Nov. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lobster. N.d. Florida Keys. The Florida Keys Commercial Association. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Boats. N.d. Florida Keys. The Florida Keys Commercial Association. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.