Amor 1 Jennifer Amor Dr. Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Immigration Reform Law Institute and Immigration The United States has always been a melting pot of cultures. Millions of people from around the globe immigrate to the U.S. every year. Some organizations believe that the high influx of immigrants can bring more cultural progress to America and keep the afloat. These organizations also work to get immigrants through the citizenship process quickly, and in turn keep immigrants safe while they are in the United States. However, there have been many arguments about how immigration can compromise the safety of Americans. These organizations such as The Immigration Reform Law Institute believes in creating a strenuous immigration process and increasing border security for the maximum safety of Americans. The institute uses terrorist attacks as examples of how a poor immigration system can be threatening to an overwhelming amount of people. They also add that not only do Americans get harmed from the current citizenship process, but so does the environment. The Immigration Reform Law Institute successfully supports its argument to Americans that laid back immigration policies should be stopped through two pieces of visual rhetoric that links immigration to violence and destruction. The first piece of visual rhetoric (Image A) focuses on the effects of immigration on national security. This image is a collage of pictures and words that the Immigration Reform Law Institute uses to portray immigration system as unlawful and harmful. On their website, they describe how every crime committed by an illegal alien could have been prevented Amor 2 with a better immigration system put in place Security and Public The first image the viewer sees in the collage is the word surrounded by a bloody fingerprint and gruesome images of 9/11 and the burning of the American flag. Then the eyes start to shift to the right of the collage where they see gang violence, drugs, fence hoppers, fire, police, and guns. In one way or another logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos are portrayed in this collage. Logos is portrayed through the very top left picture of 9/11. It reminds the public that it was an event that happened because of terrorism. It still makes the audience think about the connection between terrorism and immigration. All of the real photographs taken also portray logos because they are actual events that happened. Pathos is heavily portrayed in this collage because of the combination of brutal pictures. Any viewer who sees the 9/11 picture immediately sympathizes. Also seeing mass destruction and the American flag being burned provokes sentiment and fear. Fear is a type of rhetorical appeal that essentially blocks out all senses of logic and reason in the audience. An article by Michael Pfau describes how political leaders tend to use fear as a tool to gain support for a certain military action (217). In this case, The Immigration Reform Law Institute uses fear as a way to persuade their audience into taking action against open immigration. Fear is able to impact not only a single person, but also an entire community, this is what makes an emotional appeal most prevalent in this first image. Kairos is portrayed through the clipart pictures noting gang violence and crime. It makes the viewer think about the future and what might happen if this type of immigration process continues. This whole collage has to do with timeliness; it is a warning to the future. Ethos is really only portrayed in the bottom right photo were there are authorities arresting an immigrant. Having a picture of a police officer portrays credibility. Amor 3 The second piece of visual rhetoric (Image B) focuses on the effects of immigration on the environment. Image B is a collage of photos the the Immigration Reform Law Institute uses to convey the connection between immigration and the environment/overpopulation. On their website, they describe how population growth spewed from immigration has negatively impacted the schools, environment, housing, and carbon footprint and The photo that draws the most attention in this collage is the picture of the mass pollutants filling the air. The eyes are then drawn upward to the piles of garbage, red bumper lights, and dried out land. The viewer then sees the photos of deforestation and a crowded cityscape. Every rhetorical appeal is present in this collage. The way that this collage was put together provokes crowdedness and makes the viewer instantly overwhelmed. offers a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held (Lee, Kendra Gayle, et al. 38). This is an example of how pathos is heavily portrayed in this collage. All of these pictures were picked on purpose to show either lack of space or the harmful effects of over population. None of these pictures are satisfying to look at therefore gives the audience a common ground they can all relate to. Logos is portrayed in this collage just from the fact that these are all real pictures and have happened sometime in the past. This collage makes the audience think about the connection that the Immigration Reform Law Institute is making to over population and the environment. It introduces a new perspective of looking at immigration. It is logical that one day, America will run out of land so the organization chose photos that would express this topic through photos that provoke destruction. This could also add a sense of ethos since real life pictures are credible. Another aspect that makes this collage credible is that all if not most Americans have seen scenarios similar to the pictures taken in real life. All of these Amor 4 pictures are related to kairos. They all portray what cities were to look like in the future if nothing were to change right now. These images chosen by the Immigration Reform Law Institute agreeably supports their position against loose immigration policies. Both images A and B were collages which allows the audience to understand that there is more than just one example of bad effects. Though the collages successfully support the believes of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, a few images could have been replaced to make the collages seem more believable and relatable to the topic. It seemed as though the pictures were all taken from a search of or instead of a search for effects of Overall, the photos used were very stereotypical and because of that showed very minimal credibility. This does not mean that the collage did a bad job of conveying the views. The collages made the audience think about immigration from a new perspective. They connected extreme pictures to one topic and made the audience seriously consider the repercussions of a laidback immigration system. The Immigration Reform Law Institute does a good job in conveying its main concerns about immigration through the use of fearful images which allows the organization to make an even deeper connection to its audience. Amor 5 Works Cited and Immigration Reform Law Institute. http://www.irli.org/environment-population. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Lee, Kendra Gayle, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37- 40. E-text. Security and Public Immigration Reform Law Institute. http://www.irli.org/national-security-public-safety. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Pfau, Michael William. Afraid of Fear Appeals? Contingency, Courage, And Deliberation in Rhetorical Theory and  Philosophy & Rhetoric 40.2 (2007): 216-237. Humanities Source. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Amor 6 Image A http://www.irli.org/national-security-public-safety Image B http://www.irli.org/environment-population