Zhao 1 Shangshang Zhao Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 02/25/2017 Non - Substitutability of Standardized Testing The revolution of education system always is a hot topic in public area. Some people think that education system need be change, especially in standardized testing. It is too traditional and boring, it cannot excavate and show the real ability of students. And standardized testing has some extra costs let some of family cannot afford it, it is a fact that is unequal to poor students. Another people said that standardized testing is a very good and equal way to help students to change their life. These students can through hard working to improve their social status and life quality. The kinds of educational problems should not response by standardized testing, government should afford that. Additionally, the second argument is more accepted. Standardized testing is irreplaceable, it is a great tool to help students and education to realize a relatively fair educational environment. The expensive costs of study should not a fault of standardized testing, government need to fix this problem. Recently, more and more people talk about the topic that is the educational cost. Some scholars indicate that too high and extra fee of various educational area, such as extracurricular book, cram school and personal teachers are a heavy burden to parents. It is a not fair situation to poor students. In the article SAT tutors score top fees; Nervous parents pay plenty to prep kids for college test (2005)  Cole reported a series of facts about that some of families would like to pay a huge number to exchange that they children can get a high SAT grade to apply better Zhao 2 university. Children come from rich family, so they can get more educational resource to go to better university diploma, it is a unfair fact. However, it is not a responsibility of standardized testing, it is a problem made by government. Because why SAT can be so important test for students it is government made it. Government need to paid for that, to fix this unfair problem on society. Just like thought in the article Restoring Our Schools: The Quest For Equity In The United States (2011)  firstly, government should deal with the basic problem for poor students, let they have suitable place to live, healthy food to eat, then they will have enough time and energy to study. That is the most important basic problem of poor students. When the government can solve this problem for all poor students, an educational system can continue for next part, to realize the real equal of education. Through these years, audiences can see the change of two articles. The first one just consider about the unequal situation of study costs, the second author knows that what is the biggest educational problem for whole country. It is not standardized testing need be change, it is the educational system need change, America need a really effective educational welfare system to protect all poor rights. In fact, standardized testing is a real way to help education to realize equal, to push the develop of society. According the article The Role And Importance Of Standardized Testing In The World Of Teaching And  the author Phelps indicates that people always limited by their experience and personal thoughts to choose talent. However, standardized testing can support reliable grade, let people to make a personal decision without subjective view. For example, when university recruiting Zhao 3 students do not have grade requirement, how people can know it is relatively fair or not? If the student who come a rich family, his/her grade is very low, but his/her parents are friend with admissions officer, so that they can go to the good college. It shows that if the standardized testing disappears, the real unfair educational age will come. In the article Learning By Example: Standardized Testing In The Cases Of China, Korea, Japan, And Taiwan  the author Osman thinks that America should learn the experience from other counties that have long history of standardized testing, these history show that standardized testing is very good for these government to choose talents. Just like China, China has more than thousand years history of standardized testing. These tests help poor students can change their life and social status through hard working, when a poor student can get good grade on the test, he/she has opportunity to become a government officer, to improve the life quality of whole family. Also because more and more students would like to pay attention on study, it will contribute to the progress of science and technology, the society will develop more. The first article shows the why the standardized test is so important to the students and country, the second paper shows that what is the specific historical reasons to prove the necessity of standardized testing. The main point not change in these period of time of two articles. They both show the importance of standardized testing to the students and whole country.