Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Strong Women for an Even Stronger Nation American Women Veterans organizations is to preserving and promoting the legacy of service women, veterans and their (AWV). A primary mission of this organization is to empower women of all military branches with a confident sense of pride and service. As stated in their vision statement, this organization also enables to reach their full potential and to contribute as they always have in making America (AMV). citizens have fought for many years to promote a country filled with equality. Along the side of male servicemen, history has many examples of how women have helped the military. However, the military, one of the oldest establishments which protects American rights, is not persistent on the idea that women should be able to fight in combat positions regardless of the physical and mental requirements that are met. American Women Veterans provides an excellent reflection of the power of females within our homes, our communities and our world through images on their website dedicated to preserve and promote the tradition of servicewomen, veterans and their families. A primary visual message the American Women Veterans Organization is communicating through this image is a strong one. An elderly woman, Ms. Coffey, who Figure 1 Student 2 represents female veterans, fought for the freedom of the nation, as a citizen, a soldier and as a woman. One central goal of the military is to protect and defend the country for all its citizens. Patriotism is a strong theme with many Americans, both women and men. Ms. Coffey said who stepped up were measured as citizens of the nation, not as was a war and everyone was in which communicates the power and unity of not just being a woman but as a strong and important member of her great nation. While reading this quote, one can picture Ms. Coffey physically stepping up, after waiting in a long line of ready to defend their nation, to the recruiter who gave her a pen and asked her to After essentially signing her life away, she became a part of many men and few women who now were ready to fight the war. It is not easy to sit back and relax when there is much to be done for the country, which is why many people, like Ms. Coffey, choose to be part of the solution. Ms. photographer was not simply just taking a photo but reflecting the power of the image and her story using rhetorical analysis. The photographer greatly conveyed a sense of ethos because there is an appeal to credibility and respect. Ms. Coffey is the credible source. She physically endured the hardships brought on by the military, as a soldier, but even more so as a woman. She is posed in front of her quote which indicates that there is a direct link between the figure and the message. As stated by Jenna Pack there is an the words are meant to have on the (349) and an even greater effect when the source of the quote is evident within the image. There is a strong use of pathos within the image because there is a focus on the values and beliefs of the audience, military woman of the past, present and future. Any woman who was once, is currently or plans to be in the military believes in the equality of gender. This image represents a story to the viewers, of a woman who was brave enough to fight for her country regardless of her sex but because she was a citizen just like any man. In doing so, the Student 3 photographer does not only channel your emotions but capture your attention. Tactics like this are important when using pathos to persuade an audience because naturally there will be more empathy for a specific subject when there are feelings involved. Ms. photographer wanted the image to personally affect all servicewoman with strength, power and a continuous sense of pride. At the same time, the primary visual message of the American Women Veterans that is being communicated through this image, is the power of a woman who is a product of war. As claimed by Catholic Online, St. Joan of Arc is the patroness of soldiers. She fought with France against the English and was burned at the stake. Joan of Arc is a symbol that is still used today by the military, especially by the women, for her courageous and heroic acts. Within the image there are visual cues that help to support this message. Joan of Arc is painted with armor, which at the time was the typical military uniform and has a fighting sword that helped her during times on the battle field. A map is painted on the scroll above her, to covey her military journey or mission. A reason for her being painted standing tall communicates a sense of pride, yet keeping her face serious, to not show emotion, because she is staying consistent with the standards expected by the military. Visual cues within the image, support the idea of Joan of Arc being a strong, independent and fighting woman who completed the mission assigned to her. Similarly, the author used ethos because there is an obvious appeal to character. Joan of Arc is a military character that represents all the qualities of a good soldier: commitment, loyalty Figure 2 Student 4 and trust. She symbolizes fearlessness, courage, discipline, and motivation. Joan of Arc is still an important icon for the woman of the military today because these traits are apparent in all of them, past and present. She instils bravery and equality in future soldiers. There is no need to try and convince someone of Joan of character because it is evident within the image itself. On the other hand, the author used logos to appeal to the audience. Any military woman would be drawn to this image because they can relate or they want to relate. To gain attention of a specific audience, the author must be able to relate the message; otherwise it will become irrelevant. The author chose to lure in the audience by using a character that shares the same values and beliefs as any woman in the military and promoting a positive image of a contribution of service. Figures 1 and 2 represented by the American Woman Veterans organization are powerful without a dialogue. A message can be depicted from each image without having a written explanation. Each photo holds a powerful story within itself. By noticing the persuasive visual patterns and rhetorical analysis in both images, the theme that women are capable and willing to join forces to protect and serve is heavily supported. Women should be able to fight in combat positions when they want to, if all mental and physical requirements are met. Woman in world are as substantial as they are because of the heroines that have fought and defended their rights in the past. Present-day women are as strong, if not stronger, than Ms. Coffey and Joan of Arc. Woman have fought willingly and will continue to make significant contributions in all positions they serve in the military. (WC:1,200) . Student 5 Work Cited American Women Veterans. American Women Veterans, 2017, http://www.americanwomenveterans.org/. Accessed 13 Jan. 2017. Catholic Online. Catholic Online, 2017, http://www.catholic.org/. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Moxley, Joseph. Rhetoric Really Matters; Strategies for Developing Arguments. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 186-197. E-text. Pack, Jenna. Rhetoric Really Matters; Breaking Down an Image. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text.