Jesse Stokes Karen Hansen 26 February 2017 The Rhetorical Battle Over the Electorate Often times, what is now considered to be is used as a method to skew citizens, voters, and most importantly, the electorate to one side of an argument. Prior to becoming aware to the manipulation that was occurring, Americans and those all across the world were essentially nothing more than sheep to a major political machine. These advertisements are meant to invoke emotion in their audience and all in their own way do just that through the use of rhetorical devices. To date, forms of propaganda are still used. We see such things in campaign commercials, flyers, and yard signs. This is something that has been universally adopted as one of the major concepts of the politicking period on a bi-annual basis. The group, National Popular Vote, inc. are still working to spread their message through the use of propaganda, and in-turn, rhetorical devices. The images and videos on their website rile the audience and debunk myth commonalities, as made evident by both the map and video at hand. They also work to use the rhetorical appeals of logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos as a manner in which to recruit for their cause. Just what is Propaganda? The term can be simply defined as, facts, or allegations spread deliberately to further cause or to damage an opposing The group, National Popular Vote, inc. work to use this politically persuasive ploy as a way to skew their audience into conforming to their beliefs. This is no different than the way that propaganda was used during the period of the second World War to convince that countrymen on both sides of the battle that they were doing what was right The only difference is, in the case of the Electoral Vote argument, this war is waged not on the battlefield, but on the internet. Jesse Stokes Karen Hansen 26 February 2017 Image one is working double-duty, as both a map and a graph to persuade the audience. The distortion of the sates works to show the amount of electoral votes, in this case, represented by a square, totaling five-hundred and thirty-eight. In using this image, the creators were hoping to inflict an emotional response by its viewers, one of mistrust and resentment towards the current voting protocol, in regards to how votes are casts, recorded, and the impact that they make on the overall election results. The map is able to effectively make use of pathos, by creating such feeling of confusion as to why the system is so imbalanced on a state-by-state level and unjust, especially if the viewer is a product of one of the less-fortunate regions. The logically thinking aspect of the image, or logos, comes into account when the audience analyzes the image, perhaps finding that there is a true imbalance of power across our nation. There is no celebrity endorsement, nor real citation of data results included with the image to provide it with a sense of credibility, however one aspect that can take the place of these things is the color coordination of the map, more specifically, the green states. These states are the ones that have already passed a bill enacting the national popular vote into their electing structure. This provides the observer with a sense of self-confidence into thinking that perhaps the National Popular Vote, inc. may have the right idea about the way the votes of American citizens are counted. It seems that on a standpoint regarding rhetorical appeals, the only one that the image lacks is an effective use of kairos. There is no real call to action or timeline of events with the map, which could result in a lack of passionate responses. It is evident that the video is the stronger convincer amongst the images. It plunges right into its purpose: delegitimizing the arguments of its adversaries, a major aspect of importance Jesse Stokes Karen Hansen 26 February 2017 when effectively using propaganda The video is able to do so by taking a similar approach to the map as far as pathos is concerned. The video, narrated by the founder, causes the spectators to feel emotions full of questions an uncertainty, which is just exactly what the video was intended to do. The video starts out strong as far as a logical appeal is concerned, however it seems as if the speaker falls off of the wagon when he begins to attempt to debunk the myths of Ohio and Florida, and the that fall within the states boarders. At this point, all logic is lost in relation to the point of view the speaker and is replaced by rhetorical fallacies. He is supposed to be aligning himself with a restructure of the voting system, yet, by turning too much of his attention towards the opposition, with little focus on the substance of his argument, the speaker loses traction. An appeal of ethos is lacking any real endorsements, but the overabundance of facts and data makes up for that in credibility. This a subtle glimpse into a kairos appeal, with a quick call to action before the next cycle of elections, but this is an area that is undoubtedly that could use improvement in any videos used in the future. It seems as though the organization may have not necessarily been taking rhetorical appeals into account when structuring their images and videos, but more so, have an unfortunate occurrence of rhetorical fallacies. They do a nice job of incorporating an appeal to both emotions and reason, however there is little to no appeal to credibility, nor timeliness. This is where the audience can be lost. There is hardly anything being asked of the audience, which can leave them lost with what to do next or how to do it. This is why a call to action is so important. There is little inclusion of when the data was archived and how, which can lead the audience down a road of questioning the legitimacy of the claims being staked. By paying more attention to kairos and Jesse Stokes Karen Hansen 26 February 2017 logos, the organization could do a much better job of furthering their mission and widening their audience. The National Popular Vote, inc. is a heavily passionate organization that has been working for nearly two decades on the implementation of a Presidential popular vote, nation- wide Propaganda techniques, such as fear mongering and delegitimizing of opposing beliefs This is seemingly impossible to accomplish without a strong set of rhetorical appeals to give the images and videos substance and application. Such rhetorical appeals are responsible for causing an emotional response, a call to action, ethical reactions and finding logic inside of an argument. The image and video provide some substance of such rhetorical appeals, however, they are far from perfect. By focusing slightly more on kairos and true credibility techniques, the National Popular Vote, inc. just may be able to get better results in having their voices heard. Jesse Stokes Karen Hansen 26 February 2017 On the map below, each square represents one electoral vote (out of 538). Green indicates that the National Popular Vote bill has been enacted into law Orange indicates passage by one legislative chamber Yellow indicates passage by both legislative chambers (but in different years, and hence not enacted) Blue indicates a hearing by at least one legislative committee Gray indicates no hearing The video is narrated by National Popular Vote, inc. founder, John Koza. The sole intent is to debunk what organization titles as, in regards to the battle between the electoral college and the implementation of a national popular vote. The video puts a centralized focus on the impact that big cities and battlegrounds have on the Presidential voting process. Jesse Stokes Karen Hansen 26 February 2017 References PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Pratkanis, Anthony R., and Elliot Aronson. Age of propaganda: the everyday use and abuse of nnnnnpersuasion. New York: Freeman, 2007. Print.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Simpson, Kevin E. Classic and Modern Propaganda in Documentary Film: Teaching the nnnnnPsychology of  Teaching of Psychology 35.2 (2008): 103-08. Web.  National Popular Vote. N.p., 19 Jan. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.