Name: Faisal almeshhen Composition I January 27, 2017 Digital Movements Social media is a relatively new concept to the world, it has been here for almost half decade, but it exploded in the last five years. It used to be somewhat inclusive with every group of people using one site. However, now things changed websites like youtube, twitter, and Facebook has spread so wide that it almost seems that the whole world is connected. This affected most of our daily lives, and one of the effects of social media is in our political systems. Governments can no longer control where the people get their news. Which resulted in revolution across multiple countries around the world, For example, the Arab Spring which was anti-government protests that involved eight countries. One of the main reason theses protests wore so widespread in every country and around the world is social media. In fact, in some of these countries, social media website like Facebook was the main tool the protestors communicated and set up data for the protest without the government finding out. Most recently the presidential election was over, and to say social media had a small impact on the result would be an understatement. Some people may say the reason why Donald Trump the current president of the united state was elected is because of the widespread of false information in social media website. So social media might have negatively affected politics. My research question would be how can social media website affect our politics. Housholder, Elizabeth E., and Heather L. LaMarre. Facebook Politics: Toward A Process Model For Achieving Political Source Credibility Through Social  Journal Of Information Technology & Politics 11.4 (2014): 368-382. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. My first source Politics: Toward a Process Model for Achieving Political Source Credibility Through Social is a study about how important it is to establish a credible presence on social media, and how it can be vital to a political candidate if he does not have a social media presence. Both presidential candidates used Twitter to communicate with their supporters; actually, there was an exchange between them on twitter. This study will provide examples on the effect social media has on our politicians. It also discusses how the credibility of a candidate can effect their supporters, for instance, if a candidate lied about something related to his job or even personal lives, paying taxes, staying faithful to their significant other. Karlsen, Rune and Bernard Enjolras. Styles of Social Media Campaigning and Influence in a Hybrid Political Communication  International Journal of Press/Politics, vol. 21, no. 3, July 2016, p. 338. EBSCOhost, This is a paper about how can social media be used as an individualistic campaign tool. How it can be used to conveying the personality of the candidate. This paper used a study on the Norwegian Candidate in 2013; they collected Twitter data in a survey. They used to programs to collect data; the first one is Application Programming Interface (API) and through second tool developed by Crimson Hexagon. The result of the study shows that social media does have a significant effect on every candidate. Nevertheless, a small percent of the candidate who used social media to convey their personalities. This paper can help answer my research question by connecting the study in this article and the result with the 2016 united state election. Which showed The individualization of every candidate is evident especially the Republican party, a candidate like Donald Trump current president of the united state used Twitter to say whatever he had in his mind he did not hold back. Some would say that is unpresidential, but his supporters argue that this makes him transparent. Whether his behavior is right or wrong his way of communicating with his supporters made them trust him more as he showed them who he is. Speed, Barbara. The Politics of Facebook: How Social Media Could Sway the  New Statesman, no. 5319, 2016, p. 19. EBSCOhost, When the United Kingdom put a referendum whether to stay or leave the EU, many citizens waited until the last day to register to vote which the gov.uk crashed. So the United Kingdom gave an extra day for registering, that angered the left campaign because most of the late registers were young, and YouGov polling shows that anyone under the age of 43, is far more likely to vote remain. However, the older generation is more likely to vote leave. This surge of registers is because of Facebook, on the last Friday before the registering closes, Facebook put an ad on every page for 24 hours linking the registering website. Facebook is not the only social media website to do it; Twitter did similar things like promoting the hashtag and reminding people to vote. While most people think these websites take some political stand, Mark Zuckerberg the CEO of Facebook said it does not make any sense to run a platform for billion of people on some political agenda. This article gives an example of social media website affecting politics, and the Brexit referendum is a recent one. I believe this paper should help me answer the question to what extent does social media affect people political believe. The article shows how Facebook manage to make more than 242,000 people vote on eight June, over half of that number were under 35. Of course, no one can confirm if that is because of the facebook and twitter ad because neither websites are released any data. Nevertheless, it is clear that the cause of the surge of voters was social media site we just know the extent of the effect. Ahmad, Khalil, and Karim Sajjad Sheikh. Social Media and Youth Participatory Politics: A Study of University  South Asian Studies (1026-678X), vol. 28, no. 2, Jul-Dec2013, p p. 353-360. EBSCOhost. After the Arab Spring, the attention shifted toward the youth and their participation in social media site. The youth engage In a political discussion on websites like twitter or facebook where there is no filter, this increase in individual involvement in the political debate lead to a rise in engaged citizens to their political belief. However, social media is intertwined with traditional media; the traditional is the one that brings the stories, and social media websites react to it. This type of engagement might not bring only positive outcomes, as it gives some echo chamber where each individual is following another with a similar belief. This study goes further into the participation of the youth in social media. The researchers collected data from the student of University of the Punjab on March 13 and posted the finding in the study. Moreover, the conclusion of these study shows the youth participation is lower in the traditional political discussion than Facebook, which might be because Facebook and other social media sites the individual more space and less formality to talk about their political belief. However, since there are no regulations it is hard to verify news online, this might have repercussions on the development of our society. I think this study can help answer my research question by providing the study and the finding of it. In the study, it goes further into explaining how did they reach the conclusion. Rohlinger, Deana A. How Social Movements are Using the Internet to Change  How Social Movements are Using the Internet to Change Politics Scholars Strategy Network. N.p., Jan. 2012. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. This is an article titled How social movements are using the internet to change politics. In this article, it explains how can social media be used to recruit people for meeting or even protest. It goes into details on how people use social media to support their movements. It also discusses that echo chamber that we see in social media, and how it came to be. Political activist uses social media to prompt their big idea like is equal, and he or she downplay any controversial idea in his or her movement. It also mentions how American parties are using social media, democrats, and republicans both use social media to recruit and also encourage their supporters to go to the polls to vote. Insight Project, The Media. How Millennials Get  American Press Institute. N.p., 01 Oct. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. This is a study conducted by The Media Insight Project it is titled Millennials Get News: Inside the habits of first digital In this study, they research how millennials get their news a. It shows that more than 69% of millennials get news daily, that is a huge number of people probably one the highest group of individuals that consume news, if not the highest. They tend to consume the news multiple times a day. That is because of the distribution of time is all over the place. For example, millennials might go to social media read the headline of a couple of news agency and close it; this happens multiple times a day. There is a negative thing about consuming it that way because most individuals read the headline and they think it is enough for them, which usually lead to incorrect conclusion and misinformation. Because most news agency tries to make the headline way more exaggerated than it actually is, they do that because of internet traffic and that means more revenue to them.