1 Ying Mao ENC 1102 Project 2 02/23/17 Drunk Driving is Harmful Presently, according to the development of cars, car accident happen more often than before, because the speed of driving has been improved. Therefore, driving safety becomes really vital for everyone because it associates with life and property. If someone is involved a car accident, he or she might pay his life or the whole car for his or her fault which caused by dangerous driving. Among all the dangerous driving, drunk driving is one of the most serious problems in the current society. The drunk driving means decreases a ability to drive a motor vehicle safely (CDC, 2015). Drunk driving is hurting so many families every year. According to a study to know the situation about drunk driving in America, there were 9,967 people were killed in the drunk driving accident. The report also introduced: Accounting for nearly one-third (31%) of all traffic-related deaths in the United States. Of the 1,070 traffic deaths among children ages 0 to 14 years in 2014, 209 (19%) involved an alcohol-impaired (CDC, 2015) It is not difficult to find that stopping people to do drunk driving is necessary which is not only for saving the lives of drunk drivers, but also other innocent passages and drivers who get involved in the accident. More than fifty present of death are involved, but not the people who have drunk driving, therefore, topping drunk driving is saving so many s lives. 2 The organization, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), is an organization found by a mother lost her daughter because of the drunk driving. The organization gradually be the largest nationwide nonprofit organization. This organization aims to show the harmfulness of drunk driving and persuade all people do not try to drive after drinking any alcohol, the results of drunk driving are much serious than people can imagine. Avoiding drunk driving is protecting the drivers themselves, also their family and other families. Everyone in the society should take their duties, such as protect themselves and keep a safe driving environment for other people. The organization also support the drunk and drugged driving victims with the donation from the society. The organization is supported by the donation from the whole society, people not only can donate cash to the organization but also can donate the unwanted cars. Moreover, after donating unwanted cars to the organization, people can get a tax deduction from the government, this benefit shows that the organization is thought highly of by the government. On the website of this organization, there is so many information about the drunk driving, such as two minutes, a person is injured in a drunk driving and average, two in three people will be involved in a drunk driving crash in their Moreover, the organization also provide the photos of the car accidents which caused by drunk driving and the photo of people who were killed by the drunk driving accidents. The organization is working hard on persuading visitors to stop and do not ever try to do drunk driving in their entire life. There are two photos have shown the importance of avoiding drunk driving. The 3 first photo has been taken at night on the highway, a car was terrible broken and stopped on the road. The whole part of the head of the car was ruined, the airbags came out. The driver was not indie the car, but an ambulance was behind the car, and some policemen were working next to the ambulance. Although there was a car accident, the road was still so busy, and so many cars were passing this broken car. The special thing about the car is that, and there was only one broken car, no other cars have been involved, because the driver crashed into the guard bar after drunk driving. There was no any information about the driver has been showed in the photo, but the car was obviously unserviceable. And the second photo is a family photo, the girl who was wearing a graduate cap and gown was surround by her parents on both sides. The photo shows that the girl just graduated from college, her smile was beautiful who looks like be hopeful to her bright future after the graduation. And the whole family looks so happy and peaceful. However, she died in a car accident which caused by a drunk driver. The happiness of the girl and her family will never happen again because the girl is dead and her family is heartbroken. The photo is telling audiences that drunk will not only hurt the drunk drivers and their families but also will break family and take away life and future. Both of them have used great rhetorical appeals to strengthen the effects to make a greater impression of audiences. The first photo used Pathos which is scared to tell audiences that they cannot drive after drinking, although they do not want it happen the car accident may happen on them, they will lose they family, future, and life. The broken car, opened airbags, and ambulance all makes the audience scared about the 4 result if they do drunk driving. Audiences will imagine that they will be put into the ambulance, be sent to the hospital, get a citation from the police, and lose the car forever if they get a car accident. Nobody wants to have a try if they notice what they will lose because of drunk driving. The first photo also uses Logos; this car accident is a good example that people will have a car accident if they drink alcohol which stops people try to do it. Alcohol reduces the attentions, sight, and logical thinking ability of the driver, most of the people think they can drive after drinking, however, the fact is not, they might lose control of the car when they are inattentive. The second photo has used Ethos because the resource of the photo is ABC News, which is an American famous TV station which focuses on making news and can be trusted by audiences because it only reports current news which never adds personal bias. The credibility of the photo can make people trust that drunk driving will cause horrible results. Moreover, Pathos of the second photo is using the feeling of sad. Because most of the people will feel the girl is poor because she lost her life because of somebody fault. She just started her new life; she could have a wonderful future if there was no car accident, no drunk driver. But the accident killed her everything and ruined a happy family. People will think about the feelings of the victims and their family and stop drunk driving because they do not want to make more people heartbroken by drunk driving. The second photo also has used Logos; audiences know that drunk driving will kill an innocent person such as this girl. More families and young people will be hurt or killed by drunk driving if people do not stop doing it. In conclusion, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) has done a wonderful 5 job that it not only provides a lot of facts and information about the drunk driving but also gives a lot of photos to audiences which make them think about the results of driving after drinking alcohol. The photos of the broken car and a happy family both tell the audiences that if the audience does not want to be sent to the hospital and lose the car, and break s family and dreams, stopping drunk driving is necessary. (Word count: 1295) Work Cited Mothers Against Drunk Driving. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.madd.org/about-us/ Mothers Against Drunk Driving. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.madd.org/drunk-driving/about/understanding-08.html?referrer=http:/ /www.madd.org/drunk-driving/about/drunk-driving-statistics.html. 6 Photo 1. A broken car on the highway Photo 2. A victim who died for drunk driving and her family