Lynn 1 Jared Lynn ENC.1102 02/26/2017 Karen Hanson NFL and The Concussion Dilemma The National Football league is a staple of the American people, it is a national holiday on Sundays when people from all across America and the globe for that matter tune into their local station to watch some of the most gruesome hits and spectacular plays that engulf football today. However, shocking images and reports from over the past six years have shown us that the concussion rate, which is one of the most fought against problems, is still somehow going up. According to Concussion Watch (which is a league tracker that shows how many concussions are received by athletes on a weekly basis) says that had 128 players with concussions or head injuries on weekly regular-season injury reports through the first 14 weeks and are on pace to report 155 for the regular season. up from 92 who appeared on injury reports in 2009 and 129 in 2010. In the 2012 season, 142 players who sustained concussions or head injuries were (Fainru). The two images that are shown in the paper today are two that are very important in seeing how deadly these concussion injuries are, and how badly they portray favorite pastime. The first image is one of a Washington Redskins player being look at by a medical professional after sustaining a brutal hit to the head during the game. The second image is a Tennessee Titan player violently hitting an Atlanta Falcon player during the game. In both of these images you can see the violent nature in which football is really played, and the toll that it takes on athletes. The National Football League is very concerned with Lynn 2 this problem and they are doing a lot of things to fix it, such as hitting the proper way, and more prompt and strict medical care for the athletes. The NFL is one of the most viewed sports in America today, it is also projected that this year the NFL is supposed to bring in over 13.3 billion dollars in the 2016-2017 season which is more than a 50 percent increase from 2010 (Belzer). However, one of most beloved pastimes has a very bad hidden danger, the concussion. The NFL has been trying to fight concussions for a very long time, and a variety of different ways. One of the ways the NFL has been trying to fight concussions is for players to aim for legs instead of the head when they are about to tackle an opposing player. This sound like it should work every time, but players who were classically conditioned to hit high when they were being trained as young men have a very hard time adjusting to such a change in play. In the second image, we can see a clear example of a hit too high, the helmets both crashing against each other in turn leaving one of the players with a concussion. In the first image is something even worse than the hit itself, it is the after image of someone who was just hit in the head and laying on the ground concussed. Both images have a lot to deal with the attitude of current and former NFL players who are outraged by the league allowing people to hit like that. However, the NFL has been starting to fine and suspend repeat offenders of unnecessary roughness when it deals with hits to the head, and this enforcement is working. The league has provided data showing that 25 players were fined for hits on defenseless receivers in 2013, compared to 40 in 2012 -- a reflection, the league says, that enforcement is working (Baumgart). The NFL has been working around the clock in order to ensure the safety and mental health of their players, this is only one of the ways that the league is trying to fight the concussion battle, and they seem to be winning as well. Lynn 3 One major thing that the NFL is trying to fight harder than anything with the concussion battle is players getting diagnosed with CTE or Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. In the first image, you can see that the player is clearly hurt, but no one can tell how bad. Two years later that specific player was diagnosed with CTE. CTE is a brain disease that occurs when an individual is constantly taking blows to the head and it leads to symptoms such as memory loss, depression, and dementia. According to researchers with the department of Veterans affairs and Boston University they have now found out that percent of NFL Players they examined and 79 percent of all football have been diagnosed with CTE (Breslow). CTE is a very catastrophic disease that rips away at a players physical and mental health, and it also devastates the families and loved one of the players as well. One of the ways that the NFL is trying to fight this disease is to have more prompt medical care and enforcement for players all throughout the league. The league has thousands of trained medical and doctor staff that are there for the players to make sure that they get the best care that they can, while still making sure that they can play their hearts out and to their fullest extent. The NFL also recently published a new return-to-play statement for all of their players, it reads; removed for the duration of a practice or game, the player should not be considered for return-to-football activities until he is fully asymptomatic, both at rest and after exertion, has a normal neurological examination, normal neuropsychological testing, and has been cleared to return by both his team physician(s) and the independent neurological consultant. A critical element of managing concussions is candid reporting by players of their symptoms following an injury. Accordingly, players are to be encouraged to be candid with team medical staffs and fully disclose any signs or symptoms that may be associated with a (NFL). This is very crucial to the safety of the NFL players because it allows them to decrease the risk of any more concussion related injuries such Lynn 4 as one that could be sustained from the hit that is shown in image 2, and to decrease the risk of any athlete getting CTE as well. The NFL has been working very hard to ensure the safety of their athletes, with various new protocols and other methods to keep head injuries down in the league. Both images show the dangerous affects that hits to the head have on athletes in the NFL, with both the action of being hit and the after affects shown in the images, it is very important that the league implements new and innovative tactics to make sure that players are taken care of off and on the field. Even though football is watched in mostly every household on Sundays every week during football season, most people seem to realize that these players are putting their physical and mental health on the line for us to be entertained every week. This has taught us that we need to make sure the NFL is taking care of their athletes, and with the new programs they have designed to stop head injuries, it is working. Lynn 5 Works Cited Baumgart, Mark Fainaru-Wada and Simon. The tackling  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 05 Sept. 2014. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Inside the Numbers: Counting Concussions in the  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, 13 Dec. 2012. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Safety Rules &  NFL.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Belson, Ken. New York Times. 15 11 2012. 30 01 2017. Belzer, Jason. Forbes. 29 02 2016. 30 01 2017.