Sierra !1 Emily Sierra Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 February 24, 2017 Technology and its Role in Society Politics and religion for centuries have been regarded as two of the pillars upon which western civilization rests. However these age old influencers within recent years have been accompanied by a new component: technology. In such a short span of time technology has managed to dominate everything spanning from transportation and the education system to the individual home. This is due to some of the most brilliant minds since Albert Einstein heading up this war of integrating technology into society. Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, and Mark Zuckerberg to name a few of not only the wealthiest billionaires in the world, but famously some of the greatest innovators within this For most millennials imagining a world without a cell phone that can access google, provide directions, and send instant text messages is unimaginable, but realistically just over ten years ago such a device was nonexistent. It is undeniable that technology is at the forefront of our modern world. While the advancement of technology never will cease various studies have come to suggest that technology may be playing a more negative role in our development as individuals and society at large. By presenting both arguments aimed to convince that technology is entirely good or bad this paper is set out to prove that though both sides have persuasive material the best interest of our society lies within the grey. Meaning, that just like with most things the optimum use and integration of technology within civilization is best used in moderation. Sierra !2 It is undeniable that the tech industry has not only advanced over time, but has managed to reach every corner of the world. It is one of the few things left in our society that brings people together regardless of distance, race, gender, or religion. To track the entire tech industry over time is a daunting task to say the least, but to trace a single companies evolvement over time to prove the strides the tech world has taken in recent years is doable. One of the most famous players in the game, Apple, has come a long ways since its days of being January 9, 2007 Steve Jobs gave a presentation at MacWorld that quite literally changed the world forever. purpose of the presentation was to release plans for the first generation iPhone, but before the unveiling he summarized all that Apple had accomplished up until that point nearly ten years ago today. once in a while a revolutionary product comes along that changes everything. One is very fortunate if (they) get to work on just one of these in (their) career. Apple has been very it has been able to introduce a few of these into the world. In 1984 we introduced the Macintosh it just change Apple it changed the whole computer industry. In 2001 we introduced the first I-Pod it just change the way we all listen to music it changed the entire music industry. Well today, we are introducing three revolutionary products in its class. The first one is a wide screen iPod with touch control. The second is a revolutionary mobil phone. And the third is a breakthrough internet communications device. So three an iPod, a phone, and internet communicator. These are not three separate devices this is one devise, and we are calling it iPhone. Today Apple is going to reinvent the (Steve unveils iPhone) Sierra !3 Though January 9, 2007 may be the date that goes down in the record books as the day that brought a new expectation to the phrase as Steve Jobs said, Apple is a cooperation lucky enough to be the spearhead for multiple cutting edge technologies. It is a prime example of a metamorphosis from a single tech product into a multi-billion dollar brand just by invading other industries simply with technology. Apple has done a remarkable job uniquely creating its own space in the marketplace, but technology is not just the innovation of new things. As mentioned before, technology has managed to dominate everything from transportation to the education system simply by advancing things inside industries that have been around for centuries. Transportation has constantly remained one of the few everlasting essentials to every society throughout the years. Ever since the creation of the railroad and George successful application of steam technology which resulted in the creation of the steam train; technology and transportation have forever been intertwined (The Railroad Tycoon). Fortunately our modern world has progressed far beyond the years of the railroad, but not without the help of technology. One of the leading cooperations within the transportation/tech field is Tesla Motors and SpaceX both owned by billionaire Elon Musk. Tesla Motors is a cooperation focused on creating energy efficient cars that run solely off electricity eliminating the need for gas entirely. mission is to accelerate the transition to sustainable (Tesla Motors) Without technology the reality of a car that runs off electricity and you can plug into a wall seemed science fiction. Musk is so passionate about the idea of a world fully reliant on sustainable energy that he makes all of the designs for his cars public. By publishing his work other auto manufacturers have full access to the of Sierra !4 his cars from design to mechanics. Musk is one of the few innovators of this time that truly hopes to see society at large develop and grow exponentially in more ways than just how they get down the street. second company SpaceX is a company partnered with NASA that works to not only discover more of what is in space, but has the eventual goal of sending people to Mars and to eventually colonize on there. The idea of colonizing on Mars may seen too far fetched to be a reality for most, but if anyone could accomplish it I would put my money on Elon Musk. Not only is Musk working tirelessly for Tesla and SpaceX, but he has recently come up with a new past time. Musk has released his idea for a hyperloop train. The basis is similar to a railroad it would be a public method of transportation to take you long distances. The twist on the hyper loop is that it could take you from Los Angeles, CA to San Fransisco, CA in just under 30 minutes compared to a six hour car ride or an all day train. Hyper loop is completely underground and travels about 600 mph. Though hyper loop is just in its early stages of testing it is just another example of how modern technology has taken an age old practice, but added its own spin. Kumbhakar, Subal C., and Efthymios G. Tsionas. The good, the bad and the technology: Endogeneity in environmental production  Journal of Econometrics 190.2 (2016): 315-27. Science Direct. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This article talks about how a lot of modern technology and the factories that create it are outputting a lot of pollution into our environment. Though the technology itself is deemed as good by society the pollution and emissions exerted into our world as a result are bad byproducts. The author explains in detail how not only technology in general is creating such negative outputs, but how inefficient technology is doing so as well. It is clear that the desired Sierra !5 intention is not to harm the ecosystem, but in some ways has become unavoidable when intertwined with technology. Subal Kumbhakar is a research professor at Binghamton University. Who graduated with a PhD in Economics from the university of Southern California . Described as a renowned expert in productivity and performance measurement, with particular emphasis on the theory of application of stochastic frontier Subal has been working in the field for over twenty five years. Professor Subal C.  Oxera. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. McKnight, Zoe. Why crime is falling so fast: how social media obsession, smartphone addiction, and even violent video games, have made the world a surprisingly safe  Why Crime is Falling so Fast128.31 (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This Canadian Author starts the journal off by introducing the tragic murder of 18 year old Canadian Jeremy Cook who was killed due to a confrontation over his iPhone. The author proceeds to explain though this one event confirmed all skeptics of technologies effects on the youth, the Canadian crime rate has actually hit an all time low since 1969. Though that statistic is shocking further investigation into statistics provided to the journal from shows that crime of those between 18 to 24 (usually the age group with the highest about of crime associated with it) has dropped from 2009-2013 by between 23 to 31 percent. The author is makes the point that video games are actually a good outlet for troubled teens giving them the opportunity to trouble without actually getting in She also brings up the point that Facebook for most risk youths is the only way they can stay in touch with their families. Sierra !6 Zoe McKnight is a journalist at She has written other articles about unpaid interns and rogue geoengeneering experiments to name some of her other work. is a Canadian Magazine full of different political articles. She currently resides in Toronto. Ojeda, Auriana. Technology and society: opposing viewpoints. San Diego, CA: Greenhaven Press, 2002. Print. This book presents both sides to the argument if technology has helped of harmed society. This falls in line with my personal objective for the paper. to physically go into library to look at this book because there is no online edition.. but really want to use this due to the similarity in description and the aim of my paper. Ojeda is a published author and one of her most accredited works is American Culture in She attended University of California for her undergraduate degree. Years later she attended the University of Utah and received a master of Business Administration. Restivo, Sal P. Science, technology, and society: an encyclopedia. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2005. Print. This work emphasizes the effects of technology upon society across the globe. The work looks into the effects of society beyond just the person, and looks into its effects upon cultures. Technology, and Society contains over 130 A to Z signed articles written by major scholars and experts from academic and scientific institutions and institutes The Railroad  American-Rails.com. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. A website that briefly summarizes the work of various railroad owners and tycoons. It talks about the innovators within the railroad industry centuries ago. I used it to look up the name Sierra !7 of the man who invented the steam train. It talks about American Railroad owners as well as British innovators and creators. About  Tesla. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Tesla website I got the quote, or rather their logo from. IOSJailbreakzone. Steve Jobs Unveils The Original iPhone - Macworld San Francisco  YouTube. YouTube, 19 July 2013. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Youtube video of Steve Jobs unveiling the iPhone.