Rivera 1 Marielisa Rivera Karen Hanson ENC1102 26 February 2017 Hydrologic fracturing and enhanced regulation Recently in the last few decades hydraulic fracturing (fracking) has become a highly controversial topic. Per Joshua Pritchard fracking is mechanical process that uses fluid pressure to release quantities of petroleum or natural gas from deep below the (Pritchard). Since fracking involves the use of high pressure and chemicals to break down the shale bed, there is concern for aquifers being at risk of contamination. Some fear that fracking will cause groundwater leaching as the pressure from fracking causes an increase permeability within the aquifer. (Wei) This means that chemicals used in the fracking process can breach the porous material surrounding aquifers much easier, leaving water unsuitable for human consumption. Because of these fears government agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency(EPA), have endeavored to impose regulation against the natural gas industry. Although the EPA has imposed regulation to limit the environmental impact hydraulic fracking has on the Environment, some feel that that there are not enough safeguards in place to truly protect the environment and the health of humans. Thus, the EPA has gone on to do extensive studies to identify risks factors of the fracking process, as well as release reports to try and inform the public of all the risks associated with fracking. Rivera 2 The EPA concluded in a report back in 2012 that fracking imposes high risk of creating ground water contamination. In this report the EPA uses two images to support the premise that fracking is hazardous to the environment. In Image A It shows a diagram of the fracking process. Image A also references specific processes such as well injection, chemical mixing, produced water handling, water acquisition, and wastewater disposal and reuse. It is significant to note the relevance of the EPA addressing these specific processes in fracking, because these main processes that were highlighted are the ones that create a higher affinity for ground water contamination. According to Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre logos the appeal to logic. Logos like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons. (Lane, Mckee, McIntryre,32) Image A appeals to logos in this respect because it is trying to explain the fracking process. Which enhances the perception on the fracking process and allows the viewer to make an informed and logical decision on fracking. As image A shows that throughout the fracking process the ground water is exposed to contamination by showing that ground water aquifers are exposed to chemicals through well injection and during the waste disposal process. Thus, appealing to the logic that since fracking leaves the water table exposed to chemicals there is a stronger likelihood for contamination to occur. Image B which shows that fracking causes fault activation which overburdens the ground and well sites, causing shale gas and chemicals to leach into the groundwater aquifer appeals to logos as well. As Image B presents the argument that fracking is bad because it induces plate tectonic movement and even cement secured well sites will become burdened and therefore release chemicals and gas into the ground water aquifers causing contamination. Therefore, appealing to the logic that fracking is hazardous to the environment. Rivera 3 According to Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre pathos is The appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Gayle Lee, McKee, and McIntyre, 37) . Therefore, Image A appeals to pathos because the EPA is trying to give the viewer the understanding that fracking is causing water contamination based off the different exposure sites depicted in image A. Thus, the EPA is trying to appeal to pathos by evoking fear that the ground water that people get most of the drinkable water from, is becoming unsafe for human consumption. Therefore, evoking the feeling of fear and or rage as the viewer might have the fear of possibly running out of water in the future because of fracking, and might be angry that more action has not been taken to protect them. In addition, image A evokes the possible fear of losing the ability to survive without clean water. As for Image B the EPA appeals to pathos by portraying the instability of fracking. Understanding that the structure of well sites is not stable might evoke feeling that more regulation is needed. In addition, image B evokes emotion by making the viewer feel uncertain about safety precautions surrounding fracking. As image B shows that fracking causes fault movement and thus in a sense raises new concerns with the viewer. Such as does fracking cause earthquakes along with water contamination. Therefore, image B appeals to emotion by making the viewer more engaged and asking more questions about the environmental consequences surrounding the topic of fracking. The environmental protection agency has effectively argued on the its stance that hydraulic fracturing is hazardous to the environment and therefore should be regulated more thoroughly or halted by showing these images. As the EPA informs the public about the issue at hand by demonstrating the fracking process in image A and using errors to indicate that water is being exposed to harmful chemicals throughout the process. Specifically, in Image B when the EPA Rivera 4 directly associates groundwater aquifer contamination by fracking. Therefore, the EPA does well to present a broad claim and then provide specifics to allow the viewer to make an informed decision. In addition, the images support the claim that more regulation needs to be done on in regards to fracking. Specifically, in image A when it shows possible contamination during the waste disposal process, and in image B which address that the infrastructure of well cites need to be improved in order to reduce contamination. If the EPA wishes to get its stance on fracking to a broader audience, it might want to use photos of the effects fracking has already caused. Such as showing rumble following an earthquake. This will appeal to a broader audience as they can physical see the impacts of fracking rather the hypotheticals that image B depicts. Furthermore, using pictures such as mentioned above might help to appeal to Kairos which according to Allyson Hoffman & Alysia Sawchyn, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing so (Hoffman, and Sawchyn, 41). Using a picture of an earthquake might help create the sense of urgency to create more public interest, which would allow the EPA to impose more intervention to fracking to protect the health and safety of individuals and the environment. Rivera 5 Work Cited Gayle Lee, Kendra, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37 Print. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016.41 Print. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016.32 Print. Pritchard, Joshua. Fracking:  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 United States Enviromental Protection Agency. Mission and What We www.epa.gov/aboutepa/our-mission-and-what-we-do(web).29 Jan. 2017 United States Environmental Protection of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing on Drinking Water report20121214.pdf#page=185(web). 17 Feb. 2017 United States Environmental Protection Hydraulic Fracturing Water www.epa.gov/hfstudy/hydraulic-fracturing-water-cycle (web). 17 Feb. 2017 Wei, Yaqiang, et al. Model For Simulating Hydromechanical Responses In Aquifers To Induced Hydraulic Stresses: Laboratory Investigation And Model  Journal Of Natural Gas Science And Engineering 30.(2016): 592-603. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rivera 6 Rivera 7 Image A: Rivera 8 Image B: