Kiffner 1 Kayleigh Kiffner Karen Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Since the beginning of using Genetically Modified Organisms in the food industry, there has a large controversy over the use of On one side the use of is seen as helpful as it allows for the production of more food and is useful for developing countries. However, there are also some organization that are concerned about the safety and risks of eating The Non-GMO Project is an organization against the use of and their mission and goal is to get rid of GMO producing companies or to at least get all labeled. Genetically modified organisms are organisms whose genetical material is altered using genetic engineering techniques. (GMO Facts) The Non-GMO Project successfully supports its stance on the to consumers in the United States through two images using visual rhetoric that connects why should be avoided and banned or labeled. To begin, The Non-GMO Project uses two images to show that should not be used as a food source. In Image A, it shows a drawing of a pile of nachos, for each part of the nacho from the cheese to the meat to even the chips themselves. It gives pointers on how to avoid GMO products to keep the audiences super bowl party nachos GMO free. Within the image, it even gives the definition of a GMO for those who may not know exactly what a GMO is. In the mid food biotechnology allowed the creation of plants that had pest control properties because of molecular biology techniques emerging from technological advances. Kiffner 2 (Helm 93) The first genetically engineered food product was chymosin which is used to create cheese. (Helm 93) Image A includes all the rhetorical appeals. The first one and the most dominant one is logos. According to Emily Lane in Rhetoric Really Matters, Logos is the appeal logic and most commonly is the use of statistics or facts to get their point across. (Lane et al. 23- 24) Image A uses logos by including the definition of and giving facts about how to avoid foods that have them. The image explains the best way to make sure it is GMO free and what to look for on a package at the grocery store. The image also contains pathos. Pathos is an appeal to the emotions, it makes them feel a certain way. (Lane 22) The Image has pathos because it says your Super Bowl Non-GMO This plays on a emotion that if they go GMO free they will be the MVP of the party and have the best party for the super bowl. It makes them feel accomplished and happy that they won of their party. It also contains ethos which is the appeal to credibility. According to Emily Lane, it is a way of the author establishing trust with the given audience. (Lane 20) The image contains ethos because not only does it come from their official Facebook page and used on their Twitter page too, but it also includes their logo at the top of the photo. The Logo includes the name of their organization as well as a butterfly that all is put into their whole logo. Lastly, it contains Kairos. As Emily Lane states, is the appeal to that pertains to the right place and the right (Lane 25) To continue, Image B is of a little boy holding a sign with the words written on it that states: will not eat The pictures have anything in the background but a white/gray wall. The center and focus of the photo is that fact that a little boy holding this sign. The photo includes the rhetoric appeals of pathos and kairos. It successfully uses the pathos appeal by using the focus of a young boy holding a sign that clearly states he eat Kiffner 3 You see his mouth just his eyes looking at the camera as the sign covers the rest of his face. It gives a strong message as if those words were straight from his mouth. It makes other parents who see the photo feel as though their children be fed either if this kid eat them either. The caption of the photo says we can preserve and build a non-GMO food supply for our (Facebook) They want children to eat something that may harm children. So therefore it causes sadness and a feeling guilt if they are feeding their kids Pathos is very powerful for this photo given that the eye give off a certain emotion from just the expression in his eyes and the short sentence on the sign. The image also portrays Kairos because it giving a sense that people should stop feeding to their children now and starting building a GMO-free food supply today and for the future. It gets to the point and states that should be put to a stop now. To compare, both images have one goal in common, to end the use of They do it in different ways with Image A focusing on the logos/logic of to inform people why they should stop eating while Image B focuses on pathos or emotions to make people quit buying and feeding children The result in both images is that it ends the buying and eating of The Non-GMO Project does a good job using the two images together with rhetoric appeals to get their goal across by giving two different scenarios of why be used. Pictures are worth a thousand words and they prove that with their images. They successfully give not only a reason for children to not eat but also adults with the use of Super Bowl as an opportunity to go GMO-free by giving a GMO-free ingredients list and recipe for nachos. They use pathos and Kairos in both images to show the timeliness of the situation at hand on as well as giving people an emotional reason to quit eating Kiffner 4 In conclusion, The Non-GMO Project successfully supports its stance and mission on with these two images using rhetoric appeals. Both images give reasons why be used or eaten by using the little boy in image B for pathos and the use of bowl party in image A. Emotions are very persuasive at getting a point across and The Non-GMO project mastered that. With Image A they used logos to inform maybe those who have no idea about about what they are and what to look for to avoid buying them and to look for their butterfly logo to be sure it have The organization clearly states it views on and gives valid reasons through the rhetorical appeals of why should be avoided. The images provide a better view and appeal to why they should be avoided. So far, The Non-GMO Project has made a lot of progress on getting labels onto products that are GMO- free that way those who wish to avoid In the future, The Non-GMO Project may even get completely banned in the United States or maybe they will make a law that it is mandatory to label any product that contains In the meantime, they offer tips and ways to avoid These images give tips, and some even get their point across about with very little words. Kiffner 5 Works Cited Non-GMO Project, www.nongmoproject.org/gmo-facts/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Helm, Ricki M. Food biotechnology: is this good or bad? Implications to allergic  Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology 90.6 (2003): 90-98. Lane, Emily et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEDU, 2016 20-46. Print. Kiffner 6 Image A https://www.facebook.com/nongmoproject/photos/br.Abrqc2Y0ZBWjyOflxSU- CAsDKZHzVah20LpC6DWQdGksw5ROWTvegbsSDWyf0nsbC4qfD6leIZcVKjry9aPCHYTS Kiffner 7 Image B https://www.facebook.com/nongmoproject/photos/a.10150609152993515.391946.55972693514/ 10154589402798515/?type=1&theater