Washington 1 Karon Washington Karen Hanson Enc1102.013S17 2/24/17 Food & Water Watch Against Fracking Hydraulic Fracturing or is a process used by oil and gas companies to extract natural gas embedded in rock formations known as shale. The process consists of fracturing the underground rock with a pressurized liquid, that funnels the natural gas up the well and to the surface where it will be used as an energy source. The pressurized liquid used in the process contaminates drinking water and poses major health risks. The Food and Water Watch (F&WW), an environmental activist organization does not support fracking. The F&WW believes that fracking is a dangerous process that is conducive to environmental decay and therefore they want it to be banned across the world. The organization supports its goal of ceasing fracking projects through images that scrutinize political figures whom are backed by the fracking industry and images that inspire people to become active members of the anti-fracking movements. F&WW argues that corrupt politicians maintaining office can lead to more fracking sites in the future. For example, Image A shows Rick Perry, former Texas governor, notorious for his distaste of the energy department and financial backing from oil and gas corporations. The F&WW chose to focus on Perry because he is a candidate to run the Energy department under the Trump administration (Energy Dept. Nominee Rick Perry: Fossil $14 Million Man). According to the F&WW website, Rick Washington 2 Perry declared in 2011 that he wanted to eliminate the Department of Energy from the government agencies, and only reconsidered running the agency because of his oil and gas partners. The F&WW believes that Perry poses a major threat to the anti-fracking movement, therefore they want the audience to deter Perry from being Secretary of Energy (How Rick Perry as Energy Secretary Could Mean More Fracking). Image A utilizes logos and Kairos to influence the audience to speak out about position as Secretary of Energy. The major rhetorical appeals used in image A are logos and Kairos due to the urgency of candidacy. The image has written in bold letters beside head that he received $14 million in campaign contributions [from the oil and gas The tone of the image is a bit cynical, this is because of smirk and the fact that his finger is pointing to a staggering figure of bribe money. This statement of the number of funds given to Perry reveal the influence that the oil and gas corporation has in the government. Due to the images simplified features such as bold and enlarged text, the F&WW intended for their image to be interpreted by ordinary citizens. The purpose of image A is to inform the audience that Perry is in the pocket of corrupt corporations and therefore the public must apply pressure to their local senators to say NO to Perry. Kairos is apparent in the image because Perry is on the verge of becoming Secretary and the F&WW does not want him in office at all. So the action engendered from the image requires immediate action in order for it to assist the F&WW in their fight against fracking. Furthermore, the F&WW utilizes relatable images on their social media to further influence the general public to become involved with their movement. The F&WW posted image B on their Instagram page around February 17, 2017 with the caption Washington 3 The hashtag used in the mentioned caption is a trending movement for the citizens of North Dakota fighting against oil and gas corporations whom are trying to desecrate their land. The major rhetorical appeal used in Image B is pathos. F&WW chooses to photograph a single mother and child to trigger sympathy amongst the audience in hopes that the viewers will offer support to the movement. Image B contains a woman holding a sign that says, is Resist Corporate Greed & with a toddler in a stroller beside her. On the poster the is section is a much smaller font size than the rest of the writing. The disparity between typography reveals that the focus is to Corporate Greed & (Pack 349). The audience of the image is the general public and people whom support a sustainable environment. This is apparent because of the clothing of the women and the poster content. The woman is wearing casual clothing and sunglasses, which entail the audience that ordinary people are involved with the F&WW and are on the forefront of their protest. The background of the image hints that the woman is or was at a current protest, with her child. The significance of the child and mother figure, is to show the audience that everyone can be involved in the movement. F&WW wants their viewers to be aware that involvement in their campaign does not require spiffy clothing nor does it require an individual to abandon their responsibilities. The mission is to protect the environment and ensure that everyone has access to clean drinking water. Their concern with fracking is that it destroys the environment, communities and ground water. Therefore, the goal of the F&WW is to rid the planet of practices such as fracking which are ruining the environement. The F&WW uses images such as image A with a logic and Kairos appeal to influence citizens to Washington 4 become more prominent in the selection of political figures. Moreover, images such as image B use a pathos appeal with a relatable and sympathetic tone intended for the audience to become inspired to join the movement. Washington 5 Works Cited  Food & Water Watch, 25 Jan. 2017, http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/about. Dept. Nominee Rick Perry: Fossil $14 Million Food &Water Watch, 24 Feb. 2017, http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/impact/energy-dept-nominee-rick-perry- fossil-fuels-14-million-man. Gregory, K. B., R. D. Vidic, and D. A. Dzombak. Water Management Challenges Associated with the Production of Shale Gas by Hydraulic  Elements 7.3 (2011): 181-86. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Rick Perry as Energy Secretary Could Mean More Food & Water Watch, 24 Feb. 2017, https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/news/how-rick-perry-energy-secretary- could-mean-more-fracking. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. Urgent Case for a Ban on Food & Water Watch, 24 Feb. 2017, https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/insight/urgent-case-ban-fracking. Washington 6 IMAGE A http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/impact/energy-dept-nominee-rick-perry- fossil-fuels-14-million-man Washington 7 IMAGE B https://www.instagram.com/p/BQbWyQplcDy/?hl=en