Kyaw 1 Aung Myo Kyaw Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 26 February 2017 The Impact of NAFTA on Economic Growth of Participant Countries (USA, Canada and Mexico) NAFTA (North America Free Trade Agreement) is the earliest and biggest free trade agreement between three North America countries: United States, Canada and Mexico. It was started by President Ronald Regan in 1988 and signed by President George H.W Bush in 1992 but President Bill Clinton was the one who signed the agreement into the law in 1994. The goal of NAFTA was to eliminate tariff on imports and exports of the countries and other trade barriers between the countries to be the most competitive and beneficial trade agreement in the world. At first NAFTA was working really well as planned. Both economics and GDP of the participant countries were growing really first after the agreement. The exports and imports between three countries went up more than double compared to the situation of that before NAFTA. Even though the agreement worked really well at first, too many problems and trade tensions between the countries (moving factories from the US to Mexico due to cheap labors) have involved as the agreement getting older and older. Nowadays, NAFTA has become one of the most controversial and debatable issue in the world because some experts and politicians from the US argue that other two members of the agreement are taking advantage of the US. My research question for the class for this semester is: how does NAFTA affect the economic growth of the participant countries (USA, Canada and Mexico)? Kyaw 2 Source 1 Casey, Jr., William L. The Effect Of The North America Free Trade Association On Foreign Direct Investment Flows And Economic Development In  International Journal Of Business & Economics Perspectives 11.1 (2016): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The academic article, Effect of the North America Free Trade Association On Foreign Direct Investment Flows and Economic Development in was written by Dr Casey and published in 2016. In this article, the author examines the impact of NAFA (North America Free Trade Agreement) and inward foreign direct investment (FDI) especially from the United States, on the economic and GDP growth of Mexico. To find out the impact, he is using pre and post agreement data of economic growth and development. Then, he analysis the data by comparing and contrasting them. The data shows that NAFTA and FDI have both positives and negative effects on the economic growth and development of Mexico. He concludes that Mexico need to reform its foreign investment policies and regulate multinational corporations more strictly to get most benefit from the agreement and FDI. If it does not reform the policies, the economic growth and development of the country would be really slow. This article is really reliable because the author had used the most reliable data and information (such as World Bank data base and bank) to write this article. The author himself is a professor who is teaching economics at Babson College in Massachusetts. He is also an author of two famous books: Entrepreneurship, Productivity and the Freedom of Information Act (Lexington Books, 1983) and Beyond the Numbers: Foreign Direct Investment in the U.S. (JAI Press, 1998). This article has really important and valuable data and information (such as what was the GDP of Mexico when NAFTA stated and how it has changed over time) to support my research question. For example, information about the impact of NAFTA on the economic growth of Mexico which may answer and fulfil nearly one third of my research question. Kyaw 3 Source 2 Rosario, Jorge and Romero-Morett. NAFTA Trade (And Some Extra NAFTA Trade) In Value Added And Its Distribution, 1995-  Journal Of Economic Structures 5.1 (2016): 1-22. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. DOI: 10.1186/s40008-016-0059-2 This article focus on the impact of NAFTA on the economic growth of three participant countries (The United States, Canada and Mexico) in term of value added and its distribution among work force, local and foreign investments. The authors use Input Output Database and the Input-Output to make the research on the impact. As a result, they state that based on their research, the profit and deficit of the countries are mainly relying on the amount of extra value that added to the price of exports and imports. Even though Mexico exports more added value goods to the United States and Canada, worker are the one who get the least amount of distributions from the goods that they export compared to the workers from the United States and Canada. The authors conclude that the workers from the United States and Canada tend to have more benefit from the agreement because of the minimum wage policy and strict regulation of the countries. All three authors have degree on Economics major and all of them are from University of Guadalajara, Mexico. They have also done several researches on their relative field: economics. Since this article is focusing on the impact of NAFTA on the workers and capital of the countries in term of the countries valued added exports and imports, it has really useful and valuable information that I need to support my argument to answer my research question. Kyaw 4 Source 3 Vasquez Galan, Belem I., and Olajide S. Oladipo. Have Liberalization and NAFTA Had a Positive Impact On Output  Journal Of Applied Economics 12.1 (2009): 159-180. EconLit. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article focus on the role of exports and foreign direct investment (DFI) in explaining the growth of Mexico economic in the age of economics liberalization. The authors are using a bunch of time series analyzing techniques such as Granger Causality which is a statistical concept that predict value of something based on its related good value, impulse response functions, and variance decomposition. . After analyzing the situation of the economics by using above techniques, the authors found out that all of the techniques came out with same ideas or answers which prove and explain that liberalization and NAFTA have positive effect on output growth of Mexico. Because they can increase the export of a country that led to promote GDP and economics growth of a country, in this case Mexico. The author, Belem I. Vasquez Galan, is a researcher at El Colegio de la Frontera Norte Research Center, Mexico City. She has a PHD degree in Economics. Another author, Olajide S. Oladipo, also has a PHD in Economics and International Finance. He is an Economics and Business professor at The City University of New York. Both of the authors have already published numerous articles and also participated in a ton of research projects which focus on their expertise fields, Business and Economics. I have chosen this article for my research project because it has explained variety of ways and steps to prove the hypothesis that supports increasing in exports can promote the GDP and economics growth of Kyaw 5 Mexico. The steps and ways to prove the hypothesis and other data in this article can help me to answer my research question with really good evidences. Source 4 Blank, Stephen, and Barry E. Prentice. NAFTA At 20: Time To Open The Internal Borders Of North American to  Research In Transportation Business & Management 16. Transportation and Trade Across International Borders (2015): 4- 14. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1016/j.rtbm.2015.07.002 In this article, the authors state that the economics growth of North America countries, especially participants of NAFTA, depends on efficient good transport systems between the countries. Even though it has been 20 years since NAFTA was singed, cabotage is still restricted by a bunch of regulations that against the free movement of goods, people, services, and even the free trade agreement. Cabotage is a right which allow a foreign freight transporter to provide transportation or services in the host countries or borders freely without any barriers and restrictions. The authors provide three types of carbotage transportations: truck, air and ship, in this article. They also mention impact of each carbotage transportations on the economic growth of the countries. Allowing all three types of cabotages tend to enhance the economic growth of the countries dramatically. In the conclusion, the authors conclude that cabotage or free movement of good systems should be allowed between the countries without any restriction to enhance the rate of economic growth. Kyaw 6 The author, Stephen Blank, is a collaborator on Energy, Research and Policy at the University of Ottawa, Canada. He has PHD degree in Global Business from Harvard University. He is also an author of many books and articles in his fields. Another author, Barry E Prentice is a professor of Supply Chain Management, at the I.H. Asper School of Business, University of Manitoba. He is an author and co-author of more than 250 research reports and academic articles. This article talks about the economic growth of NAFTA participant countries in term of unrestricted freight transportations or carbotage. Since efficient transportation is one of the most important aspect of NAFTA, the article includes many information and data that I need to answer my research question. In addition, there are also economic policies that can be used in my research paper. Source 5 Funk, Mark, Intra-NAFTA Trade in Mid-South Industries: A Gravity  Review of Regional Studies, vol. 36, no. 2,(2006), pp. 205-220. Wed. 22 Feb 2017. In this experiment, the author explains the economics growth of the United States during the NAFTA, and the economics relationship (import and export) between the United States, Mexico, and Canada by using gravity model. The author states that most of the studies on the economics impact of NAFTA have done by using aggregation model which shows economics growth of the countries as whole. This method has lack of detail and regional growth data. Therefore, the author uses gravity model that presents regional growth and its rate in detail. The basic gravity model explains (natural) trade patterns as resulting from economic size (income and population) and distance The author focus this research on five states within the United States as the models: Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Texas. He takes Kyaw 7 the import and export data of these five states from the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS). Then he analyzes the data by comparing and contrasting them. The data shows that each state has growth in production and exporting of one or more products based on its location, resources and labor force available while production and exporting of other goods are shirking. For instance, exporting of electrical and electronic equipment grows in Tennessee and Texas but declining in other three states. The author of this article, Mark Funk, is really credibility for many reasons. He has master degree in Economics and Finance. He is working at the department of Economics and Finance, College of Business, at University of Arkansas. He has already published decent amount academic article in his field, Economics and Finance. He is also working on several research projects in his university. This article provides lots of valuable statistics for my research paper. For example, it presents what amount of certain products is producing and coming from which part of the United States, and where it goes (Mexico or Canada). It also provides the differences between two Economics methods: gravity and aggregation. These above data and differences help me to answer some aspects of my research question. Source 6 Burfisher, Robinson, and Thierfelder. Impact of NAFTA on the United The Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 15, no. 1, 2001, pp. Wed 22 Feb, 2017. This experiment is totally different from other experiments because this does not have its own argument. In this paper, the authors analyze the common arguments made in debates before and during the NAFTA base on the real evidence that they have at their time on the economic impacts of NAFTA on the participant countries. Then decide on which argument is right and which is wrong. Couple of common arguments were NAFTA or free trade may increase the number of jobless in the United States because of increasing in exports from Mexico, and NAFTA has more positive impact on the Mexico and less on the United States. The authors mainly focus on three particular industries in the United States: agriculture, autos, and textiles because these industries are the sectors most scholar argue in NAFTA debate. The authors got Kyaw 8 the data which present the economic situation of these three industries from the surveys that had been taken by the U. government agencies before and during the NAFTA, such as U.S. Department of Labor (1993), and U.S. International Trade Commission (1992). Then they analyze the data by comparing and contrasting them to determine which arguments is right and which one is wrong. The data from the surveys show that NAFTA has had relatively large effects on the economy and small effects on the U.S. economy. The author come out with the idea that, among above two arguments, second argument is more likely to be right. This article is really reliable and the authors are also really credibility because all authors have what they have to have to make research and publish academic articles. The author, Mary E. Burfisher is a Senior Economist, Economic Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Sherman Robinson is Director, Trade and Macroeconomics Division, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), Washington, D. C. Karen Thierfelder is Associate Professor of Economics, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland. Since this article is mainly focus on the economics effect of NAFTA on the United States in term of three industries: agriculture, autos, and textiles, it gives me useful graphs, statistics, and idea such as why NAFTA has less positive economic impacts on the United States. It also helps me to answer some parts of my research question: how NAFTA affects the economics growth of the United States. Kyaw 9