Correa 1 Henrique Faria Brito Martini Correa Instructor: Noah Pearlstone ENC1102.024S17 February 24, 2017 Efficient Advertising Company is an American multinational food processing company, founded in 1906 in Battle Creek, Michigan. It is one of the largest producers of breakfast cereals, potato chips, cookies, crackers and cereal bars in the world. Its products are manufactured in 18 countries and sold in over 180 countries around the globe. Frosted Flakes, Eggo, Pringles, and Sunshine Biscuits are among its main brands (Gale, Kellogg ). The company has always looked forward to valuing its brand and promoting a good image among its consumers. In its website, reinforces: more than 100 years, worked passionately to help families be their best. And it all starts with breakfast. why always looking to provide new ways to make a positive impact on the people we touch every What We ). In order to achieve this goal, has heavily invested in advertisement and in the primarily mean by which they interact most directly with their consumers: the packages of their products. If one carefully analyzes the images in the front part of the packages of cereal products, he or she will be able to notice that they use many rhetorical appeals to address their audience. They use insightful techniques not only to call the attention of the children who are ultimately their main final consumer but also convince the adults of the quality of the products. They do so by displaying bright colors, the use of cartoon characters and easy to read fonts to call the attention of children, clearly appealing pathos. They also appeal to logos; showing the balance of health and taste, Correa 2 remarking that the flavors are natural, and the inclusion of fiber and vitamins targeting the parents which are those who actually purchase the product to let them know the benefits of consuming the cereal. Images are an effective way for companies to convey a message to their audience when rhetorical appeals are used in conjunction (Cannon 11). So, this paper is going to be analyzing the images of the front part of two of the main products: Foot Loops and Frosted Flakes. The goal of the two images is to call the attention of children in order to make them want to have their cereal and, at the same time, convince parents that these products are safe and healthy. The company uses many interesting ways to appeal to the public through rhetoric and it is important to notice the curious way uses some appeals to address their consumers (children) and others to their customers (parents). However, to do this, they need to put an incredible amount of information in the images and it may get somehow complicated to understand all the details that are displayed on them. Thus, before going through the rhetoric appeals, this paper must break some details down in order to make it easier for its reader to comprehend. The first image is the front of the Froot Loops box. Firstly, it shows the brand of Froot Loops with on the top and, at the bottom, a bowl full of Froot Loops cereals. The back is a vivid red and it illustrates a toucan (called Sam) holding what seems to be a palm tree leave and looking at the cereals bowl with a smiling look. Furthermore, the image displays the quantity of cereal that comes in the box in the lower right corner and some nutritional facts at the very top. Superficially, these details do not seem to convey any rhetorical appeal. Nevertheless, evaluating the reason why these specific aspects are there, one will realize that they all relate to at least one of the rhetorical appeals. The brand, very evident at the top of Correa 3 the image comes as a source of credibility. It is a solid logo of a leading company that has been in the market of cereals since 1906. It is clearly an appeal to ethos. Elements like the characterization of the toucan Sam and the bright colors of the cereals can be considered an appeal to pathos, since they are there to call the attention of the children and appeal to their emotions. In addition, there is an appeal to kairos in the first image. In the seal of what seems to be a rewards campaign, one can read giving the audience a sense of urgency to purchase the product on that they so they can have the chance to get the rewards. Thus, there is an explicit reference to timeliness there. The second image is a front part of the Frosted Flakes box. It does not have as many details as the firs one. However, one can still see a bowl full of cereals with milk and strawberries and the Frosted Flakes brand written in an easy-to- read font. The back is a colorful blue and there are some nutritional facts at the very top. Similarly to the first image, elements like the colors used in the box, the characterization of the tiger (named Tonny), and the easy-to-read font to evoke positive feelings on children, awaking their desire to consume the cereal through appeal to emotions; therefore, addressing Pathos. The brand and maybe even the remark of the inclusion of vitamin D, relate to ethos as an appeal to credibility for the product. Lastly, the nutritional facts at the top and the mixing of the cereal with milk and strawberries implying that Frosted Flakes are healthy are an appeal to logos. These two last rhetorical appeals serve to convince parents that the product is trustworthy, that it is safe and healthy for their children. The target audience for both images is the consumers of cereal in general. Practically everyone is able to be a potential consumer in the market for both Frosted Flakes and Froot Loops. However, divides its audience Correa 4 into two different groups in order to have an effective outcome. They focus more specifically on adults, who are the customers (those who actually buy the good), and children, who are the majority of those who effectively consume cereals in the breakfast. With those two targeted audiences well defined, they are able to work separately on elements and details addressed to each specific group and, thus, use the rhetorical appeals in a manner that is going to be most efficient in calling upon each one. Therefore, these two images demonstrate the effective way uses rhetoric to appeals to make its audience make decisions. The main goal when creating and releasing these images in the front of its boxes is to make the product attractive for them to be able to sell it. However, it can be incredibly interesting and impressive how they make use of various flashy and persuasive elements to address the public. In conclusion, for the purpose of this paper, is a great example to show how rhetorical appeals can be used in practically every field, for the most varied audiences, and with the most different goals. It is an illustration that rhetoric is not only in the books of composition but also in our daily lives. Correa 5 Image #1: Correa 6 Image #2 Correa 7 Works Cited: Cannon, Peter. Writing Our Narratives with Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 11. E-text. Loops USA Regular N.d. Battle Creek, MI. By Company. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://www.americangrocery.co.uk/kelloggs-froot-loops-usa-regular-size- 345g-38-p.asp>. Gale, Thomson. Kellogg  International Directory of Company Histories. Encyclopedia.com, 2006. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Frosted Flakes N.d. Battle Creek, MI. By Company Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://www.couponersunited.com/publix-deal-kelloggs-frosted-flakes-only- 87-cents-each/ >. What We  N.p., 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.