Huang 1 Yi Huang ENC class 1/12/2017 AIR POLLUTION The two stakeholders which are going to be discussed here are Ford and World Wildlife Fund (WWF). As a car and truck company, the goals of Ford are to truly change how the world moves again and make people live a better life. And WWF totally focuses on protecting and restoring various species and their habitats as well as s strengthening the capacity of local communities to conserve the natural resources on which they depend. The major purpose of companies is creating profits. It is a fact that no matter how much effort one company made to research high technology and innovation aiming at reducing pollution, it would also release much more exhaust than what they did on reducing pollution. With the slogan of for and Smart it is true that Ford can lower their air pollution in the process of producing cars and driving cars. However, according to the data Huang 2 which is the Situation of Ford Statistical Table in 2014 from a Chinese website named Business Information, the company of Ford produced 2,300,795 cars and the number of cars this company produces right now must be larger than in 2014. Except the air pollution during the process of producing carts, there is no question that automobile exhaust is a major contribution of Ford. As what have already been discussed before, no matter what kinds of environmental friendly goals the Ford set, the major purpose of the company is to produce more cars and to create more profits. Once these goals achieved, it is safe to say that extra cars will aggravate greatly the degree of air pollution. At the same time, the purpose of WWF is to challenge the threats to nature, and help ensure its ability to the sake of every living thing, including ourselves. So, climate change is also one of major focuses. And there is no doubt that automobile exhaust contributes a lot on this variation. Climate change poses a fundamental threat to the places, species and communities WWF works to protect. Around the globe, we already feel the effects of climate change; our communities and wildlife and ecosystems are being forever changed. The direct result from automobile exhaust is extreme weather events such as melting glaciers and rising sea levels (Rebecca Greenfield, 2014). And the worst part is there is no theory can predict that what the far-reaching effects of climate change are in the future Although the goals of Ford and WWF are totally different, there exists cooperation between them. In fact, Ford has been conducting sort of compromises to try their best to minimize the problem of air pollution. One of the most effective and practical step is to improve the using ratio of gasoline. With the development of this technique, the cars can save a huge amount of oil from the big picture. If every car could reduce some automobile exhaust, the situation of air pollution can be relieved a lot. From another perspective, what Ford needs to give up is part of profit. Huang 3 Innovation and research of new technique need a great deal of investment. So, to acquire that new device to improving the using ratio of gasoline means this company has to sacrifice some profit which is opposite to its goals. Another practical compromise from ford can be alcohol fuel. The major air pollution from a car is automobile exhaust. If car can release clean air, there would be no problems. As we all known, after burned, the only thing from alcohol is water and carbon dioxide, which is much cleaner than fossil fuel. It is also true that carbon dioxide contributes a lot to greenhouse effect, but the release of carbon dioxide is much better than fossil oil exhaust. What Ford sacrifice for alcohol fuel is that all the gasoline burned engines need to be changed to alcohol burned engines and this is not only about the money, but also a challenging work. This changing will definitely harm the profit a lot, but will contribute to the environment greatly. Except these practical compromises, there are other things Ford can try to explore, such as nuclear engine, turning the heat from automobile exhaust into kinetic energy, solar energy engine and so on. As a non-governmental organization, WWF needs to compromise a lot without executive power. For example, this group cannot require Ford to reduce producing cars or look for new clean energy. However, the truth is WWF has already succeeded in many areas. For example, Unregulated carbon pollution from different transportation tools is the fastest-growing source of the greenhouse gas emissions driving global climate change. And the example of the aviation will be presented here. Actually, it would be one of the top 10 carbon-polluting nations on the planet. But, with the great effort of WWF, The Paris first global plan to curb climate change commits nearly all countries to limit an increase in global temperatures to well below and pursue efforts to limit that increase to To achieve these goals, transportation such as vehicle companies and aviation industry must do its part to Huang 4 reduce emissions (Matthew Lee, 2015). That is what WWF is fighting for. In order to achieve more goals, WWF has already cooperate with government in many areas and get a lot of support from the government of United State and volunteers and there is no question that this will be huge powers which can push Ford changing its propaganda. For example, with the propaganda of environment friendly and this Paris Agreement, Ford, as a company, also needs to try their best to leave a positive impression to the public to cater the needs on protecting the environment. To conclude, the compromise that WWF needs to do is to provide sufficient patience to Ford, to tolerate what Ford has already done and negotiates with Ford about how to reduce the exhaust through the power of the government and volunteers. With the lack of knowledge of researching technique on improving the using ratio of gasoline, I would like to provide the opinions on the compromise of alcohol fuel. There are several things needed to be in place. The first is about if the energy from the burning of alcohol can satisfy a need. For example, the energy from the burning of gasoline can provide strong power to a car to move. If the alcohol can not satisfy this need, then this compromise will end at the beginning. The good news is there are many ways to improve this energy from the alcohol until this requirement can be satisfied. The second thing needed to pay attention is if the car needed to be rebalanced after using this new fuel. Once changing the fuel of cars, it is possible that the car might not work well and it is a must to rebalance the car until it can work well. The third item should be considered can be divided into two parts. One is changing all engine no matter they are new or preowned, and another is only changing the new engines as well as keeping the preowned the same. There is one extreme practical problem here which is about the cost. Once changing all engine into alcohol engine, tons of money needed to be invested. Changing the new devices only can save a great deal of money, but will contribute less on Huang 5 the problem of air pollution. Another thing is about the gasoline station. When the most of Ford cars had an alcohol engine, refueling is a vital item. For example, if Ford cannot provide customers enough stations which can offer alcohol, then no people would like to buy a car that is difficult to refuel, which will ruin a company. About this problem, it is necessary to take an example from China. From the last two years, the Chinese governments carry out a policy that encouraging to change the gasoline engines into natural gas engines aiming at improving the quality of air and reducing air pollution. With the efforts from the government and several companies. Right now, basically every gasoline station in the big city like Beijing, Shang Hai can provide these two different fuels. It is true that the way of how the government operating is different. But, it is also necessary to use some information from how Chinese governments carry out this policy. To conclude, Ford and WWF are in the different position. There must be some compromises among two of them because it is important to keep the society developing to further degree and protect our earth which is the fundamental element that human can live. The first benefit from this compromise is a better Earth than what we have right now. With the reducing of exhaust from Ford vehicles, clean air and stable climate will be the most important advantages. The earth will be more suitable to live for human beings. At the same time, Ford can also develop itself in a sustainable way, which means residents can change their life by various cars. More comfortable and functional vehicles can totally change how people live. The compromise, actually, can be considered win-win. Huang 6 Works Cited What s appening at Ford. Ford ew Cars, rucks, S s, Crossovers ybrids ehicles uilt ust for ou Ford.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Apr. 2003. Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2012 WWF - Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. 2010. Cutting Aviation  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 15 Sept. 2014.  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 22 Oct. 2012.