Rismay 1 JoLynn Rismay Kristin Gocinski Composition II February 27, 2017 In Your Hands: How Dignitas Seeks to Reimagine the Dignity in Dying Since the late the organization Dignitas has sought to support people in what they believe is a right to choose when they die. Though faced by much opposition, the institution continues to advocate for live with dignity, to die with Through certain images, Dignitas has been able to portray their meaning using methods that appeal to the logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos of each viewer. In the first image, a young boy alongside a campaign to fight AIDS/HIV is used to show viewers the need to create better lives for the less fortunate. The second is a political cartoon that satirically suggests many will judge euthanasia while leading miserable lives themselves. The combination of these pictures effectively give the message that Dignitas wants people to know that they are not an organization against life, in fact they support life the utmost, however they respect and actively support that people want the opportunity to end their own life. In the first image, the audience sees a young African boy, smiling wide staring up past the camera. The Dignitas symbol is found in the upper left corner, along with a few words on the Dignitas action plan in Malawi, Africa, to help spread medication used for the prevention of HIV/AIDS. Underneath the photo is another description of the importance of Dignitas involvement in transporting and distributing the medicine. Logos is a method used to logically appeal to the audience using statistics. Although no statistical or quantitative data is shown, each paragraph Rismay 2 appeals heavily to logos, given the fact that it is commonly known HIV/AIDS is the most prominent in Africa, so the demand for medicine is always increasing. This also goes together with kairos. Kairos is supposed to evoke a sense of timeliness from a reader. Since the need for assistance is always high, as supported by the sentence towards the bottom of the image, help us create living the viewer can feel the urgency associated with helping this child and many others overcome the struggle to treat the infection. Pathos is the technique used to appeal to a sympathies or emotions. The child is placed in the picture to appeal to pathos, because the idea of a child being harmed is disturbing to most. In the second image, two protestors are holding up signs. One reads the right to die for the terminally and the woman holding the sign is blonde. The other protestor is a male in a button down in a tie with an unimpressed look. His sign reads, support the right to needlessly Kairos is apparent here given the fact that protestors usually only protest about current issues, a tactic the organization can use to make viewers aware of the pressing concerns of the issue. Pathos is a large appeal in this image, because it is clear the female protestor is more pleased than the male protestor, as well as more as accepting of the oppositions views. The second image can also influence ethos because most protestors are individuals who are aware or at least semi- educated about the topics they are protesting for or against. The first image is the most effective with pathos. The mission statement of Dignitas emphasizes respect for the living, which is reflected in the boy and the mission statement in the image to get more medicine to smaller, more poverty-stricken areas of Africa. This is relatively effective because the target audience is all classes of people. Any human being can sympathize with the desire to avoid struggle and disease and live a prosperous life. Kairos is not as obviously effective in this because the appeal to timeliness is less obvious in the image and more so in the Rismay 3 words, but the mission statement is related to kairos given that life is something we are all experiencing now, and death is something we will all experience. Lastly, logos is used somewhat effectively in the image, because many know that Africa is a continent that struggles heavily with disease. The general impact of the image is more appealing to the first part of the Dignitas logo- dignity for every life despite what adverse effects come in to play. The second image is also very effective in the use of pathos. The male protestor shows more discontent in his face than the female protestor. This relates to the mission statement of Dignitas because although he is against her viewpoint she still respects his views. This is highly effective in appealing to an audience because it shows that Dignitas members value respect of individuals. Kairos is a small and less relevant technique used, however it is still apparent and mildly effective because it shows that issues involving opinions on euthanasia are current and important. This image is important for the second part of the Dignitas motto, dignity in death. This is shown because the woman in support of assisted suicide is open minded to the person who seems more set in his opinion. Dignitas has continually advocated for dignity in life and death. In the images, they use, they rely on pathos, logos, kairos, and ethos to appeal to the sympathy, logic, timeliness and credibility the reader will evaluate to relate to the message of situations related to life and death, because they are both stages every individual experience. Both images put a heavy emphasis on pathos, because humans relate the best to human modern day human situations. The first images focus more on sympathy while the second image focuses on perspective. The main goal each serves is to give the perception that Dignitas seeks to create a viewpoint that is relatable to any person. Rismay 4 Works Cited Ondaatje, Michael. Image One. Dignitas International. DignitasInternational.org Image Two. Dignitas. Dignitas.org Rismay 5 Karin. Who Is  Who Is DIGNITAS. DIGNITAS. 30 Jan. ang=en