Antle !1 Glenn Antle ENC 112.078 Kristin Gocinski 27 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The Marines are one of the first people to arrive at a crisis situation out at sea Marine Corps The Marines mission statement is We are forward deployed to respond swiftly and aggressively in times of crisis. We are soldiers of the sea, providing forces and detachments to naval ships and shore (Marine Corps have a stake in my topic because they are the ones who will be employing the women that are in combat. The Marines have a huge say in the topic of women in combat. The rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, and kairos effectively represent the goals of the Marines in the two images. Ethos is simply defined as the appeal to credibility. It is used by the illustrator of the image to persuade the audience by demonstrating their credibility. This can be done in multiple ways, such as a logo of the company or organization, a celebrity that is easily recognizable, or a saying that the audience already believes Rhetorical In Image 1, the ethos is located right in the middle and it indicated by the logo of the Marines In the second image, the this is located at the bottom right and it is shown by the Marines logo. Because of the logo of the Marines is so well known and also because the Marines organization, the logo establishes trust in the audience Logos is the next rhetorical appeal and it is defined as the appeal to or like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the Antle !2 consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons Rhetorical After reviewing my two images many times, there was no clear evidence of logos used in either of the two images. But, there may some small hints into where logos could be used. In the first image, the text shows that the Marines have been around for a long time. The text that does that can be considered logical or reasonable because it makes the audience think about how long the Marines have been operating since its creation This same reasoning could be exemplified in the second image as well. In Image 2, the text can provoke some thought about the Marines into the mind Pathos is the third type of rhetorical appeal and it is also simply defined as the appeal to emotion but it originally refers to the elements of the image that appeals to the viewers sensibilities. Pathos can be demonstrated by using many methods such as, different colors, different facial structures, and different text font Rhetorical All these things can change the pathos of an image. In the first image, pathos is used by the different color schemes to demonstrate a feeling of acceptance by the audience. That feeling acceptance is achieved by the grey color scheme at the top of the image show a time where colored photos were not available and the colored photo at the bottom shows a more modern time where colored photos are available In Image 2, the soldier and the motivating text provide a feeling of pride for the audience Kairos is defined as an appeal to timeliness. Elements in this rhetorical appeal are supposed to give the audience a sense of urgency and that is what I think these images accomplish. In Image 1, the sense or urgency is given to the audience by suggesting that the audience should join the Marines since they have been around for a long time In the Antle !3 second image, kairos is shown by presenting only two soldiers who look like they are in the middle of nowhere and that they need help and that if you join now then you can help them now The effectiveness of the rhetorical appeals on the first image was pretty good. Logos was the only rhetorical appeal that did not completely work with the image but all the other rhetorical appeals did a good job in working with the images. Ethos worked in getting the point across by establishing credibility to the image which proved the Marines as a trusted source. Ethos worked with the mission statement by demonstrating that the mission statement is true and credible because of the credibility of the image and the source. Logos did not really work well with the image as much as I wanted it to. Logos is usually the most difficult to identify so much was not expected from this rhetorical appeal. This appeal did not work well with the mission statement either. Pathos worked well the image because it got the message of the image across by using different colors to bring about a certain emotion. It also worked well with the mission statement because the mission statement gives the reader a sense of safety by using certain keywords. Kairos also worked well with the image because it gave the reader a sense of urgency to enlist in the Marines before the opportunity is gone. This rhetorical appeal also works well with the mission statement because the mission statement provides a sense that Marines are everywhere. Antle !4 The rhetorical appeals were mostly effective for the second image. Logos again was not very effective in getting the message of the image across but all the other rhetorical appeals did a good job in doing so. Ethos worked well with the image by ensuring to the reader that the Marines is a trusted source and that it is also credible. Logos did not work very well with the image or the mission statement. Pathos did work well with the second image because it gave a sense of pride to the audience. It also worked well with the mission statement because certain words in the mission statement have a sense of safety and security to the reader. Kairos also worked well with the image because it gave a sense of urgency to help the soldiers who seemed like they needed help. The Marines is a big factor in determining the roles of women in combat. The goals of the Marines are effectively represented in the two images by the rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, and kairos. Antle !5 Works Cited Corps Marines.com, www.marines.com/history-heritage/our-purpose. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, et al. Rhetorical Purdue Online Writing Lab, 27 Apr. 2012, louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/handouts-and-resources/handouts-1/logos- ethos-pathos-kairos. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. usmarinecorps. Found, Instagram, https://www.instagram.com/usmarinecorps/. Accessed 27 Feb 2017. usmarinecorps. Found, Instagram, https://www.instagram.com/usmarinecorps/. Accessed 27 Feb 2017. Antle !6 Image 1 - Image 2 -