Hackett !1 Josephine Hackett Pearlstone ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Amnesty Prostitution Perspective Prostitution is a highly controversial and polarizing topic as not all agree with the idea of selling ones body for sexual activity. Amnesty International is an organization who supports the decriminalization of prostitution in the pursuit of human rights for sex workers. Amnesty In- ternational believes that the decriminalization of prostitution will help them with their goal of maintaining and preserving human rights around the world. It is important to note that Amnesty International is only advocating for the prostitution of consensual adult sex and does not support any exploitation of abuse. Amnesty main goal is to keep sex workers safe and empower them to have access to to their human rights. Though the use of dark, mysterious, and intense images Amnesty International is able to effectively target its goal audience of adults dis- playing prostitution subtlety. The subtlety is extremely important as it allows these ads to be seen by the general public with their hidden meanings. Amnesty International conveys the harsh reali- ties of prostitution with their advertisements in protest of the the lack of human rights that sex workers are not entitled to. Amnesty target audience is the general adult population as prostitution is a mature and sensitive subject that not all should not be subjected to. Amnesty poli- cy on prostitution is appropriate for all adults worldwide as Amnesty International produced ex- tensive worldwide consultations, a considered review of substantive evidence and international Hackett !2 human rights standards and first-hand research, carried out over more than two years on prostitu- tion Rights Are Human Amnesty International requires the support of all people to influence their legal stance on prostitution to receive the change that they desire. Amnesty International often posts advertisements and images to promote their views as images attempt to engage a emotions Two recent images that Amnesty International promoted that support the goal of advancing the rights of sex workers use ethos, pathos, and logos to convey their message. The first advertisement showcases a young woman in high heels standing on a street corner. The second image displays a woman in the midst of protesting for the safety of sex workers. The first advertisement with the girl in the heels is used to gain both empathy and sympa- thy for the portrayed prostitute in the photograph displayed with the rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos and logos. The picture purposefully tones down the sexuality of prostitution so that it can be viewed by a larger audience. While the meaning behind the photo is mysterious as is the iden- tities of both the people. Ethos is evident is this photograph with the implementation of Amnesty logo in the upper right hand corner. The logo placement on the image establishes credibility and allows one to attribute the stance and beliefs of Amnesty International onto the photograph. The image is truthful in that it provides a snapshot of what prostitution can look like as the sex work- er is standing on a street corner in an alley way at night potentially waiting for a client. Pathos is evident in this image as well as empathy is garnered to the prostitute. The fact that the prostitute is meant to seem small and delicate by wearing shoes clearly too large for her feet. This can be seen to represent the fragility of the sex workers as they are in desperate need of safety or to rep- Hackett !3 resent that the average age for a woman in the United States to become a prostitute is 14 years Pathos is easily rendered as the prostitute is seen young and alone in what seems to be a sketchy alleyway in the middle of the night. The photographic elements also add to the pathos as the blueness of the background can indicate the confusion and isolation that the prostitute herself feels. Logos can also be applied to this image with the consideration of the woman in the situation. It is concerning to see any woman alone at night in an alley with a strange looking man looming in the background. However the situation is heightened with the context of prostitution. Clearly the shoes are too large for her feet and whole vague scene is meant to leave the audience concerned for prostitute. The second advertisement which focuses on the protester is also used to gain empathy and sympathy for sex workers with ethos, pathos, and logos. These elements of visual rhetoric were combined in order to make the appeal for the decriminalization of prostitution for the safety of sex workers. The image also uses hidden meanings as it is not overtly sexual and is broad enough to display to general audiences. The goal of this image is for the audience to feel a con- nection to the masked woman protesting in her efforts to gain support for the safety of sex work- ers. The image is designed to allow people to understand the plight that sex workers have to go through and make them aware of the rights that they are lacking. Ethos is evident in this image as it blatantly displays that sex workers do not feel safe. The image supports the fact that the sex workers are affected deeply enough by the lack of safety that they are protesting to protect themselves. The pathos of this image is deigned to make the audience feel both empathy and sympathy for the prostitute in her efforts to gain human rights. The determination can be seen on the face as she protests trying to remain stoic and Hackett !4 prideful. However the fact that she is wearing a mask displays the overt downsides that prosti- tutes face. The mask is used to conceal the sex workers identity and can be used to gain empathy from the audience. The sex worker is wearing a mask because sex work is often subjected to such negative bias, and looked upon so harshly. Especially considering the illegality of prostitu- tion that does not allow her to reveal herself as a prostitute which Amnesty International is trying to fight against. The logos of this picture is displayed as the audience is opened up to a new per- spective on the rights of sex workers. A harsh reality is seen as not only is the sex worker is shown lacking her basic human rights and cannot be kept safe in her line of work. While on top of that she can also not even safely advocate for her own rights and needs the support of others as she cannot even safely maintain her identity. These two images effectively convey the need for prostitutes to have access to their hu- man rights. Amnesty International was able to take such a controversial and racy topic and create powerful overt ads with hidden meanings with powerful rhetoric. The ethos, logos, and pathos used appealed to the logic, emotions, and were able to establish credibility in the fight for the rights of sex workers. The hidden meanings behind the anonymity and darkness of the images truly strengthened the cause of sex workers and allowed for a great audience connection. Word Count: 1,178 Hackett !5 Works Cited: Hackett, J. (2017) The Treatment of Prostitution. Unpublished Manuscript, University of South Florida Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Compos tion. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Prostitution  Statistic Brain. US Health Department, Delancey Street Foundation, Christian Science Monitor, 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sex Rights Are Human  Sex Rights Are Human Rights. Amnesty In ternational, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hackett !6 Image 1: Image 2: