Sam Dreiling Professor Penuliar ENC 1102 January 27, 2017 Before It Is Too Late Advertisement can be seen everywhere you look; on television, radio, billboards, and the internet. We cannot escape advertisements. The average person sees over 5,000 advertisements a day (Johnson, Sheree). Many advertisements use the rhetorical strategies, which are ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. The World Wide Fund for Nature uses all of these strategies in their advertisements to get their message across to their audience. The World Wide Fund for Nature, also known as WWF, argues that action needs to be taken place or animals will become extinct through two pieces of advertisements through the use of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Authors use ethos to gain credibility from their audiences. The WWF is the leading conservation organization About). The mission of the WWF is conserve nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on About). The WWF is world known for protecting animals and their natural habitats. This gives the advertisements great credibility with their audience. A strong way to grab a attention is with the use of pathos. Pathos is an appeal to a emotions. The relationship between humans and animals triggers emotions of empathy and compassion, just like those felt when seeing a smiling baby. It is in our human nature to have these feelings. In the advertisements, the WWF is going towards the opposite of those emotions. They want you to have fear and be scared. They accomplish this by using cool colors of blue and grey. This is called color psychology, which means our mental and emotions can be effected by the variations of colors we encounter in our lives The use of blues in the advertisements can be used in two different ways. The color blue can represent dependability, ease, and productivity (Bolden). However, blue can also bring up the emotions of depression (Johnson, David). The WWF is trying to make the viewer feel the heavier emotions. They want the reader to feel sad about the fact that marine life is diminishing at an increasing rate. The feeling that the reader experiences makes them take action in saving marine life. Work Cited About  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Bolden, Leaf. The Effects of Different Colors on Emotions in Small Business - Chron.com. Chron.com, 28 Oct. 2013. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Color Psychology: The Psychological Effects of  Art Therapy. N.p., 24 Dec. 2012. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Johnson, David. Do Different Colors Effect Your  Infoplease. Infoplease, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Johnson, Sheree. New Research Sheds Light on Daily Ad  SJ Insights, LLC. N.p., 12 Oct. 2014. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.