Chen 1 Wei Chen Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 24 January 2017 Keystone XL Pipeline The Keystone XL Pipeline Project (KXL) has been a highly debated political topic since its proposition in 2008, and the decision to build the pipeline depends on whether it is better to boost the United (U.S.) economy or to promote alternative energy sources. KXL, supported by TransCanada, is projected to bring economic growth and energy independence when implemented (TransCanada). They see the pipeline as a more accessible way of obtaining energy; transporting oil from Canada is more cost effective than shipping oil from the Middle East (Tarnoczi, Tyler). Friends of the Earth (FoE) opposes construction of the pipeline, stating that it will damage the environment while also intruding on sacred Native American land (foe.org). They believe that building the pipeline will reinforce the reliance on non- renewable energy, further contributing to the acceleration of climate change (foe.org). Though both groups oppose each other, both are doing what they believe is best to better American society, and to aim for a common cause, there is a possible compromise between the two groups. This can be accomplished by installing a railway system to transport the oil; FoE will request government aid for stricter environmental regulations on oil transportation, but TransCanada will still be able to construct their pipeline. Though the two stakeholders are against each views, they both have a commitment to progressing America as a whole. TransCanada is a Canadian energy company that is hosting and supporting the construction of KXL, proposed 36-inch-diameter crude oil Chen 2 pipeline, beginning in Alberta, and extending south to (TransCanada). The company believes that they be the leading energy infrastructure company in North America, with a strong focus on pipelines and power generation opportunities located in regions where have or can develop significant competitive (TransCanada). The purpose of the pipeline is to contribute economic profit for the American economy: TransCanada claims that the pipeline will produce $55.6 million in property tax to local states and $3.4 billion overall to the U.S. GDP, providing local and national economic benefits to the American economy (TransCanada). Local revenue produced from KXL can be used to improve infrastructure, supplying enough money to build new roads, schools, and hospitals (TransCanada). And because people are needed to create the pipeline, employment rates will increase to meet the demand for more workers, reducing unemployment (TransCanada). Additionally, energy independence is one of the main reasons TransCanada is for the construction of KXL; the United States (U.S.) has historically relied on Middle Eastern countries for its oil supplies, causing oil prices to fluctuate depending on the stability of foreign relations with the countries (Shun, Robert). As Shun states, that are highly dependent must do all they can to increase the chances that they will keep getting it. The weak, lacking leverage, can plead their cause or (Shun, Robert). By constructing the pipeline, the U.S. will have a domestic source of energy, making oil prices consistently cheaper (TransCanada). Shipping oil from across the sea is costlier, as ships must be hired to transport the oil (Shun, Robert). FoE is a non-profit environmental organization opposing KXL with the aim to maintain sustainability, connectivity, and systemic change, believing pressures facing our planet and its people are too important for us to (foe.org). While the pipeline will provide Chen 3 economic profit to the U.S., it could ecosystems, pollute water sources and jeopardize public (foe.org). KXL is importing tar sand, a mixture of sand and bitumen. During production, tar sands release emissions three to four times higher more than conventional oil due to energy-intensive extraction and refining processes (foe.org). These emissions are released into the atmosphere where they eventually fall back to Earth in the form of smog and acid rain (foe.org). For every barrel of oil produced, three barrels of water were used to extract the oil from tar sands (foe.org). This excess amount of waste water is then stored in large man- made pools, where excess bitumen sinks to bottom and gets absorbed into the soil, potentially poisoning local water supplies (foe.org). dense qualities make constructing the pipeline risky, as tar oil spills will sink and absorb into the ground, also making cleanups more difficult compared to conventional oil spills. The construction of KXL will go through major U.S. rivers and aquifers, and given a spill happens, tar oil can contaminate major U.S. water supplies along with Native American land (foe.org). Alberta, the region where tar sands oil is extracted, is home to many indigenous populations. Important parts of their cultural traditions and livelihood are coming under attack because of tar sands (foe.org). Native American populations have been forced off their original lands since the colonization of the Americas. The construction of KXL promotes the idea that businesses can take over Native American land; by constructing pipelines on their territory, spills can potentially contaminate local water supplies, causing health problems. Both groups have a similar aim: choose a decision that will better the American society. Because FoE does not have the same level of authority as TransCanada, the decision to build KXL will lean towards pro-construction, as TransCanada has more government power than FoE. Chen 4 However, this does not mean a compromise cannot be reached; it will be possible, but not definite. Given that the two sides meet halfway, oil transportation can be possible through a railway system. FoE will request the government to decline the pipeline and enforce stricter environmental regulations, but TransCanada will still be able to transport oil to the U.S. Transporting oil by pipeline is a complex system that involves pumping oil at different pressure levels to prevent spills, and a pipeline operator can reduce electricity demand, regional grid intensity has a greater impact on total emission intensity given the limited range of pumping station efficiency improvements that can be (Tarnoczi, Tyler). This means that emissions created by pipelines will vary, compared to trains which have set fuel efficiency rates (Tarnoczi, Tyler). Because railways have been established in North America since the 19 th century, TransCanada will not need to construct new routes for oil transportation. Additionally, fuel efficiency for trains are expected to continue increasing as time progresses (Tarnoczi, Tyler). However, TransCanada will need to invest money into purchasing trains, their routes, and hiring conductors. FoE is obligated to help fund safety and regulation costs in order to support the compromise, and regardless of fuel efficiency, FoE will have to accept the air pollution produced by trains, which emit similar pollutants to tar oil refining plants even though they are considered more (Tarnoczi, Tyler). Trains also cannot compete with the consistency pipelines have in transporting oil, making production slower than it would be if the pipeline was constructed. KXL is a question of whether it is best to have an economic or societal gain. TransCanada is persistent in implementing the pipeline in order to better American infrastructure and economy. FoE wants to prohibit construction of KXL to promote alternative energy sources while also protecting Native Americans. TransCanada has the upper hand in deciding the Chen 5 construction of the pipeline due to their higher government authority, but that does not mean a compromise can be made. An oil transportation system based on railways can be made by allowing FoE to request for government aid, giving FoE the power to stop the construction of KXL while still giving TransCanada an opportunity to transport oil to the U.S. Not only will this create a compromise for both groups, but it will also create a compromise that will boost the American economy with an environmentally friendly approach. Chen 6 Works Cited Keystone XL  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Keystone XL Pipeline  TransCanada Corporation. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Bradshaw, Elizabeth Blockadia Rising: Rowdy Greens, Direct Action and the Keystone XL  SpringerLink. N.p., 30 Aug. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Shum, Robert Social Construction and Physical Nihilation of the Keystone XL Pipeline: Lessons from International Relations  Social Construction and Physical Nihilation of the Keystone XL Pipeline: Lessons from International Relations Theory. ScienceDirect, 2 Apr. 2013. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Tarnoczi, Tyler. Life Cycle Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Transportation of Canadian Oil Sands to Future  Life Cycle Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Transportation of Canadian Oil Sands to Future Markets. Science Direct, 1 Aug. 2013. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.