Carr 1 MacKenzie Carr Professor Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 12 February 2017 Mexican American Border Wall In 2016 the refugee rate increased seventeen percent, due to the high demand of refugees fleeing to a country outside of their homeland. The death tolls of these hopeful refugees has increased more than fifteen percent in the most recent year. Business Times . International Business Times, 10 Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017). In November of 2016, newly elected President main focus was on building a wall barricading people from entering America. The Federation for American Immigration Reform, and The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights are two stakeholders who have strong beliefs on this conversation. These strong willed organizations have opposing views on whether this wall should be built or not. Due to the longevity of this ongoing issue, a common ground must be found in order to better the journey to build the border wall, and the process these hopeful refugees have to experience. The proposal is created to resolve this problem, which entails a process to do just that. This has been in the works since 1996, as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act. (CRS Report for Congress, Security: The San Diego 2007). By 2004, only nine miles of fencing were completed. Congress subsequently Carr 2 passed the Secure Fence Act of 2006. (GovTrack, 6061 (109th): Secure Fence Act of From evidential history, building this border has been talked about for over two decades but has never been completely accomplished. Since then, President Trump has laid out a very possible plan that is currently being executed for the first time in American history. The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) is a non-profit organization whose focus point is bettering the immigration policies that are currently being executed. Their view on illegal immigration is that economic system is unable to withstand the vast amount of illegal individuals. In mission statement, they discuss what their main goals entail. more than 35 years, FAIR has been leading the call for immigration reform by offering and advocating solutions that help reduce the harmful impact of uncontrolled immigration on national security, jobs, education, health care, and our environment (FAIR. About FAIR . FAIR, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. FAIR has succeeded many accomplishments within their thirty five years of service. According to their 2007 annual report alone FAIR managed to defeat of the amnesty bill, our incredibly successful Hold Their Feet to the Fire event, the growth of the immigration reform movement, and the increased attention to the immigration issue by the public, media and Members of Congress (FAIR Members, ed. for American Immigration Reform Immigration 2007 Report . Rep. Federation for American Immigration Reform, Dec. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. From shown evidential support FAIR is a timeless organization that is really fighting for safety and the border they feel would do just that. Carr 3 The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIR) is a national organization that believes in protecting all rights of all individuals. NNIR has been protecting refugee rights for over twenty five years. They give a voice to the people who do not have the right to one. They empower the powerless. They give to those who have never gotten. In their mission statement they discuss what their roots are made from. National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIRR) is a national organization composed of local coalitions and immigrant, refugee, community, religious, civil rights and labor organizations and Our  Mission, National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. Within their twenty five years of serving those that have been left behind, they have made vast accomplishments. Accomplishments such as, during the initial days of the Obama Administration, NNIRR produced an Letter to Barack that was endorsed by over 3,500 diverse individuals and organizations from 49 states and the District of  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. NNIR not only takes care of immigrants, but brings immigration issues to the public. For example, NNIR board chair Eduardo Canales issued an attention grabbing statement. and enhances failed policies of increased enforcement on the border and will continue to increase migrant (Carlsen, Laura. The Draconian Calculus of Immigration . Counterpunch Organization, 04 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. NNIR utilizes their platform, as well as utilizing the big wave social media has made in our most recent generations. Carr 4 FAIR and NNIR do not have any history of bringing their powerful forces together. If FAIR and NNIR partner up to educate immigrants on how to be naturalized, they will make America and Immigrants safe again. The planned proposal will utilize both of these two powerful organizations, and better our nation as a whole. It will better our nation by lessening the vast amount of illegal immigrants. It will heighten the safety of American citizens. Most importantly, it will pave a road to endless success in future generations. We first must find the amount of individuals who are considered illegal immigrants. Once data is collected, and illegal immigrants are found, we will put them on the This plan was discussed throughout congress in the early twenty first century. They came up with a visa, that gives illegal immigrants the right to work and live in America for three years. Once the three years are up, they have to travel back to their home town. This plan inspired the planned proposal. (Faulstich, Orellana Marjorie. Unpacking  InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.) This plan is a different rendition of the There are large holes found in this very minimum three years that the immigrant would work, and live in America. Why have someone become accustomed to America, and send them back to their homeland with nothing but money they made in their three years. This rendition of the would point out who is considered an illegal immigrant. Once discovered, the individual would be put into a very specific database system. It will take a minimum of six months to perform background checks to decipher whether the specific individual would better America. For those that do not pass they will have to be Carr 5 deported back to their original homeland. This will not only lessen the amount of immigration, but create a safer environment throughout our country. Once approved in the they will be put into the next phase of the database. This phase of the database disperses illegal immigrants throughout America to specific geographic locations that is lacking workers. Once dispersed, the illegal immigrants will be put in the Americanization phase. This phase will set up immigrants to become citizens. A combination of the safety phase, and americanization phase will take twelve months to be complete. Once naturalized they will then be put through the education phase. Once immigrants, and their families are dispersed through America, and are legally naturalized anized, they will immediately be educated on specific tools for their future careers. This will also be a six month process. The schooling will entail learning American history, culture, and the english language. Once this process is complete, they will immediately be put to work, and completely considered successful American citizens. After the unpacking plan is complete, the Mexican Border Wall will be created. This will protect America, and its newly welcomed citizens. This plan will appease NNIR by taking care of illegal immigrants, and welcoming them into America in the safest, and economically savvy way possible. FAIR will be pleased because this will lessen the large amount of illegal immigrants, and protect America. The immigration rate has increased seventeen percent in 2016. This increase is stemmed from lack of attention given to immigrants. With the help of NNIR and FAIR, the unpacking plan is possible. The Border Wall will be built, just as FAIR wished. Immigrants will be Carr 6 naturalized, giving them hope for their wellbeing, just as NNIR wished. This common ground will lessen the death rate seen in immigrants, better the safety for America, and make the border creation as smooth sailing for all parties. This plan will not only make America great again, but it will make America safe again. Carr 7 Works Cited About FAIR Federation for American Immigration  FAIR . FAIR, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Baral, Susmita. Refugee Crisis 2016 In Europe: Death Toll And Migrant Arrival Increases, Statistics  Business Times . International Business Times, 10 Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Carlsen, Laura. The Draconian Calculus of Immigration  . Counter Punch Organization, 04 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. FAIR Members, ed. for American Immigration Reform Immigration 2007 Report . Rep. Federation for American Immigration Reform, Dec. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Faulstich, Orellana Marjorie. Unpacking  InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Faulstich, Orellana Marjorie. Unpacking  InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. H.R. 6061 (109th): Secure Fence Act of  . GovTrack, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Blas, and Michael John Garcia. Current State of the Border Fence . Rep. no. RS22026. Border Security, 23 May 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our  Mission National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Carr 8