Kozma 1 Robert Kozma Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Violence in Video Games The stakeholder Media Information for Parents tries to inform the public about the issues with allowing children to play violent video games at a young age. The stakeholder uses the two images to bring up the idea that children playing violent video games can have adverse effects on them. With the two images the stakeholder uses the premeditated idea that violent video games are bad for you in order to grab the attention. The first image is centered around a child who is staring intently at the message surprising truth about violent video while holding a GameCube controller, as if he is playing a game. There is also a message underneath the child saying what parents can The second image has two children playing arcade games that are probably violent based upon the names. The two children are chatting about a recent shooting at a school saying do these weirdos come as if confused to why people do that. The intended audience for the first image are parents who are raising a child of a relative age of 6 to 13. The message that this image is trying to get the intended audience realize is that what you thought you knew about violent video games is wrong. The first image uses a combination of logos, ethos, and pathos through the conflict of children being effected by violent video games. By using the phrase surprising truth about violent video in order to appease to logos by having parents think that they were right about the effects that violent video Kozma 2 games have on their children. Along with the message of Theft in order to appeal to people who have a bad predisposition towards violent video games, so that they feel that the image is agreeing with their thoughts on the subject. By using the phrase what parents can to appeal to logos, the image gets the audience to want to know what they can do to fix the problem that they see. The image appeals to logos and ethos by having the titles of Ph.D. and Sc.D. on the bottom to have it backed by people who would be considered intelligent, so that the image feels reliable. The image uses a small child staring intently at the message to appeal to pathos by addressing the fact that children cannot see what the parents see the video games are doing to them, even though it is just an illusion, so that parents will feel bad for their children. The intended audience for the second image are parents who have children of the relative age of 12 to 15. The message that this image is trying to get the intended audience to think about is that children are unaware of the effects that violent video games can have on them in an ironic way by having the children playing what would be considered violent video games at the same time. The second image uses a combination of logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos through the conversation of the oblivious children. By showing the children playing the games a and while talking about the topic of a student shooting up their school to appeal to logos and pathos, as the audience will see the reasoning for the children being violent are the games that they are playing, while also making the audience feel bad for the oblivious children who are playing the violent video games. The image has one of the children say kooky kid fired shots in his school. I suppose there were more to appeal to logos by having it address the fact that those who do shoot up their school are considered weird and out of the norm for even them. While the other child says do these weirdos Kozma 3 come to appeal to ethos by making the audience feel sympathy for the child not realizing that the games they play may have something to do with that. The image uses its backing by the journal of Middle East and North Africa Sciences (MENA Sciences) in order to appeal to ethos as the image is backed by a reliable science journal source, which leads parents to think of it as trusting. The image uses the style of clothing, the backpack design, and the design of the arcade games to appeal to kairos by having a 1980s to 1990s style that the parents may relate to, having grown up in those times. The stakeholder uses both of these images in order to get through to their target audience as some people will avoid looking at anything that does not agree with their standings on a topic. By making both images applicable to the idea that violent video games have adverse effects on children it gets people to see that they are not always right. Both images use the logos appeal in order to get a attention who believes that violent video games are bad for their children so that they will go along with the article. Ethos is used in both images to show that they are supported by people who have either done research into the subject and have firsthand knowledge on the subject. The images use pathos in order to get the audience to feel bad for the children, as they see them as being oblivious to what is right in front of them. Using both of the images the stakeholder address the problem of how people will see what they want to see in them because it is what agrees with their own assumptions. Kozma 4 Works Cited Pack, Jenna. Breaking down an  Myreviewers. USF, 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rockfeller, Jay. Effects of Violent Video Games on Children -  Why Do People Deny the Harmful Effects of Violent Video Games. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical Situation. Purdue OWL, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Kozma 5 Kozma 6