Irfan 1 Sumaiya Irfan Pearlstone ENC 1102 2/26/17 Advertisement Appeals of the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation As research continues, we see new advancements towards the betterment of human life. In our capitalistic government, we sometimes need charities to pitch in support towards scientific research. One such charity is the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation whose primary mission is to spinal cord injury by funding innovative research, and improving the quality of life for people living with paralysis through grants, information and After actor Christopher Reeve suffered from a paralyzing accident in 1995, he turned to the American Paralysis Association (APA) (Romano, Washington Post). In 1999 the APA combined with his organization and became the Christopher Reeve Foundation. After his death in 2006, the organization became known as Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation (Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation). Charity organizations must use various forms of advertisement to entice people to donate to their cause. The Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation is no exception. Two advertisements that the organization has used includes one with a young boy and one with Christopher Reeve himself. Through their imagery, these advertisements have been used to attract people towards feeling empathy towards the cause. The first image chosen includes a picture of a young boy named Trevor Johnson who has suffered from paralysis for six years. He appears to be between the ages of six and eight years old. The image is square sized and features bright colors which are red, yellow, and black that Irfan 2 are used to attract viewers to look at the image. Their primary audience are English-speaking computer users as the image dimensions are typically used by Google ads as well as the fact that it is in English and features a website link at the bottom of the image. As this image features the city Chicago and states at the bottom the ad was possibly advertised in the United States, particularly in Chicago. The image also uses the different forms of appeal: ethos, pathos, and logos. The image itself states is home to heroes, i am one. Trevor Johnson. Paralyzed for 6 years. Superman fan for This appeals to pathos or emotion as it makes the viewer feel sympathy towards Trevor. It appeals to ethos by making the viewer think that paralysis is something that affects people of all ages, especially those who are children. As the primary goal is to recruit people for volunteering or donating to the cause, the ploy to garner sympathy has been effective as it relies on a sense of emotion towards children. Research done by Batson, Chang, and Rowland, has shown that a person is more likely to have a positive attitude towards people once they are induced to feel empathy towards them (Batson et. al). By making the Trevor seem more and a person in need, the creator of the advertisement was successfully able to appeals to logos by making the viewer feel that there is a solution to end the problem by donating to the cause. The image allows the audience to think that Trevor is a normal six-year-old boy who wants to save the world and become Superman and his paralysis will not stop him. The second image chosen includes late actor Robin Williams. The advertisement includes him crossing his arms and appearing strong. His facial expressions seem warm. Unlike the previous ad, this advertisement does not have bright colors but instead maintains a monochrome color scheme. The words however are red for emphasis. The logo for the foundation appears at the bottom left of the advertisement. The audience for the advertisement would be the same as Irfan 3 the previous ad. Although this ad does not include a website link at the bottom of the image, the quote is written in English and therefore is aimed towards English speakers. Robin Williams is an American actor so the audience can also be specifically geared towards Americans or anyone who is living in the United States. The image also uses forms of appeal: ethos, pathos, and logos. Robin Williams is well known for supporting over 50 charities including St. Jude Research Hospital as well as serving on the board for the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation. He is most notable for his roles in Jumanji and other children movies (Sheridan, CNN). Through his work, he is well known for supporting research towards various diseases. This establishes his credibility, logos, towards the audience by showing a well-respected figure who is notable for charity. The image also appeals to emotion, pathos, through the quote written on the advertisement, friend Christopher Reeve had an extraordinary dream. You and I can help make it come The dream is a cure for diseases and ailments that currently have no stable cure. This appeals to the emotions as most people know what accident Christopher Reeve went through. Through stem-cell research Reeve was successfully able to regain movements in his fingers, elbows, knees and toes and was able to feel hot and (NBC news). Through logos, they appeal for help. The audience knows that Robin Williams is campaigning for charity and as such feel the need to support the cause. The advertisement motivates people to donate to the cause. In conclusion, regardless of who the audience might and what the cause is, organizations use advertisements to attract the audience. The Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation has successfully used two images including one of a young boy from Chicago and one of actor Robin Irfan 4 Williams. Through different forms of appeal including ethos, pathos, and logos, the organization has been effective in garnering support for their cause. References: Batson, C. D., Chang, J., Orr, R., & Rowland, J. (2002). Empathy, attitudes and action: Can feeling for a member of a stigmatized group motivate one to help the group. Personality & Social Psychology Bulletin, 28(12), 1656-1666. Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation. Accessed 2/25/2017. About us. Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation 2017. Irfan 5 https://www.christopherreeve.org/about-us. Accessed 2/25/17. Romano, Lois. Riding Accident Paralyzes Actor Christopher Reeve. Washington Post June, 1 1995. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A99660-1995Jun1.html. Accessed 2/25/17. Sheridan, Patrick M. Robin legacy: A big heart for charity. CNN, August 2014. http://money.cnn.com/2014/08/12/news/companies/robin-williams-charity/. Accessed 2/26/17. Legacy: stem-cell research. NBC news, October 2004. stem-cell-research/#.WLOVCDvytPY. Accessed: 2/26/17.