Paul E. Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 24 February 2017 C.C.A. Visual Rhetorics The visual rhetorics known as ethos, logos, and pathos are utilized to a vast extent with Corporation of two images that stood out as the purpose on their website. The first image is an inmate sharing a warming conversation with a security guard at a prison C.C.A. provides resources for and the second is inmates in an education setting that C.C.A. has helped provide. The goal is to provide the resources and materials to private prisons for a reasonable price and to help inmates live a healthy life behind bars. These two images tap into the different senses and would perhaps change their ways of thinking. Both images indeed lack the visual rhetoric known as kairos because they do not necessarily illustrate a timeline. Through thorough critical thinking and reading these images provide the best representation of sole goal. As stated before image one is of an inmate a guard chatting as if it was any regular place. The inmate and guard both appear to be satisfied. This C.C.A. president Damon Hilinger states that overcrowded facilities, skyrocketing taxpayer costs and inmates struggling to break the cycle of crime, corrections systems across America face serious challenges. For 30 years, CCA has successfully built and managed detention and corrections facilities in partnership with governments of all levels to help address these challenges, and we are proud of the important public service we (CCA.com) As seen the image does in-fact give a clear representation of how their have benefited the inmates, the guards, and the prisons as a whole. This image illustrates the visual rhetoric known as ethos which is most commonly referred to as credibility because the audience notices that there are real inmates, real guards, and based of the surroundings they can tell this is taking place in a real prison. The credibility allows Paul E. Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 24 February 2017 the audience to accept the fact that the smiles on their faces are real. The inmate is talking to a member of C.C.A. and looks to be satisfied with the work that they have been doing for the inmates residing prison. The next visual rhetoric that is noticed off the back is pathos. Pathos appeals to the audiences emotions and this image does an amazing job illustrating the rhetoric. This image allows the audience to feel a since of joy knowing that the prisoners being antagonized and treated poorly as most commonly seen in movies and on TV. This image also allows the audience to feel a sense of security of where their tax money is going to. Noticing the surprisingly clean and comforting prison it shows that their money is not going to waste. Lastly, logos is very much seen in this image as well. As known most individuals have the perception that inmates are and they hate the guards and want to hurt them. The audience may believe that CCA helps the prisoners their urges and they provide an environment that prisoners would like more than other prisons. Image 2 also includes the use of the three visual known as ethos, logos, and pathos but in a different way. In image two you notice the men being educated in a classroom. This classroom appears to be very well managed and it appears to be an environment with lots of resources. partners with community organizations to provide learning opportunities and resources for offenders. Ranging from Adult Basic Education to attainment of advanced degrees, academic programs at CCA facilities follow industry and state education department best practices. Our offerings meet inmates where they are in their academic progression. This is especially important when considering that some newly incarcerated individuals may have limited formal (CCA.com) This short paragraph taken from their website shows that they indeed do care about inmates education and they do provide the resources for the education Paul E. Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 24 February 2017 to happen. Looking at image two the audience can tell that the men seen in the image are inmates because of their jumpsuits and even by looking at the doors to enter and exit the classroom, these visual clues relate to the visual rhetoric known as ethos. Next, the image provides a sense of comfort because the audience can in fact tell that the men are being educated and treated with respect. They are not locked in chains and there are no guards visible in the picture, which leads individuals to believe they are being treated with respect in a sterile environment. The visual rhetoric seen from these cues is known as pathos. The second image causes the audience to go from the perception that the CCA provide education to proving that they indeed help provide education for the inmates. This is known as logos and it is seen strongly in this image. The image allows the audience to see what is going on in the education center and causes them to feel a different way about the acts than they did before. Both image one and image two relate well to each other and contain the same visual rhetorics in very similar ways. Both images illustrate ethos in the fact that they both show credibility. Although both images do not have guards they do in fact have inmates who are in a prison. Real inmates and a real prison like stated before. Image one illustrates ethos more because it contains a larger space and better visual cues with the CCA worker. Both images also share the visual rhetoric known as pathos. Pathos is also seen more in the first image because the audience can see the facial expression on the inmates face while talking to the CCA employee. Both images do in fact appeal to the sense of joy because the audience knows their tax money is going to a cause where the inmates are not treated like and the employees are treated with much respect and are in a comfortable environment because of the resources the CCA has provided. Lastly, logos seems to be noticed much better in the second image better than then Paul E. Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 24 February 2017 first. The first image does indeed change peoples opinons about how the prisoners feel, look, but it does not change perceptions as well as the second image. The second image shows that education in prisons funded by the CCA is well mandated and they provide teachers and helpful resources for education. Although both images take place in the same environment the way people interpret them are very different but somewhat appealing. The CCA provides a sense of joy, comfort and security through images. These images appeal to the visual rhetorics ethos, logos and pathos as stated before. The funding helps prisoners and prisons complete the tasks needed in a well respected manner. These two images aid to the audiences thinking of prisons through their visual cues that tap into emotion, their credibility and the way the allow people to gain a new perception of private prisons as a whole. Paul E. Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 24 February 2017 Corrections Corporation of America. Who We  CCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cca.com/who-we-are>.