Dang 1 Si Dang Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 7 February 2017 The Wind Energy In the 20 th century, energy has become the primary key of the development of human society. From the beginning of the 21 st century, people are trying to develop new energy instead of using fuel energy and one of them was wind power. This event opened a new chapter for human because people will not be dependent on the affect of fuel energy. With the development of technology, scientists developed wind energy to be the most useful energy source. According to science, wind power is one of the endless, clean and fresh energy that people have discovered. If wind power was widely used, it would be good news for the environment. Therefore, the Wind Energy Foundation (WEF) established to provide and educate the public with the information about the benefits of wind energy through their research. WEF works with the leaders in some other renewable energy sectors and the wind industry in order to send messages about the critical role of renewables to the economy and the environment. Besides, there are some other groups and individuals with different ideas about developing wind power. National Wind Watch (NWW) is an organization working to against the development of wind turbines into wild and rural places. Their research reveals negative effects on the environment, economy, and overall quality of life by use of industrial-scale turbines.. Although Wind Energy Foundation and National Wind Watch have the oppositional view about wind power, in another view, both of them just want to be sustainability for the economy and the environment. In order to make that happen, the both Dang 2 stakeholders need to join an agreement to create plans for the sustainability of wind power in the future. WEF is one of the first organizations working in the wind power industry and benefits worldwide. They provide the facts about the wind, a fresh energy, to people via social media, research, and education. programs focus on how to introduce people, organizations, and government about economic benefits that wind energy has had. They are working on their biggest program called A Renewable America. They tried to connect to every company and individual in the US to talk about the success stories of renewable energy. WEF is working with six renewable trade associations to help and provide them information about wind energy. The six renewable trade associations will make the decision to invest money in the development of wind power industry. Their mission is to provide the clean renewable energy with flexible prices to the community. Their program is getting support from the America Wind Energy Association (AWEA); they connected and built a campaign called Vision: A New Era of Wind Power in the United Throughout human history, the wind has been used for thousand years. People used wind power to propel boat and windmill around the world. Along with the development of industry, the environment is getting worse because of the industrial wastes, especially dust. The air pollution mostly come from industrial dust, and dust from transportation. Because of that, fuel energy has become the bad energy to the wildlife. WEF wrote in the article Energy, Jobs, and the in 2012 America revealed that they had had the best wind power resources in the world. The power from wind can produce 3.7 trillion kilowatt-hours of electricity annually as ten times as the power needed (1). Wind energy opened the new chapter about renewable and clean energy to human and environment. The wind industry is a new industry in the world, and it will create thousands job for people (6). The wind industry in Europe Dang 3 has developed, according to the article Future of Wind that wind power growth rate about 10% to 40% a year. In 2013, wind energy provided about 318 GW more than 200 GW in the first five years 5). The wind has become the world new energy trend. If the exploited the wind power effectively, it would be the good news for the economy and the environment. NWW is one of the organizations that go against the development of wind power industry. They work as groups and individual to research and limit the growth of wind industry into wild places and rural areas. The NWW website shows the are mostly against the industrial-scale wind turbines. They believe that wind turbines can negative affect to the environment, economy and life quality. They pointed out that the environment is getting worse, but people should not base on that and support to wind power industry. The negative impactions balance with positive impactions of wind energy industry. Most of the people tend to the benefits from wind power such as clean and renewable energy, but they have not seen the other sides of wind energy industry bring back to the wildlife. According to an article in the website research examines wind turbines and insect by Eve Newman, the wild landscapes will be destroyed by wind turbines in the next decades (1). If wind energy were the main energy for human, the wild areas would be full filled by wind turbines, and noise will be the main pollute source. The turbines are changing the environment around them; it is directly impacting to some small pieces, birds, and insect (2). The wind turbines take a little place on the ground, but it takes a huge area in the sky. When the wind turbines spin, the air pressure will drop down; it affects to life. Also, the blades of wind turbines can kill birds (8). In the article Energy and the on Green Rhino website, the wind turbines cause serious internal damages to some birds, especially (10). Besides, the spinning shadows of blades can make people annoy (6). Dang 4 Although, wind power supports to the economy and limits the impaction of fuel into the environment. Wind power industry also leaves back some issues to wildlife and the landscapes around them. Wildlife is very importance, so people need to consider carefully about the development of wind energy industry. In the history of developing of the both stakeholders, they have worked together about the environment issues but in the opposite arguments. WEF has tried to exploit the most advantages from wind and contribute it to the community. They also care about the environment in the ways which is using the friendly materials for making the wind turbines. The core of developing wind power is limit the affection of fuel to the community. Wind energy is a renewable and clean energy, so when people use wind power, it will not release any pollution. idea is people should put the health onto the economic ambitions. They believe that the ecosystem around the wind turbines will get worse. Although both stakeholders have different arguments about wind power industry, they have the same common grounds in the environment issues. Both stakeholders should work together to find the solutions for sustainable development as a whole. Because of both of them have the same common ground is the health, so finding the right ways to work together are necessary. According to Rinkesh in the article Pros and Cons of Wind that energy can only be harnessed at certain locations where speed of wind is (15). The impossible places that wind turbines can stand are on the farms where are no wild animals. Also, farms are the where lack of people, so the noises come from wind turbines will not matter. Addition, some farms around the middle in America, South East Asia, and Africa mostly crop small plants, the speed of wind will not be prevented. The high speed of wind will be exploited almost 100%. obliges a ton of open area to set up wind turbines and chopping down trees kind of eliminates the whole (16). The wind turbines just get a small Dang 5 part on the ground so the farmers can crop plants around it. It also helps the wind power companies save the ecosystem because they do not have to chop forests to build the turbines. Moreover, WEF should cooperate with some companies who can create machines that can make micro waves to prevent the wild animals come into the wind turbines areas. With these methods, WEF will lose some money for developing the machine but they could response all the requirement about the environment issues of NWW. Also, the farmers who own the farms will earn extra money when they agree WEF to put the wind turbines on their farms. Wind power industry has been showing their roles to the development of future energy. Fuel is not an infinite natural resource so that it will be of in the future. Renewable energies will be the choices of human which can replace fuel. Wind power industry has some achievements to be clean and fresh energy for the human. Besides, environment issues are the problem that is preventing the expansion of wind power industry. Solutions are the thing that scientists need to have. WEF and NWW must work together to make the world better by their possible compromises. Dang 6 Works Cited The Future of Wind  N.p., 29 July 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Wind Energy and the  Green Rhino Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Wind Energy, Jobs, the  Wind Energy Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Newman, Eve, and Laramie Boomerang. New Research Examines Wind Turbines and Insect  National Wind Watch. N.p., 21 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Rinkesh. 7 Pros and Cons of Wind  Conserve Energy Future. N.p., 07 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.