Cramp 1 Hayden Cramp Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 March 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric on Smoking Smoking and tobacco use is an extremely huge issue in world. Everyday young people begin smoking cigarettes without knowing the severe side effects that can come with it. Smoking can cause serious illness, cancer, and even death. Fortunately, many organizations have come out to spread awareness about how dangerous this habit forming product is. One major organization that is on the forefront of spreading awareness and research for this issue is the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC has released two pieces of visual rhetoric in the form of advertisements that support their cause against smoking. These images are very informative and convey the mission and goals of the CDC on this important issue. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is a Unites States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Their headquarters are located in Atlanta, Georgia and were founded on July 1, 1946. (CDC). The mission is to 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the U.S. Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are chronic or acute, curable or preventable, human error or deliberate attack, CDC fights disease and supports communities and citizens to do the (CDC). On the issue of smoking, the CDC and its partners promote tobacco control interventions, which include actions to prevent youth from starting to use tobacco, smoke-free environments, programs to help tobacco users quit, and steps to eliminate tobacco-related health disparities in all population groups. (CDC). This organization has released many advertisements Cramp 2 in the form of pictures to get their points and goals across to the public. Both of the images selected utilize forms of rhetorical appeals to accomplish this. Image 1 is a picture advertisement that shows the effects of smoking in the human body. It reads and health problems linked to This image contains many forms of rhetorical appeals such as Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and even Kairos. The definitions of the rhetorical appeals can be found from the text Really (Rhetoric Really Matters). Ethos is an appeal towards credibility and morality. Image 1 has this because it is created by a credible source, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Since this image depicts the different organs in the body that smoking effects, this is an appeal towards Pathos. Pathos deals with the emotions something can convey, this image effects emotions because it scares people into realizing what smoking really does to your internal organs like your lungs, liver, and kidneys. Logos is an appeal towards logic and reason, this image has this because it provides researched factual data. It reads, out of 3 cancer deaths could be this is very important because it gives people the awareness that smoking cigarettes can actually kill you. Last but not least, Kairos is an appeal to timeliness and is very prominent in this image. This is Kairos because the image makes people want to stop smoking immediately. It does this by informing and scaring people about the facts of smoking and why it should be stopped now. The audience is people who are currently smokers and even people who This is because the image is very strong at conveying is message on why smoking should be stopped. The color red is used frequently and this is because red is usually associated with urgency and health, all of the main points of the image are in red like the title and the organs directly affected. Another point about this image is that the person pictured is not a certain race, gender, or age. This is because the CDC wanted to show and inform their audience that smoking Cramp 3 can affect literally anyone. Finally, the word cancer is used three times is the image to stress the fact that smoking can cause cancer. This image is very effective at getting the mission across against smoking. While image 1 takes a medical approach to discouraging smoking, image 2 attacks the problem from more of a social angle. It depicts people that are dealing with the side effects of smoking cigarettes today and informs people what not to do. This image also contains all four of the rhetorical appeals from image 1 and argues for the same point. Ethos is present in this image because it is produced from the CDC and shows credibility. The image strikes very strong emotions in almost everyone that views it because of how graphic it is. This is Pathos because the emotion imbedded in the image is used to inform and scare people away from smoking which is the goal. Logos deals with logic and reason and this image is very logical, it shows people who are suffering from smoking so logically the people who view it will not want to smoke or stop smoking. Finally, Kairos is also an element used in this image because it makes people want to quit because of how effective the images are. The words are also an appeal to timeliness and helps to get the point across in a timely manner. This audience is anyone that is currently smoking and even people who In the first section of image 2 it reads tell people smoking is bad, show and shows an image of a lady who has survived from many surgeries from cancer caused by smoking. This is a social way of getting people scared of smoking because no one wants to look like this person. Our culture today thinks that looks are very important and this shows that smoking can directly affect the way you look. Brenna Sandvik, an author from the website odyssey states: are conditioned daily to internally label others based on appearance and whether or not it seems like they have it all together (Odyssey). All of the text in this image is very large and in Cramp 4 bold which conveys urgency and importance to what is said. Most of the color used in the picture are in the same tones and nothing is too vibrant. This gives the sense of seriousness to the picture. The image is effective at showing the overall goals of the CDC through its messages and rhetorical appeals. In conclusion, the issue of smoking remains a serious health issue for the country, despite ongoing education efforts to save lives. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention utilizes their images effectively to show their goals and mission on their efforts to reduce deaths and prevent chronic diseases that result from tobacco use. The images use all of the rhetorical appeals in the right ways to make their audiences aware of their cause. The use of these appeals is the element that gives the images their potency. Cramp 5 Works Cited CDC https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/index.htm CDC https://www.cdc.gov/about/organization/mission.htm Brenna Sandvik, Our Culture Is Obsessed With Physical Appearance, And Why We Need To Change That, https://www.theodysseyonline.com/cultures-obsessed-physical- appearance, accessed March 1, 2017. Web. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Image 1: Cramp 6 Image 2: