Morocho 1 Casey Morocho ENC 1102 Hannah Lay 23 January 2017 SeaWorld Entertainment & PETA Joining Forces for the Greater Good Since the domestication of animals, there has been an ongoing issue of animal cruelty. Thus societies and organizations, such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or also known as PETA, have formed as early as the to act as an assertive voice for all types of animals. However, it until the past few decades that animal cruelty became a central topic of discussion in society due to claims of neglect that animals endure at entertainment parks such as Busch Gardens and SeaWorld Orlando. SeaWorld Entertainment, which is the corporation that owns both Busch Gardens and SeaWorld Orlando, want to provide educational, personal, and interactive experiences that allows guests to connect with the natural world (SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment). Millions of people believe that animals at such places should be given legal rights and shown compassion by others, which is the basis for goal. PETA believes that have rights and deserve to have their best interests taken into consideration, regardless of whether they are useful to In the past couple of years, PETA and SeaWorld Entertainment have been on two opposing sides when it came to claims of animal abuse being made at their amusement parks. Yet with a common goal of generating compassion towards all types of animals and expanding human Morocho 2 knowledge on these amazing creatures, SeaWorld Entertainment and PETA can compromise on the issue of animal cruelty by constructing habitats that are more natural to the animals. The first stakeholder, SeaWorld Entertainment, is a well-known corporation that was established over 50 years ago in 1959. Its first park, Busch Gardens in Tampa, Florida, started out as a bird sanctuary and garden (SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment). Now with over seven different entertainment parks all over the country under its name, it is the theme park and entertainment in the U.S. (SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment). SeaWorld also prides itself in being one of the foremost zoological organizations. They house over 800 species of animals that include orcas, sea turtles, sting rays, and beluga whales (SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment). Considering just SeaWorld Orlando alone, over 20 million guests come to see the sea creatures which generates millions in revenue for the company Framework for Publishing Content). Providing more than entertainment, this stakeholder views themselves as being a form of help that can assist with necessary medical care and resources to animals worldwide. In 2013, rescue team from SeaWorld Orlando released four manatees into the Indian River Lagoon in Central Florida following several months of With more than 5 million supporters and members, PETA is the largest organization that fights for animal rights Founded in 1980, founders promoted living a vegan diet and publicly protesting animal cruelty However, throughout time, PETA expanded its focus to the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories, and entertainment industry PETA once protested major fast food chains, such as Burger King and to reform their basic welfare improvements for farmed animals. By reframing their Morocho 3 attention to these areas, PETA believes they allow animals to have a fighting chance against suffering. There have been several research studies that support position on animal cruelty, especially in entertainment parks. According to Ewen Callaway in Clash Over Lifespan of Captive Killer animals are affected negatively from being in small enclosed spaces. In this research study, United States government scientists that the annual survival rate of captive killer whales was several per cent lower than that of a wild population of killer (Callaway) . PETA wants to help animals who are under SeaWorld care by seeking a more natural life than the one that is provided to them by the company. Both stakeholders have goals that are similar in specific aspects. PETA believes that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment or abuse in any other In addition, SeaWorld goal is to provide our guests to celebrate, connect with, and care for the natural world we with the animals (SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment). Since both main goal is to care and provide for wildlife in any way possible, SeaWorld Entertainment and PETA should do what they can to support these animals. An achievable compromise between the two stakeholders would be to reconstruct the habitats that the animals are placed in. The current habitats where the animals are housed at are not like what the natural habitat would be. PETA views the current habitats as enclosed and small compared to the acres of land that is in the wild for the animals. Based on this comparison, SeaWorld Entertainment can do a publicized campaign that states how they plan to reconstruct the habitats to allow the animals to feel happier. By doing so, SeaWorld Entertainment would also be able to address other concerns of animal abuse being made at their parks and create a lot of good publicity for the Morocho 4 company. SeaWorld Entertainment also could continue to provide their world class standard- of-care for the animals which is part of their mission statement (SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment). The solution of constructing more natural habitats for SeaWorld animals has research that supports its validity. It is scientifically supported that animals held in captivity have shown stress levels and behavioral (Briefer & McElligott). This is caused by the poor welfare conditions that they live in, which includes deprivation of space, resources, physical contact, or activities experienced under natural conditions (Briefer & McElligott). In a study done by Elodie Briefer and Alan McElligott, goats who were living in poor welfare conditions were transported to a goat sanctuary to see if there was a difference in mood and health in the goats. The results from this study support the fact that being placed in more natural settings allow animals to positive (Briefer & McElligott). This research also supports the stance in the solution that reconstructing the habitats is one way to achieve both goal of helping the animals. By creating a more natural habitat than the habitats they are placed in at SeaWorld parks, the animals will have an overall improved health, both mentally and physically. PETA and SeaWorld may be at odds currently but they share a common goal of wanting to help and connect with animals. They believe that they are doing what is best for the animals in their care. Yet both stakeholders could achieve this common goal if the animal habitats at the parks owned by SeaWorld Entertainment could be remodeled to seem more natural to the animals. Plus, the animals will live happier and healthier in a more natural setting. This solution will benefit both stakeholders by giving good publicity to SeaWorld Entertainment and being a Morocho 5 step in the right direction for PETA. In the future, society can also show more compassion for animals in other entertainment parks based on the compromise between the opposing stakeholders. This could act as an example of organizations joining hand in hand for a greater good. With these reasons relating to why this compromise is so important, hopefully SeaWorld Entertainment and PETA can join forces to make this possible solution a reality. Morocho 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>. Briefer, Elodie F., and Alan G. McElligott. Rescued Goats At A Sanctuary Display Positive Mood After Former  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 146.(2013): 45-55. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Callaway, Ewen. Clash Over Killer-Whale Captivity: Lifespan Of Animals Kept In Parks Is At Centre Of  Nature 7595 (2016): 426. Academic OneFile. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &.  Where Imagination Meets Nature. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://seaworldentertainment.com/en/who-we- Open-source Framework for Publishing  The Dodo. N.p., 07 Oct. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.thedodo.com/seaworld-attendance-tanks-1184949508.html>. Seaworld Orlando Rescue Team Releases Four  Journal Of Wildlife Rehabilitation 33.2 (2013): 6. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.