Morejon !1 Vanessa Morejon-Campos Hannah Lay ENC 2011-047 February 11, 2017 Same Sex Adoption Adoption between a same sex couple is seen as a glorious concept through some eyes, and as an unacceptable act to others. The Supreme Court ruled that same-sex couples have the right to marry in all 50 states in June of 2015, since then, the same-sex adoption topic has become more and more controversial. There are a vast amount of organizations and adoption agencies that stand on separate ends of this topic. LifeLong Adoptions supports all lesbian, gay, bisexual, and/or transgender persons to take part in adopting a child and provide support during fragile (LGBT Adoption). Focus on the Family falls on the opposite side of this social spectrum, they believe that an adoption should take place between a heterosexual couple, and that same-sex couples cannot provide the adopted child with the father-love and mother-love children (Adoption: Talking Points). Both stakeholders believe that adoption is a beautiful process that should impact the biological parents, adoptive parents and the child and/or children in a positive way. Each stakeholder has a different definition when explaining what is for the child, but they both believe an adoption should occur to serve the best interest of the child (Adoption: Talking Points). While Lifelong Adoptions believes that all couples, regardless of sexual orientation, race, etc., have the right to adopt a child and form a family, Focus on the Family believes an adoption should only take place between a heterosexual couple. Both organizations share a similar purpose, that being, Morejon !2 they want to serve the best interest of the child. This can be done by having Child Protective Services observe and examine both ends of the spectrum, to make sure the adopted child will grow up in a safe, positive and loving environment. The supporting side of the same-sex adoption issue, believe that everyone should have the opportunity to adopt a child, and start a family. The mission of LifeLong adoptions is to create families by nurturing, supporting, and advocating for all those involved in [an adoption (LGBT Adoption). This organization proudly holds the following core values when working with each family through the adoption process. The power of family, genuine care for birthmothers and adoptive parents, compassion, non-judgmental support, equal support of the LGBT community, integrity, and advocacy-spreading the positive message about adoption. The majority of (63%) say same-sex couples should have the legal right to adopt a (Most Americans Say Same-Sex Couples Entitled To Adopt). It is becoming more and more common, and widely accepted but there is the opposite side of this social topic which support their viewpoints with similar evidence. Lifelong adoptions lists a vast amount of advantages on their website, similar to Focus on the Family. Some of the advantages that LifeLong adoptions believe in are the following, and nurturing qualities are more common with peers amongst children who have been raised in same-sex households, in comparison to children who grew up in heterosexual As well as, gay couples certainly those offering themselves as adoptive parents form relationships that are more stable than many heterosexual marriages, thus giving adopted children a secure emotional This organization strongly values the overall health and well-being of the child being adopted, as Focus on the Family does as well. Morejon !3 Focus on the Family lies on the opposing side of this social issue. They believe in a similar purpose of adoption as LifeLong Adoptions does, placements should be based on needs and (Adoption: Talking Points). The most significant difference with this organization is that their views are directed towards the importance of having a both a mother and father for the child to receive financial support and educational while LifeLong Adoptions envisions a world where everyone is legally allowed to adopt regardless of your sexuality, religion, race, etc. Focus on the Family views same-sex adoption as something that negates the act of serving the best interest for the adopted children. They support their perspective with a plethora of listed advantages of heterosexual couples in adoption, listed problems they believes exist with same-sex adoptions, research and their Christian faith and what it values. Some of the advantages they have listed on their website that highlight their view on the importance of a mother and father being present for an adoption are the following, and fathers communicate and need exposure to both a personal, encouraging and sympathetic style of communication and a brief, directive and stern style of (Adoption: Talking Points). This organization also has research that shows that raised in mother-only homes often suffer harmful consequences, including increased likelihood of suspension, emotional problems, delicacy, abuse, and drug Although there is not specific research results shown to support this claim, it is listed under what this organization believes to be the of same-sex In spite of these two organizations being on opposite sides of the same-sex adoption issue, they share some similar motives and beliefs. They both acknowledge that the success of an adoption promotes social and economic well-being of this nation (Adoption: Talking Points). Morejon !4 They also accept the fact that there is a shortage of adoptive parents, and the foster care system is not a place where children should end up when loving and responsible families ready to adopt (LGBT Adoption). Both value the best interest when proceeding in the adoption process but, as mentioned before, they have different definitions of what is for the child being adopted. A compromise that could be made between these two organizations with opposing views would be having Child Protective Services of the state, observe and examine each household of both heterosexual and homosexual parents to assure that the adoptive child is being given the chance to grow up in a positive and secure environment. Child Protective Services can kids safe while strengthening and guarantee that the child is not being abused or neglected (Child Protective Services - Hillsborough County). This compromise will aid both sides of this controversial topic by providing reassurance to organizations opposed to same-sex adoption, that reassurance being that same-sex couples are capable of starting a family. And this will help the side in support of this issue, by giving them evidence to support their claim. There are 428,000 children in foster on any given day, in the United States (Foster Care) This compromise can help to increase the amount of adoptions that are finalized in the United States, which will result in a decrease of the children in foster care. LifeLong Adoptions and Focus on the Family both want the children being adopted, the birth parents, and the adoptive parents to have a positive and beneficial experience. In summation, each state in the United States has different laws specified to same-sex adoption, but according to the Movement Advancement Project, on the map shown, LGBT parents can petition for joint adoption in all 50 states, including D.C.. Focus on the Family believes that of Conscience laws need to be enacted, in order for adoption agencies to Morejon !5 not be forced to between closing their doors and violating deeply-held beliefs by facilitating placements with homosexual According to LifeLong beliefs, this organization would be opposed to these laws that discriminate against the LGBT community, but by imposing stronger regulations when observing the families and mandating Child Protective Services to pay close attention to the same-sex couples compared to heterosexual couples in the adopting process, the best interest will be maintained as a top priority. This can result in an increase in adoptions, nationwide. Reaching a consensus is possible, even when these two organizations belong to the two opposing sides of the same-sex adoption topic. Morejon !6 Work Cited Adoptions, Lifelong. LGBT  LGBT Adoption Facts Gay Adoption Same Sex Adoption. N.p., 2017. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <www.lifelongadoptions.com/lgbt- adoption/lgbt-adoption-facts> Adoption: Talking  Focus on the Family. N.p., 23 Feb. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Child Protective Services - Hillsborough  Children & Family Services. N.p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Foster and Adoption  Movement Advancement Project Foster and Adoption Laws. N.p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Foster  Rights. N.p., 2017. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. < www.childrensrights.org/newsroom/fact-sheets/foster-care/>. Swift, Art. Most Americans Say Same-Sex Couples Entitled To  Gallup Poll Briefing (2014): 2. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.