Heath 1 Charisma Heath Professor Kevin Ip ENC 1102 13 February 2017 The Right to Die with Dignity Balanced Against Pro-Life Concerns Should terminally ill patients have the right to choose to end their life prematurely? This debate resonates as a hot topic in legislation and amongst medical caregivers. Advance in medicine and technology have led to more people living longer and extended lives of the terminally ill. These advances have allowed doctors to prolong the lives of the terminally ill, even when physical and mental capacities are incapable of being restored and when pain cannot be eliminated (Andre and Velasquez 1). These realizations often lead terminally ill patients to believe that assisted suicide is their only option to die with dignity (Andre and Velasquez 2). While only a few states currently allow assisted suicide, many more states are considering some form of legislation to legalize assisted suicide and euthanasia. Terminally ill patients should have choices, as patient care should be improved for end of life patients so that assisted suicide is no longer their only alternative to relieve their pain and suffering. Dying patients often face a tough decision. Should they pursue all treatment options available despite the prognosis, or should they elect to end their suffering? Dying patients are those who a progressive illness that is expected to eventuate in death and for which there is no treatment expected to alter the course or who elected to forgo available treatments that might forestall (Sachs et al 553). Either way, dying patients have little chance of recovery and often consider taking their own lives or begging a loved one to assist, in order to end their suffering. In some cases, dying patients turn to their physicians to assist them Heath 2 in taking their own lives, so that they can end their own pain and suffering or shield their loved ones from having to see them at their worst. Assisted dying is voluntary euthanasia, in which a doctor intentionally kills a person by the administration of drugs. Physician assisted suicide (PAS), is when a doctor helps a person to commit suicide by providing drugs for self-administration, without the assistance of the doctor. Proponents of legislation which legalizes assisted suicide support the idea that all persons have a moral right to choose freely what they do with their lives as long as they inflict harm on others (Andre and Velasquez 1). Death with Dignity one such non-profit organization that advocates assisted suicide by supporting with Dignity around the United States based on the groundbreaking Oregon model. They firmly believe that, greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our own desires and They were founded on the belief that a fundamental human right is to have control over their own bodies. This group authored, passed, and defended the Oregon law that allows assisted suicide (Death with Dignity 1). The Oregon Dignity Act allows those that are terminally ill to elect to end their life prematurely under supervision of their physician and utilizing safeguards (Death with Dignity 2). They also contributed to the successful efforts to pass similar legislation in Washington, Vermont, California (Death with Dignity 1). Death with Dignity is actively working with several other states and legislatures to propose legislation that they hope will allow assisted suicide nationally and worldwide. According to Tomlinson, there are several reasons why a dying patient considers assisted suicide. Most people that elect assisted suicide are tired of the suffering (Tomlinson et al. 723). They are experiencing an extreme amount of pain that is not being managed by their physicians. Others dying patients cite of as a reason to consider assisted suicide. These patients Heath 3 are extremely unhappy, suffering from depression as they can no longer enjoy their usual lifestyle and their quality of life is greatly diminished (Tomlinson et al. 723). Dying patients are very concerned with becoming an extreme burden on their loved ones as they lose the ability to care for themselves. Opponents against assisted suicide argue that it should be against the law for the dying patient to take their own life, or turn to caregivers or physicians for assistance in ending their life. These groups support the idea that there are alternatives to assisted suicide, and that the laws that allow assisted suicide and euthanasia are subject to abuse (Not Dead Yet 1) Not Dead Yet is one such organization, that leads a national, grassroots disability rights group that opposes legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of discrimination (Not Dead Yet 1). Not Dead Yet is a national organization that opposes legislation allowing assisted suicide. Many worry that the terminally ill that choose assisted suicide as an alternative are often coerced under threat of agonizing death to commit suicide, as they feel they have no other alternative. Not Dead Yet further argues that misdiagnosis can cause someone to believe that they are terminally ill, leading them to a decision to end their life, when in reality they were healthy or had much longer time to live and quality of life than anticipated (Not Dead Yet 2). Their followers argue that terminally ill patients should die naturally, without the assistance of a physician or loved one. They believe that allowing physicians to assist in suicide allows them to play God. Can we find a common ground between the right to live and the right to choose assisted suicide? There may be a common ground between the two groups that are for and against assisted suicide. This starts with better care for the dying patient. If terminally ill patients were provided sufficient pain management and end of life care, perhaps assisted suicide would no longer be a viable alternative for them (Sachs et al. 553). Studies show that amongst terminally ill cancer Heath 4 patients, their pain is often under treated (Sachs et al. 553). In addition, hospice care, which greatly assists a terminally ill patient, is rarely offered to or utilized by the dying patient. Only about one- third of terminally ill cancer patients utilized the services of hospice (Sachs et al. 554). Many patients are left to die in a normal hospital setting, which does not contribute to their dying with dignity (Sachs et al. 554). Most dying patients would prefer to have their pain managed at home, outside the hospital setting, surrounded by the ones that they love. The medical treatment of the terminally ill could be improved if home health care were an option that was made available to more patients. Studies by Sachs show that those that require end of life care are often left without proper care. Only one-third of patients are given home health care as an alternative to hospitalization (Sachs et al. 554). Those that are terminally ill would be far better served surrounded by loved ones at home. By providing proper home health care to assist the loved ones in caring for the terminally ill, less of a burden would be placed on loved ones. Dying patients would be allowed to live out their life in comfort, at home, surrounded by the ones that they love. By providing improved end of life care to dying patients, we could eliminate desire to end their own lives and create a common ground between the right to live and the right to die with dignity. Heath 5 Works Cited Andre, Claire and Velasquez, Manual, 2015 Suicide: A Right or a Issues in Ethics 1:1-3. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Death with Dignity. 2016, deathwithdignity.org. Accessed 28 January 2017. Not Dead Yet, The Resistance. 2017, notdeadyet.org. Accessed 28 January 2017. Sachs, G.A., J. C. Ahronheim, J.A. Rhymes, L. Volicer, and J. Lynn, 1995. care of dying patients: The alternative to physician-assisted suicide and Journal of the American Geriatrics Society 43: 553-62. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tomlinson, Emily, Spector, Aimee, Nurock, Shirley, Stott, Joshua, 2015. Euthanasia And Physician-Assisted Suicide In Dementia: A Qualitative Study Of The Views Of Former Dementia  Palliative Medicine 29.8 (2015): 720-726. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.