Catalano 1 Matthew Catalano Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric: National College Players Association College athlete payment has been debated between prime organizations for the longest time. Organizations like the National College Players Association (NCPA) believe that college athletes are entitled to payment due to the vast amount of money they generate. This issue will only grow stronger as college sports gain more and more popularity every year. However, the NCPA just fighting for salary. Their overall purpose is to ensure the basic rights of student athletes, as well as correct any wrong doing from the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), their adversary. The NCPA achieves this in several ways, and one is through their images. The images I have chosen are both from articles that are coauthored by the president of the NCPA. The first image elicits a sense of greed. It shows a pile of money with a football helmet on the very top, and has a very dark loom. The second image is not so far off. It portrays a robbery that publicizes how college athletes are potentially being stolen from by the NCAA because of strict rules. With these images, the NCPA can easily persuade people to take their side on the salary debate because of both their negative outlook, and shocking demeanor. For the first image, there is not one sense of positivity that can be taken from it. A sense of gluttony is depicted from the shadiness of the football helmet resting on the massive stack of dollar bills. The title of this article is Price of Poverty in Big Time College and it highlights many topics on how college athletes are denied money from scholarships, to NCAA revenue. The NCPA really wants this to reach high school athletes who are considering a career in college sports, and especially their parents. The use of the word poverty is very strong in this case because it will attract people to the article and keep others guessing how it relates to college athletes. All though the main purpose of this image is to show greed within athletics, also an advertisement for the NCPA. The acronym for their organization is in big bolded letters at the very top of the image, so everyone will know where the article came from and how the NCPA is in support of college athletes. Catalano 2 There is a lot that comes out of this image that will advocate the reader to support college athlete payment. Many rhetorical appeals are seen within this image, the most obvious being Ethos. There is a very clear amount of credibility within this image because of the amount of research that went into it. This includes two authors, the president of the NCPA Ramogi Huma, and Ellen J. Staurowsky professor of sports management at Drexel University, as well as many others that contributed to the article, who are mentioned on the bottom right side of the page. Logos within this image can be found at the top left of the page where the NCPAs name resides. The big bolded letters in the title of the article is a definite sign of Kairos because it promotes urgency. People will be drawn in by the massive title, which also covers half of the page. There a very big emotional appeal within this image, but for the audience pathos would be seen in the main caption. The helmet resting on the pile of money in a dark gloom emphasis financial corruption within college sports, and not something the parents of student athletes want to see. Image number two is very similar to the first image, considering both are from identical articles composed by the same people. In contrast to the first image, the second image is much more clear with their message to the viewer. It consists of a very stereotypical looking robber making a run past a wall of lockers filled with athletic gear. Readers can assess that the robber is stealing from college athletes, but not athletic gear. Other than the robber himself, the title 6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of is what really stands out. The word robbing is in the highest font out of another word in the title, so the NCPA is really making a statement with the cover page and the article. This image is something that should be seen by both student athletes and their parents. In this article, researchers from the NCPA discuss their findings on how uses amateurism as a tool to deny revenue athletes billions of dollars per year that they would otherwise receive in a fair This is just one of many things that the researchers discovered. There are a lot of moving parts in this image that give a stimulating feel to it, and important to attract readers to the article. However, this cover page was not meant to provoke a comical excitement. The NCPA wants people to understand their idea of the NCAA and how potentially stealing from student athletes. To do that, they had to get creative with their appeals. In this image, an emotional appeal is what stands out the most more than anything. Catalano 3 Pathos is really noticeable because of the idea of a heist being taken place, and student athletes are the ones being stolen from. No parent wants that image of someone stealing from their child worked so hard in their athletic career, and robber in a ski mask is just a way to convey that. For ethos, credibility is seen on the bottom left side of the page, where the NCPA logo resides. Kairos can be seen with the bolded letter, especially The NCPA is very serious and urgent about getting this information to student athletes everywhere. A logical appeal is where it gets tricky. There is no robbery that took place, like the one in the picture. However, there is logic and reason in the article, and this is the cover page to an article based off professional research. The NCPA is in full support of athletes acquiring salary for their contributions in college sports. The two images chosen are very similar in their credibility, as well as emotional appeal to their audience. Each image has their own stand out title with an equally noticeable picture. Above all, the caption is what grabs attention when looking at these pictures. Whether a robber in a ski mask, or a helmet sitting on a pile of money, both images appeal to corruption. Whichever way people feel regarding this argument, no one can deny that athletes have to work twice as hard as the average student. The stakeholder chosen is in complete support of student athletes and their basic rights. Payment is just one of many rights that the NCPA thinks student are entitled too. Although nothing has changed regarding student salary, they quit. The two images the NCPA has created says a lot about their beliefs and how college athletes need to be reflected upon by the NCAA. Both images express negligence and denial that no person wants to see on behalf of athletes everywhere that play for our enjoyment. These images are a constant reminder that student athletes are not to be mistaken for as profit. young men and women doing with they do best and playing with a purpose. Catalano 4 Image number one Image number two Catalano 5 Work cited page $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of NCPA News Articles, 20 March 2013, http://www.ncpanow.org/news/articles/the-6-billion-heist-robbing- college-athletes-under-the-guise-of-amateurism Huma, Ramogi and Staurowsky, Ellen J. Price of Poverty in Big Time College NCPA News Articles, 13 Sept. 2011, http://www.ncpanow.org/research/study-the-price-of- poverty-in-big-time-college-sport NCAA http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism