Muthiah 1 Sarina Muthiah Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Pipeline VS Native People Pipeline companies VS the people have always been a story of controversy for decades. Dakota Access Pipeline VS the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are two opposing stakeholders that have been receiving public attention considering recent events. This longstanding journey began in January of 2016 when Dakota Access Limited Liability Company, LLC, received approval to construct the Dakota Access Pipeline near the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Reservation of Dakota Access The conflict between these two sides is that the crude oil within the pipeline would run into the Missouri River which is the water supply for the Native people (Dakota Access Pipeline; at Not only would it ruin their water supply, but possibly ruin the land that they consider sacred to their culture and having detrimental effects to the environment as well. The tribe has suggested for the pipeline to be rerouted, but if this pipeline were to be changed that would extend the timeline of completion. This would also cost millions of dollars to restart this long-standing project, funds that the company did not intend to spend or simply may not have. With the growing media attention placed on these stakeholders, the country is waiting and watching to see the potential outcome (Dakota Access Pipeline; at Dakota Access has released statements saying that their pipeline will not run anywhere near their land and it is the safest most advanced pipeline of its time Dakota Access Pipeline ). Although it might seem difficult to find common ground between these Muthiah 2 stakeholders, they share the common goal to ensure the safety of the environment. A compromise that could occur between these two stakeholders is that Dakota Access could change the route of the pipeline so it is farther away from the water supply and the sacred land. The rerouting of this pipeline would cause the pipeline to be completely uprooted from where it already began to restart a new course of direction. This compromise may seem beneficial for only the Sioux Tribe, but if Dakota Access LLC were to go through with this compromise it would support their mission statement in preserving the environment. If the Dakota Access accepted this compromise the pipeline company would be painted in a positive light and receive good publicity to push their company into a brighter future. The Dakota Access, which is a Limited Liability Company, LLC, is a branch of a larger corporate company known as Energy Transfer Partners Dakota Access Pipeline ). Energy Transfer Partners began in 1995 with its roots in Dallas, Texas. At the time, it was a small natural gas pipeline but it is now one of the largest limited partnerships within the United States While this corporate company holds various operations, some of which are currently active, one that is receiving the most attention is the Dakota Access Pipeline. Although Energy Transfer is the Dakota Access LLC is developing the new pipeline. The Dakota Access Pipeline, also known as the Bakken Pipeline, is a crude oil pipeline in the United States that will run through North Dakota, South Dakota and Iowa Corporate ). This pipeline will thus end an oil tank farm located in Patoka, Illinois and save millions of dollars each year Dakota Access Pipeline ). Within the past 9 years, Energy Transfer Partners have been involved in 9 incidents ranging from fires to gas pipeline explosions. One of these gas pipeline explosions lead to the death of the one person and three injured in Mississippi Transfer Alarming Pipe Dreams for Although these Muthiah 3 incidents could be reasons for the Sioux Tribe protests, Dakota Access have spent $3.8 billion on the project to ensure that it the most technologically advanced and safest pipelines of its time Dakota Access Pipeline ). Dakota Access has stated on multiple occasions that the option of rerouting their pipeline is out of the question for future discussions, but as of recently talks of rerouting has come up. One of the ways it has been said to help the people of this is country is that the crude oil produced within the United States will be transported in a safe and trusting manner that will thus keep gasoline prices low improving the worsening economy and ensure the safety of the environment Dakota Access Pipeline ). The second stakeholder is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. The Standing Rock was originally a part of the Great Sioux Reservation. This reservation is comprised of present-day South Dakota west of the Missouri River As the years went on there were many executive orders which reduced the size of this once large reservation Rock: In the year of 1889, Congress at the time reduced the reservation into six separate reservations, one of which is the Standing Rock Sioux Reservations Rock: The Standing Rock Sioux Reservation is located within North and South Dakota. Considering recent events this tribe has been receiving much attention due to the fact of the protest of the DAPL. The native people are not just against the pipeline running through their backyard, but against the idea of the pipeline completely. They believe that by running this pipeline through the soil it will be tarnished by something that is not one with the environment Indigenous Policy Although the native people are against the pipeline completely they only way they will be able to reach common ground is by accepting the idea of rerouting this pipeline in avoidance of the Missouri River. Many Native people across the country of have been traveling to stand by Muthiah 4 the sides of their people to fight against this pipeline ruining the land that they believe to be sacred Indigenous Policy Although there is a limited number of options in finding a solution, one that is commonly brought up is the Dakota Access Pipeline being rerouted. With the rerouting option being thrown in the air there are few route options available, most of which cross either culturally important lands to Native Americans or large waterways Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota One route that is rarely talked about is to head further north avoiding the Missouri River all together. This option would cause the construction of the parts of the pipeline that have already begun to be built to be destroyed and start over again Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota This would also require large changes such as new state and federal permits. Although this option requires much effort it could possibly be the only plausible and environmentally safe option for both parties Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota If Dakota Access were to accept this compromise it would not only benefit the Sioux Tribe but their company as well. They would not only be practicing what they preach about caring about the environment but they would receive good publicity on rerouting the line to preserve the environment. The negative light that already surrounds pipeline companies could possibly change by this action and Dakota Access LLC would have paved the way for other industries to follow Says Army Corps Is Considering Rerouting Dakota Access This compromise may seem only beneficial to the Native Americans but it beneficial to both sides of the parties. The Native Americans would be able to keep the land and the surrounding environment around them safe from possibly bursting pipelines and contaminated water. Dakota Access would still build their pipeline instead of ending construction of it like Muthiah 5 many of the protesters of the pipeline wanted. Although the timeline of when this pipeline would be built will be much longer than once thought and the amount of money necessary to build this will increase as well, but it will save the potential risks of harming the individuals that live near the pipeline. Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota The voices of the Native people refuse to go unheard and Dakota Access LLC refuses to end the construction of their pipeline Rock Sioux Continue Opposition to Dakota Access The Dakota Access LLC and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are two opposing sides that may seem to have different views when they both want to preserve the environment. One thing that these stakeholders must do is understand where each side is coming from and take in account their separate goals. If Dakota Access were to accept this compromise it would not only benefit the Sioux Tribe but the Dakota Access company as well. Once they can do that their common ground and compromise will be much easier to achieve. Muthiah 6 Works Citied Dakota Access Pipeline  Dakota Access Pipeline Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. uju<https://daplpipelinefacts.com/>. Corporate  EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page. 2017 Energy Transfer Partners, L.P., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.energytransfer.com/>. Standing  Standing Rock. KK BOLD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://standingrock.org/>. Indigenous Policy  #NativeVote16-Overdue National Debate about Pipelines and Science Trahant Indigenous Policy Journal. Trahant, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://articles.indigenouspolicy.org/index.php/ipj/article/view/422/412>. Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota  Reuters. Thomson Reuters, 19 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-pipeline- nativeamericans-reroute-idUSKCN11P09K>. Standing  Standing Rock. KK BOLD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://standingrock.org/>. Thorbecke, Catherine. Timeline of the Dakota Access Pipeline  ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/US/timeline- dakota-access-pipeline-protests/story?id=43131355>. Lindsay, Rowena. is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe trying to stop a The Christian Science Monitor 2016: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Says Army Corps Is Considering Rerouting Dakota Access All Things Considered (2016): Literature Resource Center. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Muthiah 7 Rock Sioux Continue Opposition to Dakota Access Weekend All Things Considered (2016): Literature Resource Center. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Munckton, Stuart. States: Dakota Access Pipeline Struggle: Native American Versus Fossil Green Left Weekly 1111 (2016): 24. Informit Humanities & Social Sciences Collection. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.