Hudson !1 Andrew Hudson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 27 February 2017 Love is Love is Love There are approximately eight million people that openly consider to be either lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) constructing 3.5% of the United States populations (The Williams Institute). Considering that, LGBT people construct a strong minority group in America. Especially in recent times, many issues have been occurring about transgender children equality in public schools. A long established organization that advocates for these issues and LGBT rights is the Human Rights Campaign (HRC). Gay rights is an issue that HRC combats for in images that exemplify strong usage of pathos, ethos, and kairos. With these rhetorical appeals, the images present effectiveness to purpose and appeal to the targeted audiences. Pathos is strongly presented in image one through several characteristics. The smile and hopeful look on president Barack face give the viewer a warm feeling that the future holds promise for the moral battles fought over LGBT people. Also the fact that Obama is pictured in black and white gives a seriousness to the subject. Images of past presidents are usually seen in color, and for Obama to be in black and white gives him a certain vulnerability to the subject matter. The colorful heading in the image is rainbow to connect to gay pride, which can have the viewer experience joy and happiness. The Hudson !2 quote presented is eloquent and gives off powerful statements that make the viewer feel like work is going to get done. Ethos is presented in image one as well. Obviously, with the logo and name at the bottom of the picture gives this image credibility to HRC and their stance on equality for LGBT. Having president Obama in the image gives a very strong credibility that gay rights is an issue that become political and was discussed under administration. Having Obama in the image most likely means that he is the one that stated the quote and promises to work hard to ensure minds and hearts are changed for the better. Obama also gives ethos to the image as he was the one who legalized gay rights across the United States back in 2015; Obama is a very credible character to HRC. Kairos is slightly presented in the image based on the quote long as a single child in America afraid they wont be accepted for who they are, got more work to By saying that still work to be done, kairos is saying how there is no time better than now that people should begin to change their views on gay rights. Because America is a nation full of opposing opinions toward gay rights, there will always be work to be done because more than likely not every single mind will be changed at once, but ideally over time. What Obama addresses urges the audience that now is the time to gain new perspective to make sure LGBT children (and people in general, too) do not feel prejudiced. Pathos is presented in a second image published by HRC which can be referred to as With this image of a young mother and who is presumably her daughter, the heart it softened to see a mother teaching her adolescent the freedoms of speech that HRC Hudson !3 and America represent. The mother and daughter have matching headbands that represent peace and express their beauty. Also to take daughter to a march or protest is a bold move and a harsh yet memorable experience for someone so young. The daughter looks off into the distance observing and taking in all her surroundings, probably not knowing what to feel. The viewer can not help but to imagine what is going through the daughters head and the experiences that the Marching Mother is exposing to her child. Pathos is furthermore shown in the poster that Marching Mother holds. The sign reads conquers a very similar phrase to the popular one trumps used recently amongst protesters that have made lashes to current president Donald Trump. The quote gives a positive message saying that one should put more love out into the world than hate. In the end, the awesome power of love will forever conquer the uselessness of ambiguous hatred; this is generally the message Marching Mother presents to her daughter and the viewer. There is a very subtle pass of kairos in Marching Mother. By the looks of her, this mother could be no older than forty, so she is a fairly young mother. Her daughter is will one day grow up to be like her mother representing and teaching the same morals as her. Because the mother is so old but also still young, it shows that people her age have been for causes like for a long time. As generations get older, more and more people will start to learn and become accustomed to how gay rights are no different than basic human rights. The more kids that are bought up thinking this way, the more conversation there is to be had about morality. As these children grow older, time will show how ideas have changed. In Marching Mother, kairos is shown with the age that gay rights have been fought for since her mother taught her, and she passes it on to her kids to spread the love. Hudson !4 For image one with Obama, pathos and kairos are very effective with ethos being somewhat effective. Pathos makes the viewer feel warm and happy from smile and inspiring quote. Kairos is shown through the quote saying that until all children feel safe to be themselves, there will still be work to be done. The ethos in the image is represented with the photograph of Obama and logo which are effective, but the quote is not attributed to Obama or anyone, it is left blank where there should be a dash with who said the quote, where, or when it was said. We can only assume that the quote was stated by Obama because his picture is presented. The quote could have been made up by HRC, press secretary, or anyone. This fallacy would often go unnoticed by the rainbow black and white photograph of smile, and all other aspects of the photo that overshadow the ethos of the quote. Though the ethos is somewhat skewed by the unaccredited quote, the rhetorical appeals in image one reconcile with goals by wanting to create a more accepted and safe environment for LGBT people. The effectiveness of pathos and kairos in Marching Mother are both very effective. Pathos is shown in the relationship between mother and daughter out in the streets marching for peace and love. Their sign makes the viewer want to spread the message of love instead of hate. Kairos really makes the viewer think about what is happening. A mother her age taking her young daughter to a march shows that this issue has been fought for generations and will continue to be stressed through time. Both pathos and kairos agree to the goals of HRC to spread the idea of love instead of hate and to anti-LGBT audiences that gay rights are human rights. Gay rights has been a very heavy topic of discussion for many years. The Human Rights Campaign has been an advocate for gay rights for nearly thirty years and has done innumerous Hudson !5 movements and campaigns to gain support for the LGBT community. Their work is shown in two presented images and contain pathos, ethos, and kairos. For the most part, their published images are effective and display purpose in both images and speak to targeted audiences and viewers. Hudson !6 Works Cited HumanRightsCampign, Instagram, Human Rights Campaign, 15 January 2017, https://www.instagram.com/humanrightscampaign/?hl=en. HumanRightsCampaign, Instagram, Human Rights Campaign, 29 January 2017, https://www.instagram.com/humanrightscampaign/?hl=en. Falk, Robert, The Human Rights Campaign, Human Rights Campaign, 2017, http://www.hrc.org, 26 February 2017. Gates, Gary, Many People are Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and The Williams Institute, UCLA School of Law, April 2011, http://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/research/ census-lgbt-demographics-studies/how-many-people-are-lesbian-gay-bisexual-and- transgender/, Accessed 26 February 2017.