Wijaya, 1 Jescelyn Wijaya Robert Ryan ENC 1102.057S17 February 25, 2017 Gun Control in America America is one of the countries that legalized the right to keep and bear arms. This poses a problem as it causes the country to have higher crime rates than other countries due to the availability of guns to civilians. The debate over gun control has been discussed repeatedly globally due to the repeated incidents of gun violence that often occur in the country. Therefore, the Brady Campaign, which is a non-profit organization that advocate for gun control, was implemented to make a safer America for both the citizens as well as immigrants that will lead to a reduction in gun deaths and injuries. mission is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (bradycampaign) by creating a policy which focuses on background checks to all gun sales, to stop the gun dealers that supply all crime guns, as well as to change social norms of guns at homes, to prevent homicides and suicides that happen in daily life (bradycampaign). At first glance, it appears that both the organizations, the Brady Campaign and the National Association for Gun Rights have the same interpretation and common ground on the debate of gun control, which is for the safety of the people. But when we look more closely at the other factors, we can see that the Brady Campaign has better proposal as their advertisements capture the kairos, logos and pathos. The first advertisement (image 1 shown below), uses appeals such as logos, kairos, and pathos in the advertisement in order to capture and convince the audiences on the goal and belief. Firstly, logos is used where the advertisement used numbers or statistics to convince the audiences that gun control is very much needed as death due to gun violence is very Wijaya, 2 high each year in America. It says NRG Super Bowl Stadium seating capacity 33,800 Gun Deaths per It uses the scale of a stadium, which we all know that a stadium can usually fit a large capacity of people, as a comparison to the number of gun deaths that happen in America per year. The statement is powerful and effective as it is able to successfully convince the audience that gun control needs to be reinforced more as large number of deaths is caused per year from gun. The second appeal, kairos, is used as the advertisement is published in 2016, which was only a year ago. This shows that the number of gun deaths is still very high to this day and is still going on, therefore, action needs to be taken as soon as possible as the number of gun deaths each year is not decreasing. The advertisement shows the statistic of gun deaths rate that happens per year, which gives us a sense of urgency to take things into action and to support Brady mission which is to gun deaths in half by Lastly, the advertisement uses pathos in both the rhetorical and visual appeals to draw the audiences and make them sympathize with the argument. The background of the advertisement is red in color with the picture of a full stadium. The stadium looks really full and the fact that gun deaths per year is roughly about half of a full stadium, allows the audiences to sympathize and think that gun violence is very serious and action needs to be taken as soon as possible, along with the color of red, which shows danger and action. The second advertisement (image 2 below) also uses many appeals such as pathos, logos, well as ethos. Firstly, pathos is being used to capture the emotion by providing statistics. The statistics show how many gun deaths there are and how many lives are taken each year just by guns. The advertisement shows that America has the highest number of gun deaths per year, which is 9,484. Secondly, logos is also used and to convince people that guns are indeed dangerous and what they can do, such as causing America to be one of the countries with the highest death rate. America is one of countries that legalized firearms (Kocsis, 2015) however, it has the highest gun death rate compared to other countries which shows us that gun crimes have a Wijaya, 3 huge impact in the death rate in America. The advertisement also uses the statistics of other countries as a comparison, to emphasize and convince the audiences that gun death is serious in the country where action needs to be taken as soon as possible. Therefore, convincing us that there should be reinforcement of background checks prior to any gun sales, which is the mission of the organization. Lastly, ethos is also used in the advertisement as it provides the logo of Brady Campaign. This convinces the audiences of the credibility of the advertisement and it is therefore, trustable as it comes from the Brady campaign website itself. Both the advertisements use many appeals that are able to effectively capture emotions and sympathy, which cause them to support and agree with the goal and mission. Both the advertisements use statistics, as their main strategy in convincing to support their view that guns are dangerous and calling on the audiences to take action as soon as possible. Both the advertisements also have the Brady Campaign logo attached, which assure the audiences on the credibility of the advertisements. Since both the advertisements use statistics that show huge number of deaths, they are able to capture the feelings, which is to take action as soon as possible as gun violence is still happening everyday and causing deaths each day. In conclusion, both the advertisements used rhetorical and visual appeals to capture and engage feelings and emotions. By doing this, many audiences would have the need to take action and to support the organization in fulfilling their goal, which is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (bradycampaign) by focusing on background checks on all gun sales and to change the norm of guns in the society. Wijaya, 4 References: 1. Campaign to Prevent Gun Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 2. Kocsis, M. (2015). Gun Ownership and Gun Culture in the United States of America. Essays In Philosophy, 16(2), 154. Doi:10.7710/1526-0569.1530 3. Thoughts and Ramblings of a Mad Activist Mama. N.p., 21 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Image 1 Image 2