Escobio 1 Christopher Escobio Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 27 February 2016 NFL War On Drugs The NFL has many ways that they discuss their policy and outlook on Performance Enhancing Drugs but one way that is commonly used is through images. They use these two images along with pathos, logos, kairos, and ethos rhetorical appeals to convey messages to the audience. Each image has a different effectiveness though based on how well the image was designed to convey these messages. They use images as a way to convey messages to people because they are easier for people to look at than a block of text and it will hold their attention longer than an article will making it the ideal way to get their message across. The NFL has a strict policy on drugs that keep their players from using them legally. However players still want to break the system and gain an advantage on other players and gain the upper hand. players will be tested for prohibited substances at least once per league This is just one of the policies that is being used in the NFL as of now and will continue to be administered. The NFL tries to keep a strict enforcement over these types of things but even still some people slip through. So they try to make the looked down on or frowned upon by all of society to try and make the players realize that it is not good and needs to be stopped. Escobio 2 Image one depicts an NFL logo next to Some of the illegal substance drugs. This image uses pathos in it with the picture of the drugs being behind the logo. This goes to show that the players are going behind the back in order to use these drugs and gain the advantage. The color of orange being put around the drugs also gives it a feeling of wanting and sneaking. The color orange represents these things to show that the players want these drugs so they will sneak around in order to get them if they have to. This leads to the players gaining them by illegal activities also represented by the color orange. The NFL field is supposed to be a safe and fair place to be played on, Having it in the background fading away is showing that what the NFL stands for is slowly being faded away into a sport that is being overrun by This image also has a brief amount of logos represented in it. The logos in this image is in the placement of all of the parts of the image. The NFL logo is slightly off center to show that it is not the main focus but still a big part of it, while the drugs are right in the middle to pull the attention towards it. But the drugs are also behind the logo to show that it is behind the back of the NFL officials and not being used officially or legally. Both images have a little bit of ethos in them as well. Image one has ethos in the logo that is right in the middle of the screen and the fading one in the background. Images two has ethos in three different spots. One of them is in the top right of the image where you can see part of the NFL logo but enough to know that it is there. The second one is on the guy in the Gold shirts chest, That is the logo for the St. Louis Rams football team. The third place for ethos is all Escobio 3 of the players in the picture, they are all NFL players which goes to show the audience that this is an official gathering with real players to make it a real statement. The pathos in this image is in the activity that they are doing. This is depicting them watching a player do a bench press, showing that this is what needs to be done to get good. That people should train hard for their progression throughout the sports world instead of trying to take short cuts. Hard work is being demonstrated here to show that it is the key in order to be like the professionals that are shown. Also the pathos is in all of the players that are watching this guy. That is trying to show that if you train hard enough and are willing to sweat and grind it out that you will be good enough to have all of the other players looking up to you as well. Kairos can also be seen in this picture. The Kairos that is shown here is in the timer that is on the right of the screen. This timer is counting down to show a feeling kind of like time is of the essence. It was put there to show that training hard needs to begin now not whenever you want to join because then it is too late. Then you are going to feel behind and want to take the to try and catch up but that is illegal for the sport and will result in banning or suspension. So the image is trying to tell the audience to start training now and get ready if they are trying to be a professional NFL player. Image one is a very effective image for the views of the NFL. It shows exactly what they are trying to tell the audience. They show that the drugs are bad and must be used in illegal ways Escobio 4 to be used at all which is not a good thing. So this will help to detour the players and future players from doing this and can help to keep the game more fair and try to save it. While image two is also very successful on being effective towards the audience it is not as effective as image one. Image two goes on to show that hard work is what needs to be done to be successful in the NFL. It tries to steer the players towards training hard and working out to gain their muscle and skill instead of cheating their way around it. And it does a good job of that it makes the audience feel like that is the best way to do it and not take so they can be as good as the professional players one day. And that they need to start now so their training can be as effective as the professionals. In these two images the NFL uses the images in order to convey their messages through the rhetorical appeals in the image. They use pathos, logos, kairos, and ethos to create an effective image to stray people away from using the These images are both effective to show these messages and try to lead people to the path of training and hard work instead of cheating their way with performance enhancing drugs. Escobio 5 Works Cited NFL. Scouting NFL Scouting Combine: Line Backer Bench-press. 27 February 2017. http://www.nfl.com/videos/nfl-combine/0ap2000000145097/NFL-Scouting-Combine-Linebacke r-bench-press.jpg NFL. 27 February NFLPA. Policy on performance enhancing substances. 2016. Accessed February 15 2017.