Angela Apicerno Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059 26 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Amnesty International for a world where human rights are enjoyed by including the right to life (Death Penalty). When it comes to the death penalty they believe it is symptom of a culture of violence, not a solution to and have therefore been working for years to abolish it within judicial systems worldwide, including (Death Penalty). In the two images presented here, Amnesty International is trying to connect with rhetoric appeals to accomplish their mission of abolishing capital punishment. By using strong but simple messages and powerful imagery, Amnesty International hopes that those who view these campaigns will understand their fight and align their views to support their movement. In 2016 some of the states known for high execution rates saw some record-breaking decreases. States like Texas and Florida, known to support capital punishment, put many executions on hold. The Supreme Court also intervene on multiple cases and granted numerous prisoners new trials based off evidence involving discrimination or withheld exculpatory evidence (Amnesty USA). Slight changes like these are a move in a positive direction in the eyes of Amnesty when dealing with such a large and well developed judiciary system. With all these positive changes, a big question that arises is how and why is this happening? In the images presented below, Amnesty International uses strong verbiage and dark, compelling imagery to get its message across to its viewers. They also incorporate the use of rhetoric appeals and rhetorical fallacies to connect with viewers on a deeper level and instill a lasting feeling or reminder within them. In the first image, there are multiple pieces that factor into the overall emotion one is expected to experience. The background image of a man grasping the bare metal bars of his prison cell with his head lowered evokes a sense of desperation and channeling the inner pathos. This feeling of despair portrayed in this image alone sets the viewer up to feel sympathetic. According to the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, sympathy is often defined as response to the negative affects (suffering) of another individual, leading to pro- social (helping) behavior towards the (Agosta). Using this definition, it can be assumed that the presence of sympathy alone could influence the viewer to take action in helping the cause. The next major element in this image is the message in bold across the center DEATH PENALTY follower by a yellow stamp of This clearly tells the viewer that the poor man has been sentenced to death. This can instill a sense of urgency, or Kairos, as this days are limited and time is of the essence. The final statement in fine print says penalty is legal murder. It violates the right to life and the prohibition of torture, and considering the methods and traditions goes against human rights. The state, which grants permission to kill, just as guilty as the (Amnesty). This powerful message relates to both ethos and logos. clarity and simplicity relate to logos as presented in basic facts that come across as common sense. The death penalty IS legal murder. It DOES violate basic rights. The state that allows it IS guilty of murder. It is very simple logic. This then appeals to ethos because with established logic comes credibility. By presenting the information in a new, simpler way, viewers can relate better and find more credibility within it and accuracy within it. In the second chosen image, there is much less use of visual elements and relies primarily on its message. Using capital black text against a bright yellow background, the message reads DEATH IS NOT A SENTENCE. A FULL STOP. The first line stating that death is not a sentence relates to ethos and logos and it is both logical and true. Death is not a sentence, it is the end of life, hence the second line, it is a full stop. This also carries some emotion and connects to pathos as it makes the viewer truly understand the weight that is carried with a death sentence. Their life will continue, but for the convicted, that is not the case. The last line END THE DEATH PENALTY reinforces the time sensitivity of the issue. It puts the responsibility onto the observer to take action and do what is possible to end the death penalty and possibly save some lives. Their message is clear and simple. Without using flashy slogans or any imagery the reader understands viewpoint, can validate their argument, and possibly even side with them to better their cause and end the death penalty. Overall, both images rely on various rhetoric appeals to effectively relay the message and goals to those whom they reach. By using strategic imagery and common language that makes sense, their message easily gained support and credibility. By connecting with these various appeals, Amnesty is successfully educating people about the realities of the death penalty and why they believe it needs to be stopped immediately. Works Cited Agosta, Lou. and Sympathy in Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. International: Death Visual.ly. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Death Penalty. Amnesty International, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Writes, Human. International: I Hope the Death Penalty Rots in The Daily Blog RSS. N.p., 29 Oct. 2015 Web. 19 Feb. 2017.