McKinley 1 Dillon McKinley Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 26 th February, 2017 Stakeholder advertisements With the prevalence of student loan defaults in America, hard not to address the fact that the student loan system in America is not at its best capabilities. In recent years, student debt across America has increased tremendously. High interest rates, large loan take-outs, and high tuition costs have caused most American students to accumulate large amounts of debt. One of the stakeholders interested in this situation is the Democratic Party, but one of its activists, One Wisconsin Now, is also highly interested in the advancement of student loan reform. According to www.onewisconsinnow.org, their objective is focused around, executing a massive public education campaign to both the media and the public about the full economic impact of the student loan debt One Wisconsin ability to create insightful ads about the student/subsidized loan problem in America is effective because of their ability to combine specific elements of visual and written rhetoric to create insightful advertisements. McKinley 2 The primary goal of One Wisconsin Now with this advertisement is to emphasize the seriousness surrounding the student loan crisis. The message being perceived in this advertisement is that student loans are so bad that they be able to pay it off before they die. There are many uses of visual rhetoric in this article. The pile of money under the graduation cap is meant to represent the accumulated debt graduates have after graduation. Another form of visual rhetoric is the black quote with the word dead in the color red. This is used to emphasize the word dead, an already negatively connotative word, so that way viewers can see the emphasis of the distress in the student loan issue and how some students will never be able to pay off their debt. The quotations in this advertisement are meant to try and relate the viewer to a third person who might have said this. This is meant to make the viewer feel like they are listening to an actual human which makes it more relatable than just reading an advertisement. The target audience of this advertisement is people in Wisconsin who are or are not affected by student loan issues. The tone of the message presented is meant to be sorrowful. The quote, will be dead before McKinley 3 paid off and no one is meant to make the intended audience feel sorry for the speaker in this advertisement, creating more sympathizers. One Wisconsin use of rhetoric in this advertisement is very effective. Their ability to use all elements of rhetoric in this advertisement makes it easier to attract an audience. The use of ethos is shown in this advertisement with One Wisconsin Now. Since they are a strong pusher for democratic legislative reform for subsidized and student loans, this makes them qualified in addressing the issue. Pathos is shown in the message with the actual quote. The use of the part, and no one would is meant to make the audience feel sad for the supposed speaker. This sense of empathy created is used to attract the viewer to the message being addressed in the advertisement. Kairos is shown in this advertisement with the part that states, will be The intention of this message is to show the relation between the time it takes to finish paying off your student loans and your lifespan. This time relevancy in this statement is meant to associate the prolonged payment plans with the negative fact that it will consume most of your life, which beneficial to anyone. Logos is the one of the four elements that relevant in this advertisement. McKinley 4 The next advertisement that was created by One Wisconsin Now takes the argument on student loans to a more narrow prospective. In this advertisement, their objective is to bring insightful information about a specific perspective on how the student loan issue should be handled. One Wisconsin Now focuses their objective on showing viewer that Senator Robert Johnson, a Republican from Wisconsin, has a wrong approach to handling the student loan issue. The target audience in this advertisement has not changed in comparison to the last advertisement as they are still focusing on constituents in Wisconsin who are or should be McKinley 5 concerned about the student loan debt problem. The advertisement gives off a disapproving tone with elements such as and the statement used under the show the reader that what Senator Johnson saying that there should be more for-profit schools should not be considered a legitimate reason for fixing the student loan problem. The emphasized size of the is meant to direct the viewer to that area so they can associate Senator position with a negative context. They did this so that way they could hopefully get more viewers to look down at the statement and support that position rather than Senator position. Including the photo of Senator Johnson can be seen as another effective way of creating an even more negative association because then when viewers see his face in other areas besides this advertisement, they will potentially have a negative association to his image because of this advertisement. Using the color red for the word fail and using the color blue for the word fact increases the negativity with the message under fail and for the blue it creates a sense of calmness or correctness for the message under fact. This is used to further separate the positive and negative message that is trying to be expressed in the two messages. This advertisement, like the other, consists of a fair amount of rhetorical elements in the advertisement to create an effective and attractive presentation. Ethos is used in this advertisement with One Wisconsin association to the advertisement. Their prominence in student loan reform makes them a viable source for expressing this issue. Also using Senator Robert Johnson as a counter source to the argument is another source of ethos because it shows the viewer that they are addressing the issue on a greater political level than just the local government side. Senator Robert Johnson is a Republican Representative for Wisconsin and has been in congress for about 6 years now. Using a congressional member makes the credibility of this advertisement more serious as it increases the seriousness of the issue as a national issue. McKinley 6 Pathos is used in this advertisement with the statement, Senator Ron Johnson said like to see more for-profit This statement is intended to make the audience feel aggravated by Senator position because One Wisconsin Now sees for-profit schools as a unreliable source of fixing the student loan problem, which should agitate readers and make them feel annoyed by Senator stance. Logos is shown in this advertisement with the factual statement located under the with, For-profit schools tend to charge more than state universities, and students who attended for-profit colleges amassed more debt and defaulted on their loans at higher rates than students at public This fact can be attested to the article by Dr. Mathieu article debt and hardship: Evidence from a large sample of low- and moderate-income In this article, the statement, the to academic years, tuition, fees, and housing costs at four-year institutions rose 67% and 43% at private and public nonprofit universities, respectively (Despard shows how what One Wisconsin argument can be supported by researched information. Kairos is shown in this advertisement with the hashtags used as marking postions. Hashtags are used to show that the issue being addressed are a current issue since hashtags are a more recent form of addressing issues in a broader sense. The hashtags used in this advertisement, and are used to give the audience more of an opportunity to address the issue on primarily social media with multiple directions of taking the message. What these two advertisements are able to do is keep the viewer focused on the student loan issue, and divert them to other political issues. Both advertisements do a good job at using visual rhetoric to emphasize the seriousness and implications of the student loan debt problem in America. Statements in these advertisements have already been seen in effect in McKinley 7 actual legislative reformation. In Kelly 2007 article, Lawmakers Approve Landmark Increase In Student the article is centered around how democratic legislators were able to reduce spending in the private sector where for-profit schools prosper. This legislative reform was a progressive move because it reduced the chances of for-profit schools to be able to charge high tuition rates and cause more students to go into debt. One Wisconsin Now addressing that issue in the second advertisement shows that what their basis is set on actually has credibility behind it. One Wisconsin effectiveness in using many aspects of visual and rhetorical sentiments in addressing the student loan crisis is what makes these advertisements so effective. Even though they are only an activist group of the Democratic Party and focus on political reform in Wisconsin, their mission is being addressed on the national level as well. With many organizations from both sides of the political spectrum addressing this issue, there may be a time in the future where a set financial system is set up for college students so that way paying for college can be affordable and practical. McKinley 8 Work Cited Despard, Mathieu R., et al. Student Debt and Hardship: Evidence from a Large Sample of Low- and Moderate-Income  Children and Youth Services Review, vol. 70, 01 Nov. 2016, pp. 8-18. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.childyouth.2016.09.001. Field, Kelly. Federal Lawmakers Approve Landmark Increase In Student  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 4 (2007): Academic OneFile. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.