Castaneda 1 Mariana Castaneda Professor Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric- Planned Parenthood The heavily debated issue of abortion has brought about thousands of organizations, all of which have a purpose to either promote or defame pro-choice institutions. Despite the wide range of services Planned Parenthood provides, oppositional organizations have shifted the focus of the argument as they have lead the public to believe that abortion is a majority of what Planned Parenthood does. Planned Parenthood is a pro-choice organization working towards the expansion of reproductive and sexual health services for individuals of all ages and backgrounds. Their mission statement published on their site makes evident their belief in individual rights to his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race,ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or Their main purpose is to provide comprehensive reproductive and complimentary health care services in a place that protects the privacy and rights of all individuals. Planned Parenthood has worked endlessly to steer away from the public misconception that their services revolve around providing abortions. They do so through an effective use of visualand rhetorical appeals in advertising, where they work to widen their audience and educate the public on the wide variety of services they have to offer. For Planned Parenthood, it is of major importance to appeal to a wide range of audiences and to gain the support of individuals from all kinds of groups in order to promote their beliefs and maintain their organization afloat. The first advertisement was found on the Castaneda 2 Twitter page, which is verified by Twitter and currently has 168.2K followers. The organization reaches hundreds of thousands of people through advertising on social media, and they make use of current and trending issues, as is immigration, to advertise to and gain the support of specific groups of people. The advertisement has an direct and colloquial tone, presenting a familiar issue in a straightforward manner that clearly helps get their mission across. The color scheme of the advertisement is various shades of blue, with dark blue representing knowledge, power and authority in the issue, and light blue representing health, tranquility and understanding for their prospective audience. In addition to visual appeals in advertising, Planned Parenthood successfully make use of rhetorical appeals; using ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to persuade the public into supporting their organization. PP takes an ethical approach in advertising as they attempt to establish trust with their audience. In the first advertisement, the first appeal to ethos is made by placing the name and logo right below the message. Because PP is one of the leading facilities in reproductive health, they have established credibility through years of experience, and therefore have authority in their message to the public. In addition, since their name is well known in the community, and a majority of the population knows what kind of organization it is, Planned Parenthood does not need to explicitly state their beliefs or what services they provide directly in the ad. Planned Parenthood logically appeals to their audience by maintaining consistency and clarity in their arguments, as they hope to persuade new groups into taking a new perspective on the issues they stand for. As seen in this advertisement, Planned Parenthood shows consistency within their core values and beliefs. Their slogan, No matter embodies their mission, to provide services to every individual without fear of discrimination. The ad expands on that idea by specifically naming an individual group (immigrants) that usually Castaneda 3 feels uncared for, and making it clear that they will not discriminate against them, all in hopes of encouraging this audicence to support the organization. Expanding on use of immigration issues to appeal to their audience, this advertisement gives a sense of urgency and timeliness by bringing up an issue that is is current and prominent right now. After the elections, immigration and healthcare are two of the most talked about issues in th country, so it is an opportune time for Planned Parenthood to appeal to these groups and gain their support. By offering services and defending the rights of individual groups, PP hopes to widen their reach and gain support from the public. Planned Parenthood makes use of various methods in order to widen their audience as well as to establish credibility in their organization. In their second advertisement, they involve characeristics that are common and wideknown in their organization. This advertisement was also posted on the official twitter page, along with the caption a healthier world for everyone: this is what we following a link to more information on their services and the demographics of the organization. Planned Parenthood uses their twitter page to appeal to an audience of teenagers and young adults who use the app regularly, providing them with information that they may need to learn about as they begin to experience their sexual and reproductive lives. By informing them through a site they use frequently, Planned Parenthood gives young adults a sense that it is okay to seek more information on these topics. The design places emphasis on the name, logo, and slogan of the organization by placing them at the top of the ad and in a different color. This is done in order to establish credibility in the information provided, as it is coming from a leading health/educational organization that has years of experience in the subject. The majority of the advertisement is in different shades of blue, which according to an article on Color Wheel Pro, is widely associated Castaneda 4 with trust, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, and truth. The color is also associated with tranquility and calmness, which are two key components of the appeal to young adults in this advertisement. With the intention of refuting the arguments of the opposition, Planned Parenthood works to demonstrate that a vote against the organization is much more than a vote against abortion. The second advertisement begins by establishing credibility in the information by placing the name, logo, and slogan of the organization before the list of services they provide. Because PP is a medical institustion with hundreds of years of experience in the field of reproductive and sexual health, placing their name on ads leads the public to believe in the information presented before them. This ad helps the organization logically disprove the association of PP with abortion by providing the audience with a clear list full of information that hopes to make them see the organization from a different perpective. The ad makes a logical argument by giving statistics that inform the public of how many people are affected by their services every year. According to an article about appeals to their audience found on WordPress, it is common for the organization to use their slogan in their site and advertisement to appeal to the emotions of their audience, specifically young adults, in an attempt to help them connect with the issue. In this advertisement, PP uses their slogan on Twitter to give teenagers and young adults security in the information as well as to ease the tensison they might feel when seeking help from the organization. It ensures oung adults that no matter who they are, where they come from, or what situation they find themselves in, PP will stand with them to provide the help an care necessary for their well-being. The advertisements previously analyzed have a clear and direct purpose, that is, to appeal to a larger audience and to make evident that Planned Parenthood does a lot more that simply Castaneda 5 provide and refer abortions. The organization strives to prove that they do not discriminate against anyone; they want to show that every single individual that visits their clinics or makes any use of their services will be treated appropriately and equally. They successfully promote their views and mission in all advertisements through the use of ethical, logical, and emotional appeals to their audiences. In these advertisements, particularly, Planned Parenthood works to prove that the arguments that pro-life organizations have made for their defunding are mistaken, and that a vote against their organization is not just voting to an end to but also putting an end to the millions of other health services that are provided by them each year. By giving their audience a clear and organized list of services they provide, Planned Parenthood asks the public to understand that their organization is crucial in society. The organization makes effective appeals to a variety of audiences through numerous rhetorical arguments, all of which hope to show individual groups that even if they agree with pro- choice views on abortion, there are thousands of other services Planned Parenthood provides that they could benefit from if needed. Planned Parenthood makes use of a variety of visual and rhetorical appeals to their audience as they fight to establish their validity and credibility in the community. The institution effectively appeals to different audiences through the use of logic and ethics as they take on the task of defending the rights of all individuals equally. They have involved themselves in current issues such as and LGBTQ rights, social and racial justice, as well as sexual and reproductive rights of all individuals with the purpose of connecting to these groups and gaining their support. In these images, PP makes evident their mission to provide care for and to protect all individuals, no matter what situation they are in. Castaneda 6 Works Cited Account, Planned ParenthoodVerified. a Healthier World for Everyone: This Is What We Twitter, Twitter, 22 Dec. 2016, twitter.com/PPFA/status/812024947379961856/photo/1. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning, www.color- wheel-pro.com/color-meaning.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood We Care No Matter What. Twitter, Twitter, 11 Feb. 2017, twitter.com/PPFA/status/830446815375921154. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood, 21 May 2014, www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/who-we-are/mission. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Slh26. 1: a Rhetorical Analysis of slh26, 18 Sept. 2014, slh26.wordpress.com/2014/09/18/project-1-a-rhetorical-analysis-of-plannedparenthood-org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Castaneda 7 Advertisement #1 Advertisement #2