Aboderin 1 Cherelle B. Aboderin Professor Robert Ryan English Composition II 18 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric: Susan B. Anthony List The use of advertisements on controversial issues, such as embryonic stem cell research, to further goals has been proven to be quite effective, when done properly. It encourages viewers to connect with the organization, individual or topic being presented to them. Embryonic stem cell research, while quite beneficial, is so controversial because it involves the destruction of embryos. Susan B. Anthony List is a pro-life organization whose goal to put an end to abortion, embryonic stem cell research and all other procedures that present dangers to the unborn child. According to its mission statement, the organization aims to inform the public on pro-life matters and, thus, increase the number of those who support its cause. This, in turn, will then help further their aim of voting pro-life candidates into positions of power in the hopes of creating a new legislation to protect embryos and fetuses. Being such a vocal entity, SBA List has been known to advertise using various forms of media on different platforms such as Twitter, the radio and television, to name a few. Although some of its advertisements have been able to achieve their purpose of swaying people into joining the ranks of those who support SBA List, others may have little to no persuasive effect on the viewers. While the first image (hereafter referred to as Image I) falls into the former category, the second image (Image II) aligns more with the latter. The goal of Image I is to arouse empathy in those who view it. As social creatures, humans are predisposed to care about young children, even those of others. The image of the pregnant woman plays on this innate characteristic in order to try and evoke the desired response from the audience. There are some underlying aspects of symbolism in this image. Aboderin 2 The hands are placed on her belly and this can be construed as her trying to protect her child from those who would justify harming it. Also, the somber color scheme highlights the grave severity of the issue of embryonic stem cell research. The quote was used in order to make the audience pause, ruminate on its meaning and relate it to the predicament of the unborn child. It aims to make the viewers see that the permission of the of murdering a defenseless child could lead to an increase in leniency where other committed crimes are concerned. In Image I, two aspects are used to provide a sense of authority to the message. The first is the logo of Susan B. Anthony List, which authenticates the source of this information, giving the image credibility. Although there are those who do not support or agree with the ideologies of SBA List, many still acknowledge that it is an important organization in matters concerning unborn children. The second source of authority is the quote from Martin Luther King Jr. While embryonic stem cell research was not his focus, the fact that he, and his ideologies, are respected to date and that he was the voice of civil rights gives borrowed authority to SBA image. This image mostly relies on appealing to the emotions. By considering the vulnerable nature in which mother and child are presented, this image aims to encourage the audience to feel protective of and empathize with the woman and the defenseless child she carries. The quote from Dr. King may even make the audience feel guilty if they come to a conclusion that goes against their previous beliefs that there was nothing wrong with destroying embryos. Like with fear, using guilt in an advertisement such as this can produce two possible responses from the audience. They can either stop supporting the destruction of embryos or they can avoid the image and its message entirely; both methods will eradicate feelings and thoughts of guilt (Miller 581). The image will not be able to fulfill its purpose, should the audience choose to do the latter. This image aims to make one think about the logic behind the words of the quote. SBA image aims to Aboderin 3 make one think about the logic behind the words of the quote; by agreeing to the destruction of embryos, people are attacking the very legal foundation that the nation is standing on. Image II uses the quote from the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Paul Ryan. As a public figure in such a position of authority, a quote from him is supposed to make the audience be willing take his words into consideration. The quote itself, saying that begins at aims to debunk the general belief that the destruction of embryos is not necessarily the same thing as murder. It tries to point out that there is no difference between taking the life of an embryo and taking the life of a child. The American flag in the background also has a role to play in this image. While Paul Ryan is the main focus, the blurred flag here backs him up. It symbolizes that he represents America and the beliefs of its citizens. According to Jeffrey K. Kohn, the American flag represents patriotism and promise for the (Kohn). Hence, by incorporating it into the image, SBA List is showing that the destruction of embryos goes against the true American way. This is because children are often seen as the promise and hope of the future and destroying embryos would extinguish this hope. As with the first image, the logo of Susan B. Anthony list provides credibility to Image II, certifying that the organization stands by the message the image is trying to send. Using a quote from Paul Ryan also aids in promoting this image because the audience will likely listen to the words of a respected public figure such as himself. Unlike the first image, Image II makes no appeal to the emotions of the audience. Rather, it banks on the belief that the authoritative figure conveying the message will be enough to sway the audience. The words spoken by Paul Ryan are intended to make people acknowledge the fact that, scientifically speaking, a new life begins The major argument for those who support the destruction of embryos for the purpose of research is that no moral wrong is Aboderin 4 committed, as no life is being taken. Hence, the quote aims to counter this argument and to make the people reconsider their initial beliefs. Upon reviewing Images I and II, it can be said that they are quite different from each other in their effectiveness. For example, Image I can appeal to anyone with the ability to feel empathy, but Image II can only be effective if presented to people who know who Paul Ryan is and support him. Therefore, while Image I is a far more effective advertisement, Image II is limited in the audience to which it can speak. This hindrance could be due to the members of SBA List; it is very common for people to try to present their points as though their audience was like them (Miller 582). In other words, if SBA List members belong to a specific demographic, more likely than not, the advertisements could unknowingly and accidentally be directed at only this demographic. For these two images to work together better, an element that appeals to the emotions of the audience could be included. For example, the image of Paul Ryan could be replaced with one of him holding an infant that is wrapped in a blanket designed like the American flag. This new image would still have the two sources of borrowed authority, but with the addition of an appeal to the emotions. In conclusion, there are several aspects to consider when trying to use an image, such as the ones discussed, to send a message. Image I, while not perfect, is able to properly utilize several forms of appeal to send SBA message that embryonic stem cell research should be stopped. However, Image II provides very little for the audience to work with; it relies solely on the audience knowing who Paul Ryan is. Hence, Image I is far more effective in advertising SBA cause than is Image II. Aboderin 5 Image I Image II Aboderin 6 Works Cited Kohn, Jeffrey Kenneth. Stars &  Country Living, vol. 25, no. 7, July 2002, p. 77. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db =edo&AN=6794642&site=eds-live. Miller, Neal E. Social Science And The Art Of  Journal Of Marketing 14.4 (1950): 580-584. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Susan B. Anthony List Advancing Pro-Life Leadership. Susan B. Anthony List, 2017, www.sba-list.org. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017.