LoPresti 1 Andrew LoPresti Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Wildlife Conservation Inspiring Imagery The conservation and protection of threatened and endangered species around the globe has become a widely pursued goal for a number of large organizations. According to Endangered Species International, the 44,838 species assessed using the IUCN Red List Criteria, 16,928 are listed as threatened with Species International) Because the proper protection of animal species is such an important current issue, many organizations have begun launching campaigns around the world to not only fund the protection of these species but to physically and directly make a difference towards their survival. The Wildlife Protection Society (WCS) is one such organization that saves wildlife worldwide through science, conservation action, education, and inspiration to the people to make a difference. The overarching goal of the organization to conserve the largest wild places in 15 priority regions, home to more than 50% of the (We Stand For Wildlife) Through the use of powerful and convincing imagery, the WCS is able to outline the goals of their campaigns and hopefully inspire the public to help them in their pursuits of animal safety worldwide. In these two examples, the WCS clearly outlines the urgency and severity of the current conservation situation as well as the hardships that some animals are attempting to survive with. For both of these advertisements, the target audience is the general public rather than targeted towards a specific group of people. The WCS spreads these campaign images and educates as many people as they can. On the WCS website they state that have provided 400 million guests with immersive, memorable experiences connecting them with animals at our zoos and aquarium in New York our parks in New York City have inspired millions to care about nature and have helped support LoPresti 2 conservation field programs around the (2020 Strategy) Focusing on as many people as they can through education and insight, the WCS hopes to capture the hearts of the general public and gain their support. The first advertisement being covered is a poster describing one of the largest campaigns, 96Elephants. The second image is of a lonely and very sad looking primate which is implied to be either threatened or in danger of being threatened. This image is accompanied by a call to action for the public to tell Congress to protect both species and habitats. The 96Elephants campaign image primarily uses elements of logos and kairos to effectively convey their goals. Logos is seen within the statement elephants are killed every day in this phrase, the WCS is attempting to educate the public about the severity of the situation in Africa using hard facts. Pathos is also present within this statement paired with the imagery of the elephants in the background. Mentioning the killing of these elephants is meant to capture the emotions and feel sympathy towards the elephants and the WCS cause. What truly makes this advertisement effective and ties the other elements together is kairos and the call to action which the image demands. a is not only the largest and most important text on the image but it summarizes the purpose of this ad which is to inspire the public to help save the elephants in question. Its wording gives a sense of urgency and suggests that the audience must take action for the campaign to succeed. This first image aligns with the WCS goal of educating and inspiring the public to take a stand against the mistreatment of animals and to actively help in their survival. The second advertisement primarily uses elements of pathos and kairos in its portrayal. This advertisement uses the imagery of the lone primate as its primary focus, using the text on the side to briefly outline what they want the people to do. The WCS uses the imagery of this animal with its pained face and stance as if hiding with the goal of reaching the audiences emotions. This imagery seeks to emphasize the negative conditions which these animals are facing and support the idea that the WCS is campaigning to resolve these issues. However, the WCS cannot resolve these issues by themselves and LoPresti 3 leave it up to the audience using the phrase This phrase not only includes the public into this issue but requests their immediate help in combatting this problem. This sense of urgency and call to action is a great example of kairos. Combined with the imagery of the pained animal, this advertisement intends for the audience to feel like they can make a difference. These 2 images effectively convey the goal of protecting animals around the world and help to illustrate the idea that the WCS needs the help to make a difference. Both of these images try to include the public into the mission statement and emphasize that the public can and must make a difference to the many endangered or threatened species around the world. The WCS ultimately comes down to using pathos paired with kairos in order to create a powerful sense of urgency which can rally the audience to support their organization. Logos is used to educate the audience and describe the true depth of what many species face today as well as highlight why their mission is so important. The conservation and protection of threatened species around the world is a very serious current event and these images provided by the WCS help to educate and inspire the public to make a difference. LoPresti 4 Advertisement 1: LoPresti 5 Advertisement 2: LoPresti 6 Work Cited Endangered Species International. 26 February 2017 Ninety Six Elephants. The Wildlife Conservation Society. 26 February 2017 We Stand For Wildlife. The Wildlife Conservation Society. 26 February 2017 2020 Strategy. The Wildife Conservation Society. 26 February 2017 LoPresti 7