Mcneal 1 Rebecca Mcneal Kevin Ip Composition II 27 January 2017 The Solution to No Child Left Behind For many educational stakeholders, such as policymakers and district leaders, have tried coming up with different ways to test students and what they have learned throughout the years. Stakeholders want to see how well students are doing, see improvement in achievement levels, be able to compare schools based on achievement levels, and verify accountability. So they created standardized testing. In the eyes of the educational stakeholders this was the answer to discovering and seeing the results they seek. However, that was not enough. In 2002 the Child Left (NCLB) act was put into effect. Educational stakeholders are for the NCLB because they feel that it will give all student a chance to learn at the same level and rise achievement levels. While, teachers feel that the NCLB limits them from teaching how they feel is needed and students really learning. After a while, the NCLB started to become a problem with parents. They started to question if their children were actually learning. Seeing that the stakeholders care about students actually learning and increasing their achievement levels they need to come up with a compromise. Both Stakeholders need to come to a middle ground to either create a test or an educational program that will test students and give educational stakeholders the results they are expecting from students, allows teachers to actually teach how they see fit or is needed, and have students actually learn things instead of just being trained to memorize things just for a test. Mcneal 2 In 2001, former President George W. Bush signed a bill called the Child Left Act, which was a reform of former President Lyndon B. and Secondary Act. According to the Child Left Act was placed to increases the role of the federal government in guaranteeing the quality of public education for all children in the United States -- with an emphasis on increased funding for poor school districts, higher achievement for poor and minority students, and new measures to hold schools accountable for their progress -- and in the process dramatically expands the role of standardized testing in American public education, requiring that students in grades 3 through 8 be tested every year in reading and Once the NCLB was placed it had a huge impact on public schools in the U.S. Some impacts being positive and some impacts being negative. NCLB affected what students were taught, the tests they took, the training of their teachers, and the way money was spent on This is where problem started to occur. Students started to forget the essence and principle of actually learning and teacher started to be limited and held back from being able to fully teach how they saw was fitted or was needed. Alyson Klein stated that were required to bring all students to the on state tests by the 2013-14 school year, although each state got to decide, individually, just what should look like, and which tests to use. (In early 2015, the deadline had passed, but no states had gotten all 100 percent of its students over the proficiency bar.) Under the law, schools are kept on track toward their goals through a mechanism known as yearly or AYP. If a school misses its annual achievement targets for two years or more, either for all students or for a particular subgroup, it is identified as not and is subject to a cascade of increasingly serious sanctions. A school that misses AYP two years Mcneal 3 in a row has to allow students to transfer to a better-performing public school in the same district. If a school misses AYP for three years in a row, it must offer free tutoring. Schools that continue to miss achievement targets could face state intervention. States can choose to shut these schools down, turn them into charter schools, take them over, or use another, significant turnaround strategy. more, schools that make AYP have to set aside a portion of their federal Title I dollars for tutoring and school choice. Schools at the point of having to offer school choice must hold back 10 percent of their Title I Policymakers and district leaders have tried varies ways to test students and determine their achievement levels. The Child Left act was a way to see how students were preforming and a way to close the achievement gap. According to Caroline Rothert stakeholders felt that the (NCLB) act would help close the achievement gap between high- and low-performing children, especially the achievement gaps between minority and non-minority students, and between disadvantaged children and their more advantaged This was looked as a way to give every student a chance to work and learn at the same level. Educational stakeholders consider all the other factors that were crucial when it came to students educational. However, on the other hand, teachers and parents had problems with the Child Left act. Teachers started to see the negative changes that it was doing not to just them but also their students. Teachers began to realize their flexibility to teach how they saw was fit or needed was starting to become limited and restrained more and more. According to Elisheva H. Levin is the main reason that I left the classroom (I taught science and math) because I was unable to be the kind of teacher that I wanted to be. Instead of teaching my students to think, I was required to drill them endlessly, filling their heads with information that has little meaning Mcneal 4 in order to perform well on tests that they did not While teachers saw changes in the classroom parents saw changes and concerns at home with their children. Parents started to become concerned with the testing and the effects it was having on their children learning and if the child was being given the proper tools and resources need to succeed. There are a few ways both educational stakeholders, teachers, and parents can come together to find a solution to the Child Left act. One compromise that can happen is the educational stakeholders create a test that can be looked over and approved by teachers so that stakeholders are still able to see achievement levels and teachers can earn more flexibility when it comes to teaching how they feel is best needed. Another compromise could be for educational stakeholders to take away standardize testing and come up with an educational program that will show better and improved results than test would. This would take a lot of stress of students, teachers, and parents. An additional compromise could be for teachers to come up with test they feel will meet educational stakeholder standards and theirs. Many stakeholders are looking for ways to educate students whether it is through standardized testing or the principle of actually learning. If they all come together the stakeholders can come up with a better educational plan for students that work best for the educational stakeholders, teachers, parents, and mostly the students. With educational stakeholders feeling the way to see achievement levels are through testing and teachers feeling that teaching students according to the test and not actually learning essential substance is not the right way of learning both stakeholders can come to a middle ground where all the stakeholders get what they want. Educational stakeholders can observe achievement levels, teachers can get more leeway when it comes to teaching, student can actually get to learn, and parents can become less concerned with if their child is really learning and benefiting from what Mcneal 5 the school is offering them. When everyone comes together something even greater can happen than just with one side or party making all the decisions. Mcneal 6 Reference http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/schools/nochild/nclb.html http://connectusfund.org/14-crucial-pros-and-cons-of-the-no-child-left-behind-act http://content.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1947019,00.html http://study.com/academy/lesson/reasons-and-purposes-for-standardized-testing.html https://www.education.com/reference/article/purpose-no-child-left-behind/ http://www.edweek.org/ew/section/multimedia/no-child-left-behind-overview-definition- summary.html http://education.findlaw.com/curriculum-standards-school-funding/criticism-of-no-child-left- behind.html http://www.greatschools.org/gk/articles/no-child-left-behind/ https://youthlaw.org/publication/achievement-gaps-and-no-child-left-behind/