Yeidi Martin Kevin Ip ENC 1102 February 12, 2017 PETA and The American Humane Society Animal rights have always been a controversial topic. The animal rights movement, a movement that is trying to improve animal welfare, has been around for a while but has just recently gotten attention. Two main stakeholders in this movement are PETA and the American Humane Society. Both PETA and the Humane Society are working towards reducing animal cruelty and improving animal welfare. Although these companies are trying to accomplish the same thing, they are very different. I believe that for animal rights to improve, these two companies need to come to a compromise. This compromise consists of PETA promoting adoption and closing its kill shelter, while the American Humane Society must try to protest kill shelters. The first organization that is trying to achieve better animal rights is PETA. PETA, or The People for Ethical Treatment of Animals, is a very well-known organization in the animal rights field. goal is to its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA). Their mission statement says that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA). In other words, PETA is an abolitionist animal right group, which means that they are trying to get rid of any animal suffrage. This company believes in, Martin 2 what some may consider, controversial tactics. In order to try and accomplish its goal of making a world without animal abuse, PETA uses several methods. On website, it states that they, through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest (PETA). PETA also believes that everyone must become a vegan, someone who does not eat any type of animal product, to stop the meat industry from killing animals. This company has become very-well known for holding protests for anything related to animal cruelty. These protests have made them a very controversial animal rights activist group inside and outside of the animal rights community. Although these tactics may be considered controversial, John Harris of The Guardian agrees with them. He states in his article that the only option we have left, considering that the meat industry worldwide is not doing well financially and because it does not help the environment, is to go vegetarian (Guardian Newspapers). This belief backs up what PETA believes because it agrees with giving up meat products. Therefore, this company hopes to improve animal rights by using tactics like protesting, making videos, and trying to convert people to vegans. The second organization that is fighting for animal rights is the American Humane Society. The American Humane mission statement says that they are to ensuring the safety, welfare and well-being of (American Humane). This company is well-known for trying to rescue animals from unfortunate circumstances, like being left behind or being abused. In other words, the American Humane Society is a welfare reform orientated group, which means that they do not choose to do anything too extreme. This company is trying to achieve its goals by using donations to help rescue animals in danger. The American Humane Society uses these donations to fund its six programs. The six programs range from animal Martin 3 conservation programs to a program to protect animals in Hollywood to making sure that animals are properly taken care of on farms (American Humane). They also have a grants and awards programs that and facilitate efforts to rescue, shelter, and care for animals in whether homeless, injured, or those harnessing the remarkable powers of the human-animal (American Humane). The American Humane Society also believes that if animals in farms are being treated fairly, it is okay to use them as food later. John Webster agrees with this idea. He states in his paper, Welfare: Freedoms, Dominions, and Life Worth that, far as the animals are concerned, it is not what we think or feel but what we do that counts, I suggest that [the five are likely to have more impact on, and be of more use to, everybody that includes the (Webster 6). The five freedoms Webster speaks of are freedoms for animals in captivity have that help ensure that the animals are living good lives. This supports the American Humane position because he believes that as long as these animals have the five freedoms, it is okay to keep them in captivity. In the end, the American Humane Society is trying to increase animal rights by having programs that help lower animal suffrage and improve animal welfare. Both PETA and the American Humane Society may be trying to improve upon animal rights but that does not mean that they agree with how the other company works. PETA focuses on trying to abolish any type of activity that could hurt animals. The American Humane Society, on the other hand, focuses on trying to better the treatment and welfare of animals but does not believe in fully stopping the meat industry. PETA believes that while what the American Human society is doing is good, it is not enough. They believe that The American Humane Society should put more effort in to trying to help animals. The American humane society believe that the way PETA goes about trying to achieve its goals is too radical and extreme. Therefore, for Martin 4 both companies to reach an agreement, a solution must be proposed. Both companies can agree that the animal rights movement is making progress but the progress is slow and there are no big changes. They both wish to find a fast and lasting solution to improve animal rights. As with all social movements, in order for legislation to be passed and real change made, you must spread awareness. To spread awareness, I suggest that these companies meet somewhere in the middle. For example, both companies could come together to try and stop kill-shelters. In America alone, there are 4,000-6,000 shelters that hold about 6-8 million animals every year. Out of those 8 million animals, 3-4 million are euthanized. That means that the number of dogs and cats killed every day in shelters is roughly 10,000 animals. Because of these high numbers, there are some things that both PETA and The Humane Society could do. PETA could promote more adoption. Right now, PETA has one kill shelter of its own where the number of animals euthanized is significantly higher than the animals adopted out. In an article titled, Economic impacts of adoption, it states that, promotions also make shelter pets accessible to a wider audience of potential adopters and publicize the value of the bond and of saving the lives of homeless (Lord, Widmar, etc. 428). This means that if PETA promotes more adoption, more animals can be adopted and they will save lives of countless animals. On the other hand, The Humane Society could try to do more things to improve animal rights instead of just focusing on animal welfare. For example, they can protest kill shelters. The Humane Society should protest kill shelters, known as open admission shelters, because the accept any type of animal and because disease may spread easily, a lot of the animals get sick and become When an animal becomes they are euthanized. They should also protest kill shelters because rights activists should fight for the right to live, not the right to kill (The Dodo). In other words, if these companies want to make a change in Martin 5 the animal welfare movement they must come together. If these two companies can find a middle ground where PETA promotes adoption and The Humane Society protests kill shelters, they will be able to make a change in the animal rights movement. In the end, if both PETA, an abolitionist animal rights company, and the American Humane Society, an animal welfare company, want to make a change in the animal rights movement, they must come together to spread awareness and help pass legislation. To achieve this, PETA must help promote more adoptions, while the American Humane Society must try to protest against kill shelters. If both these companies come to this agreement, a lot of improvement can be made in the animal rights field. Because in the end, humans are the cause but can also be the solution to improving animal rights. Martin 6 Works Cited 5 Reasons Kill  The Dodo. N.p., 07 Oct. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Administrator. Animal  Animal Overpopulation. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Creating Acruelty-free  Infographic: Ending Cosmetics Testing on Animals : Humane Society International. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Comment: No more excuses. The only option is to go vegetarian: The global meat industry adulterates our food, destroys the planet and leads to animal cruelty. only one  The Guardian (London, England) 2013: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Goodman, Justin R., and Clinton R. Sanders. In Favor Of Tipping The Balance: Animal Rights Activists In Defense Of Residential  Society & Animals 19.2 (2011): 137- 155. Academic Search Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Hadley, John1. Animal Rights Advocacy And Legitimate Public  Political Studies 63.3 (2015): 696-712. Humanities Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lord, Emily, Nicole Olynk Widmar, and Annette Litster. Economic Impacts Of Adoption And Fundraising Strategies In Animal  Preventive Veterinary Medicine 113.(2014): 423-429. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  American Humane. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Martin 7 Uncompromising Stands on Animal  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Wanclou7. The Animal Welfare  The Animal Welfare Movement. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.