Garcia De Castro 1 Miguel Garcia De Castro Ms. Poston ENC 1101 024 25 February 2017 The impact of anti-marijuana propaganda Cannabis sativa is a plant that has been used for different purposes throughout history. In the United States, the plant was consumed with recreational and medicinal purposes until 1937 when possession and dealing of the plant was prohibited through the Marijuana Tax Act. The American government categorized the substance as a Schedule I Drug, which meant that the substance has high potential for abuse. As a result of this, anti-marijuana organizations began creating propaganda to discourage American citizens from using it. To have an impact on American citizens (which, at the time, knew almost nothing about the potential dangers), these organizations used a variety of rhetorical and visual devices to transmit fear and ignorance among Americans. The first image, titled is a great example of anti-marijuana propaganda from the The image relies heavily on pathos, since it is mainly composed of statements that are intended to affect the audience and keep them from trying the substance. The picture associates marijuana with the devil by depicting a woman smoking cannabis with what appears to be a demon. This creates the impression that the substance is evil and dangerous. Throughout the picture, there are words such as and which are intended to illustrate the dangers of cannabis. Despite claiming to demonstrate truth about the picture lacks elements of ethos since it contains statements that are Garcia De Castro 2 untrue about the substance (making the picture less credible). The image has no elements of logos, since it does not contain any statistic or fact. Finally, the illustration lacks elements of kairos since it does not contain any to that incite the reader to act fast. In order to analyze the visual elements of the first picture, it is necessary to first explain its context. Propagandas, such as this image, were created by the Federal Bureau of Narcotics as part of a campaign called to The government intended to stop the consumption of the substance since they associated the plant with Mexicans, who were blamed for the shortage of jobs in the nation (Guither, 2011). relies heavily on visual elements, especially on tone and color. The tone of the picture can be characterized as grim and dark. The image makes use of dark colors since they are associated with mystery, evil, and the unknown. By using a contrast of black (a color that usually has negative connotations) and green (the color with which people associate marijuana), it creates a dark tone that would effectively send its message. The second image, titled of is another great example of anti-marijuana propaganda from the early 20 th century. It contains many elements of pathos, such as its title which is designed to scare young people from using the drug. Other elements of pathos include associating marijuana to tragic acts by containing the phrase a puff- a party- a (Assassin of Youth, 2014), and showing what looks like a woman in pain. The picture contains no elements of ethos since it claims that marijuana kills young people despite recent reports indicating that no one has ever died as a result of consuming the substance (Bellware, 2015). There are no elements of logos to be found, as the picture does not contain any statistic or fact. The picture also lacks elements of kairos, as it has no reference to an opportune time and/or place to do the right or appropriate thing. Garcia De Castro 3 To understand the visual elements of the second picture, we first need to analyze its composition. The title is written in bold letters and covers about one third of the image. This technique is used to attract the attention to the message (in this case, the message is conveyed through its title). The bottom of the title is covered by a struggling woman (used to illustrate a person under the influence of the substance). The use of light colors is unwise for two reasons, not only are light colors unattractive to in general but also young people are most likely to remember a picture containing bright colors than one with light colors (Welsh, 2013). Both of the pictures presented on this essay are similar in many ways. Elements of pathos are predominant in the pictures; they were created to manipulate the American society and prevent people from consuming the substance. Both of the images lack credibility, facts, or calls to action. Visual elements are to be found in both illustrations; the first picture makes use of tone and color while the second one relies heavily on its composition to transmit its message. Finally, the images are excellent examples of fallacies that appeal to authority. A fallacy appeals to authority when people believe it just because a person of authority stated so (Richardson, 2017). The substance got banned in 1937 because the government began spreading false rumors about the dangers and people believed it. For the next couple of decades, people who consumed cannabis were seen as bad people and, in some cases, as drug-addicts. Eighty years later, American society is fully aware that the substance is impossible to overdose on, and it is even being used as an alternative source of medication for patients struggling with glaucoma, PTSD, depression, HIV, cancer, disease, hepatitis, or multiple sclerosis. Many world leaders have spoken openly about their marijuana use, and studies are showing that the plant is non-addictive. Why, then, is the plant still illegal on a federal level? Garcia De Castro 4 Word Count: 922 Garcia De Castro 5 Works Cited Guither, Pete. is marijuana Drug WarRant, 2011, pp. 1-2. ScienceDirect. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Richardson, Jesse, et al. to Your Logical Fallacies, 2017, https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/appeal-to-authority. PsycINFO. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Bellware, Kim. how many people fatally overdosed on marijuana last The Huffington Post, 2015, pp. 46-66. RAND Corporation. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Welsh, Jennifer, et al. What colors do kids prefer?. The Giggle Bellies, 2013. http://blog.thegigglebellies.com/2013/11/what-colors-do-kids-prefer-the-science-of- playful-colors/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017.  SoBadSoGood, 2014. http://sobadsogood.com/uploads/media/2014/03/09/Laughable-Anti-Marijuana- Propaganda-From-1930s-1.jpg Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. of  SoBadSoGood, 2014. http://images1.westword.com/imager/photos-anti- marijuana-propaganda-a-vin/u/original/6514033/marihuanaassassinofyouth.jpg Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Garcia De Castro 6