Hardman 1 Victoria Hardman Instructor: Mark Nusspickel English Composition 1 Wednesday, January 18, 2017 Will You Overcome Your Social Location, or Will You Fall Victim to It? play the most substantial role in the development of a child starting from the early days of adolescence to their adult lives because children learn emotional cues, language, intuitive thought, nutrition, hygiene and more from the actions their parents exhibit around them. Children who are born to teenage mothers, raised by single parents, and or live in low income to deep poverty are at risk of poor aftereffects. Along with parents, a social and physical environment have an effect on their health. Being able to live in an environment that is safe and where you can participate in healthy social relationships can have a very positive effect on the mental health of a human being, teaches the community to live cohesively, and teaches people how to treat one another. When learning about Social Location, it is inevitable that you will come across the word and will see the phrase your Although you control the privileges you were born with, you can advocate for the well beings of others who have the same privileges that you do. But what is the difference between two separate children who grew up with an equal amount of risk factors who grew up to be completely different members of society? How much of a role does social location, during the developmental early life, play into the outcome of a human being? Therefore, in order to best answer this question I performed multiple interviews. Two of my best friends are Hardman 2 identical twins and are in two completely different circumstances in their lives. My other interview was with another friend of mine who checks off almost every risk factor found on the National Center for Children in Poverty calculator, but succumb to his environment. Hardman 3 Annotated Bibliography Crenshaw, Kimberle. Why Intersectionality The Washington Post. WP Company, 24 Sept. 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. When trying to fully understand what all social location I repeatedly came across the word I learned that when you take racism, sexism, and classism, put them together to Crenshaw is the head of the African American Policy and she is also a professor of law. She first introduced the term during her essay the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence Against Women of She explains how women were constantly being looked over and no one was asking them their point of view, especially women of color. Any person who does not fit into the perspective of will fall into many different categories and subcategories. Either these people will fight against the discrimination, or they will let themselves fall victim to it. Crenshaw has been studying all groups of people and the different types of discrimination they experience. She also mentions the importance of and how many people have different opinions of it. Although people think that intersectionality take much action in the fight against racism, she points out that we are still talking about racism, because we still have so much work to do to change the inequality people are facing every day. One of Hardman 4 the things that make Crenshaw so credible, is that she has the ability to mention each point of view in a respectful manner, even if it counters her own personal opinion. Knitzer, Jane; Lefkowitz, Jill. Helping the most Vulnerable Infants, Toddlers, and Their Families. National Center for Children in Poverty, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, 2006. Coming into picking this topic, I knew I be able to find a numerical value on how much of a role does your social location play, but this site does help putting into perspective the amount of risk a child is in to end up in the same situation as they grew up in. I was also able to learn about the different demographics for each state depending on; income level, employment of parents, race and ethnicity and so on. This site is credible because they have collected data from each state and has taken what would be considered the factors and determined how many children fall into those categories and subcategories. Although it tell you how many of those kids have fallen victim to their social location, it gives you a better perspective of how many children could be affected. On this site you can also look into the various projects they are apart of and how they are trying to help children become productive members of society as well as make their neighborhood a more safe environment to live in. Ott, Afton and Ott, Bailey. Interview 1 Feb. 2017 Two people could grow up in the same neighborhood and with similar experiences, but I wanted to get as close as I could get to the same exact life story as I could. I interviewed two of my best friends, who are identical twins. Although most of their answers to my questions were Hardman 5 the same, there was a turning point in both of their lives and they both decided to deal with it in different ways. During my interviews I realized how much power someone has over their own lives. Being able to interview my friends and ask them questions we have never thought about asking each other was very uncomfortable at first, but at the end of the interview, we all decided we needed to talk more about how much our world is changing and how much we are being affected by it. One of the big turning point in their lives was after they graduated high school, and their father told them that he was leaving their mother. They both took the news very hard, and resented their father. Once Bailey moved to Tallahassee for college she left her sister, Afton, to take care of their mother. When I asked them how this affected their outlook on their Bailey choose her side, while Afton took their side. They had not even talked about their separation since it happened, but were very surprised that they have the same view on the situation. After I completed my interviews with them, they realized what they both dealt with the hurt from their parents divorce and they has started to affect their current relationships. Lengle, Johnny. Interview. 1 Feb. 2017 While considering others to interview, I thought of my friend Johnny, and the smartest person I know. If you were to read a story on his life to the age of 15, you would figure he would end up in jail and or a raging drug addict. Johnny was born to two drug addicts who keep a stable place to live for their three children or a hold a job. Once Johnny was old enough to work he was helping his mom pay the bills after this father passed away. Johnny continued to Hardman 6 work all throughout high school where he was in the IB program, never getting lower than an A the entire time. He earned a full ride scholarship and started as a second semester senior. Even though Johnny had to work harder than most people do to ensure a positive life for himself, he came across many obstacles that made him want to give up. Not having a father figure to look up to, and seeing the men his mom brought in and out of his life, he learn how to treat women. Talking about how his relationships with women was hard for Johnny since he and his girlfriend of four years, Bailey, just broke up, he realized that there are somethings that books teach you. Woolf, Steven H, and Laudan Aron, editors. Health and International Perspective: Shorter Lives, Poorer at NAP.edu. The National Academies Press, National Council and Institute of Medicine, 9, Jan. 2013. This report describes the importance of a healthy social and physical environment, and the effect of how growing up and living in unstable living conditions can affect the overall quality of life. They indicate the rapid decline of health and quality of life that Americans have. Chapter five and six compared and contrasted the different variables that many people go through and how it not only affects them but also the people around them. They express how the government could help people in difficult situations and also explains the consequences our country will face if we come together to build a better life for the generations to come. Steven Woolf, one of the editors for this paper, is the director of the Virginia Commonwealth University at their center on Society and Health. In his career he has published Hardman 7 many works, focusing on many different fields, such as; quality improvement and social justice. During his studies he has expressed how important it is to help underprivileged and poverty stricken areas, by improving their living conditions, as well as their access to a good education.