Crockett 1 DJ Crockett Adjunct Prof. Ryan Composition II 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Imagine constantly being forced from location to location, and when you finally think you are safe from exile, you find yourself packing up your things to take off yet again. With the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL), the Standing Rock Sioux tribe might be forced to migrate to another location or diminish their reservation even more so than it currently is. According to Standing & page, their focal point revolves around the education of solely the Standing Rock people so that they maintain a state of self-sufficiency in regards to their overall health and well-being. Because they are a reservation and sustain their own government and economy separate from the federal and state level rather than merged together, they have minimal federal and state regulations or limited to no interference from private companies. Though it may seem that the oil access from the pipeline would generate/circulate quite a bit of revenue into our economy, two advertisements prove tampering with the land next to Standing Rock affecting their people defeats the idea of creating a reservation and is unethical. The first advertisement supporting the stand against the DAPL presents an idea of protection and standing up for the right cause. As you can see below, the advertisement shows a Sioux woman with her arm in the air as if in protest, and above her read the words with Standing Rock; Stop the Dakota Access Behind the woman is a group, or possibly a tribe, of Native Americans traveling on horseback. Then, at the very bottom, there are Crockett 2 the words, the Land; Protect the with a link to a website for supporting the Standing Rock people. With these factors in mind, the designer of this advertisement appears to be addressing everyone and wants to unite supporters of Standing Rock in a somewhat of a militant way. The words and are words implying a resistance, or fight, for what they want; an idea that supporters and the Standing Rock people will win against the opposition by standing together. Even though this advertisement appears very simple, there is a deeper meaning meant to be seen through this advertisement to provide an insight on the idea of a reservation, and why the DAPL business deal is unethical. Ethos, or credibility of the speaker, is presented through the website link shown at the bottom of the advertisement. There is where the facts can be found and why someone should visit their link for advocacy of the Standing Rock people. When it comes to pathos, or the emotional appeal of this advertisement, the audience has to take the images and apply a little thought into the meaning behind them. The tribe in the background is to represent the they are looking for, and it shows how the tribe must have unity in order to survive. Additionally, this creates a sense of the travels the Sioux people had to endure in order Crockett 3 to be where they are now; however, the DAPL deal will force them away from their land yet again if the construction of it continues. The appeal to logic/reason, otherwise known as logos, can be seen with not only the words at the top of the advertisement, but also with the tribesman on horseback. The combination of these things force the audience to think about the fact that Native Americans, overall, have been exiled out of their land, and this is just another occurrence of such. Lastly, we have kairos, which is the appeal of timeliness. Not much can be said about the timeliness/urgency that is stressed to the audience other than the website provided at the bottom. It creates a it attitude, because the URL is conveniently placed there so if any of the audience wishes to research into the organization advocating for the halt of the pipeline, then they can do so immediately. On the surface, the second advertisement (see below) supporting Standing Rock seems very simple and direct, but the further one digs into its meaning, the more effective it is at attracting attention to the issue of affecting land next to Standing Rock. The DAPL affects primarily the Standing Rock people, but this advertisement is addressing everyone. As people, we strive for peace amongst our nation. At a distance, it appears that there is a beard on the Native America; however, these are two hands shaking, representing peace. Next, you have the bold statement at the top left, but there is a flaw in it. Normally, the is ends justify the Here, the ad says ends justify the Whoever designed this advertisement changed the coloring of the word from the rest of the words so that it Crockett 4 sticks out. Because it is a current event, it has become a trending topic. To support the trend, there are hashtags, which indicate it as a trending topic. Typing in those hashtags at the bottom of the page will lead to more advertisement and advocacy against the DAPL. Above that, there is the statement, business deals are abusing the This reflects the idea that the DAPL is tampering with the land of the Standing Rock people, and that it should be left alone. Lastly, the red background indicates not only the sensitivity of or Native American people effected, but also the evil that is brought about as a result of the DAPL along with the blood that has been and could be shed on the end of the Standing Rock people for holding their ground in protest. Overall, there is a demanding, but urgent tone for the purpose of getting across to the audience that all should be in support of the Standing Rock people so that they can remain on their reservation as a self-reliant community without any outside interference. All the people of Standing Rock want is to be left alone with no complications, and this advertisement touches on several aspects of rhetoric to attract citizens to the cause. The ethos lies with the insignia at the bottom right of the advertisement. This crest is of the Standing Rock people, which establishes the fact that Standing Rock supports the advertisement and its message. As stated above, the beard is actually two hands shaking. This touches on the pathos of the advertisement, because it wants the audience to understand the love and peace wanted from the Standing Rock tribe. Additionally, the statement below the face pulls on the emotions of the audience, but in a different way. Again, it says business deals are abusing the which seems to be harsh as a result of the use of however, they want the audience to feel the harshness as it is harsh to force the Sioux tribe away from their land solely out of greed. The logos is touched on using the statement in the top left. Again, the use of the word sticks out, and it forces the audience to think about the idea of the but in a new light. This Crockett 5 new perspective leads the audience to think about the methods of how the pipeline is access and how this affects the Sioux tribe. Because this is more of current issue, the kairos is somewhat implied as long as this issue is known to those in the audience; yet, there are people ignorant to the situation, which is where the hashtags at the bottom come in. Since these hashtags indicate that the DAPL vs Standing Rock issue is a trending topic, it causes those in the audience to look into the issue while it is occurring, and this issue is occurring now. As the mission of the Standing Rock people is solely geared toward the betterment of their own community, the DAPL causes a hindrance on that progress, which is unethical, and it is an intrusion on the land specifically set aside for them. Jointly, these two advertisements just give the idea that the Standing Rock people wish to live in peace on their land with no disturbance. As a tribe, they work through everything together; therefore, they must work together on defending the land that, essentially, they were forced into. Advertisements such as these have been extremely effective as there are many advocates understand the idea of the Standing Rock people being forced into a reservation. In their eyes, to take that away from them because of this deal would be an enormous tragedy for the reasons stated above. Together, peace and unity, is the only thing the Standing Rock people strive for in this issue. Also, it is the basis for which their sympathizers use in protest. Understanding that this Sioux tribe wants nothing but to be left alone to improve their community, and with these two advertisements, the audience is provided this very idea. Why give a group of people their own land for the sole purpose of letting them be self-reliant, if they will later be forced out of this land for access to a commodity that is soon to be obsolete? Since the government signed off on the development of this pipeline, it is safe to say that much more needs to be done in order for our country to be on the same page.