Al Oraimi 1 Safa Al Oraimi Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 19 January 2017 Environmental Sustainability and Business Success One day Wangari Maathai said, environment and the economy are really both two sides of the same coin. If we cannot sustain the environment, we cannot sustain (Maathai, 2015) This quote asserts that people who create business are responsible for what happens to the earth .In addition, it also should save the environment for better future. For that reason, having a sustainable environment aim to live in a healthy environment and strong economy. People who deiced start a new project must recognize the sustainable environment in order to preserve the environment. Furthermore, many companies start their business faster without realizing the impact of the environment, and they do not care about the environment and they forget that there are many impacts that can affect in the environment, such as global warming and ozone hole. Not only that but also animals like, pandas and elephants at risk because of human activity. In contrast, some individual business reject the idea of using environment sustainability in their business because they thought it will affect the economic growth of their business. Many companies using environmental sustainability in their business, such as Starbucks. Nowadays, many individuals companies need some ides about using environment sustainability to preserve the earth and get high economic. This annotated bibliography examines how can people use environment sustainability way to achieve their business success? Al Oraimi 2 Eweje, Gabriel, and Martin Perry. Business & Sustainability. [Electronic Concepts, Strategies and Changes. Bradford : Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2011, 2011. Print. The Business &Sustainability: Concepts, Strategies and Changes book included thirteen chapters and each chapter written by different authors. All chapters have different ideas of business and sustainability. Furthermore, this book provides strong strategies that can help reader to better understand the concept of business and sustainability. The books Business & Sustainability aim reader to know what is sustainability by providing reciprocate about what is happing in companies when they use environment sustainability. This book is the best sources for my research paper because it provides useful information. Also, this book connects to the research question by provide information about how we can use environment sustainability in business with different ideas. In addition, this book can be easily to understand without any complications. This book related to my topic because it gives many ides that can companies get benefit from it. All part of the book gives ideas how to develop the local economy by a sustainable business. The author of the book Business &Sustainability has many projects about environment sustainability such as sustainability practices of Multinational Corporation and sustainability practices of New Zealand and he is a professor in business and Sustainability. Also, he has PHD from University of London and he worked as a research with international for Environmental and Development (IIED). He has experience in business and international management. Al Oraimi 3 Fischler, Franz editor, editor Schmidpeter, and Christina editor Weidinger. Sustainable Entrepreneurship: Business Success through Sustainability. Heidelberg: Springer, 2010. Print. According to Weidinger, Fischler, and Schmidpeter a sustainable business entrepreneurship is one that stands for business concepts based on balancing both business values and social values. Several opportunities in business arise from sustainable entrepreneurship. Underestimating sustainable businesses have dire consequences on both the business and the environment. Ethical consumerism is a growing issue and consumers find it more compelling to purchase from business that have initiated programs to fight climate Change, political uncertainties, financial crisis and ethical irresponsibility. Businesses have a big role in shaping the future of society and there should be proper policy implementation towards this move. This article connects to research question because it highlights the existing connection between business and Society. More so, it shows why businesses have a big role in designing strategies that will minimize impact on society and promote business success. editor Schmidpeter teaches Sustainability in business school. He do research project of Sustainability, and he have several books, such as Sustainable Entrepreneurship: Business Success through Sustainability. Hottest Business Leaders Under 40: Developing Sustainability Strategy Got Me Fame, Says Executive Director PunitLalbhai. Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd, 2015. Print. Al Oraimi 4 Bennett describes how Punit Lalbhai became successful by incorporating sustainability to his business ideas. Punit Lalbhai the executive director of Arvind Lalbhai Group, developing Sustainability Strategy contributed greatly to his success in business. main desire and dream has always been to build a business empire that will positively impact the environment and the society as a whole. One of his greatest achievements is the inspiration he has given to farmers on the importance of growing organic cotton in Gujarat and Maharashtra. Through this effort over 70,000 acres of land is under organic cotton cultivation in India. This article connects to the research question by brings the notion that business success and environmental sustainability. With a society where environmental sustainability matters it has becomes hard to succeed without adjusting business goals with policies that support green environment. This article is important because it details the role of environmental sustainability in achieving success. It creates a point of comparison between companies that have adopted sustainability and those that have not. Punit is greatly involved in the textile industry business, water treatment business, and agro businesses. He relies on environmental integrity and sustainability to make his business and the society as a whole benefit. Salzmann, Oliver, Aileen Ionescu-somers, and Ulrich Steger. The Business Case for Corporate Sustainability: Literature Review and Research  European Management Journal 23.1 (2005): 27-36. Print. According to Salzmann, Aileen, and Ulrich the role played by business in the society is more of a concern. Advocates of corporate social responsibility believe that adopting sustainability improves business reputation and employee recruitment. Al Oraimi 5 Businesses have a responsibility to all its stakeholders and failure to protect them can result in several consequences. Success is not all about addressing economical benefits but rather adopting environmental and social friendly activities. Businesses ought to implement policies and strategies that make them environmentally responsible. Profit making is absolutely a business goal but balancing profit and social responsibility is more rewarding in society. Consequently, financial performance and social performance are issues that ought to be at a balance in an organization. This article connects to the research question by examine that companies chase success they should adopt the most consumer friendly products and services otherwise it becomes harder to strive. Ulrich Steger is a professor of Environmental Management. He does the research project on Corporate Sustainability, and he was the member in charge of environment. Ulrich work in Environmental Management at IMD. Stacey, Eric G, Jane Turville, Regina Hauser, and Karl-Henrik A Passion for Sustainability. Gresham, OR: Landfall Productions Inc, 2008. A Passion for Sustainability this vides represents fourteen business owner from Portland, Oregon, and they start use environment as a tool in their business. Also, in this video fourteen business owners represent their work, what they do to change their companies, and the outcomes by using natural strategies. Also, in this video the owners of the business encourage people to using environment sustainability in their business, and do not afraid because this step very useful, and they explain the challenges they faces in the beginning. This video connects to the research question because it provides some suggestions when people need to star using environment in their business. Furthermore, this video Al Oraimi 6 examines the challenges that fourteen owners faces and how they can overcomes any problems. This video encourages reader to think about how to save environment. Karl Henrik has Ph.D. from and he is a cancer scientist. Karl is one of the important figures in sustainability movement. In addition, in 1989 he initiated organization which called natural step Wendy Stubbs. Integrating Environmental Sustainability into  Higher Education 67.1 (2014): 71-90. Print. Wendy believes that environmental sustainability into is the most appropriate way to create a sustainable environment. Approaching a looming issue in the society through the education system is far much appropriate than any other method. Students transition to the workforce and with knowledge on environmental sustainability they can make greater impacts in the business arena. The low adoptions of policies that support green environment have mainly been due to poor integration of sustainability programs in universities. Universities have polices that seek to boost sustainable thinking among students but implementation have not been at its best. The article encouraged students to know about how use environment sustainability in their business because it help them to know the benefits of using environment sustainability. The article shows that promoting success in business and in fighting unsustainability their need to be better programs introduced at the education system. This article connects to the research question by gives ideas in the University that can students get benefit from it in the future. Wendy Stubbs is a professor in the environmental science. She worked in IT, as a corporate executive and she understand how business can affect in Al Oraimi 7 the environment. Wendy has a director of Environmental Management and Sustainability. Also, she teaches about sustainability in different programs such as, in MEMS and MBA.