Al Omairi-1 Ward Al Omairi Professor Mark J, Nusspickel ENC composition 1101 February 19, 2017 Fast Food Effects and Popularity Through the years, many people had the idea that the fast food cause bad effects on health, culture, and economies. For instance, the food consumption has changed over the generations because some behaviors and new things that came to life such as fast food restaurants. People used to depend on homemade food, but after the appearance of fast food restaurants people started to eat a lot of fast food. This because they started to believe in saving time and money; since it is affordable by everyone. Also, this is considered as an advantage of fast food restaurants because we are in time of speed and people like everything that is fast and it is easier for busy people to get food. Furthermore, nowadays many fast food restaurants have dominated the food industry such as McDonalds. Thus, McDonalds serve in 119 countries around the world, and they have around 68 million costumer everyday. Nevertheless, there are some major reasons for this huge popularity of fast food companies among the people: it is inexpensive and affordable to everyone. Fast food also has positive and negative effects on health and some economies, and it might be affected by any culture and the opposite. However, after realizing the huge spread of fast food corporations around the world, what is the true dominating factor on both people and economies? Al Omairi-2 Bowman, S. A., Gortmaker, S. L., Ebbeling, C. B., Pereira, M. A., & Ludwig, D. S. (2004). Effects of Fast-Food Consumption on Energy Intake and Diet Quality Among Children in a National Household Survey. Pediatrics publications. Retrieved from: http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/pediatrics/113/1/112.full.pdf This article shows the effects of fast food consumption on energy and diet, and how the fast food is related to obesity and some diseases. Moreover, 6212 individuals from 4 to 19 years old were in this survey, and the goal of this survey is to link fast food with obesity risk among children and adolescents. 51% of the participants were males, and 49% were females. According to the survey, children who ate a lot of fast food than the others have obtained 38% of energy, more fat, more sugars, and more carbohydrates. So this is evidence that fast food could increase the risk of obesity, and the possibility of other diseases because it has an ingredients that could increase the sugar level in the blood and have poor nutrition. All in all, this article showed that the fast food consumption is widespread in both genders in the US, and how it could affect the health. Moreover, this source will touch my research question, and help me to know how the fast food affected the attitudes of people, which lead to bad health especially among children and teens. In addition, after reading this article I will find more disadvantages of fast food, which would help to answer my research question. Furthermore, the writers of this article are experts in food surveys, nutrition, and public health. To illustrate, Bowman Shanthy is nutritionist in U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Also, Steven Gortmaker is a professor of the practice of health sociology in Harvard school of public Al Omairi-3 health, and he has a PhD in public health and nutrition from University of Wisconsin. So all these features of the writers give the source credibility and reliability to take information from it. Kirkpatrick, K. (2012, December 3). Fast Immediate Damage To Your Health. The Huffington post. Retrieved from: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/27/fast- food-health-arteries- This article shows a study that compares between the junk food and the Mediterranean food, and this article encounters the bad effects of junk food on our health. First of all, eating too much of junk food could lead to poor nutrition and bad health because this kind of food has a large amount of sugar and fats. Secondly, this article showed that there is a connection between childhood obesity, and eating fast food with high amount of calories and less nutrition. Finally, the writer encourages people to improve their health, and stay away from fast food. This article is so helpful cause it would provide me with the reasons of obesity, also it would help me to answer my research question, and to know the disadvantages of fast food such as bad nutrition and poor health. Moreover, I will know the relation between youth obesity and fast food. Despite this, Kristin Kirkpatrick is a specialist in nutrition and health; also she is aware of the harmful effects of eating a lot of fast food, which makes this article trustworthy and credible. In addition, Kristin has a degree in health promotion management from the American University in Washington D.C. This fact gives the source more credibility. Al Omairi-4 Pan, A., Malik, V. S., & Hu, F. B. (2012, July 2). Exporting diabetes mellitus to Asia: the impact of Western-style fast food. Ncbi. Retrieved from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ The article diabetes mellitus to Asia: the impact of Western-style fast mentions some statistics about fast food chains around the world, and it gives examples for the numbers of fast food restaurants in some Asian countries. In addition, this article contrasts the growing of fast food consumption in the world, which led to some diseases and obesity. Also, it provides some statistics about the growing numbers of people who are infected with 2 nd type diabetes in China and India. All of these increasing numbers of this disease is due to eating a lot of fast food. Moreover, this article states some social and culture effects of fast food corporations on the daily life style in china. This article I choose is reliable because it has a lot of useful information about the bad effects of fast food restaurants on health. Also, this article would help me to describe the effects of fast food on any country, and to answer my research question since it has different examples about the diseases that is caused by junk food. Additionally, the use of this article in the library database of University of South Florida gives it credibility. Moreover, the writers are experienced in nutrition and public health. Also, Vasanti and Frank Hu are research scientists in nutrition department at the Harvard school of public health. Pereira, M. A., Kartashov, A. I., Ebbeling, C. B., Van Horn, L., Slattery, M. L., Jacobs, J. Al Omairi-5 R., & Ludwig, D. S. (2005, January 1). Articles: Fast-food habits, weight gain, and insulin resistance (the CARDIA study):15-year prospective analysis. Science direct. Retrieved from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673604176630; The article is about the rising of fast food consumption around the world and especially in America; also it mentions how the fast food restaurants helped to rise the number of fat people in America. What is more, the appearance of fast food restaurants affected the food habits, people behaviors, and health because they are inexpensive, tasty, and easy to get. Even though that the junk food has a lot of fats, people start to depend on fast food more than the fresh and homemade. Thus, eating too much of fast food could lead to increase in weight especially for the children. Moreover, a study showed that the people, who go to fast food restaurants more than two times a week, have gained 4.5 kg and increased level in Insulin resistance. This article will assist me to figure the bad effects of fast food is more than the good effects of fast food, and answer my research question. I would have many examples of the bad effects of fast food, so I can compare between the Advantages or the disadvantages of fast food. Additionally, the writers of this article are experienced and experts in health and fast food issues. For instance, Mark A Pereira has a PhD degree in epidemiology and health community from University of Pittsburgh. Also, he works in University of Minnesota exactly in the school of public health. All of these things make this article credible and dependable because the writers have certificates, which are related to fast food consequences and health in general. Al Omairi-6 Pietrangelo, A., Carey, E. (2015, November 2). 13 Effects of Fast Food on the Body. Health line. Retrieved from: http://www.healthline.com/health/fast-food-effects- on-body This source has a lot of fast food effects on health, and it is full of explanations about how the fast food could affect our bodies? What is more, this source states that the fast food has a large amount of fats and calories, which could cause a lot of problems to health. In addition, eating a lot of fast food could cause a lot of diseases such as, heart diseases, and high cholesterol. Moreover, this article shows a study in Public Health journal, this study showed that eating a lot food could lead to depression. This article would help me to define why the fast food could be harmful for us, and our lives. Moreover, this would help me to answer my research question, and would make it easier for me because it has a lot of facts and effects. Furthermore, this source would help me to know what are the bad effects of fast food on our bodies. Nevertheless, the source is reliable because the writers are experienced in health. For example, Ann Pietrangelo is focusing on health issues, and she has many articles about health in different websites. Also, Elea Carey is a writer who has a master degree of fine arts from Pacific Lutheran University. All of these things make this source credible. Reischman, S. (2003, January 17). Fast food & society. Uncommon thought. Retrieved from: http://www.uncommonthought.com/mtblog/archives/2003/01/17/fast-food- socie.php Al Omairi-7 This article is about how the fast food corporations could affect the people and the culture. Many changes happened in the American community and work power due to the fast food corporations. Moreover, this article showed that the fast food companies provide jobs for unskilled workers especially the immigrants and young individuals. Beside this, the fast food companies invented machines that could cook the food instead of people, and people start to work as observers of these machines to check its efficiency. This is evidence that the fast food could affect the way of work for the labor force. What is more, the fast food corporations affected the society behaviors because the employees start to work for long time without any break. Moreover, the workers are receiving low wages from the companies, which made them depend on charity organizations, so they can have decent life like the other people. This article will help me to answer my research question because it touches some of the advantages of fast food businesses on people, and culture. Also, I will have an idea about the effects of fast food on behaviors and how people start to depend on fast food, and how it lead to exploitation of the unskilled workers in America. Additionally, Sara Reischman is a professional writer in health and economics of fast food companies, and she has a bachelor degree in social science and economics from Marin University Indianapolis. This makes the source credible and trustworthy because an expert wrote it.