MacFarquhar 1 Dylan MacFarquhar Professor Kevin Ip ENC1102 13 February 2017 Debt-Free College At $1.2 trillion, student loan debt is the second largest form of consumer debt in the United States. According to Market Watch writer Jillian Berman, approximately seventy percent of degree recipients graduate with student loan debt, leading to over 40 million Americans with student loan debt as of 2015 (Berman). It is undeniable that student loan debt is of great concern to Americans and must be dealt with or corrected in a way that relieves its burden on those seeking higher education. Many individuals higher up in the government ranks are looking to find a solution to this issue, however, there is tension between the two major political parties who have conflicting views on the matter. According to the Democratic and Republican Parties Platforms, the Democratic Party looks to resolve student debt by making college tuition tax deductible and by increasing the funding of Pell Grants which are government loans for students that do not need to be paid back, while the Republican Party on the other hand looks to stop the progression of student loan debt by regulating inflation in the private sector to assure that student loans in the future do not increase drastically (On the Issues). Although these two parties do not have the same paths for reaching goals, they can still compromise and intertwine their ideas in order to reach the ultimate goal of eliminating or greatly reducing student loan debt. By increasing Pell Grant funding and regulating private sector inflation the goal of debt-free college can be reached. MacFarquhar 2 Going with the Democratic approach and making college tax deductible may be too extreme for individuals with more conservative tastes. By increasing the funding of Pell Grants though, the Democratic Party will still have the ability of accomplishing their goal, while also not forcing the Republican Party to compromise too much and stray too far from their beliefs. Pell Grants are the backbone of the U.S. financial aid system and provide funding to students rather than schools. According to the Journal of Financial Planning, Jarrod Johnston states that the grants were originally funded with $17 billion from the federal government, but funding was decreased by $5 billion during the recession in 2010 (Johnston). This money which was stripped from the funding has still not been relocated back to the grants, making it much harder for students in need to receive necessary financial aid for higher education. If extra money from the federal budget is reallocated to these Pell Grants, it will greatly increase the amount of aid available to students and therefore immensely decrease the amount of student debt. The current maximum payment one can receive for Pell Grant funding is $5815, but the average cost of tuition and fees for in-state public tuition is $9,650 (College Data). This still leaves students in need struggling to pay for school, forcing them to take out loans which put them in debt. Even these costs do not fully display the full realm of all the costs needed for a college education, making it that much more important for the students. The Democratic mission is to make college a realistic possibility for every student. By cutting out banks as the middlemen of the student loan process, the government will save $60 billion which can be reinvested into funding for Pell Grants (On the Issues). It is necessary that both sides agree to increase funding for Pell Grants, as it is the most reasonable way to cut the student loan debt crisis and support students in need. MacFarquhar 3 In this discussion it is important to incorporate the ideas of both sides, so it is necessary that we bring into play the Republican idea of regulating private sector inflation. This should be a fairly agreeable term for both sides as it will stop the future increase of the price students pay on their loans. The Republican Party does not feel that the federal government should be involved in the distribution of student aid, but does believe that it should serve as an insurance medium which can regulate the height of inflation through fiscal and monetary policy. The party actually does encourage private sector aid rather than federal aid as it promotes economic growth. The acts as this by subsidizing these private sector banks, insuring both the banks and those taking out the loans. However, with the current rate of inflation at approximately two percent a year, student loans will continue to increase and become much more difficult to pay back as the inflation for student loans is far higher than the inflation for other parts of the economy (On the Issues). The party believes that any regulation which increases the price of tuition should be reevaluated to insure that it does not have too much of a negative effect on student loan debt. This means that those who agreed to student loan repayments during earlier years and are not on fixed repayment plans, will have to pay more and more money on their loans each year. Each party has different ideas on how to lessen the burden created by college loans, but there is a compromise which will allow both the Democratic and Republican parties to reach their goals. If funding for Pell Grants is increased by a respectable amount, it will be much easier for students to afford college tuition and expenses as these grants do not have to be paid back. This will incorporate the Democratic idea without forcing the Republican Party to compromise too much. Private sector inflation should also be regulated to insure that there is not an increase in the price and interest of student loans like there has been in past years. As this is MacFarquhar 4 the only request made by the Republican Party, it is only fair that it is incorporated into the compromise. Although the Democratic Party believes in a larger amount of government input when it comes to federal aid, and the Republican Party believes in little to no government interference for federal aid, this should be a fair compromise as it incorporates both sides. By implementing these two ideas, the amount of student loan debt will decrease drastically and assure that the price and interest of student loans will not increase in the future. With increased funding for Pell Grants and regulated inflation, both parties will have equal input towards fixing the issue of student loan debt. MacFarquhar 5 Works Cited Berman, Jillian. Growing Student-Loan-Debt  Market Watch. N.p., 19 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cornelius, Luke M.1, and Sharon A.2 Frank. Student Loan Debt Levels And Their Implications For Borrowers, Society, And The  Educational Considerations 42.2 (2015): 35-38. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Democratic Party on  On the Issues. Democratic Party Platform, 4 Sept. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnston, Jarrod, and Ivan Roten. Income-Based Repayment And Loan Forgiveness: Implications On Student Loan  Journal Of Financial Planning 28.4 (2015): 24-28. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Republican Party on  On the Issues. Republican Party Platform, 27 Aug. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. the Price Tag for a College  College Data. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.