Liam Travers Oana Cimpean Composition 2 Feb 27, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Many people interact with a variety of animals on a daily basis. Some people wake up and are greeted by their pet cat, dog, or even goldfish, which they take care of. Some people visit the zoo from time to time and view the animals as an activity for recreation and some people who neither have a pet nor go to the zoo have eaten some meat. Even eating a chicken sandwich would be interacting with animals and most of us do so every day. PETA, a stakeholder widely popularized by their extreme activism promotes animal equality, believing animals are equal to humans. They are against any animal cruelty including animal testing in laboratories and animals being kept in confined environments like zoos. PETA wishes to shut down all companies and organizations that resort to animal cruelty for profit and they are known for using shocking pictures and ads, strongly appealing to pathos. PETA endorses their idea of animal equality using rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, kairos, and ethos to try and sway certain targeted audiences into supporting their campaign. They use these rhetorical appeals in the two advertisements I have selected to capture audiences and promote the ideal of animal equality. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that targets emotion in a person. The first pictures appeals to pathos through sexual appeal. It has Pamela Anderson, who is a model, on what appears to be white bedding. This ad would most likely be directed toward a target audience of males because of the appeal of the opposite sex. On the first photo there is also a blue cow with a heart in the middle of it located in between the words, a heart, Go This also would appeal to pathos because the words, a have emotional appeal. Most people innately want to be good so the words, a would be appealing to the emotion of guilt and suggests people are doing wrong by not being vegan. The heart in the middle of the cow could be an arrangement to amplify the guilt people would feel from not turning to veganism and it suggests that cows have hearts too. The second image appeals to pathos by Yasmien Kurdi petting a chicken. This image is front and foremost on the ad to stress importance. This is an appeal to pathos because of it triggers protective emotions in the audience because the chicken could be seen as Most people are against harming cute things so this strengthens argument of not hurting animals. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal for the credibility of a work to the audience. Both of the two advertisements display ethos in a way that is effective to the audience by using popular figures to promote their ideals. Celebrities are often looked up to by many of their fans and even non-fans may recognize the familiar face and acquire a sense of credibility from that. The first image uses Canadian model and actress Pamela Anderson. Pamela Anderson is known for her acting in Baywatch and is a well-known celebrity in America. In the first image it also shows Pamela name in what appears to be cursive, suggesting a signature. This typography indicates that Pamela endorses this product on her own will. She has credibility by being famous, appealing to ethos. Similarly, in the second advertisement, Filipina actress and singer/songwriter Yasmien Kurdi was depicted petting a chicken. Both of these actresses are in the middle of both advertisements displaying the importance of them. Logos is a rhetorical appeal that stimulates logic of situation and argument with the audience. My first image uses logos in a way that compares how humans are also animals. It depicts Pamela Anderson covered in black lines indicating the individual parts of the body, similar to how a cow is labeled to show the different kind of meat from cuts. The black used for the mark lines could also signal that this kind of marking is immoral because black is often used with evil connotations in popular media such as how a black cat is unlucky and considered a bad omen. The depiction of Pamela Anderson with the black markings on her appeal to logos because it introduces the argument that people are the same as animals and that moral citizens mark a human this way. It displays this argument through the big letters, animals have the same This text is large and used in the top of the page to signify its importance. The color white used in the bedding might also be an appeal. White is mostly associated with virtuous and holy things such as the dove and light in the Christian Religion. The color might be suggesting that Pamela Anderson is good and the audience should listen to her/PETAs argument that animals are equal to humans. The second photo appeals to logos through this same argument by the big headline, Chicks, go In the text, the word is larger and colored orange so it really pops out to the audience. This headline appeals to the target audience of feminists because they want equality. PETA tries to integrate this ideal with theirs in the headline so they can promote that animals should be equal to humans. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal to timeliness and being in the moment. PETA uses advertisements that are relevant in modern day-to-day life. Both actresses are relevant in popular social media. People who follow them on social media make them relevant to rhetorical appeal of kairos in the advertisement. Both of the advertisements allude to the consumption of both cows and chickens in their respective images. The first image with Pamela Anderson portrays her with lines that indicate cuts of beef. This is relevant to kairos because many people eat stake everyday. My second picture depicts Yasmein petting a chicken, which is eaten daily as well. Both of these images are relevant in modern life but kairos is not the strongest rhetorical appeal in these advertisements. Animal cruelty should be avoided when possible and PETA really stresses this idea through their campaigning. The tone of both the advertisements suggests that the author firmly believes that humans and animals should be equal which makes the message that PETA is trying to convey strong. PETA has become very well recognized in popular media because of their ability to use advertisements that have strong rhetorical appeal.