Rodhouse 1 Nick Rodhouse Professor Theodosiou Composition 2 15 Febuary 2017 Government Surveillance and The Awareness The government recently has developed software that allows them to collect data on your computer. This data could be your pictures, documents, messages, emails, and even you through your webcam. They do this all without leaving a trace of evidence. Some people, like Timothy Birch an ex-cop for the Oakland police department, passionately believes that people should know the capabilities that the government has with their surveillance software. Another perspective of this issue would be that of the CIA. Mike Pompeo, head of CIA, plans on increasing government surveillance in order to increase the safety of this country. A way to mediate both of these sides would be to have a public debate with a vote in regards to government surveillance. With people pushing to inform the knowledge of the surveillance system, but also people pushing to increase it; our country and many others would benefit from an open public debate concerning this issue. Timothy Birch, an ex-cop of the Oakland police department, worked hands on with the surveillance system. Timothy Birch says, in an interview with Ars-Technica: bizarre that you actually have, in my opinion, a world in which we want the public to know what we are doing or what we are doing with it. What equipment we have or how we are using it. (Farivar, 2) The government has technology they inform the public about, and the fact that they do not want the people to know is suspicious. This causing one to wonder why? If the government Rodhouse 2 always has our best interest at heart as the people, then why would they neglect to inform of the technology they use to keep of safe? The title of this interview is if we explain to public what our snooping gear (Farivar, 1). Why would a cop say his job is and not, the official term, investigating? An ex-cop, someone who has pledged to protect and serve our nation and keep the people safe, has described surveilling the United States government does as This and this alone is a reason to believe that some form of action needs to be taken place here. On the other side of the spectrum the CIA believes in our best interest to increase the surveillance. This would include him wanting track information from social media (Hautala, 1). This shows how strict head of CIA, Mike Pompeo, wants to make the surveillance. Pompeo has plans restart its bulk collection of metadata and combine those records with even more information: financial and details that would be accessible in a huge, searchable (Tate, 1). So not only does our head of CIA want to increase the monitoring of our lifestyle and social media, but also the financial decisions. This will allow him to catch fugitives and other people wanted by our government. Pompeo does not have bad intentions using this technology, but instead plans on using to protect the citizens of the united states. Being the head of the CIA, he has the people of the United States of America best interest at heart. With our nation growing in use and capability of the internet, naturally monitoring the web should increase as well. Our nation is not the only one with internet capabilities either. Terrorist organizations, such as ISIS; Cartels running drugs across our border, such as MS13; and other enemies of our state have internet capabilities as well. So with this being said, if our ability to monitor what they do increases, then our ability to Rodhouse 3 track down and catch our nations enemies naturally increases as well. Glenn Sulmasy, a reporter for CNN, says that: what might have been reasonable 10 years ago is not the same any longer. The constant armed struggle against the jihadists has adjusted our beliefs on what we think our government can, and must, do in order to protect its citizens. (Sulmasy, 1) Sulmasy is saying that with our nations state now with terrorist groups and also the current advancements in technology, it is necessary to increase the monitoring we do with technology and the internet. An idea to mediate both sides of this issue, would be to hold an open debate on the topic. This would educate the population on the current capabilities our government has with cyber- monitoring. This also would allow more laws, regulations, and acts to be discussed on this topic. The government can then explain their reasoning behind the monitoring, but also the past infringements on the privacy will be revealed. This would allow for revision to be made on the mass surveillance program, that could possibly benefit both sides. Educating the public and addressing privacy concerns would be discussed on one hand, and increasing spending and expanding the program overseas can be proposed and voted on as well. This also would allow both sides to point out the flaws in each arguments, but also reveal the strongpoints and benefits of both sides. This would allow internet surveillance to evolve to a better plan to fit both the government and not hinder privacy. Recently Edward Snowden leaked classified intelligence exposing the surveillance plan and system. Snowden said: willing to sacrifice all of that because I in good conscience allow the U.S. government to destroy privacy, Internet freedom and basic liberties for people around the world with this massive surveillance machine secretly building. (Sulmasy, 1) Rodhouse 4 This caused huge controversy over this issue. In recent times, software has been developed, that can go into a operating system and pull out files and hack into their webcams. This has caused an uproar in the defense industry. Cops, governments agencies, and the people of the United States all have reacted to these programs, after Edward Snowden leaked the plan and program our government has on internet surveillance. One of the people who voiced their opinion on this issue was ex-cop, Timothy Birch. He said, in an interview, how he thought bizarre that you actually have, in my opinion, a world in which we want the public to know what we are doing or what we are doing with On the other side of things, head of CIA Mike Pompeo decided it would be best to expand our surveillance program and raise the monitoring of the internet. The issue here is he plans on monitoring financial moves and social media posts of the United States citizens. A plan to resolve all these issues in one movement, would be to host a public debating regarding this topic. In this debate the public would vote in the end. This would allow us to better the surveillance program, by revealing the faults in both sides. It would also allow the public to make their own choice on the issue, which seems more suiting seeing how the privacy being debated on. With people pushing to inform the knowledge of the surveillance system, but also people pushing to increase it; our country and many others would benefit from an open public debate concerning this issue. Rodhouse 5 Work Cited Hautala, Laura January 23, 2017 5:53 PM PST. Pompeo Confirmed as CIA Head as Dems Raise Surveillance  CNET. N.p., 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hautala experience as a writer expands from the LA Times all the way to CNET where she wrote this article here. She has degrees at both St. College of California and UC Graduate School of Journalism. The magazine which published this article, CNET, is a magazine published under CBS. This magazine covers topics about technology. This Article talks about the tracking of social media account, and how the government can collect the data from Facebooks, Instagram, and any other social media site. It also talks about how the head of the CIA plans to improve and broaden the software to collect and analyze even more data. Farivar, Cyrus. Ex-cop: If We Explain to Public What Our Snooping Gear  Ars Technica. N.p., 29 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Farivar is the senior business editor at Ars Technica, a media company located in California. Farivar is also a radio producer and author. Also, he wrote a book called The Internet of Elsewhere. He has even reported in other countries like Germany or England. Ars Technica was founded in 1998. It was a company devoted to science and technology. This article I used allowed me to gain the perspective of the stakeholder, Timothy Birch, and see a cops negative perspective on this issue. Rodhouse 6 Sulmasy, Gregg. Why We Need Government  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Greg Sulmasy is a writer and publisher for CNN. This article he wrote talks about the importance of government surveillance in our day and age. This article helped me understand the other side of government surveillance and its importance. It also provided good textual evidence. Tate, Curtis, and Lindsay Wise. Rep. Mike Pompeo Wants to Revive Mass Surveillance  Mcclatchydc. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lindsey Wise and Curtis Tate are both writers and publishers for the McClatchy DC Bureau, which is a newsletter and a website. This article touches upon the new surveillance program. This helped me understand the program to revamp its security surveillance and also provided good textual evidence for my paper.