Zambrano 1 Maria Zambrano Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 January 25, 2017 Student loans effects in college students and graduates in United States Introduction Education in the world is an important step in life. As is most commonly known, education is the most powerful weapon, because it is the opportunity to grow as individuals, community, society and a nation; acquiring one of the most important virtues of life, knowledge, which can be passed from generation to generation. The United States provide a free education program from kindergarten to high school, after graduating an important and key decision to make, whether to attend postsecondary education or not. Notably, as mentioned before, college education is not part of the provided list of free educational institutes, but rather an expensive experience that could make you win more in a near future. College tuition increases almost every year. Approximately from one decade to another, the cost of attending postsecondary education doubles, due to the less federal aid to education in the specific state. There are two ways to pay the costs, one is by scholarships, federal financial aid or paying upfront from savings. The second way, is by acquiring a personal student loan. In response of the expensive costs of attending college, most of the students decide to get into debt. Student loans can be helpful, but harmful at the same time; the high interest rates can increase considerately the final amount of money owed. This statement guides to the following question, are student loans a smart way of paying off college debt in the United States? Zambrano 2 Annotated Bibliography Beaver, William. The Student Loan  Society May 2008: 216+. Academic Search k Premier. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Approximately, two thirds of the population assisting college, get into a student debt to be able to pay their college dues (Beaver 216). Due to the high costs of attending post-secondary education in the United States increasing every year, back in the days, the Congress enacted a law in which favors the students with low income household to be able to acquire a loan easily from private companies. This article states that behind the person signing the loan, there is a structured complication between the relation of colleges and private student loan lenders. With this being said, private and direct lenders fall into a competition based on who acquires more students to get their loans. When deciding of whether to get into a student loan or not, students should revise deeply the company by which they are borrowing money. This statement relates directly to the proposed research question in the fact that there have been cases where companies (lenders) were indict for, making fraudulent and false loans. This can be a terrific for a person who possess a loan with that company. The author William Beaver is a credible source because he holds a of Arts in Psychology from Westminster College in 1970. As well, two in Science and Sociology from West Virginia University in 1972. He attended Carnegie-Mellon University in order to get his PhD in History and Social Science, graduating in 1985. He is currently a Professor of Sociology at Robert Morris University in Pennsylvania. Zambrano 3 Cornelius, Luke M., and Sharon A. Frank. Student Loan Debt Levels And Their Implications For Borrowers, Society, And The  Educational Considerations 42.2 (2015): 35-38. ERIC. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This source explains the effects of student loans in the society and economy. Student debt is one of the only solutions for families with low income to be able to afford the dream of postsecondary education. one way of receiving low interest on the loan, and a forgiveness after ten consecutive years of payment, called National Defense Education Act (NDEA), and it states that if you decide to work after graduation in the education branch, one or both opportunities might be available for those students seeking that specific path. One of the main worries in the population is that as time elapses, the percentage of students acquiring educational debts increases considerately, this is a response for the diminished state aid to education in states making universities and colleges raise their tuition. This journal connects to my research question by explaining that at a certain level of acquiring student loans, it is more than likely that it would affect the career choice when making it, being that, most students get in a debt on a career that give them high earnings in a near future, this being said, at the moment of deciding whether or not signing a student loan, most people go toward careers that will offer them a secure spot on jobs, rather than, most of the time, they are passionate about. Another fact that this source talks about and its related to my research question is the effect of the student loan on a future consumer decision, for example, a graduate who has more than half of their career financed, be able to acquire a new financed car so easy, or a mortgage for a house, because of the risk of default on payments of their already existing debt. The author Cornelius, Luke M. is an Associate Professor at the Zambrano 4 University of North Florida, he is a credible source because he has a list of education gained in his favor, including Master of Arts in History (University of Georgia), Doctor of Philosophy in Education Administration and Policy (University of Florida), and lastly but not least, Juris Doctor graduated from Georgia State University College of Law in 2008. Additionally, this source is plausible because was published as a journal article and it was peer reviewed, by experts in the same field. Peterson, James R. Students Need You More Than  ABA Banking Journal 96.5 (2004): 50-53. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This academic journal explains the necessity that families with low income have at the time of deciding how to afford college costs. One major impact in education was the transition between the administration and Respectively, the first administration named supported with a large budget the funds for education in states, making tuition and college costs not to rise quickly, while after passing on his administration to this one supported more the private sector, making colleges and universities to raise more often their costs. According to article, the costs of postsecondary education prevents approximately 48% of high school graduates to attend a 4-year college/university institution, and a 22% of any college. Are student loans a smart way of paying off college debt in the United States? Students loans have always been an important portion of budget and profile. Decades ago, grants and scholarships used to be a priority and a solution to pay off college costs, but nowadays, the balance between loans and grants are based on a 60% and 40% respectively. If an adult have the means that are require to pay costs at a college, a student loan can help you to go to postsecondary education, and furthermore, after graduation get a better income with a better job. Zambrano 5 The author of this study, James Peterson, is trustworthy because he has been part of more than 39 journal articles as the primary author or helpful hand. Moreover, this source is credible for any type of audience because was an article published in the Banking mainly with educational purposes. Sullivan, James, and Melissa Towell. Student Loans: What You Need To Know Before  j Journal Of Accountancy 223.1 (2017): 49-52. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. j Wilson). Web. 15 Feb. 2017. The essence found on this article talks about how people, or better called them, students, should take care more and get a better understanding or integral knowledge about the student loan that they are going to sign, and be responsible for the rest of their lives. When signing a debt, not only the student is involucrate, but also his or her co-signer. Being a co- signer requires as much responsibility for the payments of the loan as the mere student. Sullivan and Towell explained that, there are types of loan that student can get in debt with, these are the Federal Student Loan and a Private Student Loan (50). They talked about the importance of asking all kinds of questions to the lender before signing for any type of loan. If a student loan be a lifelong consequence in their family for any borrower, it would be an easy and smart way of paying for college debt. This is the relation I encounter about this article and the research question proposed. According to studies made by Sullivan and Towell, 81% of adults with student loans said that getting into those types of debt, made them make personal and at the same time, financial sacrifices in their life that they could have avoided if they would have made another decision regarding the loan. The author James Sullivan is a credible source because he has worked over 20 years as an Attorney. He graduated from Harvard University with Cum Laude in 1970 with his Degree in Government, later, he joined Stanford University in California and graduated as a Juris Doctor in 1974. He Zambrano 6 currently works as an Attorney at the L+G LLP company in California (Monterey Premiere Law Firm 1). The other author, Melissa Towell, is currently a student loan counselor. She is a credible source because she holds a double major in Psychology and Cell and Molecular Biology from the University of Central Florida in 2010. She currently is in training for the company Consumer Debt Counselors Inc. Vien, Courtney L. 68% Of Americans With Student Loans Are Unhappy With How They Financed  Journal Of Accountancy 220.1 (2015): 1-2. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This academic journal main point is to explain how a survey provided by AICPA finds that more than half of graduated Americans regret the way they paid for college while studying and wished the could have paid for costs in a different way rather than loans. According to Vien, there are some questions to ask before signing a student loan debt, just like how much money would they have to pay monthly for the loan after graduation? Or how much the estimate salary on the career that they are going to study after graduation? So, at the end up to the adult to make the ultimate decision regarding how to pay his/her college or university costs. This analysis relates to my research question by explaining how student loans are not a smart way of paying for college expenses and, also, the way in which students should look for some alternatives when deciding how to pay for college costs, such as scholarships, federal aid, grants and many other options that help you pay for your cost, but not necessarily putting yourself into a student debt. According to this article, more than half (54%) of adults surveyed wished they had attended a cheaper college or university, due to the high amounts of money owed to the company that lent them the student loan. Another way of paying college without the need of getting into a student loan is by delaying the start of college and work to save money and later be Zambrano 7 able to pay tuition in full prior to the beginning of the semester. This article is completely accurate and valid because it was journal publication which passed through peer review, the author of this text called Vien, Courtney, holds a PhD (Doctor of Philosophy) in English Literature from the University of North Carolina, and, currently works as a Marketing Writer and Associate Editor at AICPA (Courtney Vien 2013). She worked for over 2 years at the Apollo Research Institute. She has published and/or edited many works on marketing copies, journals, web writing, books, reports and articles and she will continue to do so. Williams, Jeffrey J. Debt Education: Bad For The Young, Bad For  Dissent (00123846) 53.3 (2006): 53-59. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This source talks about the bad consequences that having a student loan in college might bring to the person. According to Williams, in nowadays, more than half of the graduates have already a huge debt behind them, and this in response of the expensive tuition costs that doubles almost every decade. One of the main reasons why colleges and universities raise their tuition and fees for students, is due to the less funding support from the Federal for education. As stated by this article, it is an obligation of democracy to provide higher education equally among all the individuals in the United States. The connection of this study with my analysis, or research question is the fact that even though debt teaches you multiple things, this article states that student loans are bad for the young and for America because is, according to Williams a People changed their views while taking student loans from making a social good to prioritizing an individual good, like aspire to get a better job and following with higher earnings. Having a student loan can be tricky and most people must be careful with them, because as how it was stated in the article, this type of loans are never forgiven by the federal government, even if you declare yourself in bankruptcy. This source supports the idea of the distribution of more founds to Zambrano 8 colleges and universities so tuition can be free, as well as loan forgiveness. The author of this article, Williams, Jeffrey, is a professor of English and the director of Graduate Studies at Carnegie Mellon University, he holds a PhD in English Literature and have published over 50 articles, including books, magazines, journals and many others, this article is credible not only because of the author, but also because was peer reviewed and published in an educational journal.