Zakhary 1 Mina Zakhary Professor Alisson Missler ENC 1102 25 February 2017 EnrollAmerica: Vision for health coverage Many organizations have been created and established for the purpose of helping and working to progress on a certain and specific issue or topic. A major issue within the United States is healthcare. Healthcare in America is stupendously irrelevant when compared to the healthcare system of other countries. EnrollAmerica is an organization that was developed to help and provide as many American citizens with health and premium coverage. EnrollAmerica has been the leading health care enrollment organization. They carry out numerous goals and aspects of providing quality and affordable healthcare plans. Their main goal, or mission statement, is to maximize the number of American citizens who are uninsured, or are not covered, to acquire and retain health coverage. Since the Affordable Care Act (ACA) took effect, EnrollAmerica has made it their first priority in reaching out to communities to enroll citizens for programs, education, and other vital informative programs to help as many as possible in acquiring health coverage. They have been providing outreach through many forms of content in the media. A vital source being advertisements and posters. EnrollAmerica has depicted rhetorical appeals in these ads, which is visible in both ads attached, to reach out to multiple communities. The purpose or goal of each image listed below is to provide a sense of comfort for those who are not insured that it is possible for them to be insured while showing that help is there for them and that they are not alone. The images try to accomplish the fact that everyone needs health insurance and that there are no excuses. They want you to get insurance to be in a Zakhary 2 better place when it comes to family and loved-ones and/or pets. Granted that the healthcare system in other countries are far more superior than that of the United States, EnrollAmerica strives in making a difference to enable American citizens for a chance of health coverage. Elements of ethos are visible in both picture advertisements. The image needs to be effective in getting people to look into EnrollAmerica so it makes sense that they need to show a sense of credibility and authority. For both advertisement posters, there is the EnrollAmerica logo at the corners of the pictures (Image 1 & 2). This shows credibility because it means that these advertisements are coming directly from EnrollAmerica and the AdCouncil. Proving that these advertisements are coming directly from the source shows that authority needed for people to check website and information, especially those who do not have health coverage. Another area where ethos can be discovered is in the text what you could qualify for at as this allows a direct link to their website assuring their credibility and role in providing health coverage (Image 2). In addition, Elements of pathos is also visible in both advertisement posters. The usage of a common house pet, in this case a cat, provides a sense of pathos because mostly everyone is fond of pets and pets are seen as a source of enlightenment and a friend-like companion and relationship as seen in Image 1. Humans associate house pets with love towards them and being caring. With this in mind, there lies text reading you really love me as much as you say, get yourself health insurance (Image 1). This makes people feel a sense of empathy towards the cat because the cat, or EnrollAmerica, wants the reader to take care of their own health care first in order to take care of others or the cat in this scenario. Also, in the second advertisement poster, the color palette of the picture is mostly blue with text reading never get In this statement some may say that the period is unnecessary however the period at the end of the Zakhary 3 statement emphasizes how many Americans do not have health coverage because they simply think they need it when this is clearly a false method of thinking. In addition, there lies a bandage over the word symbolizing that people do get sick and the Band-Aid is used to heal wounds or recover. This Band-Aid symbolizes health coverage towards American citizens as it states all need health insurance, and you could get help paying for (Image 2). Also, the color blue is associated with sadness or feeling down and possible depression. According to a study on color hues being associated with moods, it shows that when people think of the color blue they identify it with moments of sadness, or times that were intense and stressful (Wexner 433). This is effective in the advertisement poster because it gives the feel that without health coverage, life is sad and To continue, elements of logos is not necessarily shown because for the most part, Americans presume that health coverage is a vital thing to have and many Americans do have it. However, in one of the advertisement posters it states take care of us pets. Now our turn to take care of (Image 1). This shows logos because it is logical for humans to take care of themselves more since they take care of their pets so often. This statement can be taken into deeper meaning, since humans take care of their pets as much as possible and aid them, EnrollAmerica wants to do the same for humans and aid as many as possible. Another rhetorical appeal visible in both advertisement posters is Kairos as both show a sense of timeliness. In the first advertisement it states yourself health insurance (Image 1). By saying this shows that the organization wants people to enroll and get health coverage as soon as possible, so by saying the readers automatically identify that they should go look into EnrollAmerica or as soon as possible. Furthermore, in the second advertisement poster, it states up and pick a plan by February showing Zakhary 4 emphasis on the date by bolding the text (Image 2). This shows a sense of Kairos and timeliness because they want readers to sign up and see available plans as soon as possible and by providing a date, this forces the reader to try to go to the website and check as soon as possible, thus showing Kairos. Ultimately, being that healthcare system is worst when compared to countries around the globe, for example Canada, there are still organizations determined in making a difference based on this issue. EnrollAmerica uses multiple methods of showing rhetorical appeals throughout their advertisement posters and pictures. Whether it is through ethos, pathos, logos, or Kairos, they are able to clearly establish connections with viewers and readers across the nation. In doing so, EnrollAmerica is capable of making a difference to enable American citizens for a chance of health coverage. So, granted that the healthcare system in other countries are far more superior than that of the United States, EnrollAmerica strives in making a difference in enrolling American citizens to retain health coverage. Zakhary 5 Image 1 Image 2 Zakhary 6 Works Cited Image 1. Care EnrollAmerica.org. EnrollAmerica. N.p, n.d. Image 2. Never get Multivu.com. EnrollAmerica. N.p, n.d. Wexner, Lois B. The degree to which colors (hues) are associated with  Journal of applied psychology 38.6 (1954): 432.