Nannapaneni 1 Rohitha Nannapaneni ENC 1102 Composition II Professor Noah Pearlstone 26 February 2017 Brain Resource Center: Eating Disorders Eating disorders, also known as EDs, are abnormal eating habits that can threaten a well-being or their life. There are three types of eating disorders: anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating disorder. According to the American Psychological Association (APA), there are certain specific traits linked to each of the disorders. Genetic factors may even play a role. The APA also mentions that wide range of situations can precipitate eating disorders in susceptible Research done by this organization found that individuals with anorexia have a mortality rate 18 times higher than people not diagnosed with eating disorder (American Psychological Association). The Brain Resource Center promotes brain health by offering the latest technology and approaches based on research, assessment, and specialized treatment of the brain. They are also offering the latest advancements in health psychology and applied neuroscience to help people with psychological disorders and brain injuries. The Brain Resource Center uses a specific protocol that involves different techniques along with cognitive therapy and retaining the brain for better self- regulation. This stakeholder strongly regards eating disorders as conditions that can have serious consequences for physical and psychological (The Brain Resource Center of New York). Through the use of captivating and authentic images, the Brain Resource Center is Nannapaneni 2 able to illustrate some of the consequences of eating disorders. These advertisements convey that they care about people and that treatment should be taken immediately for these disorders. The first image portrays a boy and a girl with concerned looks looking at a weight scale. The image is able to appeal to the viewer emotionally, which is in the form of pathos. The fact that there is both a boy and a girl shows that anyone of any gender can feel vulnerable and develop eating disorders. The concerned looks show the pressure and anxiety of having to achieve a certain body image. The looks also convey a certain body dissatisfaction. The image also shows shadows behind the boy and the girl showing how the they view themselves unrealistically. This alone can evoke pity and empathy in the viewer. The image also uses a rhetorical appeal called logos, which has to data and facts. The image mentions an estimate of men and women that are diagnosed with eating disorders. According the image, there are women and men in the United States that are diagnosed with eating disorders. The viewer can tell the image is talking about the people in the United States with the line: Women & Since the Brain Resource Center is affiliated with other organizations such as, Biofeedback Foundation of Europe and Society for the Advancement of Brain Analysis, this can be seen as a form of ethos, which is associated with credibility (The Brain Resource Center of New York). The target audience is the general public. Anyone is open to this information. The second image shows a teenage girl sitting in front of food with a depressed look. This image uses the rhetorical appeal pathos. The circles around the eyes shows how weak and tired she is. For the food, there is just a piece of bread and water. The girl looks at the bread and water with a tired and depressed look. The girl may think that this may be all she can eat. Nannapaneni 3 This can evoke sympathy, pity, and dismal in the viewer. The image also uses the rhetorical appeal logos. The way the girl is behaving can be used as an example to show some of the symptoms and behaviors of people with eating disorders. The bread and the water show how the girl is unrealistically trying to obtain a certain body image by eating less. For ethos, the Brain Resource Center is affiliated with many organizations, doctors, and representatives. This alone proves the credibility of this stakeholder. The target audience is the general public of course. Anyone is open to information and images displayed by the Brain Resource Center. These two images illustrate how serious eating disorders and consequences are. They also illustrate how effectively the Brain Resource Center is able to convey the same messages through these advertisements. The Brain Resource primary goal is to help people by offering the latest advancements in health psychology and applied neuroscience. Ultimately, the Brain Resource Center illustrates their point by making the images more relatable to people and conveying to people that they care about them by using pathos, logos, and ethos in these images. Eating disorders is not just a problem in the United States, but in the world as well. Nannapaneni 4 Works Cited American Psychological Association. Eating Disorders. October 2011. 26 February 2017. <http://www.apa.org>. The Brain Resource Center of New York. Affiliates. 2016. 26 February 2017. <brainresourcecenter.com>. The Brain Resource Center of New York. Eating Disorder. 2016. 26 February 2017. <brainresourcecenter.com>. Nannapaneni 5 Advertisement #1 Nannapaneni 6 Advertisement #2