Mousa 1 Mohamed mousa ENC1102.024 Professor Noah Pearlstone February 27, 2017 National Collegiate Athletic Association Student-athletes are considered the future of sports. They are students that are born with an abnormal talent in a specific sport which they tend to peak at. It is a talent discovered though time through continues practices and results. However, with this talent comes responsibility, student-athletes are required to go through a series of events which they may or may not like. Furthermore, student-athletes are just teenagers, therefore they are unable to decide what is right and what is wrong at the fullest as of yet, this lead to the creation of an organization called the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). They are the biggest organization to look after student athletes. The organization was formed by former president Theodore Roosevelt in the purpose of encourage colleges to invest in the potential student-athletes. The is a non- profit organization that organizes the athletic programs of many colleges and universities. Cases of abuse and deaths that were caused back in the early The ncaa is responsible for all actions, furthermore, they strive to turn student-athletes into professional athletes. The ncaa believes in the term actions speaks louder than words, therefore, what they are trying to achieve cannot be put into images, yet the brief idea shows the rhetorical appeals of the following two images. The first image from the ncaa presents a basketball court with three different sources of split incomes. As mentioned the ncaa is a non-profit organization, therefore, the reference to ethos there must be a reason behind them publishing such image. Their main purpose behind this Mousa 2 image is to show how the income is filtered through games, mainly college sports due to their major importance between the population. The appeal of ethos uses the camera man filming the game rather than a normal person or a family watching the game to prove the wide range of audiences, so as this image provides a ticket being sold with a range of price below it giving more credibility to the income gained, however this usually affects audiences emotionally as to how the ncaa is a non-profit organization yet the income is being gathered to them, the ncaa provided an explanation stating NCAA supports operational expenses and student-athlete travel (The NCAA Budget). Since the ncaa is contradicted most of the times due to their rules and decisions it is logical to provide an image with an income idea is more necessary to become a method of motivation to student-athletes, as this shows how much is being put into the sport by the audiences just to watch the very own student-athletes themselves. The use of television and a basketball provides the sense of logos once more, as it is used to make the audience logically know that this is meant for the basketball season, targeting the basketball fans that tend to take the sport very seriously therefore, in addition to the logos the pathos in this is to show the passion the fans provide towards this sport and due to the importance the ncaa used the one method that tends to move the fans the most so as the student-athletes which is the money. The intent audience are mainly the student-athletes themselves, the parents and the sports fan comity. Although this image provides a very brief explanation onto what goes on with the income yet it provides the mentioned audiences with the sense of trust. Parents want the for their kids and in order for the ncaa to keep their promise of providing the best, their cards must be on the table. The second image, is yet again another image provided by the ncaa. The image shows the string of ideas that go through the mind. Using different colors and fonts Mousa 3 provides the pathos of the image relating to what is most to least important to the audiences. Student-athletes are put through many tests and have to face many ups and downs during their time as students as this picture provides a logical idea of what may go through a mind before they are labeled as student-athletes, as after all they are still kids that are just maturing. In the reference to ethos, this also shows that the task easy as they have analyzed what goes through their minds and helped to make the best out of these idea in order to conserve these student-athletes and provide them with the best mentality possible. experience of college athletics and the life lessons they learn along the way will help them peruse careers in other (Probability of Competing Beyond High School). When said other this showed the effort the ncaa put in the student-athletes as in the image it can be seen that they are interested in other sports than the one they are already performing. Therefore, if they for any reason decided to not pursue their planned out career, the ncaa will still help them providing them with the right mentality to capable to fit in any career. This image, is very close to the first image when it comes to the audiences. It specifically mentions the future student-athletes and the parents. Advertising how important the student- athletes to the ncaa and that they will support them at all costs. The thoughts that go through the mind is very detailed and well themed out, it makes it easier for the future student-athletes to relate easily. These two images illustrate the intentions of the student-athletes. Both images send a message clarifying the concerns and care the ncaa puts into the student-athletes. Overall, the ncaa hopes that they continue to do what they do best which is to turn student-athletes in professional athletes. The ncaa is an organization the works with many facilities, high schools, colleges and universities and tend to spend a lot of money to provide the student-athletes with the best Mousa 4 facilities possible. Student-athletes bring joy to the millions that support sports and they tend to the play with the emotions of the dedicated fans. Therefore, it is very important that they are prepared in a civilized, classy way that fits with their talent, and represent the school they learnt everything from. Mousa 5 Works cited Lodge, Alexander. Afraid of the Big Bad NCAA? ... The Ed Impact on the Amateurism the journal of corporation law, 2016/04/01, Vol: 41, p775 Rifenburg M. (2016). Supporting Student-Athletes Writes: A Case Study of a Division I Writing Center and NCAA Academic Mandates. Writing Center Journal, 37(1/2), 61-84. Mousa 6 Mousa 7