Taylor 1 1 Reef Taylor Ms. Alison ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Goliath Grouper and Ecosystem Reef Environmental Education Foundation (REEF) is a grass-roots organization that seeks to conserve marine ecosystems by educating, enlisting and enabling divers and other marine enthusiasts to become active ocean stewards and citizen  (REEF.org). Their main goal is to raise awareness about local issues that threaten the marine ecosystem through education. Throughout there entire website is images promoting donations and classes one can take part in to learn more about marine ecosystems in the area. One of which pertains to the invasive Lionfish species that has been found to desecrate our local waterways and threaten the survival of nearby fisheries. In the image, the REEF organization announces there is an upcoming class to hear about the invasion from a world-renowned expert. However, these meetings do not come for free, and the organization must pay for the classes as well as research projects that are conducted. To do this, they request donations and sponsorships through posters and flyers. One of the more recent flyers portrayed a group of kids on a field trip with REEF and contained a bold font overlay expressing Donate, Protect and  Through images like these, the REEF organization is able to promote their cause to educate and protect by demonstrating ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos with-in each image in order to gain the attention of those who would not normally invest in a matter such as a Lionfish invasion (Lionfish Information and Resources). Taylor 2 2 The first image found on the REEF website shows a Lionfish, an invasive species that REEF works to remove from waterways (Lionfish Information and Resources). The Image also depicts the time and place of a meeting that will be held to discuss the future of the removal process as well as to learn more about the species. All parts of the image are cited with logos, photography credit, and website links showing credibility within the total image. The REEF organization has also included the name of the doctor that will be speaking during the meeting. This allows for those wanting to attend, to see the credible person by which they will be gaining information from. The second image that can be found on the REEF website holds credibility with logos throughout the image. It also shows the children holding the flag with the REEF logo, which shows that the children in the image support the REEF organization instead of REEF just pasting a logo to the image, which was also done to show a clear logo of the organization if viewers are unable to read the flag. Both images also depict aspects of the ocean, which further resolves the REEF desire for improved marine ecosystems (Hines p. 1290). The first image in from the website that depicts a Lionfish along with information on a meeting expresses pathos through the color scheme of the Lionfish in the image. Lionfish are an invasive species with an off-putting disposition that make many fear its presence. The Lionfish has vibrant red and white coloring with sharp barbs surrounding its body and two horns that protrude from the front of its head like a devil. The background is also red which is associated with anger, fear, and madness. By portraying the image of the fish on a red background, the image insinuates that the fish is undesired in our area and promotes those readers to dislike the animal and thus attend the meeting to find out more about the fish. The information of the meeting is also Taylor 3 3 depicted in a soft, curly, blue font that invites viewers to gravitate towards it, by doing, so readers are motivated to escape the anger of the red Lionfish by attending the meeting depicted in the inviting blue color. The second image however does not render the emotion of anger, but instead sadness for the future generation that will not see the world that many currently live in. Many people associate children with the future and with hope, this motivates most people to change their ways and help improve the future. And just like the image says, one way to do so is to donate. With the image of the children and the big white lettering that states Donate, Protect and  viewers feel the need to donate to the REEF organization to protect the future environment and inspire the next generation (REEF.org). By using Pathos and Ethos, many feel it would only be logical to assist the REEF organization. They are a strong contender in the fight to improve the marine environment, and with so many connections they can easily be trusted to use donations wisely. Everything they voice and stand for is backed up by facts and statistics. In the first image, logic is depicted with the sidebar of information for the meeting and the speaker along with what topics will be covered. Because the Lionfish invasion is a very new thing, many people are still not educated on the species and its effects (NOAA). For that reason, many would look for classes and training to go to where they can learn more. And seeing an informational meeting on the species from an organization that does nothing but study and research is a very logical choice. The second image also shows logic through the request to donate to a non-profit organization that inspires future generations and protects the marine ecosystem. With logic comes the idea of Kairos, or the depiction of time within the image. The first image shows the time of the meeting where those who desire to learn more about Lionfish and the organization would have to attend the meeting. If one were not able to make it in that time, then Taylor 4 4 one would not be able to gain information that may be pertinent to the research people will conduct. The second image asks for people to donate and to invest in the future. It portrays the idea of time and the rhetorical appeal within that idea by mentioning the future and showing the kids. When one sees people younger than themselves, it normally makes people feel older and feels that they have less time. Because while there is all the future to donate, many understand that at a certain point the donations will not be as effective as they are at the moment. This motivates a person to think back about how things could have been better, so they are more willing to donate and help the future before it is too late. The REEF organization is a small  organization comprised of fishermen, divers, and environmental conservationists (REEF.org). The organization strives to protect the marine ecosystem in Florida and ensure there is a future for the children. Through ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos REEF can ensure that promotional items such as flyers and other images will be effective in their mission to raise awareness about environmental issues and conservation movements. Two images found on the REEF website depict the four rhetorics with background colors, word fonts, credible images and credible people. When all four rhetorics are found within a promotional item such as a flyer, REEF gains the highest possible response to their organization and the cause. Taylor 5 5 Work Cited: Lionfish Information and  Reef Environmental Education Foundation (REEF). N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. US Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Why are lionfish a threat to Atlantic Ocean  Why are lionfish a threat to Atlantic Ocean fish? N.p., 01 June 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Hines, Andrew, et al. Reconstructing the lionfish invasion: insights into Greater Caribbean  Journal of Biogeography 38.7 (2011): 1281-1293.