Sherer 1 Julie Sherer Professor Pearlstone ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Coca Cola Coca Cola is one of the most recognizable brands in the world. Their mission is refresh the world. To inspire moments of optimism and happiness. To create value and make a (The Coca Cola Company). Yet, many people know the behind the scenes of the creation of favorite soda. Coca Cola relies on a steady flow of water to create their soda. It takes three liters of water to create one liter of Coke Cola: Drinking the World Coca Cola has been accused of dehydrating communities around the world. After examining these two images, it can be seen that they contain many rhetorical appeals in order to raise awareness to the abundant amount of water Coca Cola is using to make soda. These images give a visual of how Coca Cola is taking water from other countries and how they are successfully using rhetorical appeals to relate to the general public. The first image portrays a woman walking bare foot to the well for water only to find that a company from a different country is drinking her water. In the background, you see a house that looks like it is built out of straw. This woman clearly lives in a poor county; therefore, her facial expression is horrified when she sees a billion dollar company drinking from her limited supply of water. There are many rhetorical appeals in this picture including pathos and ethos. This image was meant for the viewers to have pity for not only the woman but the entire community that is being affected by this crisis which represents pathos. In addition, there is the bottle of Coke replacing the tie. The brand name represents ethos through the establishing Sherer 2 credibility of this well-known brand. Overall, this image mainly represents pathos as it was developed for the viewer to feel sorry for the woman and her community. The artist wants the audience to form an opinion and take a stand against Coca Cola moving into poor countries to take and contaminate their water supply. The second image illustrates Coca Cola, represented by a mosquito sucking the water out of India. An average household in India uses approximately 135 liters of water compared to the United States who use approximately 575 liters of water Water Use per Person per India is using over four times less water than America, yet an American company is going into a foreign country for their water. This is a very simple image that tells a bigger more powerful story. Logos and pathos are clearly represented through this image. The artist is trying to persuade the audience to take a stand against Coca Cola by representing them as a mosquito. As a successful company, being represented by a blood sucking pest is not good advertisement. Logically the mosquito also represents reasonable doubt in discrediting Coca Cola as a people first company. Moreover, pathos is represented by the overall meaning of the picture. If you think about once the mosquito leaves India, there be any water left to drink. The artist is trying to inflict an argument through creating an emotional response to the photo. Through these two rhetorical appeals, the artist sufficiently relays the message that Coca Cola is draining foreign countries dry. The intended audience for both photos is the general public and companies who have contracts with Coca Cola. The purpose of creating these images is to not only inform the public, but for the public to take a stand against Coca Cola dehydrating these foreign communities. The artist was most likely hoping that the viewers would either refrain from drinking Coke products, or would protest against these unlawful actions. Also, there are many companies that serve Coke Sherer 3 products; therefore, the ideal outcome was for these companies to cancel their contracts with Coca Cola. All in all, the artist was trying to get a reaction out of the viewers to raise awareness. These two images adequately portray the water crisis in these foreign countries. The images are very simple, but the meaning as whole is what sends a strong message. Through the use of ethos, logos, and pathos the primary goal was to get a reaction out of the viewers and for the viewers to take a stance on this issue. Water shortage is a serious problem for poverty stricken countries. Coca Cola should consider other ways or other places to obtain the water needed to create their products. Sherer 4 Works Cited Average Water Use per Person per  Average Water Use per Person per Day. Data 360 n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Coca-Cola: Drinking the World  War on Want. N.p., 23 June 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Coca-Cola Company. Mission, Vision &  The Coca-Cola Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sherer 5 Sherer 6