Kennard 1 Emily Kennard Professor Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 LUSH Cosmetics Against Animal Testing Although animal testing awareness is starting to become more known worldwide, and animal testing is starting to be banned in some countries, China still requires animal testing for hair and skin dye, deodorant, and sun cream rules on animal This means that a lot of name brand cosmetic companies in the United States that sell products under these categories, must test on animal in order to sell their products to China. LUSH Cosmetics is a company that creates a variety of cosmetics ranging from makeup, to deodorant, to toothpaste. They are completely cruelty free, meaning they test on animals, use vegetarian products and are trying to have other cosmetic companies follow suit with not testing on animals Values: Fighting Animal One way that LUSH is completing this task is that they have created an image and a video using visual rhetoric, which successfully draws the attention to what animal testing entails exactly and why they need more people to join to movement against animal cruelty. Visual rhetoric includes pathos; an appeal to emotions; logos, an appeal to logic ethos, an appeal to credibility; and Kairos, an appeal to timeliness. These are all rhetorical appeals that are broken down to show how, are coded and laden with (Gerdes 331). The image that LUSH uses on their Against Animal Cruelty page on their website shows a group of people protesting in rabbit outfits while holding flags with signatures written in red, which covers the entire outfit. This image seems to cover all of the rhetorical appeals: Ethos, Kennard 2 Logos, Pathos, and Karios. The appeal to credibility or ethos, are the words against animal testing for over 30 gives credibility because when a company has many years of experience in a certain field, then they are considered experts in that field. This credibility allows the audience to feel safe and feel as though they can trust LUSH and whatever they say; especially if they have so many years of experience in this field. The next rhetorical appeal present is logos. Logos is an appeal to the sense of logic; or what is logical/explained to them that they have never known before (INSERT CITATION/DO RESEARCH FOR THIS IN TEXT BOOK). This is given by the number of signatures on every outfit and each person holding flags. It shows how many people from different countries support of the animal rights movement. Not very many people grasp the concept of exactly how many people are in support of this anti cruelty movement. Pathos and Kairos follow hand in hand with each other in this image because the emotional reaction to what is happening in the image gives them a feeling to accept the call to action and join the movement. The emotional appeal, or pathos, is shown by the flags that the protestors are holding because it gives a sense of global unity against animal testing. A sense of unity shows strength for a cause and makes the audience want to participate. This also causes kairos, or a sense of timeliness because when the audience sees a sense of global unity, they will want to be a part of that unity because they do not want to be someone that follow suit with what everyone else is becoming involved in. Images the only thing that can cause visual rhetoric, videos also have the same types of rhetorical appeals, but there are more examples that happen rapidly, frame by frame. The four-minute video that LUSH created shows specific cosmetic tests that are usually performed on animals being performed on a human subject, which includes, force feeding, Kennard 3 skin/eye irritant, hair shaving, etc. This also includes visual rhetoric containing all of the rhetorical appeals listed above. Ethos is used and shows credibility for the company/organization by having the cosmetic experiments being performed in complete detail during a busy day on one of the busiest streets in London. This shows credibility because the company is advocating against it and the sheer detail that they use shows that they are experts in knowledge about what happens during cosmetic testing on animals. Pathos appeals to the emotion by showing the disgusting cruel things that are happening to animals in labs. This is shown by the reactions as they are watching what is unfolding in the LUSH shop and is distinctively shown through the disgust on the display of the faces. This will cause the audience to also reflect that feeling too, like how people yawn when they see others yawn. (do research about this). Logos appeals to the sense of logic and it is very logical that the audience understand exactly what was happening at first, because it a public knowledge what cosmetic testing entails. This is an appeal to logic because the audience learns something new from witnessing this act. Kairos appeals to timeliness because seeing all of the people passing by the cosmetic testing scene and signing the petition to try to help end cosmetic testing on animals. This allows the audience watching this video want to take action as well because people tend to follow suit with what the majority of people do. (DO RESEARCH ABOUT THIS) LUSH also gives a link for people to sign an online petition to make it more convenient and accessible for people to sign as quickly as possible. Kennard 4 Images and videos may have the same visual rhetorical appeals, but some images or videos execute it better than others. In this situation, video was more successful at raising awareness and wanting people to get involved in the movement because it has more shocking footage that appeals to the emotions more than the image does. In the video, people are actively signing petitions which will make people watching want to sign the petition more than just showing people who have signatures on their costumes holding flags. The image is hard to interpret what exactly is happening and how to persuade people to become involved. Also, the facts being told throughout the video gives more credibility than just stating that LUSH has been protesting animal cruelty for thirty years. Either way, both the image and the video make the audience want to become involved, but the video is more successful at doing that because it uses the rhetorical appeals better than the image does. Kennard 5 Works Cited China rules on animal testing to impact personal  Household & Personal Products Industry, Sept. 2014, p. 28. Business Collection, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=ITBC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GAL E%7CA383744552&it=r&asid=5775d517bced86ce0f557256bab5ad6a. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Gerdes Julie, Sarah Beth Hopton, and Joshua M. Rea. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331. E-text. Values: Fighting Animal LUSH Cosmetics USA. 2002, Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Kennard 6 Image A values-fighting Image B This video shows a personified version of what happens to animals during cosmetic testing. It is a way for the eyes to be opened to the fact that animals do face cruelty in a day to day basis. This shows exactly what happens to animals during cosmetic testing, except the experiments are performed on a human woman for the eyes of the public to be opened to the horrific truth that millions of animals are suffering every day.