Smith !1 Emma Smith Karen Hanson ENC1102 23 Feb 2017 Visuals of Views on Poultry Production Visual images can create a more dramatic reaction than any other form of media. Whether the reaction is emotional, logical, or otherwise compelling depends on what the viewer is seeing and how they perceive the context of the image. The organization of the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is known for their use of graphic and provocative images to persuade viewers to follow their views on animal rights and specifically to help end the inhumane raising of poultry for production. Peta advocates for a vegan lifestyle and apposes all production of poultry for consumption. The first image from the Peta organization is an image of women wearing bikinis in small cages holding signs protesting factory farms and promoting people to stop eating chickens and eggs and supporting commercial farms. The second image shows an artistic rendering of a child consuming live chicks from a chicken nugget box. The first image uses the rhetorical appeals of logos and pathos as the main strategies of persuasion, with a small amount of ethos while the second image similarly uses mainly pathos in the image which is used to get views across to end the production of poultry. With Peta being known for their controversial and provocative ways of spreading their views, it was not surprising to find the first image of the women in cages on the website. This image came from a Peta protest outside a Poultry Expo in Atlanta. Seeing half naked women cramped in a small cage in the streets is definitely going to attract attention to the Smith !2 organization, whether it be positive or negative attention does not matter as much as the fact that the word is being spread on the topic. The Peta website claims across our great nation, bikini-clad PETA members have been out in full force, snatching media attention and educating the public about cruelty to proving that main goal with these protests are to gain attention from the public. Seeing these women representing in cages that are obviously too small to fit them comfortably will bring emotion to the viewers such as disgust or guilt for them representing the poultry housed in small cages on commercial farms. The facial expressions on the women also contribute to the effective use of pathos in this protest photo, as they all express sorrow in their faces. The signs shaped as eggs and reading Farming Is and Suffer for bring the use of logos into the protest. The statements on the signs are not actually factual and have no evidence supporting them as they are just opinions, however they are there to make the viewers think about whether they are true or not and hopefully make them want to know more about the topic. Providing further information about these small such that cages used for most of the over 300 million hens in the United States, commonly called provide each hen an amount of space that is about the size of a laptop would have given the image a stronger argument. A small amount of ethos is used due to the Peta logo being on each of the signs. Peta is using their own organization as authority in this protest rather than bring in another organization or person to represent authority and credibility. Placing the protest outside of a Poultry Expo was to gain as many viewers as possible who already have opinions on the topic of poultry production and get as much attention as they can to spread their view that poultry suffer in the production industry. Smith !3 Just as the first image makes the viewers think about the unethical keeping of chickens on commercial farms, the second image also provokes thought on the consumption of poultry. The image showing a child holding a live chick about to dip it in ketchup and eat it can be described as disturbing just as the first image can be. This disturbing image uses pathos with the representation of a sickly looking child consuming chicks because no one wants to think of their child being sick or eating a live animal let alone a baby one. By showing the unhappy and unhealthy expression along with the expression of fear on the chicks gives the audience guilt for feeding chicken to their own child. No parent wants to do anything that would hurt their child and this image implies the negative health effects of eating chicken, especially the processed chicken nuggets from fast food restaurants. Having the on the chicken nugget box is representing McDonalds and their unhealthy and inhumane products, however McDonalds is not an authority figure in the image so does not give the image credibility. Using a fast food box was effective in calling attention to the fast food chains as KFC, and Burger King are major players in the production, marketing, and consumption of animal-derived food throughout the and effective in pointing out the connection between the factory farms supplying to these chain restaurants and animal cruelty in the agriculture industry.This image was posted on Instagram account and therefore does not reach as wide of an audience as the first image does. Only the people following the Peta Instagram would see the image while anyone near the Poultry Expo would see the protest in the first image, plus any news stations that reported on the protest would also greatly expand the number of viewers for the first image. Smith !4 Both images are effective in portraying the views of organization through the use of their rhetorical appeals. The first image is stronger than the second image however because of the wider range of audience it reaches and the more complex use of rhetorical appeals. Both images may be effective in spreading views, but they are only partly effective when it comes to actually convincing people to practice their beliefs. With mainly an emotional appeal in both images, neither have the factual evidence that comes from ethos or a strong use of logos that addresses the desire for real evidence of the wrong doings of commercial poultry farms. The purpose of the images used by Peta are to spread the word about their negative views on the consumption and production of poultry and eventually put a halt to the industry all together. This goal of ending poultry production is out of reach at the moment since such a large portion of the population regularly consumes poultry. Peta knows this goal is a reach but they continue to work for it causing they to become labeled as a radical organization. Working with such an impossible goal, Peta is doing their best to convert as many people as possible to a vegan diet through the use of controversial images like these. The work Peta is doing to end poultry production is taking them there slowly. The protests such as the one seen in the first image are gaining publicity and awareness on the topic as well as shining more light on the methods used on commercial farms. These two visuals used by Peta are contributing to their movement by spreading their views to anyone who sees them. The goal of ending poultry production may not be possible in the near future, but by focusing on smaller goals such as increasing regulations at commercial farms and educating more people on the topic using visuals such as these, their goal could become a reality. Smith !5 Works Cited Adams, Ronald J. Fast Food and Animal Rights: An Examination and Assessment of the Response to Social  Business & Society Review (00453609), vol. 113, no. 3, Fall2008, p. 301. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edb&AN=34211531&site=eds-live. . Going Where No Bikini Has Gone PETA. http://www.peta.org/blog/bravely- going-bikini-gone/. Accessed 23 Feb 2017. WATNICK, VALERIE J. The Business and Ethics of Laying Hens: Groundbreaking Law Goes into Effect on Animal  Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review, vol. 43, 01 Jan. 2016, p. 45. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edslex&AN=edslexB59BA1B6&site=eds-live Smith !6 http://www.peta.org/blog/bravely-going-bikini-gone/ https://www.instagram.com/p/BO7aU73hVWQ/?taken-by=peta&hl=en