SAFIN 1 SYED AZFAR SAFIN Student(FRESHMAN) PROFESSOR SABAH FIROZ UDDIN ENC1101.005F16 COMPOSITION 1 10 Th September 2016 Rise of human unemployment due to robotic labor An Annotated Bibliography Humans tend to get bored when doing a task repeatedly and therefore they plan on changing jobs and whatsoever. The modern era strictly believes that the art for working by hand would soon fade away. It is that superior technologists are bringing up the idea of replacing human labor to robots. This is not only a matter of downsizing unemployment of several sectors in an industry but also a decrease in the average expenditure spent on human labor in a country. SOURCE 1 DeCanio, Stephen J. Robots and Humans Complements Or  Journal Of Macroeconomics 49. (2016): 280-291. ScienceDirect. Web. 16 Sept. 2016. The following citation is relatable to my topic as we are talking about the exchange of human labor to machine labor.It specifically argues about how easily we can move on to the use of robotic labor and get familiar with it. The eventual ascend in the robot labor may increase the possibility or descend the wages given on humans, which strictly proportionate on the economical production factor. Houthakker, a well-known economical scientist made a formula for efficient production which can be used to estimate the reduction human wages when replaced by robots. The US data planner calculated that it is easy to replace humans to robot labor and can be carried out. This would decrease the human wages spent by companies when hired to the robotic labor. It is believed that relying on the technological advanced beings may not have any negative effects on expenses. SAFIN 2 It is estimated that if the elasticity between the replacement of humans to robotic labor is greater than 1.9 then it would severely cause a decline in the wages on humans. The chances of industries taking an initiative is high. Relating to my topic, humans may shift to machine labor to modernize the world in order to reduce even the slightest of cost production. SOURCE 2 Cockshott, Paul, and Karen Renaud. Issues And Opinions: Humans, Robots And  Technology In Society 45.(2016): 19-28. Science Direct. Web. 16 Sept. 2016 The citation influences the purpose of using robotic labor to the good of Mankind in order to sustain effecicency. I chose to write on it because it talks about the benefit we can get when we are taking an initiative to switch to robotic labor. From an early time, robots were taken to be nothing more than science fiction and now as the world ages, what scientists has been doing based on artificial intelligence can seem nothing more than reality. Robots are having very existence in the world and are known to be advancing in various sectors in ways we could have never imagined before. Novelists would once assume the theory of robotics walking the Earth and here they are mesmerized of how a fairytale can be coming to life. Such advancement would not only mean the extinction of the human attitude but also diminish anything that lacks creativity and structure. Informatics gained access in the engineering field and they are pacing at rapid speeds inventing high intelligent sourced machines. It is that coming to that idea we can differentiate how robots are not alike humans, and SAFIN 3 what we lack that proves robots are better than us. We can come to a conclusion as to how robots pose a threat to humans and how is it that we can work out a decent way to minimize robot advancement without ruining the way of gaining knowledge in the science field; and not hampering government about giving the wrong idea of downsizing a countries economical and science advancement. According to my topic, I believe that robots may be better at doing a repeated task overtime. But, it is certain that they can never take over what the human mind creates after all they are based on programming. SOURCE 3 Ford, Martin. Rise Of The Robots : Technology And The Threat Of A Jobless Future. New York: Basic Books, 2015. Discovery eBooks. Web. 26 Sept. 2016. It is believed that in the future there may be certain possibilities of an industrial revolution. But the following revolution may not be based on innovating new sectors of jobs that can be done by humans. Rumor has it that such an outcome would mean reduction in employment and hiring efficient labor such as robots. It could mean the elimination of jobs available for the middle class people. People falling under such class would have a hard time dealing with payments and paying bills. Residential living in household would struggle a lot dealing with education, insurance and health services because of the eventual reduction in payment. SAFIN 4 Robots could be downsizing human labor in many ways. They are programmed on efficiency and specialized skills which may make a fool out of human skills on field. But it is that once an occurrence of malfunctioning may result a touch of human brain to fix the machine back from square one. Robots need humans as well as humans need robots to do certain things. Not everyone or everything is perfect and that is why everything is dependent on something to get something done perfectly. SOURCE 4 Habib, Maki H., and Y. Baudoin. Using Robots In Hazardous Environments : Landmine Detection, De-Mining And Other Applications. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing, 2011. Discovery eBooks. Web. 27 Sept. 2016. The thought of using robots in tasks which may risk the life of humans is actually a productive idea. Humans lives are valued more than robots. The answer to that is simply because we can program the same robot back to life. But once a life of a human is lost there is no force on Earth that would be able to bring it back. Robots should be slotted into task forces to do mining, collecting rare jewels, oil digging. This is because humans have a hard time doing works in such hazardous conditions. They should also be sorted out to do works based on landmine detection and other things that is life threatening. Jobs like these should be replaced by artificial intelligence and not humans. Governments should take initiatives to replace human task forces in the mining sectors by robots. SAFIN 5 SOURCE 5 Robots ready to replace human  Bangkok Post (Thailand) 03 Dec. 2012: NewsBank. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. The following news report is related to my article because it talks about the easeness of replacing human labor to robotic. It approaches with the talk about how the world is looking forward to covert human task forces to robot labor. We know the average currency of the world is rising drastically every day. In order to reduce cost production on such massive rise companies are looking for more efficient ways to carry out the same task. The one easy solution that they found was to replace humans by robots. By doing such not only could they benefit lower cost productions but also at the same time benefit more surplus of supplies. Commanding robots would be easy and much more effective. At times of demand in the market robots can work faster than human capacity to do mass productions in the market. During times of low demand robots would be shut down and only miniature production would be made. Thus it would be much more satisfactory to deal with robots and not humans. SOURCE 6 Zelinski, Peter. The unexpected advantages of robotic automation: this shop justified the robot solely through improved use of labor. Other benefits came to light after the automation  Modern Machine Shop 2013: 66. General OneFile. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. The article mentioned above talks about the advantages of robot automation when in motion. It is related to my research topic by the fact that robots may be the only key to the rise of an economy. The advantages would in the robotic sector is huge. There is the option of greater flexibility ,better contact prices, higher insourcing etc. Humans tend to lack motivation in doing a simple SAFIN 6 task over and over again due to the task being boring. Robots on the other hand can maximize production and not be bored doing a certain task better and faster. Companies can easily shift to certain productions with the blink of an eye. This is mainly because robots take to be programmed and adjusted to a certain type of task. Humans lack specialty in certain tasks as they are not used to be doing new work that has to be done superfast. Other than that, companies can make easier and cheaper deals with customers when robots are involved as task forces in the working station. This is simply because companies can place orders due to flexibility in tasks on robot specialty. We are not fighting for the elimination of human existence by replacing them with robots. Rather we are just fighting for the better of human kind in order to build a solidified, well-structured programmed economy.