Castillano 1 Sharae Castillano Professor Sarah Roth Composition 1 February 17, 2017 Predicting the Future: Divination and Tarot Tarot cards are a deck which includes 78 cards that contain 22 Major Arcana cards and 56 Minor Arcana cards. Each card represents something and are usually used to predict the future. Divination is the practice of seeking knowledge of the future or the unknown by supernatural means. There are various types of divination such as astrology, palmistry, and the Ouija boards. But there is one both popular and controversial; Tarot cards. Tarot cards are known to be a divination tool and came about in the early 1400s in Northern Italy. Tarot cards have hundreds of different interpretations, which is why one card can mean several different things for multiple people. These cards are a taboo subject, but how curious are you about your future? If there was an opportunity to get a tarot card reading, would you peek into your future? In this project, I investigate all the factors that may or may not lead one to take an interest in tarot cards. Herman, Barbara. Is Tarot? A Professional Tarot Card Reader Tells Internation Business Times.N.p., 30 May 2015.Web.08 Feb.2017. Castillano 2 In this article, Barbara Herman interviews and writes about Angeliska Polacheck of Sister Temperance Tarot which is the name of her shop/company. This article is basically Polacheck explaining the history of tarot cards and how she became a tarot card reader. To Polacheck, getting a tarot card reading, especially from her, just about her clients getting easy answers about their future. She wants them to put in work in their readings and actually have some kind of input. According to Polacheck, We have power over what we so seeking straight answers from her going to work. With her shop/company, Polacheck could and has peaked interest in quite a bunch of people from all over the world. She has had a lot of people who would much rather visit her than a therapist and has had even one client who said that Polacheck the most beautiful and loving and is than therapy and twice as This says plenty since therapy is meant to be a safe place or a place where one can release their innermost secrets and thoughts. If people are more comfortable going to a tarot card reader than a therapist, it can influence others to do the same. But, like any and everything in this world, to each his own. Cole, Kresley, Poison Princess. New York: Simon & Schuster For Young Readers, 2012.Print. Kresley series, Arcana includes mostly the Major Arcana which consists of 22 tarot cards. In the book, the 22 Major Arcana are in a war repeatedly, but every time the war happens, they forget who they are. The main character, Evangeline Greene, is in a sort of a trance. In the beginning of the book she thinks crazy for having visions of the apocalypse until it happens and more than half of the world is wiped out. Throughout the book, another character/love interest, Jackson Deveaux, vows to protect her Castillano 3 and carry her to her house because her grandmother tried to teach her of the tarot cards when she was young; she was forced to forget her teachings. Her grandmother was trying to prepare her for the war that was to come with the Major Arcana. Although there are some people that are skeptical about tarot cards or tarot card readings, most are either for or against them. Kresley displayed more of an imaginative, way of tarot cards as actual people. She gave each card of the Major Arcana a storyline and purpose which helped her readers to connect with them. Although it guaranteed, this allows readers to get more comfortable with tarot cards and their readings and makes them want to learn more about them and their history. Tarot Tips for the Tarot Beginners Biddy Tarot Biddy Tarot.N.p.,17 Jan.2017.Web.09 Feb.2017 In this article, Brigit gave 12 tarot tips for tarot beginners. She herself practices tarot reading so she shared her intel on how to learn to read them. Although these tips are specifically for learning tarot reading, Brigit basically shares advice that can be helpful when learning anything. Whether learning a trick or a new language, all her tips can be applied. For example, two of her tips were to a personal connection and a study Making a personal connection has always been a great way of learning something foreign. With a study buddy, sharing a skill that both study partners are passionate about and both helping each other learn. Study buddies or study groups are almost always an efficient way to learn something. With tarot cards, they can be connected or applied to anything you see of learn so just using them can help. Castillano 4 This article creates a comfortable space for anyone either curious to learn about tarot cards or beginners training to practice tarot card reading. Tarot card readings can have various meanings and be very befuddling to the tarot reader. The tips that the article provided helps for the person of interest, whether he/she is a beginner or not at tarot card reading, to not only learn how to read tarot cards, but to have their own insight and meaning to it. Koerner, Brendan I. do tarot cards come Slate Magazine.N.p.10 Oct.2002.Web.09 Feb.2017. This article basically gives a brief explanation of where tarot cards came from and when they arose in society. The oldest set, one of the originals, left remaining is called the Visconti- Sforza deck and was made for the Duke of family around 1440. The article also tells a bit about how tarot cards were originally a game called tarachhi. Taracchi cards are two sets of fifty 15 th century Italian prints. The game was spread throughout Europe until it was eventually called tarot and then later used to predict future. Further into the 18 th century, it is said that a man named Antoine Court de Gebeline wrote a book connecting tarot cards to a god called Thoth. As time passed, many have turned to tarot. History is very important when it comes to learning about something new and it can play a big part about whether one wants to learn about something or not. This article, although short, gives an informative piece about where tarot cards came from. When it comes to tarot cards, anyone, whether a businessman or office clerk, can be involved with them; just as in the past when it was a game called Tarachhi, anyone could play. Castillano 5 Liebenson, Bess. a Passion for Tarot Cards led to a Full-Time The New York Times. The New York Times, 20 Sept.2000.Web.09 Feb.2017 This article talks all about Stuart Kaplan. Stuart Kaplan was a man involved in buying and selling coal and copper mines. His life took a huge turn when he went to a toy fair while on his visit to Germany and came across a tarot deck. He admitted himself saying, became entranced with a deck of tarot and he sold a huge amount of decks, wrote a book on it, and after six months sold 700,000 copies. He eventually became a bit addicted to collecting the cards, but he was not one to get his fortune told. He using the tarot deck as one usually would, but he was still able to make a business out of it. This article is a perfect example of one can be involved without actually being Although Stuart Kaplan was fascinated by tarot cards to the point where he sold them and even wrote a book about them, he was never interested in getting his fortune read. He believed that if he got his fortune read he might be swept into and he prefer to be objective about what I collect and There are many people who avoid getting their fortune told, but, as said before, you have to be involved to be involved. Whether one is scared of tarot cards or simply skeptical about them, one can still learn about them. Uses for Reflections- Uses for Tarot.N.p.,n.d.Web.09 Feb.2017. Just as water just for drinking, tarot cards used only for fortune telling. This article explains the many different uses of tarot cards. It explains that tarot cards can be used to meditate and tells us about our past and present, and much more. This gives the tarot cards many Castillano 6 different functions and meanings. The article even discusses a bit about how tarot cards were originally used as playing cards in a game (and can still be used as so.) As far as religion goes, most religions say not to get your fortune told. What about being told about your present or even past? As said in this article, tarot cards can be used for many different things. Though there are these different uses for tarot cards, many religions forbid it completely. With Christians, to be specific, the Bible condemns divination on a whole.