Johnson 1 Hunter Johnson Prof. Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Women in Combat Over that past few decades there has been controversy on roles in the military. In 1994 the Pentagon released the Combat Exclusion Policy which declared, members are eligible to be assigned to all positions for which they are qualified, except that women shall be excluded from assignment to units below the brigade level whose primary mission is to engage in direct combat on the (Broadwell) These assignments included Infantry, Artillery, Special Forces, and Armor. In the past, women could serve in non-combatant positions, such as Medical Corps, Ordnance, or Intelligence. It was not until 2013 that the Combat Exclusion Policy was lifted. Even though the policy was lifted, women struggled to pass military combat schools. Some say that the graders were biased towards women, while others feel that it is proof that women are not fit to serve in combat roles. The first women to pass the Infantry Basic Officer Leadership Course (IBOLC) was not until 2016. (Babb) Ever since the Combat Exclusion Policy was lifted in 1994, there has been a lot of negative and positive publicity on roles in the military. One of the larger stakeholders in the debate is the Service Action Network (SWAN), an organization that is trying to integrate women into combat positions. The opponent stakeholder is the Center for Military Readiness (CMR), they believe women should not be in combat positions. In order to move forward in society, debates like these need to be solved with a compromise. Johnson 2 Founded in 2007 and currently led by Judy L. Patterson, SWAN is a nonprofit organization that fights against discrimination and violence in the military. SWAN also helps service women who face sexual harassment and provides service women with reproductive healthcare. As stated on their website, their mission is: Our mission is to be the most influential and effective network of service women, acting as their champion, advocate and best information resource: Celebrating the strength, abilities and accomplishments of the fastest growing segment of the US military, utilizing people, knowledge and influence to eliminate obstacles and drive change, facilitating progress through research, education, mentorship and outreach, and fighting for service rights today, paving the way for their growth tomorrow. (Patterson) SWAN was one of the key proponents in getting the Combat Exclusion Policy removed. In 2001, SWAN claimed a lawsuit with the Department of Defense, saying, Combat Exclusion Policy does not reflect the realities of modern does not reflect the capabilities and skills of our service women. This has dire consequences both for the military at large and for individual service (Iskra) SWAN also believed that the policy acted as a that prevented women from having deployment time, which is a crucial component for promotions. SWAN hopes that one day women will be able to serve in all sectors of the military. They also want to have a single physical fitness standard for both females and males. Overall, they want equality for women in the workforce. Founded in 1993 and headed by Elainie Donnelly, the CMR does research for new military policies and makes sure the United States military upholds its reputation as the strongest fighting force. According to their mission statement: Johnson 3 The Center for Military Readiness is an independent, non-partisan, public policy organization with a unique mission. CMR promotes high standards and sound priorities in the making of military personnel policies, and takes the lead in defending elements of military culture that are essential for morale and readiness in the All-Volunteer Force. (Donnelly) CMR is one of the most active critics when it comes to integrating women into combat units. CMR is known for discrediting many proponent stakeholders with past and current studies. For example, on February 2, 2016, the Senate held the first meeting addressing roles in the military since 1991. At the meeting, CMR provided a 37-page statement of empirical data that disproved theories of gender equality in the military. (Donnelly) CMR believes equal opportunity is important but if it conflicts with the needs, then equal opportunity is set aside. They also believe policies should be based on research and data derived from actual experience, not sociological theories. (Donnelly) They believe that allowing women into combat roles will only weaken the military. CMR says that the physical fitness standards would have to be lowered so females could compete the physical ability of males. So, when women do make it into a combat unit, how are they supposed to carry the weight of full grown man? Also, the CMR wants to avoid sexual conduct and fraternization within a unit. They believe women would be a distraction to men on deployment. Another point made by CMR, is that pregnancies would only add more issues to the endless list of issues in a combat unit. A woman in a non-combatant position can work until they are due, unlike in a combat role where a woman will need months of maternal leave because the working conditions are too harsh. The CMR also believes that women should not be in combat roles because they are subject to harsher treatment, if they were Johnson 4 ever taken prisoner. Overall, the CMR wants to make sure the military is working at its full potential. Despite and opposing views, they do happen to have common ground. Both organizations support women serving in the military. CMR believes it should be limited, while SWAN believes women should have full access. Both organizations believe the military should have physical fitness standards. SWAN thinks that there should be a single physical fitness standard for both males and females, while CMR believes the physical fitness standard should remain separate. Both organizations want to avoid sexual harassment and conduct within the military. With these common goals, a compromise can be made. One compromise for the issue is to make all-female combat units. This solution would support most of the ideas of both stakeholders. Firstly, all-female units would neither lower nor strengthen military standards for physical fitness. There would be a set standard women would have to pass in order to make it into that unit; same thing with males. Also in this case, no one would have to worry about a capability of doing heavy lifting. A woman in an all- women unit would not have to carry a man who is double her size. Secondly, all-female units would deter sexual assault and fraternization. Not saying that the problem of sexual assault would be eliminated completely, but it would definitely see a decrease. Both stakeholders are seeing benefit. Women would be allowed in combat without lowering the standards of the military. In addition, there would be a reduction in sexual conduct. The only opposing idea to the compromise is that it is on the terms segregation. In defense to that idea, unlike racial segregation which is based on sociological ideas, gender segregation is based off biological ideas. In world, we see gender segregation Johnson 5 everywhere. Society has separate locker rooms and separate bathrooms. So, the idea of that the compromise is unjust, because it is segregation, is invalid. There has been the use of all-female units in other settings. In the United States Marine Corp, they already use all-female recruitment units. To eliminate sexual distractions at basic training they separate female and male recruits. This system seems to work because only 13.3 percent of women drop out of Marine Corp basic training. (Seck) There has also been a presence of all-female units in the past. The 1077th Anti-aircraft Regiment of the Soviet Union was an all- female unit in World War II that held off a Nazi invasion. During the combat, the regiment destroyed 83 tanks,15 other vehicles, three battalions of infantry, and shot down 14 aircraft. (Lindsay) With these references, it is clear that an all-female combat unit is possible and effective. To this day, the United States military has the most females than any other military force. For the most part women have not seen combat until recently when the Combat Exclusion Policy was lifted. When this happened, it started a huge debate on whether women should or should not serve in combat. Some of the most vocal stakeholders were CMR and SWAN. Despite their disagreements, they still hold common ground which can support a compromise. The compromise being all-female combat units. If women show that they are fit for combat, then one day they might be integrated into male units. Johnson 6 Works Cited Babb, Carla. First Women Graduate US Army Infantry Officer  VOA. N.p., 26 Oct. 2016. Web. Broadwell, Paula. Women at  The New York Times. N.p., 20 Oct. 2009. Web. Donnelly, Elainie. Center for Military Readiness. N.p., n.d. Web. Iskra, Darlene M. The Combat Exclusion Policy: Under Attack  Time. N.p., 20 Nov. 2009. Web. Lindsay, Drew. Women  HistoryNet. N.p., 14 Apr. 2016. Web. Patterson, Judy L. Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. Seck, Hope. The Book Camp Gender Divide: The Case For Co-ed Training  Marine Corps Times. N.p., 3 Apr. 2015. Web.