Simeon 1 Reneta Simeon Sarah Roth ENC 1101 February 19 th , 2017 Use and Availability of Drugs in the United States and the Americas Since the Declaration of the War on Drugs Since the 1980s, the United States government has focused many resources on the on a term first popularized by President Nixon in the 1970s. President Ronald Reagan believed that illicit drugs posed an immediate threat to the national security of our country and deemed it enemy number (The American Presidency Project). The objective was to discourage and eliminate the production and use of these substances: cocaine (including crack), methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, marijuana, prescription-type drugs and any other substance used nonmedically to create a high or feeling of euphoria. Many believe it possible, but Reagan went onto quoting a French Soldier who said there is no such thing as an impossible situation, only those who think it impossible (The American Presidency Project). The Office of National Drug Policy was created for legislative, security, diplomatic, research, and health policy. In later years, those directorial positions became Cabinet-level appointments. But with all these efforts and resources focused on illicit drugs and drug policy, rates of drug availability, use and abuse have risen exponentially. Per the National Institute on Drug Abuse, a 2013 study revealed that approximately 9.4 percent of the population had admitted to using some form of an illicit drug in the past month (NIDA). This number rises from a rate of 8.2 percent only a few years prior. So, the question arises: Have all the policies, laws and programs created Simeon 2 had an overall positive effect on reducing the use and abuse of illicit substances in the United States? Borges, Guilherme, DSc, Cheryl J. Cherpitel, D.Ph., Ricardo Orozco, MSc, Sarah E. Zemore, PhD, Lynn Wallisch, PhD, Maria-Elena Medina-Mora, PhD, and Joshua Breslau, PhD. Substance Use and Cumulative Exposure to American Society: Findings from Both Sides of the US-Mexico Border  American Journal of Public Health 106.1 (2016): 119-127. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The objective of the research was to prove a connection between Mexican immigration to the United States and how our culture affected the use of alcohol and drugs as well as any disorders that may arise with continuous use of these illicit substances (Borges et. al 119-120). The US-Mexico Study on Alcohol and Related Conditions (UMSARC) was a cross-sectional, binational survey of 2460 Mexicans and 2336 Mexican Americans. This study proved that those who participated had an increased pervasiveness to the use and ultimate abuse of illicit substances with increased exposure to American society. The result did show a correlation between continuous migration and time spent in contact with our Society and drug and alcohol use. It also showed that the rates of increased drug use and disorders were much higher than those of alcohol. This source is conclusive because it provides a detailed analysis of how exposure to American society affects drug use, addiction and disorders despite an overwhelming commitment by the U.S. government to the on As an article from an Academic Journal, this source proves to be credible. In this study, Borges et. al also provides possible counterarguments to balance their findings and create an unbiased Simeon 3 source. It also addressed that the increase in drug and alcohol use cannot be attributed to a single factor. These outcomes may have also arisen due to in domestic arrangements because of a missing family time in the United States, and a few other uncontrollable factors (Borges et. al 122-123). Patten, Daniel. The Mass Incarceration of Nations and The Global War on Drugs: Comparing the United Domestic and Foreign Drug  Social Justice 1 (2017): 85- 105,121. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Published at the start of 2017, this report identifies the increasing rates of individuals incarcerated in the United Sates since 1975 at the start of War on Drugs. From 1980 to 2000 alone there was a 300 percent increase in the number of individuals incarcerated and the U.S. managed to take the lead as the world leader in mass incarceration (Patten 85). Although many of those incarcerated were not convicted for drug related offenses, the war on drugs still played a major role in their sentencing. The author explains that along with the War on drugs came a rhetoric that remains true to this day. Patten also analyzes the effects of Strikes which has been the cause of more 25 year-to-life sentences for drug possession than for rape, murder and kidnapping combined (Butterfield 1996). This resource was published in the Social Justice academic journal, a source that has survived criticism from fellow peers. research supports the belief that the War on Drugs has had an overall negative effect on our country. extensive drug policies, both foreign and domestic, have had opposite effects from those initially intended. Patten also identifies that the rhetoric has overexaggerated Simeon 4 crime as crime rates have decreased recently whilst drug rates rise exponentially (Patten 86). Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality. (September 4, 2014). The NSDUH Report: Substance Use and Mental Health Estimates from the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Overview of Findings: 1-8. Rockville, MD. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) publishes an annual survey recording information on drug and alcohol use, substance use disorders, treatment, mental health issues and services. Their National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) Report contains information taken from a survey of the noninstitutionalized population of the United States aged 12 years old or (SAMHSA 2014). All survey respondents were asked about their use of illicit drugs and alcohol within the 30 days prior to the interview. The survey recorded that 24.6 million Americans aged 12 and older had used some form of illicit drugs in the past month only, representing 9.4 percent of the population. The credibility of the SAMHSA is apparent in the frequency and details present in the NSDUH Report. The information provided is taken at a census level and is very direct and detailed. The questions presented to respondents are clearly defined and provide no room for ambiguity. This source proved to be relevant to my research question because the NSDUH Report analyzes changes in drug and alcohol use over the past few decades. The report also analyzes possible reasons for the continual increase in substance abuse such as lack of treatment and any obstacles that may put treatment out of reach. Simeon 5 objective approach to their research despite their part in recovery support initiatives allows their study to be used as an unbiased resource. Winkelman, Michael. Drug Tourism or Spiritual Healing? Ayahuasca Seekers in  Journal of Psychoactive Drugs 37.2 (2005): 209-18. Taylor and Francis Group. Journal of Psychoactive Drugs, 7 Sept. 2011. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. The purpose of this research is to address Westerners who seek the traditional, spiritual medicine known as ayahuasca can be best characterized as or as people pursuing spiritual and therapeutic (Winkelman 209). He identifies the sacred and cultural use of the ayahuasca plants and how they have attracted a range of individuals from across the globe. In recent years, the numbers have severely skyrocketed. Winkelman goes in detail about the ritual process and how individuals can begin to experience this spiritual healing. In a study called Ayahuasca a diverse group of individuals go to Amazonia in search of the ayahuasca retreat. They are first asked about their individual motivations to try the drug and later asked about its results. It is important to understand that although the article is not a direct reflection of this research, it provides insights into the human motivation to use certain drugs and illicit substances. These motivations can range from curiosity and fun to emotional and spiritual healing. Understanding these individual reasons for using drugs can contribute to understanding why our country has seen an exponential increase in drug use recently. Although it has negative physical side effects, people report enjoying the ritual. This can also allow us to gain insight into why individuals continually use illicit substances when the negative effects are so great. This peer-reviewed journal article provides multiple Simeon 6 views on the ayahuasca drug use and as well as the intrinsic and extrinsic motivations of the individuals participating in this (Winkelman 210). Bourgois, Philippe. Mystery of Marijuana: Science and the U.S. War on Substance Use & Misuse 43 (2008): 581-83. Philippe Bourgois. Philippe Bourgois, 1 Apr. 2008. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. article assesses the repression of marijuana during the War on Drugs and its effect on drug policy. In the 2000s alone, U.S. federal law enforcement spent over $4 billion per year arresting millions of people on marijuana charges, usually on mere charges of possession (Bourgois 581). Philippe Bourgois states that intensive statistics on increased drug use and consumption are not enough to positively contribute to drug and health policies (Bourgois 581). He identifies that to a certain degree; societal infrastructure is responsible for different types of drug use amongst different class levels. Over the past decades, different drugs have exhibited different levels of popularity amongst citizens. The country graduated from heroin in in the 1950s and 1970s, to crack/cocaine and marijuana in later years (Bourgois 582). Philippe Bourgois is a world-renowned anthropologist whose work has withstood criticism through time. His work across North and Central America have ranged from immigration to political violence and drugs. His article provides insight into the purpose of this research because it connects the increase of drug use in the United States to unsuccessful attempts at restrictive drug policy by the federal government. The article proposes the idea that the criminalization of drugs dramatically increase their consumption and profitability. War on Drugs has clearly backfired in the United (Bourgois 582). Simeon 7 Hingson, Ralph, Timothy Heeran, Michael Winter, and Henry Wechsler. MAGNITUDE OF ALCOHOL-RELATED MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY AMONG U.S. COLLEGE STUDENTS AGES Changes from 1998 to  Annual Review of Public Health 26 (2005): 259-79. Annual Reviews. Annual Reviews, 21 Apr. 2005. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Hingson et.al uses data from sources like the Center for Disease Control and the National Household Survey on Drug Abuse to calculate the average unintentional injuries and deaths related to alcohol use amongst college students in 1998 and 2001. Approximately 1600 to 1700 students died from unintentional alcohol-related deaths, a 6 percent increase per college population (Hingson et. al 259). More than 500,000 were injured because of drinking in the same time frame. Also, from 1999 to 2002, proportion of college students ages who drank 5 or more drinks on an occasion in the previous 30 days increased from 41.7% to (Hingson et. al 256). This article goes on to evaluate the effects of zero tolerance laws, alcohol taxes, and other program and policies on alcohol use in college students. This sources focuses primarily on the implementation of laws and programs to help reduce alcohol related deaths. It is credible because it draws from nationally published, census data to convey the effects of alcohol on students in 1998 and 2001. Hingson et. al do propose more rigorous laws and intervention programs to lessen the problem but the U.S. has been implementing these types of programs for decades and they have had little to no effect since.