Lordeus 1 Regine Lordeus Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 12 February 2017 Standardized Testing Standardized testing is designed to assess academic performances and to compare relative performances. Students test scores are managed and recorded in a steady technique that consists of multiple choice questions and one expository essay. Practically every high school student must complete the process of taking the SAT or ACT if they are interested in attending a college, university, or a performing arts school. The SAT or ACT is required for almost any college entry and increases a chance of earning a scholarship based on their scores. Although standardized testing may not sound as difficult or seem unbiased, stakeholders beg to differ. Educators 4 Excellence envisions equitable and an excellent education system that provides all students the opportunity to succeed and elevates the teaching (Educators 4 Excellence 1). Their beliefs are should remain taking the standardized test regularly, but should not be analyzed based on their test score. Meanwhile, National Education Association envisions that is the gateway to opportunity, and all students have the human and civil right to a quality public education that develops their potential, independence, and (National Education Association 1). They believe that standardize testing should be reduced to relief students stress but should remain to evaluate performances. Although these two organizations are at odds with each other, they have similar goals to make a compromise. The two stakeholders can compromise by lowering the Lordeus 2 standardized testing to at least three times a year, offering to tutor students, and assigning more class assessments for practice. Very few students, teachers, and parents believe standardized testing is a way to evaluate a performance and determine their achievement. The Educators 4 Excellence organization agrees with the statement but begs to make a change. Their mission is to that the voices of classroom teachers are included in the decisions that affect our profession and our (Educators 4 Excellence 1). In other words, their organization believes teachers should also have an input on why they believe students should not be judged by their test scores. Educators 4 Excellence began as a small group in New York, gathering all like-minded teachers together, and teachers who were truly distress about the policy-making about standardized testing. Their organization began to increase in 2011 when thousands of students, teachers, and parents signed their declaration to uplift achievement and get their state senators to agree on bypassing standardized exams. Educators 4 Excellence suppose that evaluating students by their scores is a great idea to assess their potential in academics, and would like for standardized test to be given to students more often. would like to recommend nontraditional tests, adopting computer-adaptive testing and seeking feedback on (Educators 4 Excellence 1). They do not beg for the standardized test to be removed or reduced, but they do plan to adopt more different styles of testing to allow students to see the different levels in their academic performances. Educators 4 Excellence believes that standardized test should not determine a achievement and should not be based on a entry to college, university, or any school of their choice. should never be the sole basis for any high-stakes (Educators 4 Excellence 1). Students are very stressed when they lack the skills to achieve the high score required to enter Lordeus 3 college, or even stress to earn a scholarship. When a student performs low on a standardized test, it not only sets the student up for failure, but teachers may also become very overwhelmed. Educators 4 goal is to get colleges to evaluate performances such as their grades and growth, and not by the values of their test score due to disadvantages. While Educators 4 Excellence suppose standardized testing should not be taken away, National Education Association believes that the district should reduce the testing to maybe once a year. The National Education Association mission is fulfill the promise of public education and to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse/interdependent (National Education Association 1). National Education Association was originally founded in 1857 and was found by forty-three educators in Philadelphia. National Education Association it is now known worldwide for their professionalism. They that the expertise and judgment of education professionals are critical to student (National Education Association 1). NEA (National Education Association) wants to focus on reducing the number of standardized test in grades three through twelve. Their goal is to have students only test on assessments created by the teacher and to have students test once a year taking the standardized test. Although they do believe the standardized test should still measure ability and achievement, but they would like to have testing lowered so they would not have to test three to five times a year. Too much testing may misinform the public because tests are secret, so the public cannot know what students are expected to (Ehrenfreund 2). Therefore, the less standardized test, the less chance of students stressing and teachers overwhelming themselves. In order for this goal of theirs to pass, everyone who agrees with their mission statement must sign a petition. With the petition, the stakeholder will bring it to the district attention, so the senators may consider reducing the numbers of test they issue students every Lordeus 4 year. Allowing this petition to pass will set students stress free about college entrance. The National Education Association would like students to be evaluated by their grade point average, conduct, and one standardized test they need to take every year. For example, NEA would like colleges to evaluate students test scores as they move up each year. Colleges will have to determine student acceptance on whether their scores have been increasing or decreasing as they move up to a new grade. Education 4 Excellence would like to consider keeping standardized testing, while National Education Association would like for testing to reduced once a year, or completely removed. In order for these two stakeholders to set common ground, they must each give up a side. Both stakeholders will have to let the exams determine the performance in school. National Education Association and Education 4 Excellence can compromise together by lowering the standardized test to three times a year, allowing students to test multiple times, and offering students more class assessments to build up their strengths. NEA will have to give up the idea of having students test once a year and E4E will have to consider having teachers test their students more on class assessments. The more practice assessment, the more help students will receive in order to overcome those disadvantage of theirs. According to OccupyTheory, they agree to have standardized test evaluate students. are used to assess the level that students are at in their (OccupyTheory 3). When they mention evaluating students, it is to compare results with other students in their school, state, or district. It is not to attack the student about their test score. SAT and ACT allow students to test multiple times. It may be expensive, but students can get help on ways to get their exams waived. Lordeus 5 Educator 4 Excellence goals are to have students test regularly no matter how many times the state may offer it a year. They believe standardized testing should not measure a student achievement. Educator 4 Excellence would rather have students participate in taking the standardized test to evaluate their own performances and examine how much information they have obtained for the school year. Meanwhile, National Education Association believes testing should be reduced to once a year, and have it determine potential. If possible, these two stakeholders can form a compromise by lowering the standardized testing to at least three times a year, offering before or after school tutoring to students, allowing students to re-test, and assigning more class assessments for practice. Although they are at odds with each other, both stakeholders will have to let the exams determine performance in school. Colleges need a way to evaluate students, and standardized testing is the best option they have thus far. Lordeus 6 Work Cited and Disadvantages of Standardized OccupyTheory, 12 Aug. 2014, pp.1-4. Web Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 Ehrenfreund, Max. civil rights groups support standardized The Washington Post, 14 April 2014, pp.1-3. Web 26 January 2017 Jehlen, Alain. To Congress: Less Standardized Testing, More Help National Education Association, August. 2015, pp.1-2. Web. 26 January 2017 Educators 4 Excellence, March. 2013. Web. 26 January 2017 Wrong With Standardized  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing. N.p., 22 May 2012. Web. 12 Nov. 2013.