Chao Ma Ma 1 Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 26 Feb 2017 Child Abuse Parents, children, family: when these words first come to a mind, the thought should always be warm. Most individuals believe that childhood is the best period of time in life because kids can enjoy their childhood in a warm home and live the most valuable memories of their life. In addition, scientists also firmly believe that the childhood experience is an important factor that influence an life. According to Minnesota Longitudinal Study of Risk and Adaptation: type of emotional support that a child receives during the first three and a half years has an effect on education, social life and romantic relationships even 20 or 30 years (Lee Raby 12). This study shows how early children experience is important to develop the many aspects of an individual. Those children who have a happy childhood will be across various time intervals (Lee Raby). However, there are a lot of children who cannot live this way in their childhood. These two images are made from a worldwide child protection organization named UNICEF who fought over 70 years against child abuse. These two images used two typical child abuse cases, either child abuse in their home or child trafficking, to show how innocent children are suffering child abuse nowadays. In these two images, two children are both suffering from abuse and UNICEF uses their hopelessness to move people to combat it. Pathos are used to give a sense of sympathy and call the audience to action. By blocking the door with toys and holding back tears have nothing to do with their current situation. Therefore, audience will be more aware of thinking about how these children are helpless and desperate. The home has become a strange place to them, where one child wants to leave and the other dreams to arrive. So Logos is used to show audience the results of child abuse. In addition, the words on the images also state how urgent the situation is. According to a statement from the United Nations: year, between 500 million and 1.5 billion children worldwide endure Ma 2 some form of Moreover, the number of child abuse cases is steadily increasing each year. These two images provided both a phone number and website to give the audience easy way to access more information, as well as show their credibility and timeliness. All of the Pathos, Karios, Ethos, and Logos are used for telling a truth, which is that the weakest children have faced the greatest challenges and that it need to be this way. The first image shows a child staring at the audience with innocent eyes. Her face is complicated to read. The words shows that she is the one who is being trafficked. Her innocent eyes are trying to tell the audience about her story but tears in her eyes also prevent this. She might have tried thousands of times to ask for help before this and all the results have made her numb. Now she cannot believe or trust anyone, but the thought of going home still pushes her tears out. All these Pathos are used to give people a sense of sympathy. The first image also used a lot of words to explain the situation. On the contrary, the girl just stares at the audience and say anything. This contrast makes the audience guess about the girl: maybe she is a disabled person, a mute or is even to depressed to say anything. This contrast between the words and eye contact can be considered as Logos. There are also some huge numbers used in this image. For example, the number than 5 children is being trafficked is given to shock the audience. And they believe in is their future aim. For the first image, this poster shows the number and website of the organization. The audience can easily access and test its credibility. And the sentence to get more also shows how this organization wants people to join in. The logo of the organization was placed at the top of the image which is the secondary eye-catching position. All of these can be considered as evidence of their credibility. For the first image, the sentence right here in the United gives people a sense of urgency. Because it was published in the United States, the target Ma 3 audience is the Americans people living in the United States. Everyone who sees this image will want to action measure because it is happening right now. Furthermore, the website uses the color blue to create a better visual. People can easily get access to the website. All of these factors ask the audience to take action, this girl is waiting for the audience to rescue her. The second image shows a child is peacefully sleeping in his bed while the living room light creeps underneath the door. The audience should notice that he has built a wall of toys against the door. This wall may give him a moment of security. There is no doubt that this child is also under the threat of potential child abuse. The wall made of toys gives the audience a sense of sympathy. It tells the audience that child abuse could be happen at any time and that the child cannot do anything when it does happen. The Pathos can be found from the comparison between the different colors. Most of the colors here are dark but the light and toys are colorful. The colorful toys represent the innocence of children. Compared with parents, these toys are so weak and useless. The audience is led to think that this child is a victim of abuse. In addition, logos can be found in the usage of light. The light outside is turned on and his parents may rush into the room at any time and abuse him. His parents may be having a quarrel outside. The comparison between the sleeping child and quarreling parents gives us a sense of uncomfortable. Nobody wants to get interrupted while the sleeping but the only thing this kid can do is to use toys to block the door. logo is placed in the right corner. It gives the audience a symbol of authority that represents this organization. Because there is an earth in the logo, it is also shows that it is a global organization. On the door, the website of this organization. This not only gives the audience a useful way to help these children but also gives them a way to test the authority of this organization. For the second image, Karios is not obvious, but the sentence on the door could be interpreted as such. The sentence on the door you fight child abuse, who Ma 4 (UNICEF) gives people a sense of urgency. The sleeping boy cannot do anything about it so the measures should be taken by the audiences. These two images are both from UNICEF and they used similar rhetorical strategies to show the issue to the public. Using the image of a child directly to draw the attention of the audience. They also used some of key words to give the audience some background information on child abuse. Once audience has interest in these images, the key words also push the audience to move forward to understand more about child abuse. That is why the phone number and website are provided right after these key words. Lastly, the audience is more likely to call the number or browse the website for more information. I believe that these two images are quite effective is persuading the audience. Ma 5 Image one: Ma 6 Image two: Ma 7 Works Cited Raby, K. L., Roisman, G. I., Fraley, R. C. and Simpson, J. A. Enduring Predictive Significance of Early Maternal Sensitivity: Social and Academic Competence Through Age 32 United Nations, Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Violence against Children. a World Free From Violence: Global Survey on Violence Against October, 2013. What we do. Unicef. https://www.unicef.org/ Y & R Johannesburgo. Unicef.