Solano 1 Ariana Solano L.E. DuBois Composition 2 February 26 2017 Livable Wages for Factory Workers Having a living wage is a necessity all kinds of workers should be able to receive. In Asia over 15 million people work in the garment industry, an industry like this relies on cheap labor equaling in a failure to provide a livable wage. (Clean Clothes Campaign). A Livable wage is a minimum amount that a worker must earn to afford the bare necessities (Just Economics). The minimum wage should be equivalent to a livable wage but it is not the case in all jobs. Clean Clothes Campaign began their mission in 1989 to help workers receive the respect they deserve. mission is to improve the working conditions and create empowerment to industry workers (Clean Clothes Campaign). They stronger believe in the idea that every working should have a livable wage. Clean Clothes Campaign mission is to make sure the human right to a living wage is provided to garment workers, both images reflect on what it means to have a living wage and why it is important for a worker to receive enough to maintain a healthy lifestyle by using ethos, pathos, and kairos. The first image from Clean Clothes Campaign is a clean/bold advertisement that uses various colors which are very visually appealing. The purpose of this image is to show what categories fall into the necessities of living. They list 7 categories; Food, Rent, Healthcare, Education, Clothing, Transportation, and Savings. Any worker should be able to afford all those categories with their salary. The image asks the audience to understand why these aspects are important. In different cultures, for example, the American culture people might even take these Solano 2 for granted not realizing some families cannot afford all the same things they can. The advertisement tries to accomplish an understanding that a living wage should be a human right regardless of where they are living. A living wage should be able to be earned in no more than 48 hours which is a standard working week (Clean Clothes Campaign). In industries like the garment industry workers do not have a say in many things one being their wages (Kates 1). This advertisement makes people question the morality of not getting a fair living wage in this type of industry. The second from Clean Clothes Campaign is a simple yet meaningful advertisement. The images purpose is to show that half is not enough, the ad includes red lines through midpoints of various parts in the ad. This highlights the idea of how half is not enough because it would not be a full advertisement without the other half of it. The image makes the audience realize that everyday things come with a price that is not achievable to all. The image tries to accomplish that making half of what a person should be making I not enough to support their everyday needs. People should not have to worry if their paycheck for the week will be enough to cover food for the table and rent. Without receiving a living wage employees must work overtime to receive bonuses or are unable to call out even for illnesses (Clean Clothes Campaign). Constantly working is not good for the body and in many industries workers are required to be on their feet most of the day (Kates 1). The advertisements main goal is to try and advocate the idea of having garment workings paid a living wage. The first rhetorical appeal the is present in both image 1 and image 2 is the ethos. This reflects on the truthfulness, credibility, and morality of the images. In image 1 all categories are responsible and are at least used once a week if not every day, this reflects on the truthful aspect Solano 3 of the advertisement. The image is accurate in stating a living wage is a human right for all people. Where a person lives should not determine if they should be allowed a living wage or be subject to being cheap labor. Morally this image appeals to people because without a living wage people can not afford the things they need. People can reflect on their job/pay and reflect on how there could be people who do more and get paid less than them. So much lower that they can not even afford basic necessities. Image 2 has many similarities to the first. The advertisement is shown to be accurate because half is not enough especially if bills cost amount of money while a person only makes By not getting paid a full wage mean being unable to pay for bills fully. Morally this advertisement appeals to the idea of workers being unable to provide for families because they do not make enough as they should. The next rhetorical appeal is pathos, this appeals to the emotions the audience should feel while looking at both advertisements. In image one the concept of having a livable wage as a human right make the audience question the disadvantage not getting a living wage puts them at. When people do not make enough to where they can live off if it sacrifices are made. Less food than needed is purchased for the week, worn clothes get passed down or clothes that are grown out of are still worn because they cannot afford to buy new ones. Economic classes often have projects which reflect these concepts, student are asked for a month to wear the same 3 sets of clothes for the whole month. As the month goes on the task because harder and harder to follow because in american culture it is almost considered weird to wear the same clothing in short amounts of time. For image 2 is not is shown with red lines through it, this symbolizes half of what a person can afford. People have to make choices of what more Solano 4 important food, rent, education. It gives the workers sympathy because of the possible challenges assumed when a worker only receives half of what they worked for. The last rhetorical appeal is kairos, only image 2 shows this appeal. Image 2 represents kairos because it refers to their week of action. In 2013 multiple countries in Europe participated in a week of action for industry workers who do not receive a livable wage. During the week of October 21-28 people held actions in streets and shopping centers to bring awareness of what a living wage is and why all workers should receive it (Clean Clothes Campaign). Some forms of campaigning were asking people if they would be willing to work over 12 hours a day with no bathroom breaks, possibly unsafe conditions, and a wage below the poverty line (Clean Clothes Campaign). Image 2 shows support for people who do not make a livable wage, it calls to action the fact that all workers deserve a livable wage. Clean Clothes Campaign mission is to make sure the human right of a living wage is provided to garment workers, both images reflect on what it means to have a living wage and why it is important for a worker to receive enough to maintain a healthy lifestyle by using ethos, pathos, and kairos. CCC strives to make sure the minimum wage is a livable wage for all people. Half is not enough especially when a person has to provide for a family, transportation, housing and more. Word count: 1229 Solano 5 Works Cited Clean Clothes  Clothes Campaign . N.p., 29 Apr. 2013. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Just Economics. Just Economics of Western North  Economics of Western North Carolina About Living Wage Comments . N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Kates, Michael.  The Ethics of Sweatshops and the Limits of Choice  Ethics Quarterly 25.2 (2015): 191-212. Web. Solano 6 Image 1: Image 2: