Peet 1 Austin Peet ENC1102.047 Ms. Hannah Lay January 30th, 2017 Capital Punishment: Both Sides of the Story The topic of the death penalty is often a controversial one, especially in the United States, where it is still used today. Merriam-Webster defines capital punishment as as a punishment given by the court of law for serious Capital punishment has been implemented for hundreds of years and has claimed up to 1,444 lives since 1976. With something that is as heavy as this, it is obviously going to be a polarizing subject. There are organizations that are in favor of capital punishment in the United States and also ones that are against it. Justice For All is a non-profit organization that began in 1997 that is very much for the use of the death penalty, even though they focus on reforming justice as a whole. On their webpage, they use a quote by King Solomon that reads will only be achieved when those who are not injured by crime feels as indignant as those who The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) is an organization that is based in the United States that is against capital punishment. From their website, the mission statement is to the death penalty in the United States and support efforts to abolish the death penalty These two organizations are evidently on two different sides of the spectrum. However, they do have common ground when you further analyze them: they both believe in the rights and justice of the people involved. Even though the differences, this common ground is enough to be able to come up with a common goal that they both can strive to achieve. The two Peet 2 sides can work together to push for better analyzation of all evidence that is involved and to also prioritize the life sentence more often than capital punishment. Justice For webpage includes a large amount of facts and figures that are used to justify the use of the death penalty. Also, they have a full section that is devoted to different pieces of legislation that have been introduced regarding the death penalty throughout the years. Throughout the website, they maintain their very pro-death penalty stance. Their argument for keeping capital punishment around is because the families of victims deserve the closure of the perpetrator who committed the crime being executed. Justice For mission statement is For All shall act as an advocate for change in a criminal justice system that is inadequate in protecting the lives and property of law-abiding For homepage). On their webpage they have tabs that link to information regarding executions, past and present. Also on their website within the tab, there is a quote told by John McAdams at Marquette University that reads we execute murderers and there is in fact no deterrent effect, we have killed a bunch of murderers. If we fail to execute murderers, and doing so would in fact have deterred other murders, we have allowed the killing of a bunch of innocent victims. I would much rather risk the former. This, to me, is not a tough  For All As Stephen H. Unger says in his scholarly article the Death Penalty a Necessary variation of this argument is that, regardless of how effectively the death penalty might deter potential murderers in general, it is 100% effective in deterring executed murderers from repeating their (Unger Is The Death Penalty a Necessary  2012). The NCADP has a website that includes much insight into the vision that they are trying to create when they speak about wanting the death penalty to be abolished across the United States. The NCADP are oldest organization dedicated exclusively to the abolition of Peet 3 the death (NCADP website). On the section of their site, they say that strategic planning, campaign development, and training services, the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty enables every state to be effective, compelling advocates for change. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty seeks to build a diverse and powerful national constituency favoring death penalty And for a little more information, they listed some of their accomplishments as well. Also from their site, the NCADP says with our state and national partners, we have won a string of victories for the death penalty abolition movement. Seven states in the past decade have said no to capital punishment. Today, 19 states and the District of the Columbia are death penalty-free, with significant momentum away from the death penalty in almost every other state where it is still on the (NCADP About ). Even with these radically different opinions, they share common ground on the fact that they both work for the rights and justice of the people involved. With this common ground, they can both share a common goal to strive to achieve, which involves analyzing all evidence repeatedly involved and to prioritize the life sentence more often than capital punishment. A lot of times during the trial, the evidence is mishandled, which can cause a completely innocent person to be executed if put to death. It can be inferred that both sides do not want to see a person that did not commit the crime be put to death. This can be done by threatening legal action against the ones that are in charge of the evidence at hand. According to deathpenaltyinfo.org, there are 12 people that have been executed even though their cases showed strong evidence of innocence. There is no reason to execute a person who could possibly be innocent, as shown through the evidence in the case. Take the case of Larry Griffin, a man who was executed in 1995 and maintained his innocence up until his death. The New York Peet 4 Times states that evidence is overwhelming that he did not kill Mr. (Herbert, New York Times). We cannot allow these situations to happen where the person that is put to death is purely and certainly innocent. In addition to making sure the evidence is factually correct and declaring there has been no tampering with it, it is important to display the prioritization of the life sentence than the death sentence. Neither side should want to see a person have to die because of their actions. Also, life sentencing can be more of a punishment to the person who has committed the crimes. The death penalty should be something that is a last resort upon sentencing someone for their crimes. In conclusion, it can be agreed upon that the death penalty and how it is handled will always be a very heated and debated subject matter. The ability to find common ground within a widely different points of view like this is rare, however, I feel it is rather simple to compare the two different sides and to be able to come up with the common goal in response when discussing this topic. It is clear that due to the fact that both sides believe in the justice and the human rights of the ones affected in a case that involves the death penalty, the goal that should be achieved is to effectively analyze all of the evidence at hand and to prioritize giving the life sentence more than the death penalty. Works Cited: About National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about-us>. Executed But Possibly Death Penalty Info. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Peet 5 Herbert, Bob. Convicted, Executed, Not The New York Times. N.p., 14 July 2005. Web. Justice For All death  tab. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 17. <http://jfa.net/executions.html>. Justice For All homepage. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 17. <jfa.net>. Unger, Stephen H. Is The Death Penalty a Necessary  Columbia. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017.