Roman 1 Isabel Roman Professor Heiser ENC 1102-068 1 March 2017 Advertisements: Influence on Body Satisfaction Throughout centuries, women have come a long way. From being housewives in the to owning multi-million dollar companies in the Women represent femininity, beauty, and power. However, the media tends to represent women with one single perception: perfection. Perfection may be a compliment to some women, however, living up to a perfect image is a lot of pressure to put on an average woman. Dove is a company who presents their skincare products with the motion to stop these perceptions. Their mission is to reach out to women around the globe to promote body satisfaction. purpose in promoting the body of an average women is well represented through their advertisements. There are three uses of visual rhetoric apparent in the images: ethos, pathos, and logos. The utilization of visual rhetoric enhances the goal to attract a large enough audience to apply the self-love campaign in everyday life. In every advertisement that Dove releases, there is an average woman or a young girl presented. In image one, a young girl has a pout look on her face as the words on the advertisement explain why: in 5 girls would consider plastic (Dove). By including statistics in the advertisement, it appeals to logos. The statistic gives reason to the girls face and to the issues that girls face every day. To imagine a lineup of five girls and to think that one of them is most likely struggling with body dissatisfaction is heart wrenching. The media has a Roman 2 major influence on a self-esteem. According to Eleni-Marina Ashikali from the University of Sussex, Helga Dittmar also from the University of Sussex, and Susan Ayers from the City University of London: main findings for body image were an increased more general dissatisfaction with both weight and appearance following exposure to advertising for cosmetic (Ashikali, Dittmar, and Ayers 18). Their findings suggest that the promotion of plastic surgery in the media increases the presence of body dissatisfaction in women. Therefore, advertisement is very relevant regarding the issues that women struggle with daily. Emotion is one of things that all human beings have in common. Dove takes that into consideration in image one by appealing to pathos. It appears that the young girl is in a shrug position with her hands on her face. The placement of her hands symbolize insecurity. She touches her face in hopes of altering it. This allows the audience to sympathize with young girls and hopefully bring about change like Dove is constantly trying to do. Dove includes their website at the bottom of the image to compel viewers to get involved in their campaign. By gathering a large group of individuals to fight for the self-esteem campaign, Dove can make a change. Uniqueness is evident in every individual. There are people with different skin colors, hair textures, and values. Dove promotes these differences in image two where there are eleven unique girls presented in the picture. They are all wearing white to promote natural beauty. In advertisements, it is impossible to spot a woman wearing avant-garde undergarments. Dove dresses their models in white to promote simplicity and to focus on the features of the women rather than their clothing. In image two, the women exude happiness and confidence which appeals to pathos. Every woman in the picture is standing side by side and have a bright smile on their face which symbolizes women empowerment. This image opposes the images that Roman 3 other platforms release. For example, Secret is a company that hires tall, thin models to showcase their lingerie. Most advertisements that Secret release are photoshopped and the women are altered either through plastic surgery or makeup. Dove, on the other hand, showcases models that have an average body weight and they wear minimal makeup. Their advertisements revolt against companies like Secret to change the expectations that women have for themselves to be When a young girl views the advertisements that Dove releases, they may consider the average women as a credible source. Therefore, in image two Dove appeals to ethos. Just like a young girl may look up to their mother, advertisement can be a source of inspiration for many girls. Dove claims that the self-esteem campaign has helped 17 million girls nationwide (Dove). This proves that it is valid to assume that the depiction of an average women in their advertisements is an effective way to bring about change. Ioana Frant from West University conducted a study that concludes the following: The topic of self-esteem, especially related to teens, is one of paramount importance, precisely because the transition from puberty to adulthood takes place, a period which will influence the further development of future adults, so that the way they perceive themselves will determine the choice of their path in life. findings indicate that self-esteem is important for a young woman to have. This conclusion proves the importance of campaign in regards to the future. If more women start to feel confident with who they are, it is more likely that they will choose a successful life path. Focusing on changing the world rather than altering facial features is something that advertisements illustrate. Roman 4 It is evident through the analysis of image one and image two that pathos is consistently used in advertisements. By appealing to the emotion of the audience, mission can reach many people and change many lives. However, the type of pathos that both advertisements portray are different. Image one appeals to sympathy while image two appeals to power. By having these contrasting emotions, Dove can entice different personality types to join their movement. The promotion of perfection is apparent everywhere. It is posted on massive billboards and illustrated in magazines. mission has attracted attention to societies values. It is obvious that society values beauty. People are willing to go under the knife to obtain the perfect body image or the perfect facial features. It is not fair to future generations that they must grow up in a world that is so disoriented. It is societies job to repair the perceptions and expectations that people have towards women. Dove has made the first step towards change, it is humanities choice to follow through. Roman 5 Works Cited: Ashikali, Eleni-Marina, et al. The Impact of Cosmetic Surgery Advertising on Swiss Body Image and Attitudes toward Cosmetic  Swiss Journal of Psychology, vol. 76, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 13-21. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1024/1421-0185/a000187. Frant, Ioana anca.frant@e-uvt.ro. Implications of Self-Esteem in  Journal Plus Education / Educatia Plus, vol. 14, no. 1, May 2016, pp. 90-99. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eu e&AN=117651091&site=eds-live. Our Mission: What Trying to  Doveselfesteem. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 February 2017. Image One: Roman 6 https://www.google.com/search?q=dove+self+esteem+project&biw=1536&bih=723&source=ln Image Two: https://www.google.com/search?q=dove+models&biw=1536&bih=723&source=lnms&tbm=isch =TVL0KZGG5BDN7M: Roman 7