Williams 1 John Williams L.E. Dubois ENC 1121 25 February 2017 Association of Zoos and Aquariums Rhetorical Strategies For an organization to make effective change, they must advertise their goal in a way that appeals to most of society. To do that, they must to add some sort of visual rhetoric to successfully persuade their audience. The AZA (Association of Zoos and Aquariums) is an organization dedicated to expanding and improving zoos. They believe that zoos are essential to protect and promote wildlife conservation. This association has high sets of standards related to their animal care. A zoo must meet these certain standards in order for them to receive the approval/ certification. To spread awareness about the benefits of zoos, the AZA releases a number of images and advertisements These images could mean multiple different things but their main purpose is to show to positive effects zoos have on animals. Also, they show that animals have a healthier life than their distant cousins in the wild. Their images incorporate different elements, to persuade the public that zoos are in the best interest for wildlife. These appeals, such as Logos, Pathos, Ethos, and Kairos, are necessary to enact effective change towards the organizations objective. One of the propaganda is a billboard of a polar habitat before and after the AZA was a part of this zoo. The before side of the billboard shows a polar bear pacing in his bleak and dull environment. The habitat in one of their partnering zoos is lacking in enriching activities, toys, and anything visually appealing. Since the enclosure is missing several important features, it basically portrays it as a cage. Also, one could even make the assumption that this Williams 2 creature in the before portion is depressed and neglected. However, on the other of the billboard, the new habitat shows the polar bear splashing and playing in the water with a toy. After the AZA involvement, the polar enclosure looks completely different than before they were included. Now, this animal looks joyful and is engaged in his/her new environment. And portrays it as being enriching and aesthetically appealing. This images strictly relies on pathos because it depends on emotions to get their purpose across (Lee, McKee, and McIntyre 36). And the purpose of this billboard is to make their audience feel overjoyed by the drastic transformation of the polar exhibit and temperament. Also, sorrow and even anger play a huge part in the purpose too. Because by looking at the image of his/her former enclosure, the public feels sad because it forces them to see it as a poor creature living in horrendous conditions. Or they could feel enraged by the polar surroundings. And by showing the habitat before and after, it guarantees that the help one is putting in going to waste. This is proven because the involvement shows a tremendous transition within the world. These emotions would cause society to stand up and create change within zoos to help better living conditions. Also, therefore an organization would rely on elements of pathos. Because by seeing these pictures, they would convince the audience (even if not animal lovers) that something must be done relating to zoological associations policies on their animal care. Another one of the publications is one of their magazine covers. Their seventeenth edition of the cover portrays their future zoo design and their typical patrons. It shows two wolves playing in what appears to be the natural habitat. And a couple of feet away, are these two children that even scared but instead happy, watching Williams 3 these animals, and talking amongst their selves. Also, the words of Zoo and Aquarium are laid across the picture (Chin and Markus). This advertisement is designed to persuade the public to supporting the AZA in the goal of enhancing the and bettering their policies by using the rhetorical appeal, pathos. They enact this by provoking emotions like excitement, hopefulness, and glee in their audience. Feelings like hopefulness and excitement come in to play, when the audience hopes that they will get the opportunity to experience what is being portrayed in this magazine. And excitement comes from the idea of possibly going to one of these newly reconciled zoos. Also, the feeling of happiness might encourage them to support the AZA because they can observe wild animals up close in their natural habitat. The pathos elements in the magazine cover helps to persuade the public to get involved and make the necessary changes take place to assure this future design come true. Some stakeholders add these hidden rhetoric styles to corral support and get approval for society. By adding these styles, sometimes a hidden meaning is rendered in the promotions, which can contribute to their goal. And these hidden meaning can vary from person to person because everyone will see it a unique way. So, a simple component of rhetoric can lead to many different meaning, which reflect the main goal of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums. For example, one of the possible ways these images can help achieve their goal is for zoos to convert and adapt the rules, regulations, and standards to fit those of the AZA. A zoo might see the images and advertisements produced by the AZA and all the positive, encouraging assistance they are getting from the public, so the might decide to team up with a join them. By working with the AZA, the parties that favor the idea that zoo were established for the benefit of wild life have just gained a valuable ally. This is important because these stakeholders must Williams 4 to work together and stand up for their beliefs because organizations such as P.E.T.A. are trying to destroy everything they are working for. Hence, why it is so important for organizations to add these qualities and styles to the Ads. Many corporations such as the AZA (Association of Zoos and Aquariums) use advertisements to promote and gather support for this mission. The AZA used a billboard and the cover on one of their magazines to achieve their goal is expanding and improving zoos. To this extent, they add rhetorical qualities in their ads to help persuade their audiences. The AZA mainly uses appeal to pathos is an appeal to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or (Lee, McKee, and McIntyre 36). They mainly use this strategy because the concept of emotions and animals is a major factor, when it comes to persuading their audience. Especially when the public sees animals being mistreated or neglected. Allowing this appeal quite affective with this topic. The two previous examples used pathos because they used the emotions to gather support and elaborate on the main of idea of their cause. The appeals they chose to use in their propaganda is majorly important as it related to furthering their organizations goal of refining zoos. Williams 5 Works Cited Chin, Susan A., and Markus Gusset. Contents. S.I.: Publisher Not Identified, 2016. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lee, Kendra G., Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre.  Rhetoric Really Matters. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2016. 34-40. Print. We Believe in a Better Future for All Living  Association of Zoos & Aquariums: AZA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Williams 6