Jessica Villa Sarah Roth ENC 1101.018 19 February, 2017 Inherent Inequality Within Mass Incarceration in the United States In the United States, 2.3 million people are incarcerated for various criminal offenses. White people make up 64% of the American population where black people make up 13% (Wagner and Rauby). However, this is not accurately represented within the United States criminal justice system.(Wagner and Rauby). Inside United States prisons and jails, only 39% of the population is white people, while 40% of the population is comprised of black people. (Wagner and Rauby). Although these numbers are close together, they do not accurately represent the amount of each race that makes up the United States population. The differences in sentences for Brock Turner and Cornell Hood incite speculation about whether race plays a role in amount of people being incarcerated. Brock Turner lured and sexually assaulted a woman after a fraternity party at Stanford University (Buncombe). This offense should have put him away for 14 years. Due to his affluent background, a swimming scholarship, and his position as only a freshman in college, he was convicted of three felonies, but only was sentenced six months in prison (Buncombe). Consider the effects of his actions and punishment had on his victim. She will have to live knowing that the man who has scarred her forever walks free because he had a earned swimming (Buncombe). Consider Brock story while learning about Cornell Hood. Hood had been caught selling marijuana two times before being charged with a life sentence in prison for possession of two pounds of marijuana. Hood did not take away dignity while invalidating the effects of what his actions had done to them. The only crime Hood had committed was possessing a drug that is already decriminalized in multiple states. These stories are common within the criminal justice system in the United States. This racial disparity is only one of the many injustices within our criminal justice system (Wagner, Rauby). The unethical imprisonment of people in the United States reinforced by outdated and inflexible laws and policies, and calls for revision. If there truly is inherent racism within the United States criminal justice system, what evidence validates this claim and where has this inequality sourced from? Buncombe, Andrew. rape case: Read the impact statement of Brock Independent, 2 September 2016, http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/stanford- rape-case-read-the-impact-statement-of-brock-turners-victim-a7222371.html. Accessed 29 January, 2017. This article highlights the main events of the People v. Turner case in which a Stanford University freshman raped a woman behind a dumpster and left her there when he was caught in the act of violating this woman whom has chosen to remain anonymous. It tells the story of the case. Turner was given three felony charges and 14 years in prison, but only had to serve three months, out of his six sentenced months after the judge showed pity. Due to Turner being from an affluent family, a promising scholarship to Stanford University for swimming, and being only a freshman when he committed rape, Turner received a shockingly light sentence. National outcry followed. California immediately and unanimously passed policies that will put away people who sexually assault others for their deserved time. At the end of the article, Independent published an open letter victim wrote to him. It describes how her life has been forever changed and calls for Turner to do something good with his life, and become better than a rapist. She challenges him to make a new reputation for himself. This article relates to this topic because it directly highlights a case where privilege saves someone who should be imprisoned for much longer then they actually had served. Due to the judge allegedly seeing in Turner, he disregarded the permanent damage Turner had forcefully put on his victim, and lightened his sentence form 14 years to six months. This raises the question of why is someone in prison for life for having a drug that is in the middle of being decriminalized in multiple states, and a man who has violated and scarred a woman due to not understanding that when a woman is unconscious it is not an invitation for sex only serving three months? Andrew Buncombe is the US editor, digital editor, Asia correspondent, and Washington correspondent for The Independent. The Independent has also been named of the for its and editorial stance. Lopez, Ian F. Haney. Post-Racial Racism: Racial Stratification And Mass Incarceration In The Age Of  California Law Review 98.(2010): 1023. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. This source examines how the election of Barack Obama could have potentially changed the prevalence of race and racial stratification. In the journal, discusses how the election of an African American president could either bring more racial equality, or do nothing to end the perpetual racism that occurred at that time. It also discusses that the mass incarceration of African Americans and other minorities could have stemmed from the Civil Rights movement as backlash. During the Civil Rights movement, especially in places where activism was especially present, the police were quick to label people participating in peaceful protests as criminals. Many people were arrested for violating segregation laws. It explains as while the action for Civil Rights decreased, the actions of the War on Crime increased. This is related to the topic of incarceration because it gives information about the conversation during the 1960s, and shows the generally thought opinion from the 2000s. It shows how the conversation has evolved from the earlier years and, if compared to my other sources, it shows how the conversation is still changing. It gives information about race and incarceration, which are both problems that are running rampant within our criminal justice system. This is reliable source as it was been published in the California Law Review, and is a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. Prison Policy Initiative. https://www.prisonersofthecensus.org/impact.html Accessed 5 February, 2017. This source gives a general rundown of what prison gerrymandering is. Gerrymandering is redrawing district lines in order to place someone or some party with more power. It allows someone to essentially pick and choose who and what areas they choose to represent. It gives an unfair advantage to the person redrawing the lines. Prison gerrymandering is the same concept. Incarcerated people are still counted as people in the census, despite not being able to vote in most states. Therefore, if politicians were to redraw their district lines to include a prison, they immediately have more power than they had before. This allows certain counties or states to obtain an extra advocate to represent them in court. It favors areas with higher populations, and allows them an extra boost in influence. This relates to the topic of inequality in the United States criminal justice system because it sheds more light on how are prisons are inherently corrupt in more ways than just who we are imprisoning. People are being misrepresented within our government by claiming that prisoners are part of a state, when they do not even have the right to vote. This can give certain states or districts incentive to arrest more people if they want more influence within the government at any point in time. It gives an unfair advantage to areas that in reality, are being misrepresented. This is a reliable source as it is an affiliate with The Prison Policy Initiative, and is still based under Peter Wagner, who has been researching prison gerrymandering for a decade. He also helped four states end prison gerrymandering. Thompson, Heather Ann. Why Mass Incarceration Matters: Rethinking Crisis, Decline, and Transformation in Postwar American  The Journal of American History 2010: 703. JSTOR Journals. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This source gives a new view of where mass incarceration might have started. It suggests that this sort of mass incarceration might have started back in Civil War times. became clear that southern whites responded to African American claims on freedom by redefining crime and imprisoning unprecedented numbers of black It also further reinforces the fact that there was extreme social strain and stratification during the battle for civil rights, therefore validating the claims of the two sources listed that have similar claims. This source also relates the decline of the American labor movement to the changes in economy and law that came with mass incarceration. It ties two concepts together that the other sources listed do not do. This source relates to the topic of incarceration through how it makes similar claims to some of the other sources listed here about incarceration rates and the civil rights movement. They all show that incarceration rates and the tension from civil rights movement are directly proportional to each other. It also relates two new concepts together that other sources fail to relate. It brings new information to the table. This source is reputable because it was published by the Oxford University Press and was written by Heather Ann Thompson. Thompson earned her PhD from Princeton University and has been published for her works about mass incarceration by The New York Times, Newsweek, Time Magazine, Huffington Post, and has appeared on both NPR and Sirius Radio. Wagner, Peter and Rauby, Bernadette. Incarceration: The Whole Pie Prison Policy Initiative, 14 March 2016, https://www.prisonpolicy.org/reports/pie2016.html. Accessed 25 January, 2017. This source gives a general summarization of who is incarcerated in the United States and why. It gives a rundown of different statistics of each minority that is being incarcerated in our federal and state prisons. It shows that white people are underrepresented in our prisons, while black people and other minorities are overrepresented. This shows that the inequality is real, and cannot be disregarded. This source also shows that many juveniles are incarcerated for offenses, not crimes, half of a million people are imprisoned for drug charges, and 19,000 people are imprisoned for immigration-related issues. This gives a general idea of who is in prison and why. However, this source also calls for criminal justice reform due to the issues listed in the sentences before. The source also talks about prison gerrymandering that occurs. Counting prisoners outside of the county or jail they may be in allows states to attain more prisoners, despite the overpopulation that occurs in our areas or incarceration. This source relates to the topic of incarceration because it shows who is incarcerated and why. Through these statistics and information listed, solid arguments can be made about how the United States criminal justice system desperately needs revision and reform. Through these statistics, accurate inferences and accusations about our criminal justice system can be made since there is have a reliable source behind it. This source is a reliable source due to its reputable executive director and lead attorney. Peter Wagner has been researching prison gerrymandering for more than a decade. He has written over 21 New York Times editorials about prison gerrymandering, and has led four states to end prison gerrymandering. Western, Bruce, and Christopher Wildeman. The Black Family and Mass  The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 2009: 221. JSTOR Journals. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article discusses early roots of mass incarceration and the effects of mass incarceration on African American families in the United States. It gives information on the source of the mass incarceration and gives information as to why African Americans are more represented within the incarcerated population. It mentions how the civil rights movement and the growing unrest between white and black people caused a strain on the social order. In order to react to this, people related the rise in street violence to the civil rights movement. Republican campaign of 1964 linked the problem of street crime to civil rights protest and growing unease among whites about racial This source also tells the differences between incarceration rates for black people and white people. men are eight times more likely to be incarcerated than whites, and large racial disparities can be seen for all age groups and at different levels of This content relates to the topic of inequality and mass incarceration because it shows that the conversation about racial inequality within the United States criminal justice system is not a new one. It also shows that the conversation has not changed very much. Many of the claims this source makes are similar to the claims of the more recent sources used. This source is a reputable one because Bruce Western is a sociology professor and director of the Multidisciplinary Program in Inequality and Social Policy at Harvard University. He is also a published author who has written about the growth of the criminal justice system and its race relations. The other author, Christopher Wildeman, has a PhD in sociology and demography from Princeton University, and is a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Health and Society Scholar at the University of Michigan.