Skeoch 1 Lauren Skeoch Professor Lisa DuBois 24 February 2017 ENC 1102.046 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Natural High is an organization that combats drugs and alcohol abuse in certain areas where it is highly prevalent, specifically in youth. Their mission statement is to inspire and empower youth to find their Natural High and develop skills and courage to live life well (www.naturalhigh.org). This organization does not work like a traditional rehabilitation facility which would take addicts away from their homes and relocate them to a facility to cure addiction with the help of doctors and therapists. Natural High works instead by working in communities and working with addicts to find their whether that is scuba diving, rock This natural high is meant to substitute the addiction that addicts are trying to rid themselves of. In order to spread awareness of their organization, they occasionally put out informational advertisements. Two images in specific use specific rhetorical appeals. Image A is a very informational image with lots of red lettering and a man standing on the right side of the image with a basketball, and image B is collage of images of people participating in sports and then the logo of the organization at the bottom right corner. Some of these people are professional athletes and some have success stories on the website. Natural High uses ethos, pathos, and logos in their advertisements in order to capture the attention and bring people to their organization. Skeoch 2 Out of the two images, only image B uses ethos. This image contains ethos in the way that the collage contains photos of professional athletes. When people see professional athletes, or any well known person advertising for an organization, they are drawn to that organization because they may want to be like the person advertising it, or they want to do the same job as the Having well known people linked to an organization draws much more attention to it. In image B, Natural High is using the famous football player in the center of the collage, for example, to draw attention to the idea that even athletes have used Natural methods to combat addiction. This image also contains ethos in the way that some of the people shown on the image have a corresponding success story on the website. If people see the advertisement, it will prompt them to go online and look at Natural website, where they will find success stories that match the photos on this collage on Image B. This gives people a credible source who has firsthand experienced this organization in action. Both uses of ethos in this image provide credibility, and give people reason to trust Natural High as an organization. Like ethos, logos is only used in one image, and that is image A. This is through the way that the worded information teaches the readers about Natural High and their goals, core beliefs, and methods. These words are also organized in a very systematic way, almost like an essay would be. The very first box that is at the very top of the page says to Thriving this would act as a title or heading. The box labeled 1 acts as an introduction and thesis paragraph, as it preps the reader for the rest of the information that is about be given. Boxes 2-6 all act as body paragraphs, further explaining what is introduced in box 1. At the very bottom, there is an unlabeled box that has the important take-away points, and this acts as a conclusion. Image A acts strongly like a persuasive essay. The way that the information is organized in these boxes give the image an overall sense of logical coherence. It is well organized and gets the job Skeoch 3 done. In an academic article written by Rolf L. Hoefer and Sandy E. Green Jr., the effects of rhetorical appeals, specifically logos and ethos, are addressed along with how those rhetorical appeals affect judgement and actions. They write that, theory suggests that actors with cognitive limits can never avoid all decision errors. One way actors manage decision errors is by using logos or (Hoefer and Green 142). Logos is described further by the authors to be one of the most influential rhetorical appeals, and that is why Natural High has integrated it into image A. Unlike ethos and logos, both images use pathos. Both images use the color red as a dominating factor in the designs of their images. Image A uses red in all of the boxes that contain their logical appeals, and image B uses red to outline the boxes that contain every photo used in its collage.The color red is known by most people as the color that teachers use to grade your paper, the color of a stop Red is known as a color that signifies importance. Natural logo is also always a red background with the white lettering, just like a stop sign. Therefore, Natural High pushing the color red is meant to not only line up with the logo, but also to signify importance, and scream you should look at and get people to look at the website. Another tool that Natural High uses in these two images are people. When people see other people that are happy and healthy, it typically inspires other people to be the same way. It also inspires people to ask and wonder how these people got that way. In image A, on the right side of all the logical appeals, there is a man standing and looking off in the distance. very serious, and he is holding a basketball, and he appears to be sweating. This is someone who is obviously very active. When people see this man, it makes them feel serious, or curious maybe, wondering why he is so serious. This curiosity may cause people to actually read the advertisement. This man also could act as an example, his natural Skeoch 4 high may be basketball. In Image B, there is a collage of people. These people are all playing a sport, or participating in a hobby. Some people look happy, and some people look serious like the man in Image A. Either way, all of these people are meant to make people feel like they can do these things too, and that it can be fun. Some of the people in the collage are professional athletes, which may make people imagine themselves making a career out of their natural high. These people are meant to make people feel something. These images in this collage also can be used as examples to people who may need help and gotten any. These could be examples for people who are unsure what their natural high may be. These people in both images are used to make people feel inspired to get help if they need it, and to be active and healthy. Of course, these advertisements that Natural High puts out are all meant to target a specific audience, which according to Profeesor Craig Waddell at Michigan Technological University, is a large factor in whether or not pathos is effective in reaching people. He argues that argues that the character of the audience is a key factor in determining whether a given emotional appeal will be considered appropriate (Waddell). In a general sense, however, both image A and image B are packed with pathos with the hope that it reaches the right audience. Natural High works to keep people away from drugs and alcohol and get them more interested into something that is beneficial for their health, like an active hobby or a sport. They spread the word of their organization in many ways, one of those ways being advertisements. Image A and image B were both produced by Natural High with the intent of bringing people to their website, and hopefully to their organization. These images are meant to inspire people who need help or who knows someone who needs help with addiction to come forward and find their natural high. This organization uses ethos, pathos, and logos in their advertisements in order to capture the attention and bring people to their organization. Although not every Skeoch 5 rhetorical appeal is used by both images, both image A and image B get strong messages across with the rhetorical appeals that they do use. Hopefully, these rhetorical appeals lead or has led people to get help if they need it, and find their natural high. Skeoch 6 Works Cited Hoefer, R. L., and S. E. Green. A Rhetorical Model of Institutional Decision Making: The Role of Rhetoric in the Formation and Change of Legitimacy  Academy of Management Review 41.1 (2015): 130-50. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Waddell, Craig. The Role Ofpathosin the Process: A Study in the Rhetoric of Science  Quarterly Journal of Speech 76.4 (1990): 381-400. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. You Are the Key to Thriving  Natural High. Natural High, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Skeoch 7 Image A Skeoch 8 Image B