Humphreys 1 Lucelle Humphreys L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 26 February 2017 use of Infographics Mental illness is a huge issue in America with millions of children and adults suffering each day. This is due to many factors including poor education and awareness, poor access to healthcare and poor national/local support for those suffering. National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is an organization that is dedicated to reducing this issue. goal is to educate, advocate, listen and lead for those in need. They work to provide support for individuals and families suffering in many different communities. Image A is an infographic that was produced for Mental Health Month in 2015 in order to educate its audience. Image B was produced for their Stop Stigma campaign. Both images use rhetorical appeals such as pathos and kiaros. NAMI produces images that provide information about mental illness and what their organization does. The use of strong rhetorical appeals is present throughout the images. The use of these appeals makes the images effective in educating their audience about the issue they are addressing. Image A is an infographic that was produced for mental health month in 2015. At the top of this image there is a statistic, in white letters, that states of all lifetime cases of mental illness begin by age (Image A). In the center of the image there are 100 little people, 75 of them are highlighted in blue and 25 of them are highlighted in green. Under the people the image states, the warning signs so that you can help a friend or loved (Image A). In the bottom left hand corner there is the web address for Mental Health Month Humphreys 2 (Image A) and the logo for Mental Health Month 2015 below that. In the bottom right hand corner there is the hashtag and the NAMI logo below that. This image uses multiple rhetorical appeals in order to educate its audience about mental illness and mental health month. The statistic, of all lifetime cases of mental illness begin by age (Image A) is an appeal to logos. According to Lane, McKee, and McIntyre logos or an appeal to logic is consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane). This statistic is effective because it gives clear information about when mental illness usually begins. Another rhetorical appeal utilized in this image is pathos or an appeal to emotion. The statement, the warning signs so that you can help a friend or loved (Image A), appeals to pathos. It is an appeal to pathos because people have an emotional connection to their loved ones and friends. It makes the audience think about these people and makes them responsible for the well-being of these important people in their lives. The hashtag is also an appeal to pathos. This hashtag also makes the audience responsible for their loved ones. It implies that they need to educate themselves in order to make a change for the people suffering and the problem as a whole in the United States. Another rhetorical appeal used in Image A is kiaros or an to timeliness or the right time to. . . perform the correct (Hoffman). This image was produced for Mental Health Month in 2015 as shown through the logo in the bottom right hand corner of the image. This shows the urgency of the image. NAMI wants its audience to educate themselves during this month in order to be able to help their loved ones. The use of the logo in the bottom right hand corner of the image is an appeal to ethos. It shows the validity of the image and that it was produced by a reputable source. The use of these rhetorical appeals in this image furthers the goals of NAMI. Humphreys 3 Image B is an infographic that was produced for the Stop campaign in the winter of 2016. The background of this image is teal and all the other components are white and gold. At the top of the image in white lettering it says, action against with stigma highlighted in gold. Right below this in large white font it has their hashtag for this campaign, (Image B). In the bottom center of this image it says, my loved ones and ending harmful stereotypes and giving to (Image B). These words were placed in gold boxes with white letters, each of the were left out of the gold box. In the bottom right hand corner of this image there is the web address for the campaign, (Image B). Image B also uses multiple rhetorical appeals in order to persuade its audience to participate in their campaign. The words at the bottom of the image that state, my loved ones and ending harmful stereotypes. . (Image B) are appeals to pathos. These words cause the audience to, again, think about their loved ones. It puts the audience in charge of educating and informing their loved ones about mental illness in order to help end the epidemic throughout the United States. It also causes the audience to think about how harmful stereotyping can be. It is such an easy and simple thing to do but can be detrimental in helping those who struggle with mental illness. NAMI adding the word is something that appeals to emotions. The hashtag is an appeal to kiaros. This was a hashtag used during the winter of 2016 in order to spread awareness. This hashtag was something that was only relevant during the time of this campaign. This campaign was all about harmful stereotypes and myths about mental illness and ensuring that anyone who needs help and support can find (NAMI). This image effectively relays this goal. They use the colors they do because these are the colors of the campaign. The gold highlights the parts of the image that are important Humphreys 4 and what should be focused on. These are the main points of the campaign. NAMI wanted to spread education for mental illnesses, end harmful stereotypes and raise money for their organization in order to further their work. This image uses effective rhetorical appeals in order to further the goals of NAMI. use of rhetorical appeals is present in the infographics they produce. The use of these appeals furthers the goals of their organization by educating or encouraging the education about mental illnesses. Image A informs its audience about when most lifetime cases of mental illness begin. It puts the audience in charge of being educated in order to help their friends and loved ones. Image B encourages its audience to join their campaign to stop the stigma behind mental illness by getting educated, ending stereotypes and donating to the organization. Mental illness is something that affects millions of Americans and people across the world. NAMI works every day to decrease this effect in the United States. Using images and infographics is something that is very operational in furthering their goal of educating Americans, advocating, listening and leading. Humphreys 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pg 41. Web. Accessed February 25, 2017. Lee, Kendra Gale and McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pg 37. Web. Accessed February 25, 2017. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness IStopStigmaBy. National Alliance on Mental Illness. Web. www.nami.org/Get-Involved/Take-the-stigmafree-Pledge/IStopStigmaBy. Accessed February 25, 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. Image A. www.facebook.com/NAMI/photos/a.394456672315.196043.85273022315/10154119932 057316/?type=3&theater. Accessed February 25, 1017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. Image B. www.facebook.com/NAMI/photos/a.10150791685607316.474858.85273022315/101555 53226152316/?type=3&theater. Accessed February 25, 2017. Humphreys 6 Image A: Image B: