Pugh 1 Sara Pugh Professor Van Winkle ENC1102 14 February 2017 Equality is not Equity In the past, people with disabilities have been institutionalized, denied an education, and treated as if they were second class citizens. Since there were not any helpful programs set up for the students with special needs, many of them barely got a high school education. The ones that did receive an education were still not provided an equal learning environment, because that environment failed to accommodate their special needs to succeed. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) believes students with disabilities deserve to have educational opportunities and success just like every other student in the education system. Unfortunately, private schools are still discriminating against students with special needs whether they are doing intentionally or unintentionally. The National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS), with a membership of over 1500 private schools, does not currently have a policy that dictates how those schools should accommodate students with disabilities. Although private schools do not always receive federal funding, they should still abide by the laws against discrimination of those with disabilities. The disagreement between organizations that support inclusion of students with disabilities and those that support private schools making their own decisions regarding students with disabilities, a compromise is possible if both parties set their personal beliefs aside for the greater good. The American Civil Liberties Union was found by a group of idealistic men in 1920. Their mission is defend and preserve individual working rights and liberties guaranteed by Pugh 2 the Constitution and the laws of the United (ACLU) The ACLU also posted their stance on disability rights and education on their website saying their organization equal access to educational opportunities for people with The ACLU highly supported The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) passage back in 1990. The ADA mandates that people with disabilities cannot be discriminated against and must have proper accommodations met in the workplace, public settings, and schools. The ACLU does not support schools that hinder students with disabilities rights, so when private schools fail to provide a sufficient education to students that need it the most, an issue arises. The non-profit organization is known for being involved in lawsuits where they are suing private schools for not giving students with disabilities programs and or services to help them progress their education like typical students. Unfortunately, not everyone can afford to send their child to a private school when the public school system fails to give their child the appropriate public they are promised. This results in public school systems ending up in court against unhappy parents of students with disabilities and or the ACLU. Melissa Patterson, a special educator since 1997, vocalizes her opinion on the handling of special education. Patterson said in a Forbes interview, you be sued if not giving the kid what they need? Yes. Should you be sued? Absolutely. the job to educate the kids. If not educating them, what are they doing and what are my taxes paying (Patterson) An example of lawsuit was when a Colorado couple sued the Douglas County School District. Endrew, the son who had autism, attended a Douglas County Public School from Kindergarten to 4 th grade. His parents felt that he made little progress despite his IEP, also known as Individualized Education Program, so they withdrew him before 5 th grade and put him into a private school that specialized in helping children with autism. Since the private school was expensive, Pugh 3 parents wanted to be compensated since the public school system failed to give Endrew a appropriate public all students are promised by The Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act of 2004 (IDEA 2004). IDEA 2004 was a monumental public law because it reinforced the educational rights of children with disabilities and created the idea of Individualized Education Programs (IEPs). Any school, meaning all public schools, are legally required to provide a free appropriate education (FAPE) to all students, especially including those with disabilities. IDEA 2004 noted that parents and students have rights and if their rights to a appropriate public withheld, then they can take legal action. If $90 million is being lost each year to unhappy parents, maybe the special education programs should be reevaluated in order to save that money and implement it back into the programs. The National Association of Independent Schools was created in 1962 by a combination of people from the Independent Schools Education Board (ISEB) and the National Council of Independent Schools (NCIS). (NAIS) Their mission statement they have on their website is empowers independent schools and the students they NAIS serves over 1500 K- 12 schools nationwide. NAIS posted their vision ideas about what they want all of their schools to instill in their schools on their website. The vision statement consists of 4 parts: excellence, equity, efficiency, and emotion. Since it is a nonprofit organization, they receive tax breaks, thus their schools receive some tax breaks too. NAIS and most of private schools are not the only people receiving tax breaks. The IRS explicitly created a tax return for parents that have children enrolled in private schools since their education is being paid by their own money. This tax break is called an The IRS stated on their website that education credit helps with the cost of higher education by reducing the amount of tax owed on your tax Although each state has a different way of going about these tax deductibles, for the Pugh 4 most part, these parents that send their children to private schools will receive some sort of refund in their taxes. Parents that send their child, whom has a disability, to a private school so that all of their needs will be met can receive a tax deductible too. Many of these private schools are not receiving state or federal funding. One could say the tax breaks the parents are receiving are a type of federal funding in a way, but other than that the schools rely solely on the tuition and donations. In 2016, Mike Szydlowski, the Director of Financial Aid at Woodberry Forest School, said in an interview that on a recommendation, the costs of sending a mentally or physically disabled dependent to a school or institution with special programs to alleviate or overcome his/her disability would be Woodberry Forest School is a private school regulated by NAIS so the fact that the director of financial aid is openly saying children with disabilities will receive a tax deductible is a good sign for a compromise between the two organizations. The two stakeholders need to come together for a compromise to occur. The ACLU is completely about equity for all students whether they have a disability or not. They will inform the NAIS, who then will forward the information to their private schools, with the correct accommodations students will need based on their specific disabilities. The ACLU will then back up the NAIS legally when complaints arise of unsatisfied parents. These private schools are not intentionally trying to make it harder for students that need extra help, but in order to accommodate and attend to all of their needs, money is needed. Both the ACLU and NAIS rely on donations and federal funding. Although the private schools that are being monitored by the NAIS are not receiving the federal funding, they will receive larger tax deductibles depending on the amount of special needs children they have enrolled in their school. The schools then shall use the money they were refunded by the government to help pay for the extra training, Pugh 5 equipment, and accommodations required for the students with disabilities. Also, the money will go towards scholarships for the parents that still afford the private school. Even Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act says that the parents can legally apply for money in order for their child to attend a private school that will help accommodate their special needs. The NAIS will have more satisfied parents that only want their child to receive an equal education as students that do not have disabilities. The ACLU will be satisfied that all schools, both public and private, are making attempts towards giving all students a chance at academic success no matter what. Pugh 6 Works Cited  NAIS Vision. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. ACLU  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. ACLU MISSION  ACLU Mission Statement. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Disability Rights and  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Fisher, Brian. Is Private School Tax Deductible? Your Tuition Questions  Is Private School Tax Deductible? Your Tuition Questions Answered. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Haelle, Tara. Would Special Education Rights Be Safe With Jeff Sessions As U.S. Attorney  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 30 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McKenna, Laura. Is the Bar Too Low for Special  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Private School and Special Education  Understanding Special Education: A Parent Guide. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Samuels, Christina A. Number of U.S. Students in Special Education Ticks  Education Week. N.p., 09 May 2016. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. The History of Special Education Law -  The History of Special Education Law Wrightslaw. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.