Prasse 1 Logan Prasse Professor Roth ENC1101.018 19 February 2017 Project 1: Final Draft Hundreds of millions of years ago, megafauna, or massive prehistoric creatures, roamed the very land human civilization inhabits today. When thinking of these megafauna, in particular those that are commonly thought of as dinosaurs, one often imagines the likes of giant fossils such as the famous Sue. What is striking in modern day, though, is the continued impact and influence dinosaurs have on our society. Since nearly everyone is exposed to these creatures at a very young age, it is no surprise that preconceived notions and perceptions have been impressed into the very fabric of society. The economy has certainly gotten its fair shake out of these perceptions: from story books to action figures to movies, the idea of the dinosaur has followed humans through every stage in development. How, exactly, has view of dinosaurs changed over time? And how does this viewpoint contribute to the lasting impact of dinosaurs in society? When thinking about these questions one can see the most popular and upfront ways in which dinosaurs contribute and how they are viewed: popular culture movies such as Jurassic Park or King Kong, for instance, come to mind. The culture that has been created is vast and far reaching in scope, however nearly every aspect has traces to one single element: the dinosaur. Prasse 2 Works Cited Brinkman, Paul D. The Second Jurassic Dinosaur Rush And The Dawn Of  Endeavour 34 (2010): 104-111. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 < http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.endeavour.2010.06.004>. In the feature Second Jurassic Dinosaur Rush And The Dawn Of author Paul Brinkman introduces the concept that is the dinosaur and how dinosaurs came to be at the foreground of the American scientific community and, consequently, American society in general. Placing particular emphasis on sauropods, Brinkman notes how these massive skeletons were a point of pride among the top museums. This work has historical context with my topic because it provides a historical background and springboard for the idea of an explosion of interest for dinosaurs in popular culture. Perhaps most important is the fact that if it for the events discussed and laid out in this article, dinosaurs they may not have been a commonplace fixture in society today, and this research question may not have even been considered. I think this article, therefore, represents the beginning of the academic about my topic. This article features a rhetorical feature of logos as it appeals to logic and factual based evidence. Brinkman himself is currently the Head of the History of Science Research Lab and Curator of Special Collections at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences. He obtained his Ph.D. in History of Science and Technology from the University of Minnesota in 2005. The article itself is fully cited and was featured in the science history and philosophy journal Endeavour. Prasse 3 and Petr1 Skupien. Geotourism Aspects Of The Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark In Yunnan Province,  Geoscience Engineering 62.1 (2016): 51-57. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.< http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aci&AN=117419175&site=eds-live>. In Aspects of the Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark in Yunnan Province, authors and Petr1 Skupien explore the aspect of in an area of land in China that has become the focus of paleontological research and natural tourism. Exploring the concept of and a this article goes in depth in the more recent success of these areas and their growing importance in both scientific research and common society with a unique look at the Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark in the form of a case study. This work provides an exclusive perspective for my research question because it expands on more broad aspects of the economy such as tourism and environmentalism, which is growing in popularity. It might be possible to draw connections between real world examples of a dinosaur theme park of sorts and the more fictional version popularized by Hollywood. Furthermore, this article notes how paleontological research, education, and tourism all converge at this one park. Rhetorically, this article has a very scientific basis to it and almost solely uses logos. By discussing the environmental and humanitarian aspect of this report, one could argue that it also uses pathos. At the time of this articles publishing, the authors were faculty of the Institute of Geological Engineering at the VSB Technical University of Ostrava in the Czech Republic. Prasse 4 Dworsky, Alexis. Alexis Dworsky: In Between  Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 41.1 (2016): 37-43. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. < http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=118064400&site=eds-live>. In his article Between author Alexis Dworsky performs an intriguing study on how current events and modern issues contribute to how dinosaurs are seen in the public eye. He provides a unique focus on both the interdisciplinary approach and consequences to studying dinosaurs and how these studies come together to form a single picture. This work can contribute to my research question because it concisely discusses the effect our society has on how dinosaurs are portrayed and represented. It is particularly interesting how these same portrayals can be taken to mean completely different things in different fields or areas of life and how the impact of such portrayals shapes how we view everything else. This article is particularly useful because it will allow me to tie together cultural thinking and understanding to dinosaurs and further my study into the modern impacts these presuppositions of prehistoric creatures have. The author has given credibility to this paper through its use of logos and pathos. The article presents facts to back up its claims and at times uses an emotional appeal to further explain concepts. As for Dworsky himself, his background is primarily in fine art, however he completed his Ph.D. on the history of the and has supported his article with endnotes. The article was published in the journal Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, a journal published by Taylor and Francis, a major academic publishing firm and is supported by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining in London. Prasse 5 Miracky, James J. Replicating A Dinosaur: Authenticity Run Amok In The Of Michael Jurassic Park And Julian England,  CRITIQUE: Studies In Contemporary Fiction 2 (2004): 163. Literature Resource Center. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.< http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.113681350&site=eds-live>. In A Dinosaur: Authenticity Run Amok In The Of Michael Jurassic Park And Julian England, James Miracky brings to light an interesting consideration about how we as a society place emphasis on theme parks. He takes an in depth look at what he believes are the implications of this emphasis through the use of two primary case studies: Jurassic Park and England, England. Particularly interesting and relevant to my topic is idea about how we live almost vicariously through our this case, theme parks. He uses Jurassic Park, a fictional yet all too lauded example, as a case study. How has the creator of the idea of a real life Jurassic Park represented his philosophy on the world through the elements of that fictional park? In other words, what metaphorical implications have been attributed to dinosaurs from this franchise and how has this affected future franchises or viewpoints on society? Rhetorically, this article is given credibility primarily through its logos. The article is thoroughly cited throughout and the author provides a full works cited section. Miracky himself wrote this article while he was an English faculty at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA. In 2010, he became dean of the school of arts and sciences at Loyola University Maryland. It is worth noting that he is a Catholic Jesuit priest. Prasse 6 Gozzi, Raymond.  ETC: A Review Of General Semantics 58.3 (2001): 351-355. Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=hft&AN=510075974&site=eds-live>. In his article Raymond Gozzi highlights just how impactful dinosaurs have been when it comes to communication. From this article, it would seem that dinosaurs are interwoven into the very fabric of modern language and perception. Focusing primarily on the dinosaur as a metaphor, Gozzi provides many modern instances in which stakeholders have used dinosaurs as a means of bolstering their arguments and offering credibility on the back of an unstable conception. This article is relevant to my research topic because it explores the way the idea of a dinosaur has historically been used in communication of all types. It is especially useful to see how these metaphors have been borrowed to move forward with those made by such major decision making entities as the US Department of Defense. A very real impact of this is that the very means of communication society is built on, these arguments and metaphors, are notions themselves that are up in the air and subject to further scrutiny and development. Raymond Gozzi received his Ph.D. in communications from the University of Massachusetts and is currently an associate professor at Ithaca College. He has an impressive list of publications and journal entries, including this article which is published in ETC: A General Review of Semantics. This journal is credible as it is published by the academic and non-profit Institute of General Semantics in Forest Hills, NY. The article itself is fully cited. Prasse 7 Torrens, H. S. The Isle Of Wight And Its Crucial Role In The Of  Biological Journal Of The Linnean Society 113.3 (2014): 664-676. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=a2h&AN=98950111&site=eds-live>. In Isle of Wight And Its Crucial Role In The Of Torrens provides a historical context for the modern notion dinosaurs we hold today. The story Torrens explains is that of one of the first scientific efforts to accurately identify and provide an academic context for fossils. The author notes and explains in detail several key aspects of attempting to create a scientific study for these creatures, comically starting with the private collection of James Hay. The article goes on to explain why the first person credited with the of dinosaurs is Richard Owen who rediscovered his famed Iguanadon fossils from the Isle of Wight, more colloquially known as in yet another private collection. This is cited by Torrens to be where paleontology stems. This article is relevant to my topic because it explains and provides the historical background for one of the first instances in which the idea of a dinosaur, as we know of in a modern context, was created. It also provides the historical situation in regards to culture and the creation of an entire field of study. This sets up the basis for the modern scientific understanding of the dinosaur, notably different from work, which provides for the more recent scientific context and popularity of dinosaurs. Hugh Torrens is an Emeritus Professor of History, Science, and Technology at Keele University in Staffordshire in the United Kingdom. The article Prasse 8 itself was published in the Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, a peer reviewed academic journal. The article itself is fully cited.