Troy Rosenlund 29-1-2017 Ms. Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 Annotated Bibliography Is there ever a song that you listen to only when sad? How about one that you listen to when happy? Mad? Maybe a song that you listen to and it gives you goosebumps just hearing the opening chords. What I intend to do is find out just what happens in the brain when you listen to certain genres of music. Each and every song triggers a different part of the brain that elicits a response in the form of chemicals that make you feel a certain way. My question is, what chemicals are released to make our emotions change when we listen to different genres of music? Bhatti, Adnan Mehmood, et al. emotion recognition and analysis in response to audio music using brain Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 65, 2016, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.chb.2016.08.029. This article is about a dedicated study that was done on 30 men and women in 3 different age groups ranging from 15-50. Songs were played for 1 minute each from 5 different genres. It records EEG levels in the brain, as well as the participant verbally expressing how they felt after each song. It states that happy and sad emotions were the easiest to recognize, and rock and hip hop genres evoke those emotions, respectively. This article is relevant to my paper because it helps explain exactly what trying to find out. It not only shows each participants feelings verbally, but it also records what kind of brain activity is going on to show a more accurate representation. These feelings are brought on by the changes in chemicals in their brains answering my research question almost perfectly. Estok, Eva, et al. love Rock genre preference modulates brain responses to Biological Psychology, vol. 92, no. 2, 28 Nov. 2012, pp. doi:10.1016/jbiopsycho.2012.11.005. This study talks about the decisions that our brain makes within seconds just based on the opening of a song. Not only does it describe what it calls but it states that music preferences are relatively stable throughout life and are characterized by how familiar someone is with a specific genre of music. Evaluative judgements are made in an instant and automatically, without us even knowing that made them. They serve as a way to keep us from wasting our time on a song that we seem to not like. This is relevant because this is also linked to how music makes us feel, because the evaluative judgements are made based on our mood and general music preference. Vuoskoski, Jonna K., and Tuomas Eerola. role of mood and personality in the perception of emotions represented by Cortex, vol. 47, no. 9, Oct. 2011, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2011.04.011. What this study set out to do was find out how mood and personality are affected based on the music they listen to. Previous research has shown that temporary mood swings as well as stable personality traits have influenced the processing of emotions, causing a bias. The relevancy to my paper is it shows research supporting how we can think differently based on what kind of music we listen to. If it makes us angry, we may not think as rationally as if we were calm and thinking. The same thing with calming music, it helps us relax and think through things instead of jumping into something head first. Personality traits were shown to be strongly linked to musical preference, leading us towards genres that we feel fit us better. Daly, Ian, et al. emotions can be predicted from a combination of brain activity and acoustic Brain and Cognition, vol. 101, Dec. 2015, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2015.08.003. In this article, researchers wanted to predict what emotions the listener was feeling as a result of the music that they were listening to. They did so by measuring the EEG. They did this as a way to make music therapy more affective by being able to more efficiently predict how somebody will react to a certain song or genre. This study relates because of its connection to how music makes us feel. It links together emotions with music to try and predict what emotion the subject is feeling, whereas other studies just take note of what they feel. This study tries to be proactive in such a way as to help advance music therapy instead of being reactive and taking note of the emotions after the fact. Etzel, Joset A., et al. and respiratory responses during musical mood International Journal of Psychophysiology, vol. 61, no. 1, July 2006, pp. 69., doi: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2005.10.025. This article acknowledges that music induces different emotions and takes it a step farther by examining what happens to the heart and respiratory rate in the participants. They did this by targeting 3 emotions, happy, sad, and scared and chose 4 songs that induced those emotions for a total of 12 songs. The experiment was successful and the team was able to manipulate the emotions of the subjects based on the music clips that were played. This relates to my research question because it shows that certain songs can induce different emotions. There were certain songs that were played that got a happy response as well as sad ones which shows us that different genres of music have different effects on our brain. This causes our brain to release chemicals in response to the audio stimulus, in turn making us feel different emotions related to the music. Bauer, Anna-Katharina R., et al. musical tempo preference correlates with EEG beta Psychophysiology, vol. 52, no. 4, 29 Oct. 2014, pp. doi:10.1111/psyp.12375. In this study, researchers wanted to find out if your preferred tempo of music was something biological or not. They did this by giving the participants the ability to adjust the tempo of the excerpts of music that they were listening to. When they were given pieces before they adjusted, they were asked to rate whether the music was too fast or too slow. It was determined that preferred tempo is in fact due to neural activity in the motor cortex.