Barrineau 1 Jacob Barrineau Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 9 February 2017 Project One: The New York City Soda Ban In 2012 a ban on large soft drinks was implemented in New York City, in attempts to curb rising obesity rates. The Ban was originally championed by Mayor Bloomberg in conjunction with the New York City Department of Health. The ban was directly at soda because of the negative effects associated with high consumption of sugary drinks. New York Big-Soda Ban Rejected by Highest ) Some of these effects include increased rates of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. Drinks and Though the ban had good intentions, the public received it poorly leading it to be repealed in 2014. Since then, no new health policies have been put in place in New York City. The Prevention Institute is an organization that advocated for the soda bad and still desires more health-related legislature to be passed in New York City. About  About Us Prevention Institute.) However, many groups are still hesitant to support mass regulation of sugary drinks. The American Beverage Association, or the ABA, is a group centered around the trade of non-alcoholic beverages within the United States. They represent many beverage companies and were against the initial soda ban as it harmed the sales of some of the companies they represent. American Beverage Association.) Though the two groups stand on opposing sides of the Soda Ban, neither parties are against better health for American people. If an increased tax could be implemented on sugary beverages larger than 16 ounces, New York City could have the anit-obesity initiative that many desire while stopping organizations like the ABA from feeling victimized. Barrineau 2 The Prevention Institute is an organization that was put in place for three main purposes. They stand to promote health equity, advance prevention and transform communities all in hopes of creating a healthier world. They were initially supporters of the soda ban, as it followed their overall objective of stopping the rise of obesity and the ban created policy to do so. About  About Us Prevention Institute.) Upon seeing the soda ban repealed, they were discontent because it was a step away from the vision they had for New York City. One of the main issues that people had with the ban was that they felt that it was an overstep of the government that took away their ability to choose their lifestyle. (Grynbaum, Michael.) Though taken very poorly, the goals of the ban as well as the goals of The Prevention Institute were never to take away rights of the people or to harm soda companies. They were concerned with the people and believed that people would be open to policy that helps them to make healthier choices when it comes to their consumption of sugary beverages. With that said, The Prevention Institute would be very likely to get behind any piece of legislature that is against obesity rates, and one that is more easily accepted by the people would be able to get much more traction throughout the entirety of New York City. The American Beverage Association acts as a representative for different non-alcoholic beverage producers, ensuring that they remain protected and helping them to flourish in the United States. The industry they protect is a 169-billion-dollar industry meaning that their priorities are generally larger than a single city, however whatever happens in New York City could stand as a precedent in the rest of the United States. They are advocates for a healthier America. As a part of their balanced initiative, they worked with the public-school system to ensure that a diet consist of too much sugar. American Beverage Association.) They were against the soda ban as it directly harmed the Barrineau 3 sales for the companies that the ABA represents without ever consulting them before its implementation. If a different type of policy could be put in place that has less of a negative impact on soda producers, the ABA would be much more likely to get behind it. Both organizations have very different overall objectives, however they both have stakes in the health of the American people. Therefore, neither would be opposed to a governmental initiative against rising obesity levels. Legislature like this is exactly what the Prevention Institute is in place for and is what the ABA backed when they began to promote health in public schools. American Beverage Association.) Both organizations are in support of implementation of a government issued initiative against obesity, however to gain full support it must be less restrictive than the previously used an all-out ban. The solution that would work as a replacement for the failed soda ban of 2014 is an increased tax on all sugary drinks over 16 ounces. The initial ban stopped all sales of soda products over 16 ounces, this new tax would merely be a deterrent from the purchase of large, unhealthy, sugary beverages. This deterrent harm the sales of sodas nearly as much as the previous ban did, as people can still buy the larger drinks and can choose to go with more healthy sugar free or diet options. As well as this, an increased tax is a deterrent that the United States has used before. A national sin tax has been implemented on tobacco products for years due to the health risks associated with the consumption of tobacco products. Sugary beverage products have been linked to severe health risks as well, leading this type of approach to be a logical choice. Implementation of this solution would require efforts from both parties involved as well as the current law makers of New York City. The best possible method for implementation would begin with the initiative being championed by the Prevention Institute and then supported Barrineau 4 by the ABA. As well as just supporting the tax, the ABA could use the research that they gathered for earlier health initiatives to determine which types of beverages should be subjected to the increased tax on large sizes. Then the two groups would need to push the idea to the New York City Department of Health for support. With these individuals on their side the newly proposed tax would be relatively easy to push through the office as it helps the health of the city while raising tax revenue at the same time. Overall, the tax implementation can be mutually beneficial for all parties involved and can help to stop the spread of widely increasing obesity rates. For the Prevention Institute, it would be the type of health initiative that they want to see in New York City. For The ABA it would go to show that beverage companies care about the health of their customers while merely shifting their profits from certain products to others. The proposed solution offers the health initiative that New York City needs without the flaws that the soda ban had. If implemented it could change the current poor health trends in New York City while still benefiting all parties involved. Barrineau 5 Works Cited About  About Us Prevention Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. American Beverage Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Dolmetsch, Chris. New York Big-Soda Ban Rejected by Highest  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 26 June 2014. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Grynbaum, Michael. New Ban on Big Sodas is Rejected by Final  New York Times (2014): A1. Drinks and The Nutrition Source. Harvard University, 17 Mar. 2016. Web 10. Feb. 2017.