Watts 1 Mitchell Watts Professor Van Winkle ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Violent Video Game Aggression Advancement in technology has had a major impact on the development of video games. This includes development in gameplay and graphics, and depending on the game it may contain violent scenes that parents usually would not want their kids to see. One hundred and fifty five million Americans play video games regularly (Lofgren, 2016). Eighty five percent of video games that are being sold contain some form of violence (Scutti, 2016). There has been recent debates about whether or not violent video games have an effect on the behavior of children. Forty percent of adults believe that there is a relationship between violent video games and aggressive behavior (Lofgren, 2016). The Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) and Microsoft have opposing views when it comes to violent video games, but there still is a possibility that they could come to a compromise to satisfy both of their needs. The MAVAV wants to get rid of violent video games, whereas Microsoft does not care about how games will impact people. Microsoft is just trying to sell games, so that they can keep rising as a company. The MAVAV has a goal and that is, Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence organization is dedicated to educating parents of the fastest growing addiction and the most reckless endangerment of children (mavav.org). As of 2015, over fifty nine percent of American children play video games (nobullying.com). There is also the debate that violent video games can be related to crime. One example of this is with an incident that Watts 2 occurred last year. In July of 2016, in Munich, Germany there was a shooting incident. An eighteen year old gunman shot and killed nine people. He was known as a fan of first-person shooter video games (Scutti, 2016). The connection is also made between violent video games and drugs and alcohol when it comes to the effects they have on people. Difference in behavior has been recognized by people in many ways. Symptoms of the effects of violent video games include pretending to be violent characters from the games, violent behavior, rude to teachers, getting into fights with other children, staying indoors a lot, and poor grades (pamf.org). Knowing this, the MAVAV has a reason to be concerned about the safety of their children. This is why people come together to form an organization like the MAVAV, to try and abolish violent video games before their children are introduced to them. Microsoft is a very successful and popular company throughout the world, founded on April 4, 1975 by Bill Gates and Paul Allen (history.com). They have a different view point when it comes to violent video games. They do not care as much about what kind of games they sell. They just want to be a successful business. mission statement is, enable people and businesses throughout the world to realize their full potential. We consider our mission statement a commitment to our customers. We deliver on that commitment by striving to create technology that is accessible to all ages and (Microsoft.com). One major gaming console that Microsoft owns is Xbox. In 2016, 5.38 million Xbox Ones were sold globally (statista.com). In 2012, sixty seven billion dollars were spent on video games globally, whether they were games on mobile devices or on consoles (Science Direct). More money is spent on video games than books and music (Science Direct). Microsoft ranks among the most successful companies in the world. Bill Gates started the business and has become the richest person in the world. In 2014, Microsoft made a net income of over ninety three billion dollars Watts 3 (Cassell, 2015). It is the global leader of the tech industry, and with technology continuing to improve, I would expect that Microsoft continues to be successful. Other companies that Microsoft owns is Yammer, Skype, Bing, and Office 365 (Cassell, 2015). Abolishing violent video games is not among their problems and taking over Xbox has been a smart move, so far as a business. Even with these two opposing sides having different viewpoints on this topic it is still possible for both of them to come to a compromise. Both the MAVAV and Microsoft are going to have to sacrifice a little if they want this to work. The MAVAV does not have to abandon their beliefs, but they have to understand that video games are fun and kids enjoy playing them. They also have to understand that Microsoft is a business that is trying to make money and one way they make money is by selling violent video games. Video games can have violence in them, but by age seven children know the difference between fantasy and reality (charitynerds.org). Parents also do not need to worry about the lack of social skills in their children, because if parents set time limits for their children then their life will not revolve around video games. Also, many games include multiplayer, so they might not be playing by themselves very much (charitynerds.org). Maybe violent video games can be an issue for parents, because they do not want their children around them, but playing appropriate rated video games should not be a problem. Parents should allow their kids to play video games that are appropriate for their age, because kids are entertained by them. They can always check the rating done by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (charitynerds.org). The MAVAV has to sacrifice some, but Microsoft does as well in order for them both to come to a compromise. Sacrificing is part of the process, but they have to keep in mind that they are a business and the main goal is to make a profit. It is important that Microsoft understands Watts 4 the point of view and knows what is important to the MAVAV. Microsoft is among the most successful companies in the world. If they were able to decrease their sales in violent video games and enforce laws like making sure that the person purchasing the game is the right age for the rated game then it would make the MAVAV satisfied. Even though parents should make sure that their kids are not playing inappropriate games workers at stores should not sell inappropriate games to kids that are under the age level. Microsoft needs to think about how young behavior and actions will change after playing violent games. Since Microsoft is such a successful company and owns many businesses, decreasing the amount of inappropriate games sold and enforcing laws will affect their profit, but only by a small margin. They still will be among the best companies in the world and Microsoft will be nowhere near destruction. It may be difficult for Microsoft to do this, but in order for a compromise to be made this is what needs to be done. The MAVAV and Microsoft have two very different viewpoints on violent video games. The MAVAV wants to abolish violent games, whereas Microsoft does not care about what they sell, they just want to earn a profit. In order for them both to come to a compromise sacrifices will have to be made. The MAVAV will have to remind themselves that kids enjoy video games and that video games cannot be completely abandoned from their lives, because it is a hobby for many children. Microsoft will have to understand that young kids will be affected by violent games and they have to think about the good of children instead of the good of the company for this specific topic. Microsoft knows that they are a fantastic company and a small decline in the violent video game industry will not hurt their company that much. It will be a difficult process for the both of them, but a compromise can be made. Watts 5 Works Cited MAVAV. mavav.org. www.mavav.org/index.php?page=1 Science Direct. sciencedirect.com. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094996813000170 Video Games and Aggressive pamf.org. www.pamf.org/parenting- teens/general/media-web/violentgames.html Lofgren, Krista. Video Game Statistics & Trends Playing What & bigfishgames.com. 8 February 2016. www.bigfishgames.com/blog/2016-video-game- statistics-and-trends/. Accessed 10 February 2017. Scutti, Susan. video games lead to cnn.com. 26 July 2016. www.cnn.com/2016/07/25/health/video-games-and-violence/. Accessed 10 February 2017. Facts on Violent Video nobullying.com. 16 August 2016. nobullying.com/violent- video-games/. Accessed 10 February 2017. unit sales of video game consoles from 2008 to statista.com. www.statista.com/statistics/276768/global-unit-sales-of-video-game-consoles/. Accessed 10 February 2017. Cassell, Warren. Overview of Businesses Owned by investopedia.com. 7 December 2015. www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/120715/overview-businesses- owned-microsoft.asp. Accessed 10 February 2017. Watts 6 Games: What Parents Need to charitynerds.org. charitynerds.org/video-games- parents-need-know/?gclid=CIqDhcW5i9ICFREHhgodMF4Bcw. Accessed 10 February 2017. history.com. http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/microsoft- founded. Accessed 10 February 2017.