Tabari 1 Mursalin Mahfuz Tabari Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101 26 th February 2017 Understanding and Treating Schizophrenia The word schizophrenia roughly translates to mean alluding to how a person with schizophrenia experiences the world: it can be one way inside their mind and another way in what is going on around them. The first person to name the disease in an academic paper was a Swiss psychiatrist called Eugene Bleuler in 1908. It is a disorder affecting the brain as well as the mind and occurs in approximately 1% of the general population by Piotrowski et al, January 2016). A person affected by schizophrenia may exhibit various symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, thought disorders, inability to show emotion or feel pleasure or pain, total apathy, lack of facial expression, depression, mania, paranoia and many other symptoms. The vast array of symptoms associated with the disorder and the criteria for its diagnosis can make it difficult for a physician or psychiatrist to identify the disease in an individual. This augments to the enigmatic nature of schizophrenia and is one of the reasons why research regarding it is still in its early stages, even today. Considering all these factors, the question arises: How much progress has been made in understanding and treating Schizophrenia? Tabari 2 Piotrowski, Nancy A., Ph.D., Tischauser, Leslie V., Ph.D., Medical Guide (Online Edition). Schizophrenia. January 2017. Accessed 29 January 2017. In this article, Piotrwoski et al discuss how the diagnosis for schizophrenia is based on a set of characteristic symptoms; the positive symptoms such as hallucinations, delusions et cetera are considered since they do not manifest themselves in people without the disease. The negative symptoms, which are more difficult to observe, include withdrawal from society, a lack of facial expression, inability to show emotion and many other traits. All these symptoms must last for several months in order for a diagnosis to be made for an individual. Furthermore, Piotrowski et al mentions how schizophrenia generally develops during late adolescence. The disease is also considered thought to be partially genetic, due to its propensity to run in families. Treatment for schizophrenia includes the use of various non-addictive, antipsychotic drugs. Unfortunately, these drugs have many negative side effects, some of which have to be treated by addictive substances such as benzodiazepines. Other than the use of medication, psychotherapy can also be effective and beneficial to many patients. Dr.Nancy A. Piotrowski, one of the authors of this peer-reviewed article, is a clinical psychologist and certified as a Psychological Autopsy Investigator by the American Association of Suicidology. She has made significant contributions to the field of mental illnesses throughout her career. Tabari 3 Kurtz, Matthew M. Schizophrenia and Its Treatment: Where Is the Progress? Oxford Scholarship Online, 2015. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199974443.001.0001 Online Accessed 29 th January 2017. Published in 2015, Kurtz converses elaborately about what schizophrenia exactly is (both biologically and psychologically), its symptoms, as well as the most effective biological and psychological methods of treatment for it. Most of the research in the book involves comparisons between groups of people diagnosed with schizophrenia and matched healthy controls. The book also contains a historical perspective on the diagnosis of schizophrenia, which begins from Ancient Roman and Greek texts to the modern day Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). Furthermore, Kurtz mentions how the development of MRI and fMRI has helped immensely in the biological study of schizophrenia as it allows for an in-depth look at the human brain, making comparisons possible between brain volumes in patients versus healthy controls, for example. Various psychological aspects of schizophrenia are also explored throughout the book such as neurocognition, processing speed, social cognition et al. Dr. Matthew M. Kurtz received postdoctoral clinical neuropsychological training from the City University of New York, and research training through a three-year National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) postdoctoral research fellowship in neuropsychiatric aspects of schizophrenia in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. He has published more than 50 academic papers, six book chapters, and an edited book focused on topics related to cognition and treatment of cognition in severe mental illness with a focus on schizophrenia. Tabari 4 Waite, Felicity, et al. Treating Sleep Problems in Patients with  30 July 2015. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S1352465815000430 Web Accessed 5 February 2017. One of the main problems that people with schizophrenia face is sleep disturbance. Up to 80% of people with schizophrenia report symptoms of insomnia (Cohrs, 2008). However, that is rarely the direct focus of treatment. Waite, Felicity, et al discuss in this article about what they learned about clinical presentations of sleep problems in schizophrenics and the adaptations to intervention that they recommended for patients with current delusions and hallucinations. Twelve factors that that could particularly contribute to sleep problems in schizophrenia were identified, such as delusions and hallucinations interfering with sleep, circadian rhythm disruption, insufficient daytime activity and other factors. Specific adaptations for psychological treatment related to each factor were described. In conclusion, Waite, Felicity et al found out that patients wanted help to improve their sleep; sleep problems in schizophrenia should be treated with evidence-based interventions and that the interventions may have the added benefit of assuaging the psychotic experiences. Felicity Waite, one of the authors of this article, is an HCPC registered Clinical Psychologist and completed her clinical doctorate degree at the University of Oxford. She has made various significant contributions to the field of psychology and was the trial coordinator as well as therapist on the Better Sleep Trial (BEST). McIntyre, Roger S, et al. Comparison of the metabolic and economic consequences of long-term treatment of schizophrenia using ziprasidone, olanzapine, quetiapine and risperidone in Canada: a cost-effectiveness  Vol. 16.Issue 4, p744-755. 12p. 6 Tabari 5 Charts, 1 Graph. (2010). DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2009.01189.x Web Accessed 5 January 2017. Published in August 2010, McIntyre, Roger S, et al state how second-generation antipsychotic agents have varying tendencies to cause weight-gain, elevated lipid levels and associated long-term complications. This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of four second- generation antipsychotic agents used in Canada for the treatment of schizophrenia (ziprasidone, olanzapine, quetiapine and risperidone) with a focus on their long-term metabolic effects. Data from the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness Study was used to predict the incidence and associated costs of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular complications and acute psychiatric hospitalizations in patients with chronic schizophrenia treated over 5 years. The results showed that Ziprasidone had the lowest predicted number of type 2 diabetes cases and cardiovascular diseases but the highest QALY gains. However, recipients of Quetiapine had the highest predicted number of hospitalizations. Based on this analysis, Ziprasidone treatment holds cost and therapeutic advantages over olanzapine and quetiapine. Dr. Roger S. McIntyre completed his medical degree at Dalhousie University. He received his Psychiatry residency training and Fellowship in Psychiatric Pharmacology at the University of Toronto and was named by Thomson Reuters in 2014, as one of Most Influential Scientific His work focuses on various aspects of mental disorders and his analysis of the cost-effectiveness of antipsychotic agents has helped researchers make significant understandings about its long-term effects on schizophrenics. Tabari 6 Nielsen J, le Quach P, Emborg C, Foldager L, Correll CU. 10-Year trends in the treatment and outcomes of patients with first-episode  (2010): Vol. 122 Issue 5, p356- 366. 11p. 3 Charts, 5 Graphs. Web accessed 16 February 2017. This article, published in 2010 by Nielsen, J et al, investigates the treatments and outcomes in patients during the first year after the diagnosis of schizophrenia. Nielsen, J et al hypothesized that the increased focus on first-episode schizophrenia treatment would be associated with earlier diagnosis and that the earlier and more continuous treatment with antipsychotics would be associated with improved outcomes, reflected by lower readmission rates, and less patients being on early retirement pension. Subjects for the study were identified by having an ICD-10 F20 schizophrenia diagnosis in the Danish Central Psychiatric Research Registry. The results proved their hypothesis predominantly correct, as patients were diagnosed with schizophrenia earlier and number of bed days decreased significantly. There was also intensified outpatient treatment, increased use and dosing of antipsychotics and antidepressants. The credibility of this academic article can be attributed to the fact that it has survived the scrutiny of peer-reviews. The material in this article also contributes to my understanding of schizophrenia and the effectiveness of treating the disorder in its early stages. However, one of the limitations is that the National Danish cohort study might not be generalizable to other countries and regions. The register based cohort study also leaves no possibility for estimating the causality of the findings. Therefore, the material in the source should be treated with a certain degree of caution. Weisman, Amy, et al. The Development of a Culturally Informed, Family-Focused Treatment for  (2006): Vol. 45 Issue 2, p171-186. 16p. Web Accessed 16 February 2017. Tabari 7 Published in 2006, this article discusses the development and evaluation of a family- focused, culturally informed therapy for schizophrenia (CIT-S) that was, at the time, being pilot tested at the University of Miami. Case examples of CIT-S with participating families are provided, along with a discussion of interesting and challenging cultural issues that Weisman, Amy et al encountered during the pilot phase of this treatment study. The study states that with the changing demographic in the United States, there will be a need for health and psychological services that are tailored to and appropriate for diverse populations. Thus, the conclusion of the study was made after collecting data from various ethnic groups and included aspects such as spirituality/religion, expressed emotion, family cohesion as well as an individual causal perceptions regarding an event. The results of the study state that CIT-S is a 15-session treatment program that is strongly grounded in the literature. Weisman, Amy et al hypothesize that CIT will result in significant decreases in schizophrenia symptoms for patients and will also help to improve general emotional and mental health for both patients and family members. This source is considered credible as it has been peer-reviewed. The content of this source provides a unique, cohesive and holistic approach to treating schizophrenia. The data collected in this study has distinct characteristics as each individual case study is unique, yet verifiable by the National Institute of Mental Health.