1 Dinehart Jessica Dinehart ENC 1102 Basil February 23, 2017 Rhetorical Analysis The Real Cost is a non-profit organization that focuses on using harsh and surreal advertisements and commercials in order to raise awareness in regards to cigarettes detrimental effects and the potential harm they could cause. The Real Cost is a FDA regulated campaign that promotes focused on reaching the more than 10 million youth ages 12-17 in the United States who are either open to trying smoking or are already experimenting with (The Real Cost Campaign). The two advertisements I have chosen both elicit intense emotional responses of fear and sadness due to their abrupt nature and lack of subtlety displayed in the images. The images also together display some characteristics that would fall under a logical and ethical appeal, but The Real strongest point is their ability to be fierce with their images and means of connecting with people, the message presented is theoretically more able to be clearly understood and is more likely to be remembered and recalled due to the extensive use of visual appeals. The first advertisement presented is a teenage boy sitting outside a house in a neighborhood with the phrase are on the top of the ad. The smartest and most emotionally affective part of the ad, is the association made between two maliciously stereotypical commonalities, and By saying that the cigarettes are bullies being another relatable, emotion filled word 2 Dinehart that resonates with a lot of people, there is the instinctive reaction to prevent harm or possible harm that the two words bring about. If you are being bullies or know someone being bullies, the most common reaction is to protect or help them, similar to cigarettes, most people tend to steer clear of even second- hand smoking most of the time. Bullies are the bad guys, so naturally most people want to defend or fight against the bullies. They want their child near negative influences. This image is asking you to take control of your life, fight for it, and smoke, or else you will loose it. Also the scenery, being a neighborhood, reminding people of their families and children is an emotional appeal to protect them from this burden, and to instill a fight-like reaction to defend yourself and essentially your free will from these The second advertisement presented is a big more harsh in nature, revealing a yellow smile that is on the verge of becoming worse due to smokings oral effects. I personally loved the appeal this ad has because a smile is something so overlooked, but also very socially and physically stressed. People spend hundreds to get perfect teeth, whiter teeth, prettier teeth. Having a nice smile is a close topper on peoples list when describing what they are attracted to, but also a stressed social condition. First impressions are imperative, and having a nice smile says a lot about someone. Including the line heavily appeals to pathos since smiling is associated with happiness and joy, smoking cigarettes basically leads to the opposite of that, taking away They are saying smile, socialize, people will condemn you a smoker by just smiling, you will be labeled unhealthy, gross, suicidal even, in regards to smoking. And since socialization is a necessary part of mental stability and basically survival, the thought of isolation and social rejection, or even the thought of lacking dental hygiene is emotionally loaded, placing a very possible fear simply on the thought of smiling. In the first image, (Bullies), they established ethos by placing their well known logo in the bottom right corner, as well as having the FDA logo on the bottom, which is one of the biggest credibility 3 Dinehart markers you can have regarding health. The picture itself is a neighborhood which gives credibility to the situation presented in the image, unlike their other advertisements, this one is strangely realistic: a kid smoking outside his house in a neighborhood of which most people live in. There is a certain sense of credibility in the fact that this scene is entirely possible, they are presenting a extremely relatable and comprehendible situation. In the second image (teeth), credibility is established again through the input of the label of the organization. The Real Cost is very widely known to work with researchers in obtaining factual and viable evidence for their commercials and advertisements. Another possible ethos appeal is the actual picture of the rotted teeth, presented so harshly in the background. Like the first image, the probability of this happening to you if you smoke is extremely high, that is very credible enough alone, being proven by countless amounts of research. There are even brands of teeth whitening that have products specifically for smokers teeth. Referring to the second image, the prospect of a clean smile is societal, so the appeal to logos is more inclined at the reminder that if you smoke, becoming a social outcast is next on the list, especially if you are a social butterfly in person and even on social media. The logical side of this image is that you need your teeth, they are the first thing others notice and they are basically inside you, why rot them? They help you eat, talk and defend yourself in some cases. Referencing the first image, the ad on cigarettes bring bullies appeals to logos through the implication of the word In society today there are countless movies and shows where there is a bully or a agonist that is eventually because the more often desired outcome, so it would appear logical in this ad to not smoke since cigarettes are the metaphorical The appeal to timeliness in the teeth advertisement would be the word and the picture of teeth. In life stains are usually gradual when referring to the human body, so the damage is gradual, but will progress over time. The picture of teeth alone is a reminder of time, your teeth fall our and grow as 4 Dinehart you grow, reminding the viewer of their mortality and impending death to put it harshly, and cigarettes only quicken that inevitability. Looking back at the first image about the bullies, there seem to be any verbal appeals to kairos, but once again, the neighborhood and teen being included in the photo reminds the viewer of their life, of their inevitable human qualities of aging and eventual bad health, or even death, especially if they are smoking. The Real Cost campaign being a FDA regulated campaign is essential for the advertisements credibility. The excessively harsh nature of the ads would normally turn away most people, even the targeted youth, however since most of their ads regarding health have the stamp of approval, they are taken more seriously and are entirely more affective. On the website, there are statistics in an article explaining the success of the commercials and advertisements brought about by The Real Cost. The article claims that in 10 youths reported seeing the campaigns ads 7 months after the (The Real Cost: Campaign Resources). They also present the information that use is almost always started and established during (The Real Cost: Campaign Resources) which establishes a more valid argument for their obscene tendencies with their ads. In a book written by Paul Messaris about the affects of visual advertising with images versus extensive literary involvement, he states that visual images elicit emotions by stimulating the appearance of a real persona or object, and they can serve as photographic proof that something did or can (Visual Persuasion). This is exactly why The Real campaign ads are so affective and memorable, especially in adolescents, when images are much more resonating than words are at that age. Understanding the optimal goal of The Real campaign, the harsh and almost cruel nature o the advertisements serves a much more affective purpose than that of even straight facts. The advertisements mainly appeal to pathos respectively since their targeted audience is adolescents due to their research that most smoking habits start at a young age. There are few appeals to ethics and logic in 5 Dinehart order to not have their ads be overlooked as simply just opinionated advocacy, so they include the FDA and their own stamp on most of their commercials and advertisements to provide credibility. Impressively, their advertisements, due to its successful ability to elicit emotional responses in most of its viewers, have prompted a 30 percent decrease in the initation of smoking in youthful individuals as well as other important 6 Dinehart Works Cited are FDA Website: The Real Cost Campaign (Image 1) https://www.fda.gov/TobaccoProducts/PublicHealthEducationPublicEducation Campaigns/TheRealCostCampaign/ FDA Website: The Real Cost Campaign (Image 2) https://www.fda.gov/TobaccoProducts/PublicHealthEducation/PublicEducation Campaigns/TheRealCostCampaign/ Messaris, Paul. Visual Persuasion, Sage, 1997 The Real Cost Campaign. FDA Website. Last Updated: 1/19/2017 https://www.fda.gov/TobaccoProducts/PublicHealthEducation/PublicEducation Campaigns/TheRealCostCampaign/ The Real Cost Campaign: Resources. FDA Website. Last Updated: 1/19/2017 https://www.fda.gov/TobaccoProducts/PublicHealthEducation/PublicEducation Campaigns/TheRealCostCampaign/ucm384054.htm 7 Dinehart