Kim1 So hyun Kim Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 21 February 2017 The Impact Of Teaching Methods In Developing Countries. There are several strategies to improve developing countries such as providing health care, job opportunities, and education. All those are important for a country to become better, but the main factor for a country to evolve positively is through education. Through education, the income and human resources can be improved. This is because students are fundamental resources for all countries. Without the proper education system for students, it will cause serious problems. For instance, people will trust their government without any thoughts. Commonly citizens should be able to critically think the actions such as policies and laws. However, if people is not taught, they cannot have their opinions and they will agree with all decisions weather these are bad or good. Moreover, these countries will not be able to survive in the competition of globalization because a lack of education makes people poor. Also, it will make bigger gaps between developing countries and developed countries. Due to the importance of the academic learning, I decided to focus on the relation between the education program and the academic benefits of students who live in developing countries. I want to define academic achievement as students can have higher knowledge and get upper level abilities of studying such as getting better scores at the tests. Having higher knowledge means that students can understand difficult mathematic and sociological concepts, while they taking classes. Furthermore, I want to know how the academic benefits can lead the poor countries to Kim2 become better countries. There are a lot of people who cannot get the chance to study even though they really want to and some governments of developing countries do not seriously consider the problems. My research question for the semester is: How do teaching methods influence the academic achievement in developing countries? Ganimian, Alejandro J., Richard J. Murnane. Improving Education In Developing Countries: Lessons From Rigorous Impact  Review Of Educational Research, Vol. 86, Sept 2016, pp.719. Academic OneFile. Accessed 28 January. In this research paper, Alejandro and Richard collected the result of the evaluation of the academic learning strategies in countries which are low and middle revenue countries. They tried four strategies for improving educational results. Then, they made separated groups based on the four methods. The first way is, for increasing the number of students who attend school, decreasing the money which the students have to spend for schools (Ganimian and Richard Abstract). The second way is an academic achievement of students and changing the action by explaining proper parenting, the economic benefits of schooling (Ganimian and Richard Abstract). The third way of improving the achievement of students is providing a better resource for changing children typical experience at school (Ganimian and Richard Abstract). Lastly, giving incentives to students and teachers increase their efforts and achievements. However, unskilled teachers should learn a minimum level of instruction (Ganimian and Richard 1). Alejandro J Ganimian is an Education Post-Doctoral Fellow at J-PAL South Asia in New Delhi. Richard Murnane is an economist and he got his Ph.D. at Yale university. He wrote a lot of books and peer reviewed articles. For example, in U.S, what skills are required for middle-class people and the quality of a teacher. It shows us that he helped people to easily understand the interaction between economy and education and education Kim3 policy. So, we can know that he is expert author in education and education is not only related to students, but also connected to economy. This extract helps us to understand that education is very crucial to social development in developing countries. At the end of this paper, the author suggested several ways of improving educational environment and those are definitely enhancing developing education. Both of authors are having professional activities at educational fields and it means that this paper includes the proper number of subjects and a various way for improving the academic achievement. Azigwe, J.B., et al. The Impact Of Effective Teaching Characteristics In Promoting Student Achievement In  International Journal Of Educational Development, vol.51, Nov. 2016, pp. 51-61. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.ijedudev.2016.07.004 In this experiment, researchers conducted a longitudinal study about the link between teaching and achievement. Autor says that teachers and schools are more important for developing countries than developed countries (Azigwe, J.B., et al. Abstract). So, they focused on how actions can affect the academic outcomes of students. They selected some primary schools for the sample and asked the students to take the mathematic test (Azigwe, J.B., et al. Abstract). Gathering these data is for suggesting the importance of improving the quality of education system. Also, this research emphasizes the importance of consideration (Azigwe, J.B., et al. 1). J.B. Azigwe is a department of Marketing of Bolgatanga Polytechnic. L. Kyriakides and A. Panayiotou are the departments of Education of the University of Cyprus. B.P.M. Creemers is faculty of Behavioural and Social Sciences and Department of Pedagogy & Educational Science of the University of Groningen. Especially, L. Kyriakides wrote numerous peer reviewed papers which are about the impacts of education and he worked Kim4 with B.P.M. Creemers at the other papers. Most authors of this paper worked on the educational subject. This paper has clearly organized the steps of the experiment and it shows how the developing countries can improve their education system for their students. roles are important for this research and it notifies the importance of the education to Larson, Richard C.1, and M. Elizabeth Murray. Open Educational Resources For Blended Learning In High Schools: Overcoming Impediments In Developing  Journal Of Asynchronous Learning Networks, vol.12, Feb. 2008, pp.85-103. Education Source. Accessed 2 Feburary. In this research, the researchers introduced OERs which is opening educational resource. This is because modern technologies such as computers are opportunities for people to learn without the limitation of place wherever they live (Larson, Murray Abstract). Especially OERs can be useful for developing countries and it will make technologies and abilities of teachers increase. These OERs cannot only be used by high technologies such as the internet but also be used by lower technology platform. The authors give the overview of Blossoms which is Learning Open Source Science or Math Studies (Larson, Elizabeth 1). This program is for developing countries and all educators volunteer for making free blended learning math and science video modules. It will help students to have more interests in math and science and skills of critical thinking. Dr. Larson is a professor of MIT Mitsui in the department of Civil and Environmental engineering and engineering system. Most of his papers are based on research service industries and technology-enabled education. Dr. Murray has a in Social welfare Kim5 administration at Boston university. He also wrote another research paper Learning as a Tool for Poverty Reduction: A Focus on Two Countries, China and with Dr. Larson. They are suggesting the way of improving the quality of education and it is appropriate for my paper. This is because I can get information about how the Blossom program can affect the students and it can be a chance for students to have more knowledge. After passing times, this program will help to decrease the gaps between developing countries and developed countries. Moussa, Nabil, and Sandra Moussa. Quality Assurance Of E-Learning In Developing  Nonlinear Analysis, vol.71, no.12, Dec. 2009, pp. 32-34 doi:10.1016/j.na.2008.10.003 In this article, the authors explain the tension between e-learning and negative component of this network. At the first, the paper states the current system of e-learning in developing countries (Moussa and Sandra Abstract). At this chapter, the authors explain General, sociological, and political aspects of e-learning (Moussa and Sandra 1). Secondly, it explains the problems of this current system of e-learning especially about Establishing e- learning. Lastly, it suggests the importance of the e-learning system in developing countries and the recommendations for developing education system (Moussa and Sandra 1). Moussa Nabil is advisor to the president for development of Academic staff and mathematic professor in the Department of Mathematical Sciences at Ahlia University in Bahrain. She wrote various peer-reviewed research papers about the connection between education and developing countries. Sandra has a diploma Soziologie in Geschaeftsfrau. She is co-authored Quality Assurance Of E-Learning In Developing  This paper is not only arguing the importance of e-learning system in developing countries, but also explains the problems of the current electronic education system and suggesting the solutions Kim6 of the problems. I also agree with this perspective because, in the developing countries, there are the lower level of technologies and insufficient equipment for e-learning system than other developed countries. We should suggest the different way of achieving the e-education system for their students. So, I think this article can help my paper to have the more various perspective of teaching methods. Deb, Pradip. Physics Teaching And Learning Methods: Comparison Between The Developed And Developing Country  AIP Conference Proceedings, vol.1263, no,1. July. 2010, pp. 70-74. doi:10.1063/1.3479897 In this article, the authors study the difference between Australia and Bangladesh regarding physics classes. Learning physics is one of the important subjects that can be applied to various fields such as engineering and architecture (Deb Abstract). However, the way of teaching and training physics is dramatically different among countries. The author experienced physics classes in Bangladesh and universities and he compared the educational dissimilarities between those two universities. The factors of influencing teaching physics can be the relationship between teacher and student, cultures, and teaching methods. In conclusion, the author argues that Bangladeshi university needs to improve their education system and cooperate with the international physics forum ( Deb 73). Dr. Pradip Deb is a senior lecturer at RMIT University. He also wrote several peer- reviewed papers which are about Health and Biomedical Sciences. He is an expert of physics area and he is well versed about both physics education. He argued that students are spending more time in the class, but it is not effective. This is because that the students only memorize the text for passing exams. At the end, the author recommends interactive methods of teaching. For example, giving formulas to students while they are taking exams helps the students to avoid wasting their time memorizing Kim7 formulas. Therefore, this paper can help my research paper to consider the factors that can help children to get higher knowledge efficiently. Boso, Christian Makufui, and Janet J. Gross. Nurse Perceptions Of Critical Thinking In Developing Countries: Ghana As A Case  Advances In Medical Education And Practice, Vol. 6, 2015, p.555, doi:10.2147/AMEP.S88942 This article by Christion Boso and Janet J gross studies the importance of critical thinking for nursing students in developing countries. For attaining an ability to evaluate medical information, nursing students have to learn to critically consider complicated and ever-changing health care systems. So, the researchers surveyed 106 nurse educators and they got the result that 95.3% nurse instructors did not teach the definition of critical thinking related to a health system to their students (Boso and Janet Abstract). Specifically, in Ghana, the nursing students only focus on a technical model which is about medical facilities and task-orientation. However, most of the nurse educators admitted that teaching the way of critical thinking is essential for being a nurse. Still, the author claims that the nursing program needs to be improved by training students to critically thinking. Christian Boso is a part of the department of the School of Nursing and Midwifery of College of Health Science and Allied University of Cape Coast. Janet J. Gross is a part of the department of Nursing and Midwifery of Morehead State University, Morehead. Both of the authors are experts in the medical field and Janet wrote other peer reviewed medical papers. I think that critical thinking can be used for my research question because it helps the nursing students to learn health care environment effectively. And it uses the example of Ghana to illustrate the importance of critical thinking. Therefore, this paper shows that education is not simply for students, well-established education can improve health.