Alfalatah1 Sarah Abdulkadir Alfalatah Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 1/29/2017 The Relationship Between Being Diagnosed with a Mental Disorder and Criminal Behavior Mental illness, as known by the society comes in many forms and types. There is a complex relationship between mental illness and committing crimes. Most people assume that anyone who is diagnosed with any type of mental disorder usually is at a higher risk for demonstrating violent behavior. The major concept of this research is to establish the relationship between criminal behavior and being diagnosed with a mental illness. This research tries to demonstrate that it is not necessarily true that anyone who is diagnosed with a mental disease will commit a crime; however, that is a risk factor that must be taken into consideration. Many people who suffer with a mental disease go through their life without engaging in any sort of criminal behavior. This does not mean that people who are diagnosed with a mental disorder are incapable of committing crimes; however, it automatically incriminate them to that sort of behavior. There has not been any research that determines that mentally ill people either commit or do not commit crimes because the relationship is more complex. My research question for this semester is: How does being diagnosed with a mental disease affect an lifetime of committing crimes and being incarcerated because of their disease? Alfalatah2 Shepherd, Stephane M., and Rosemary Purcell. are the Factors Associated with Criminal Behaviour for Young People with Mental Health Psychiatry, Psychology and Law, vol. 22, no. 6, 2015. pp. 869-879. doi:10.1080/13218719.2015.1015399. Over time, there have been studies to establish the relationship between mental health problems in young people and their criminal behavior. This article is based on a study done in Australia the participant ages ranged between 12 and 25. It focused on risks associated with police contact and this study proceeded by carefully studying and analyzing certain measures that the participants have completed, either when they were interviewed or by self-information. The measures taken into this study were clinical and psychosocial; regression was also considered and analyzed to show the strongest relationships with self-reported criminal charges. Most non-forensic mental health facilities do not focus on their outcome relating to criminal behavior and police contact; if they were to pay more attention and focus on that matter it will help reduce and almost prevent any criminal or offending behavior. Results of this study have shown that factors like using drugs, being abused by family, and suffering through a severe trauma increases that individuals risk of engaging in criminal act. Providing the help needed to those people in time almost eliminates the risk and possibility of being involved in any kind of criminal behavior. Shepherd and Purcell, both have done so much research in their field. Shepherd has a PhD in forensic psychology and an MA, BA in criminology. Purcell also received her PhD in forensic psychology as well as engaged in a lot of research that relates to criminal behavior. They are both experts in forensic psychology which is perfect for the article they published from Alfalatah3 the Swinburne University of Technology in Australia. They acknowledged in the article that most non-forensic mental health facilities do not pay enough attention to the outcome behavior of their patients that could turn into criminality. This article demonstrates how society impacts criminal behavior and if the correct effort was made they can be part of improving this matter. The article relates to my research because it proves that there is a relationship between criminal behavior and mental health. Providing evidence in charts that show how being engaged with the police, emotional abuse, drug addiction, and more; can have an impact on their criminal behavior and increase it depending on different variables. Vogel, Matt. Illness and Criminal Sociology Compass, vol. 8, no. 4, 2014. pp. 337-346. doi:10.1111/soc4.12140. This article discusses crimes committed in Aurora, CO, and Newtown, CT. Both crime were committed by offenders with mental health problems. Unfortunately the society looks at most people who suffer with any kind of mental disorder as they are more likely to commit crimes and they define them by their mental disease or disorder. Research in this article shows that some but not all people with mental illness could have a slightly higher rate for committing crimes; however, there are also other reasons stated in this article which do not relate to having any kind of mental disorder. One of the three trends mentioned in this article is that individuals who have been in contact with some sort of criminal justice system while suffering from a mental disorder have a higher chance of committing crimes. Secondly mentioned people who are alcoholics or drug addicts also have a higher rate for engaging in criminal behavior and could sometimes have a higher rate than people with severe mental disorders. Finally shown in this research was being diagnosed with a mental illness does not necessarily determine that the Alfalatah4 person will commit any sort of crime but it is a criminogenic risk factor. The relationship between criminal behavior and mental illness is more complicated and complex than the society thinks. There are always more factors that could influence violent behavior other than having a mental disorder. Matt Vogel, received a PhD in sociology from the University at Albany. Vogel is also an assistant professor at the University of Missouri-St Louis he teaches criminology and criminal justice. He has conducted quite a bit and his research has been published in Justice Quarterly, Journal of Quantitative Criminology, and Youth and Society. His research focused on topics such as: mental health, juvenile delinquency, person-context research, and the relationship between population dynamics and crime. study relates to my research question by establishing a relationship between mental illness and criminal behavior and explaining how it easy to describe anyone with a mental disease as a criminal. The tragedies in Colorado and Connecticut from his research are an example that people who have mental illness can commit crimes. Vogel confirmed in his research that the relationship between criminal behavior and mental illness is a complex and complicated relationship because there are always more factors that can lead to criminal behavior other than being mentally ill. Peterson, Jillian, et al. Offense Patterns as a Function of Mental Illness to Test the Criminalization Psychiatric Services, vol. 61, no. 12, 2010. pp. 1217-1222. doi:10.1176/ps.2010.61.12.1217. This study focused on testing a hypothesis that implies that the main reason for criminal behavior is untreated psychiatric symptoms. There was a total of 220 participants who were all Alfalatah5 parolees, almost 50.45% of the participants were diagnosed with a serious mental illness and the other 49.5% had never been diagnosed with any sort of mental illness. The participants were divided into five different groups depending on their offending behavior throughout their whole lifetime. Results in this study show that about 7% of the participants support the hypothesis, on the other hand, the majority are the participants do not commit crimes based on their mental illness. Both groups have demonstrated criminal behavior effected by emotional reactions to a certain situation, lack of restraint, loathing for others, and drug addiction. Psychiatric service linkage may decrease the possibility of committing crimes for a small percentage of the participants. Like any other criminal, mentally ill criminals commit crimes based on heterogenous facts such as being mentally ill while using drugs, and so many more. Focusing on all the various facts that lead offenders to committing crimes possibly could lower the rate of criminality despite being diagnosed with a mental disorder or not. According to article the hypothesis was not fully proven and supported because of the low percentage. Peterson is highly educated in criminology and criminal justice and she has received her PhD in that major. Hamline University in ST. Paul is where Peterson is an assistant professor for teaching criminology, she also provides research in forensic psychology. Skeem, Hart, Vidal, and Keith, all are familiar with psychology and criminal justice or forensics which implies that they are good peers to engage into research with. The article written by Peterson has been peer reviewed and that increases the credibility of this article. The article points out that being diagnosed with a mental illness does have an impact on committing crimes; however, Peterson did mention that being mentally ill is not the only variable that affects criminal behavior. The article helps me with my research because the study was neutral and was Alfalatah6 done on both mentally ill criminals and others with stable mental health. The study shows that mental illness is a risk factor, but it is not the only risk for criminal behavior. Junginger, John, and et, al. of Serious Mental Illness and Substance Abuse on Criminal Psychiatric Services, vol. 57, no. 6, 2006. pp. 879-882. doi:10.1176/ps.2006.57.6.879. Criminal offense in many jail facilities is linked to being diagnosed with a mental illness. This study tests the criminal hypothesis in a post booking jail diversion in Hawaii. The hypothesis implies that there are two major possibilities for offending. First that people are arrested and incarcerated because they obtain a mental illness, second that the effect of a mental disease increases and motivates criminal behavior. The purpose of this study was to focus on the effect of substance abuse, mental illness, its impact on violent behavior, and being imprisoned based on these factors. Raters read the participants explanation for criminal behavior and estimated if an offense was committed directly or indirectly from mental illness or substance abuse. National Alliance of Mental Illness (NAMI) believes that offenders that suffer from a mental disorder should not be imprisoned; however, they need to be taken into facilities so they can receive the appropriate treatment and help they need. Results distribute that mental illness and substance abuse have a minor effect on criminal behavior, but the possibility of committing a crime because of substance abuse is more likely. The hypothesis needs to be reconsidered unless there are facts providing enough proof that mental illness is associated with criminal behavior, and should consider other risk factors like unemployment, homelessness, substance abuse, and poverty. Alfalatah7 Junginger and his peers all have received their in psychology, psychology is a very important element in this study. The ability to understand how and why a person committed a crime and how effected by facts such as mental disorders or substance abuse is very important. Junginger and his peers point out that after testing their hypothesis that mental illness is not a direct and certain reason for engaging in criminal behavior. The research provides evidence like tables to help make the information easier to understand and distribute results and percentages from this study. Junginger suggests that if the hypothesis in the future considers other risk factors of offenders the results might differ from their study. Relating to the main purpose of my research Junginger and his colleagues explain how being mentally ill does have an impact on criminal behavior, but it is not a direct cause that leads to criminality. The article is very helpful and has been peer reviewed by experts in this field and acknowledging that will increase my confidence through-out the time I work on my research. Zhu, Na, and et, al. Role of Inattention in the Relationship Between Mental Illness and Journal of Forensic Psychology Practice, vol. 13, no. 4, 2013. pp. 315-325. doi:10.1080/15228932.2013.817888. This article studies the relationship between forensic patients who suffer from attention problems and criminality. The study examines the difference between forensic and non-forensic patients. There were 36 participants who have been recruited from different mental health programs. The participants were required to complete the adult ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) self-report symptom checklist and Continuous Performance Test II. Some researchers believe that individuals with mental health problems do not have a higher risk of committing crimes than the general population. Patients who have ADHD were Alfalatah8 found to have increased levels of criminal behavior. Results in this study did not show a significant connection between criminality and attention problems; however, attention problems were found in forensic mental health patients in high rates. Zhu earned her master in psychology from the University of Toronto. She specialized in children and family therapy, and she was an Intern Counsellor for family services in York reign. Her experience throughout all those years in psychology qualifies her for the study she engaged in. The peers she did this study with also are familiar with psychology and forensics. article relates to my research by demonstrating a relationship between mentally ill people specifically who are diagnosed with ADHD and their increased risk of engaging in criminal behavior. Soyka, Michael, et.al. Correlates of Later Violence and Criminal Offences in Schizophrenia Research, vol. 94, no. 1-3, 2007. pp. 89-98. doi:10.1016/j.schres.2007.03.027. There has been a described relationship between criminality and schizophrenic patients. Predicting if schizophrenic patients will engage in criminal behavior or not is difficult. There were 1662 patients from the Psychiatric Hospital in University of Munich. The records of criminal offences were reviewed during the study. Methods were used to study and examine the patients and try to predict their possibility of committing violent behavior in the future. The study analyzed possible correlations between clinical and psychopathological characteristics to predict any future engagement in criminal behavior. Psychopathological syndrome scales as well Alfalatah9 as Association for Methodology and Documentation in Psychiatry(AMDP), were both used to estimate the psychopathological symptoms that could lead to criminal behavior. Approximately 10% of the patients engaged in criminal behavior 7-12 years after their release. Physical injury cases had a high percentage and murders were reported as well, but at a lower rate. AMDP scale was significant and predicted future criminality; recidivism was found in patients who lack insight of discharge. Lower rates of criminality were distributed from patients with depressive syndrome. The study indicates future rates of violent and non-violent behavior from patients with schizophrenic. Michael obtained his MD from the University of Munich and specialized in psychiatry. This article provides helpful information for my research such as, being diagnosed with schizophrenic does increase your criminal behavior rate; however, it also indicates that people could be diagnosed with schizophrenic and not engage such behavior. The study has been peer reviewed and published, which makes it a credible source. Analyzing symptoms and using test measures is a significant way to establish accurate data. Relating to my research question this article shows that there is no clear yes or no answer because committing crimes and being diagnosed with a mental illness is a far more complicated matter and depends on other risk factors as well. Alfalatah10