Al-Khaldi 1 Mansoor Al-Khaldi Meredith Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 20 February 2017 Impact of Online Booking on Travel and Tourism Technological advancement is tremendous making the world a global village where all people can interact with ease and very fast within minutes if not seconds. The business environment has been affected both positively and negatively by the changes. It has led to increasing in the new market for products and services but also increased competition. The internet has brought about flexibility in our daily lives. The recent application of technology has focused on online booking for tourism as well as travel. Its implementation has spilled over to the tourism industry as individuals can search their destination sites on the internet and book their flights and accommodation within a click of a button. The flexibility means that people can book on deadlines and also change the nature of their stay at a particular tourist attraction site. Simultaneously, airlines and tourist hotels keep track of the volume of people they expect in a given season. On the darker avenue, internet booking has driven off the intermediary sector composed of travel agents. These goes without saying that such a transition has reduced employment in a handful of companies, thus, leading to restructuring. This research paper will try to answer the question: how online booking services influenced players in the travel and tourism industry and either positively or negatively? Al-Khaldi 2 Molchanova, Violetta S. The Use of Online Service Booking in Tourist  European Journal of Social and Human Sciences vol 2. No. 2, 2014, pp:75-80. According to this article, there are countless possibilities which are brought about by online booking. Furthermore, Molchanova gives statistical data for the online booking of tours, airline tickets, and hotels. As a result, the article summarizes a functional characterization of the use of online booking services through the OOO Anastasia, a tourist company (Molchanova, 75). From a general point of view, Molchanova seems to emphasize on the positive impact of online booking. He relates effectiveness and convenience from the traditional way of conducting travel to tourist destinations. With this, it becomes apparent that online booking has promoted business in the tourism sector even in the remote and unfamiliar frontier. These have brought the sense of globalization to the industry. However, the utilization of information technology, customers able to choice between the various services offered and compare them at no extra cost. These have brought about competition in the industry as businesses fight to impress their customers. However, the question remains on what this means on the concept of affordability and for Have the services become expensive or cheaper vis-a-vis the quality of duty? The only known fact is that businessmen and women in the sector are laughing all the way to the bank. As a result, there have been concerns about whether such a boom in the industry is taking advantage of the customer base and information asymmetry. Additionally, could the tourism enterprises be benefiting at the expense of the tourists? These are some of the questions the research paper will tackle in the long run. Al-Khaldi 3 Crnojevac H, Igor, Jadranka and eTourism: A comparison of online and offline bookings and the importance of hotel  Journal of Information and Organizational Sciences, vol 34. No.1, 2010, pp: 41-54. Crnojevac et al. (44) conducted an experimental research to determine the required impact of travel and facial features of hotel visitors regarding offline and online reservations. Additionally, they examined the importance of hotel attributes in hotel selection as well as the differences in priorities between the guests who made online and offline reservations. Primarily, the key element was to look into the value of online booking in the modern tourism world. Data collection was facilitated through surveys from different guests and hotels in Dubrovnik. The results showed that the decision on whether to rely on offline or online booking predicated on the nature of travel. However, online booking is a dominant feature that allows people to make comparisons and arrive at informed decisions. The data identified that the number of individuals who booked hotels online had an increasing trend. These were an indicator that many people sought information on the great hotels to visit online. Due to the digital error, many people prefer comparison through online service to check the hotels and places to visit which are affordable. The use of Internet facilitates online booking by acting as a valuable tool for information searching as well as a platform for the purchase of tourism products. Businesses, therefore, an obligation to engage in the online marketing to capture the new emerging market. The online market can be a blue ocean strategy which may avoid competition for the organization resulting to them getting high sales. The success of businesses is determined by the sales they make which determines the profit margin thus ensuring continuity of the team. Al-Khaldi 4 Sigala, Marianna, Evangelos Christou, and Ulrike Gretzel. Social Media in Travel, Tourism and Hospitality: Theory, Practice and Cases. Farnham, Surrey, Burlington, VT: Ashgate Pub, 2012. Print. One of the distinct advantages of the internet is the provision of real-time information on matters concerning travel destinations and available bookings (Sigala et al. 65). However, some of the advertisers on the internet over-value their destination and tourism safaris. As such information excites the expectation of the travelers, the result might lead to frustration. The internet, therefore, possesses as an unreliable source of information as the hotels and travel agencies are at liberty to post almost anything. In this line of thought, it becomes difficult to gauge the exact impact of the internet on the success of some of the tourist attractions across the globe. In the same sense, most people are superstitious in using the information provided on the internet since online booking is quite new in the industry. As it stands, reputation speaks for most traveling options and tourism places across the world. These means that individuals visit a destination from its history as opposed to its internet presence. As such, the question remains on whether similar trends may be witnessed with online booking. Nevertheless, the customers who make the online booking of hotels have the opportunity to do market research and get ones that are affordable and to their standards. The websites have reviews, and the customers can check the comments. These may be a source of original information if the people are going to a new place. However, due to the high competition and campaign for ethical behaviors in the business environment large percentage of the information which hotels put online is right. False information may lead to small numbers of customers and also fines by courts due to giving misleading information. Al-Khaldi 5 Ye, Qiang, et al. The influence of user-generated content on traveler behavior: An empirical investigation on the effects of e-word-of-mouth to hotel online  Computers in Human Behavior 27.2 (2011): 634-639 The article by Yet et al. (634) focuses on the role that the increased usage of web 2.0 has for various online users. Firstly, the researchers recognize the role the internet has played towards generating more sales for different products among the movies and books. The basis of the study, however, relies on an empirical study where the researchers seek to identify the significance of online user-generated reviews to performance. Research findings reveal that ten percent of online viewing by travelers increases online bookings with over 5 per cent. Additionally, other results emphasize the importance of making use of user-generated reviews for the purpose of enhancing an performance in tourism. The study took place in China with the focus directed towards online tourism and travel agencies. While the previously discussed sources put significant emphasis on the changes in the tourism industry that result from the existence of online booking, the article examines the source of increased online bookings and the consequent increase in business performance in the tourism sector. The article is thus imperative for the current study in that it sheds light on what tourism businesses should focus on to ensure increase on online booking. The credibility of the article emanates from the fact that it is a peer-reviewed article from in Human Furthermore, the data used in the study to examine business performance was extracted from an existing player in tourism; online travel agency located in China (Yet et al., 635). Al-Khaldi 6 Ha, H., & Janda, S. The Evolution of Expectations of and Attitudes Toward Online Travel Agencies Over Time. Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing, 33(7), 2015, 966-980. doi:10.1080/10548408.2015.1075457 Study findings reveal that customers measure expectations based on pre and post travel assessments with satisfaction culminating to repeated service inquiry (Ha and Janda, 978). As such, it is indicative that customers will continue using online bookings provided their expectations are met. Other than focusing on the direct impact of online booking of both travel and tourism, Ha and Janda first realizes the changes and sets to understand whether it will lead to a decline of physical tourism and travel agencies based on the aspect of satisfaction. The researchers relied on the use of longitudinal data derived from 353 clients who used of online travel agencies over time. The article is imperative for the current study in that it gives the possible trend in respect to online booking in the travel and tourism industry. On one side, it is indicative that environmental agencies will decline as a result of increased online booking activities. Secondly, the service providers on the internet must meet customer expectations to ensure satisfaction and repeated service demand. The credibility of the article emanates from the fact that it is listed in of Travel & Tourism a publication that contains peer-reviewed  Al-Khaldi 7 Wolfram. Information and Communication Technologies in Tourism 2009: Proceedings of the International Conference in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 2009. Wien: Springer- Verlag GmbH, 2009. Print. Study findings in this book show that the technology has contributed to the many changes in the tourism sector all over the world. Businesses to get market they have to use various means line online marketing to be able to attract more customers to experience their products and services. The business environment keeps on changing, and competition has increased as all the attraction sites can be viewed by all the people in the world. These are possible due to the emergence of the internet, and various companies have platforms to market their products and services. The travel of visitors to the hotels has been aided by technology. Aircraft can be booked online to various destinations by the customers. The online platform as an advertisement tools has attracted more customers who could not have known and gone to some hotels. The impulse buying of the customers as the tickets may have discounts leads to more profits to the hotels. Technology, therefore, has made traveling and booking of the hotels an easy task for the customers. These have reduced the cost to both the hotel companies and the customers. Online advertising is cheaper and attracts more market for the customers. The customers, on the other hand, are able to choose the hotels of their desire thus reducing costs incurred due to wrong hotels choices. Decision-making process for the customers is guided, and there are high possibilities of making good choices. Al-Khaldi 8 In summary, it is still debatable on whether the benefits of online booking could make it a more competitive phenomenon threatening to replace the traditional customs of travel and tourism. Questions still linger on whether convenience alone could attract customers to make the tourism industry a full-blown online booking enterprise. Bearing in mind that the internet has its hazards on identity theft and security, online booking might remain a questionable vacation option for destinations miles away from home. Nonetheless, online booking is gaining popularity in the contemporary world, but its impact is let to be explicitly evaluated. Some of the reason for its applicability include affordability and ease of use.