Pradeep Yadav Cat Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 22 February 2017 HOW ARE RENEWABLE RESOURCES TAKING NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCE AFFECTING RECENT ECONOMY AROUND THE WORLD. As we all know that, we are running out of fossil fuels rapidly and renewable resources are replacing them. We have been depending on fossil fuels since the beginning of the 18th century. Fossil fuels are the organic matter from the dead remains o f flora and fauna which due to immense pressure and heat deep under the earth surface for over million of years. Petroleum, coal, and natural gas are the main major fossil fuels. Renewable resources are those which can be reused again and again and can overcome depletion caused by rapid and back to back use. Some of the major renewable resources are water, air, solar, biomass, geothermal, biofuels. Due to fossil fuels getting finished due to the over-utilization by human beings there will be no more of them in a few decades. That is why human beings are turning to the renewable resources which does not get finished and is one of the only solutions to the depleting non-renewable resources. Fossil fuels are depleting due the over use in the factories and due to other industrialisation. Many countries are doing all they can to make the fossil fuels last but are changing their attention more to the renewable resources and using the non-renewable sources amount left very judiciously. The governments are encouraging the the use of renewable resources to sustain development for a longer term. While, We see the renewable resources taking over the non-renewable resources, it is very hugely affecting the economy of all the countries of the world. Renewable resources are eco-friendly which can be applied both for the environment and the economy of any country. (1.) and Stephen J. Turnovsky. Renewable Resources In An Endogenously Growing Economy: Balanced Growth And Transitional  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 48.(2004): 1018-1049. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In world renewable resources are one of the most important component of many small economies. Iceland and New Zealand are two of the examples for one of the small economies which totally depend on the environment for the good economic growth. While pollution degrades the quality of the environment and affects the overall economy of the country. Where GDP depended on fishery whereas New GDP depended on the forestry. While the most important issue nowadays is natural resources and the growth of a country. Whereas the population growth limits the per capita growth as the pressure on the renewable resources increase. And hence an alternate hypothesis posed by Sachs and Rodriguez is that resource-rich countries are more likely to live beyond than other countries with less energy harnessed from natural and renewable resources. This is a credible source as it is taken from the online USF Library and from the academic journal category. It is, Renewable Resources In An Endogenously Growing Economy: Balanced Growth And Transitional  This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy) and how it affects the economy. (2.) Agnani, Betty, and Amaia Iza. Growth In Overlapping Generation Economies With Non-Renewable  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 50.(2005): 387-407. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The economy of a country for future depends on how efficiently and judiciously the non-renewable resources are utilized today which will lead to a steady-state growth rate for the country. The economic growth which depended upon the natural resources scarcity was overcome by the neoclassical economics in the 1970s, according to the, Club of Rome. where stiglitz analyses that the stationary depletion rate of the non-renewable resources is endogenously given by the savings rate. With endogenous growth models the sustainability of the positive long run has been analysed. Management should be taken in account while we are to analyse the natural resources sustainability. This is a credible source as it is taken from the online USF Library and from the academic journal Growth In Overlapping Generation Economies With Non-Renewable  This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy) and how it affects the economy. (3.) Belbute, Manuel Madeira, and Paulo Brito. On The Relation Between The Endogenous Growth Rate Of The Economy And The Dynamics Of Renewable  (2009): RCAAP. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The journals talks about the two important endogenous growth models for the growth of any economy which are, exogenous technical progress in dematerialization and the second is the accumulation of renewable natural resources and how it is possible to combine permanent economic growth with permanent growth of environmental assets. There is no transitional dynamics, which means there is nothing such as steady growth. Whereas technological progress and innovations are very important in improving the efficiency of the technologies which are important for the long run and help in lower energy use intensity. The paper has a new perspective about how the expansion of human intelligence and understanding can lead to expansion economy. This is a credible source as it is taken from the online USF Library and from the academic journal category, On The Relation Between The Endogenous Growth Rate Of The Economy And The Dynamics Of Renewable  This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy) and how it affects the economy. (4.) Ayhan. The Social, Economic, And Environmental Importance Of Biofuels In The  Energy Sources Part B: Economics, Planning & Policy 12.1 (2017): 47. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. High fuel prices, is one of the most critical problems the world is facing nowadays. As the global energy demand increases, the shortage of energy is becomes one of the main factors which is restricting the growth of the world economy. The scarcity of energy also affects socially, the lives of people and live and resources around them and thereafter effecting all the country. this journal explores about how biomass-based liquid transportation fuels can or might replace the petrol and diesel fuels which are carbon dioxide neutral and causes no pollution and can generate almost equal amount of heat and energy. The production of Biofuels is steadily growing and the large scale production of such fuels and plants are currently high. The most important to my research the economic impacts of it are that cost of production and conversion, will be minimized and leading to economical benefits due to all the plus points the biofuels have over non-renewable fossil fuels. This is a credible source as it is taken from the online USF Library and from the academic journal category, The Social, Economic, And Environmental Importance Of Biofuels In The  This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy) and how it affects the economy. (5.) Cohen, Steven. What Is Stopping The Renewable Energy Transformation And What Can The US Government  Social Research 82.3 (2015): 689-710. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This journal very well tells about how till date the economic system depends on the one-time use fossil fuels and and different other material resources, its is about how can the United States maintain the future well being of the country and how the planet on whole depends upon the United States. The United States is required to play more strategic and future-oriented role to bring the renewable -resources-based economy in the forefront. As energy is the core of the sustainability, the modern economy is based on energy and all the processes are to be made more energy efficient. While the progress the United States has made is that it will be adequate and fulfill 80% of the energy demand till 2050, well there are some problems as well due to technology development. While funding the basic science and reaching out for extensive research in this field is highly required at this time which will directly influence the United States economy and the world economy in total. This is a credible source as it is taken from the online USF Library and from the academic journal What Is Stopping The Renewable Energy Transformation And What Can The US Government  This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy) and how it affects the economy. (6.) Mason, Charles F. On Equilibrium In Resource Markets With Scale Economies And Stochastic  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 64.2010 Monte Verita Conference on Sustainable Resource Use and Economic Dynamics(SURED) (2012): 288-300. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 In this paper, Charles F. Mason, the writer of the journal shows the existence and the characteristics of the equilibrium in a non-renewable resources where extraction processes are the most complex and the market price may vary hugely. He tells how scale economy works. Well there is a very broad explanation for the economy affected how and by the renewable resources taking over the non-renewable resources. While coming the the truth there are huge fluctuations in a market place due to this but any how the market place smoothly adjust according the critical point in where the firms turn from active to inactive extraction. This is a credible source as it is taken from the online USF Library and from the academic journal category, On Equilibrium In Resource Markets With Scale Economies And Stochastic  This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy) and how it affects the economy.