Almutana 1 Abdulghani Almutana Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 2/21/2017 How does fast food impact childhood obesity rates in USA? Over the past three decades childhood obesity rates have increased in the U.S. Obesity in children is mainly caused by an imbalance between calorie intake and calorie utilization in the body. While there are different factors such as genetics that lead to childhood obesity, eating fast food also leads to obesity in children. The growth of the fast food industry is showing the high request for quick and convenient meals among Americans. Almost 33% of all children in the United States eat fast food daily. Childhood obesity also increases the risk of adult obesity in the future. Also, many health and developmental issues connected to childhood obesity. Children who are obese are also at risk of chronic diseases such as diabetes, cancer, heart attack, and stroke. Convenience and access to fast food restaurants near schools also lead to higher intake. Therefore, public health solutions must focus on promoting lifestyle changes that discourage eating fast food and promote diet and healthier meals. Therefore, my research question for this semester is: How does fast food impact childhood obesity rates in USA? Datar, Ashlesha and Nancy, Nicosia. food in schools and childhood of Policy Analysis and Management, vol., 31, no.2, 30 May 2013, pp.312-337. Business Source Alumni Edition, doi: 10.1002/pam.21602. Almutana 2 This article identifies the connection between the availability of fast foods at school and childhood obesity in the US. According to Datar and Nancy (312), almost 33.3% of all children in the United States are either obese or overweight. The article also recognizes the health debate on competitive foods and their nutritional value to children at school. Consequently, Datar and Nancy use a cross sectional study to find out the impact of junk food on health and weight of children on school in the United States. Furthermore, the study also provides a brief assessment on the literature on competitive foods sold through school cafeteria, fundraisers, carte lines, and vending machines. The literature review uses studies from the 1980s to current research on childhood obesity. Consequently, the study results indicate that access to fast foods has increased significantly in middle and high schools in the U.S. Convenience of fast food has also lead to higher rates of eating among children. These factors are the leading causes of childhood obesity in the United States. Nancy Nicosia is an economics professor at Pardee RAND Graduate School. Her research work mainly focuses on the connection between health, eating trends, and substance abuse. Additionally, Ashlesha Datar is also a senior economist and director of program on children and families at USC Dornsife Center for Economic and Social Research. Datar mainly focuses her research on issues of child health and obesity. Food in Schools and Childhood is a credible resource published in the peer reviewed Journal of Policy Analysis and Management. Additionally, the article is important because it provides a brief background on childhood obesity through its literature review. The study findings are also important for my research because they offer evidence-based research on the effect of eating fast food on childhood obesity rates. Almutana 3 Davis, Brennan and Carpenter, Christopher. of Fast-Food Restaurants to Schools and Adolescent American Journal of Public Health, vol. 99, no. 3, March 2009, pp. 505-510. Education Source, doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.137638. Davis and Carpenter (505) carry out a study on the link between fast food establishments near schools and obesity rates among middle and high school students. They mainly use data from the 2002-2005 California Healthy Kids Survey to analyze their findings. According to Davis and Carpenter (505) there are over 9 million obese children in the United States. The article also recognizes the rate of eating fast food among children. Furthermore, Davis and Carpenter also (505) track the trends of eating fast food and how they have grown since the 1970s. The study also uses information from the California Department of Education and restaurant databases to promote credibility. Consequently, the study findings show that students have higher chances of being obese when their school is located within one-half mile of a fast food restaurant. Therefore, children had higher chances of eating from nearby fast food restaurants rather than looking for healthier options. Brennan Davis is an Associate Professor of Marketing at the Orfalea College of Business California Polytechnic State University. His research interests mainly focus on consumer research, marketing, and obesity. Christopher Carpenter is currently a Professor at the Department of Economics and Medicine, Health and Society at Vanderbilt University. His research mainly focuses on fields such as health economics and public policy. Both Davis and Carpenter have conducted many research on the connection between fast food and obesity in the United States. The use of data from the California Department of Education, restaurant databases, and 2002-2005 California Healthy Kids Survey add credibility to the study findings by Davis and Carpenter. This article is important for my research because it provides a brief Almutana 4 overview of fast food consumption trends among children in the United States, the study findings are also important because they provide a clear link between childhood obesity and eating fast food in the United States. Marlatt, Kara, Kian, Farbakhsh, Donald, Dengel, and Leslie, Lytle. and fast food consumption are associated with selected biomarkers in Preventive Medicine Reports, vol. 3, June 2016, pp.49-52. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2015.11.014. The article mainly examines eating behaviors and fast food eating rates in the United States. Furthermore, the study analyzes the connection between skipping breakfast and fast food consumption among children and adolescents. According to Marlatt (49), it is important to understand the causes of childhood obesity to create effective solutions for obesity prevention. Additionally, the article shortly analyzes the health effects of obesity on the development of a child. The article also states that childhood obesity is the leading cause of adult obesity statistics in the United States. The results of the research indicate that almost 25% of all participants were obese or overweight. Obese participants also recorded a lower rate of breakfast consumption and a higher rate of fast food eating. Furthermore, the obese participants were also the main group at risk of contracting chronic diseases. Marlatt (52) also state that their study findings are consistent with previous research from 1991 to 2009 on the effects of skipping breakfast on fast food eating and ultimately obesity. Marlatt, Kara, is currently a post-doctoral fellow Pennington Biomedical Research Center. Marlatt, Kara, Kian, Farbakhsh, Donald, Dengel, and Leslie, Lytle have also conducted individual research on the childhood obesity, nutrition, and health. Their studies are in different Almutana 5 peer reviewed articles and health policy documents. This article was published in the peer reviewed journal Preventive Medicine Reports. This article is important for my study because it provides a clear link between fast food eating and childhood or adolescent obesity. Also, it complements the findings from other resources that will be used in my research. This article also provides important data and statistics on childhood obesity rates in the United States. Maziak, Wasim, Kenneth, Ward, and Michelle, Stockton. obesity: Are we missing the big ObesityReviews. vol. 9, no. 1, Jan. 2008, pp. 35-42. AGRIS, doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2007.00376.x. Maziak, Kenneth, and Michelle (35) use this article to identify the main causes of childhood obesity. Firstly, the article provides the definition of obesity and how it affects the society. Maziak, Kenneth, Michelle also provide obesity statistics from a global scale. Almost, 10% of all children are obese around the world, and the United States has 32% of these statistics (Maziak, Kenneth, Michelle, 36). Additionally, the article also provides the social and economic costs of obesity on the society. Secondly, the article states how energy intake affects childhood obesity. According to Maziak, Kenneth, and Michelle identify eating fast food as a leading cause of obesity. Also, the article briefly values fast food trends among children in the 1970s and how they have changed in the 21 st Century. Therefore, high rates of eating fast food among children in the United States are related to the current childhood obesity rates. Maziak, Wasim, is a professor at the Department of Health and Sport Sciences, and Center for Community Health, in the University of Memphis. He conducts research in key public health areas such as cardiovascular risk factors, obesity, and smoking. Their article obesity: are we missing the big was published in the peer reviewed journal Obesity Almutana 6 Reviews. This article is important for my research because it defines childhood obesity as a leading national health pandemic. The article also provides a brief analysis on the evolution of eating fast food and childhood obesity in the United States. The article also identifies how fast foods work to alter the energy levels leading to obesity. Poti, Jennifer, Kiyah, Duffey, and Barry M, Popkin. association of fast food consumption with poor dietary outcomes and obesity among children: Is it the fast food or the remainder of the diet? 1, 2, 3 American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, vol. 99, no. 1, Jan. 2014, pp. 162-171. AGRIS, doi:10.3945/ajcn.113.071928. Poti, Kiyah, and Barry (162) carry out a study to identify the connection between fast food and dietary patterns for the remainder of intake. In this case, the article mainly provides data for the high rates of obesity in the United States. The article also provides a brief assessment of the total energy intake among children who eat fast food. It also provides a comparison between fast food consumers and other diets among children. The article also provides a literature review on previous studies that identify the relationship between obesity and fast food eating. Dietary patterns and preferences are the main center point of the study. More factors include across to supermarkets and fast food restaurants, time constraints that influence eating patterns, and income constraints. The study findings state that eating fast food is a leading cause of unhealthy behaviors among children. Issues such as race-ethnicity, adolescence, and lower parental education are leading causes of high fast food intake. In the long-term the health and weight of the child are affected. Jennifer Poti currently works at the Department of Nutrition at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Poti, Kiyah, and Barry have also carried out collaborative studies and Almutana 7 research on key public health issues such as the health effects of childhood obesity. Furthermore, Poti, Kiyah, and Barry have published this article in the peer reviewed journal American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. The article also provides important data and evidence required for my research. According to Poti, Kiyah, and Barry (162) almost 33% of all children in the United States eat fast foods. Similar information on energy intake is important to understand the high rates of eating fast food among American children. The articles broad focus on dietary patterns will also expand my research on the link between eating fast food and high rates of childhood obesity. Rosenheck, Robert. food consumption and increased caloric intake: A systematic review of a trajectory towards weight gain and obesity ObesityReviews. vol. 9, no. 6, Mar. 2008. AGRIS, doi:10.1111/j.1467-789X.2008.00477.x Rosenheck focuses on the main features of fast foods that promote obesity risk among children. In this case, glycemic loads, high energy densities, and excessive portion sizes are linked to the high rates of obesity in the United States. The article therefore reviews 16 peer reviewed articles that analyze obesity as a global health issue. review also focuses on children and adolescents as the key sub-population for the study. The article also provides childhood obesity statistics from the 1980s to the 21 st century based on the National Health and Nutrition Survey data. It also differentiates between key terms such as overweight and obesity. According to Rosenheck, is defined as a body mass index (BMI) of 25 kg m or over and obesity as a BMI of greater than 30 kg m . The study results state that regular fast food eating has a significant impact on BMI. High rates of fast food eating lead to higher calorie intake which promotes weight gain and obesity. Almutana 8 Robert Rosenheck has years of experience on nutrition and health research in the United States. Currently Robert Rosenheck is a Professor of Psychiatry and of Health Policy at Yale University. The article was published in the peer reviewed journal Obesity Reviews. The focus on previous studies and their connection with the current childhood obesity epidemic is important to understand the social, environmental, and nutritional factors that lead to childhood obesity. The broad analysis on 16 peer reviewed studies also promotes the credibility of this article as an important resource for my research. Furthermore, the findings that link obesity to fast food eating set the framework for my final research.