Bishop 1 Lora Bishop Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 9 February 2017 The Cost of College According to the National Center for Education Statistics, in fall 2016 about 20.5 million students were expected to attend college, an increase of 5.2 million since the fall of 2005. All of these students had to figure out a way to pay for their college tuition. This was going to be harder for some students than others because, according to an article on ProPublica that received its data from the National Center for Education Statistics, the U.S. Department of Education, and the United States Census Bureau, college tuition between 2000 and 2014 has increased on average by $3,576. In the same time frame, the median household income has decreased by $4,067. How will all of these families afford to send their children to college? Some people think it should be the responsibility of the government to fix its funding of education to be able to make college tuition free, while others argue that there enough resources out there like scholarships and student loans so that students can afford to go without having the government give them money. The most support for free college tuition has come from an organization called The Campaign for Free College Tuition. As their name suggests, they strongly believe that college tuition should be free for all students. On the other side of the debate would be the Navient Corporation. Their company services and collects student loans. Since their company serves 12 million customers, they would not believe that college tuition needs to be free, because companies like theirs exist to help people get through college. Although The Campaign for Free Bishop 2 College Tuition believes that all college tuition should be free and the student loan business Navient benefit from that, they both believe that more people deserve access to higher education and could compromise by agreeing to have community college be free. On one side of the debate of college tuition, there is The Campaign for Free College Tuition (CFCT). According to their website, CFCT believes that, economy requires the country to make higher education affordable for everyone if we are going to have a workforce with the skills needed for us to compete in the global The first step in doing this is to increase access by decreasing the cost of tuition to make it free for all who wish to attend (FreeCollegeNow.org). They believe that if the government creates incentives for the states to change their funding formulas that the states will comply (FreeCollegeNow.org). This could include tuition levels for in state students to be tied to the median family income in that state, so that the average family could afford to go and investing their resources at high schools to make it so that students have to take remedial classes once entering classes (FreeCollegeNow.org). CFCT also mentions on their website that federal money should be used to create a Promise program so that any academically qualified student from a lower or middle income family can receive enough money to be able to pay tuition. In Kalamazoo, Michigan, free college is a reality. Authors from the Economics of Education Review Rodney Andrews, Stephen DesJardins, and Vimal Ranchhod wrote about this special case in their article, Effects of the Kalamazoo Promise on College . In 2005, The Superintendent of the Kalamazoo Public School System, Janice Brown, introduced the Kalamazoo Promise and that this program was fully funded by a group of anonymous donors with the purpose of offering four years of free college tuition to any public university in Michigan as long as the student graduated from the Kalamazoo Public School System and met certain criteria (Andrews et al. 722). Bishop 3 Through their experimental methods on the data they collected, the authors found that the Kalamazoo Promise increased the amount of students in their public system that considered going to universities in Michigan (Andrews et al. 736). They also found that the Kalamazoo Promise especially increased the interest of students that come from families whose income is less than $50,000 (Andrews et al. 736). On the other side of the college tuition debate, the student loan business Navient. On their website, President and CEO, Jack Remondi, says their purpose is, our customers navigate the path to financial success is everything we stand They do this by giving over 12 million people access to student loans (Navient.com). Their mission statement says that they want to help their customers succeed by giving expertise and support when it comes to taking out loans (Navient.com). total assets as of Dec. 31 st 2016 totals in at $121.14 billion dollars (Ycharts.com). So it is safe to assume that Navient is doing extremely well as a business because of the fact that student loans exist. While there is no direct opinions from the company on how they feel about free tuition, it would make sense that they would not be in favor of free college, since less people would need student loans, so they would receive less money. Matt Bruenig, a writer for the political magazine Dissent, argues in his article, Case Against Free that the biggest problem with free college tuition is that most college students come from a family background that can afford to help pay for college tuition. He points out that students who are from families that are in the poorest bottom 25% of the population already pay almost nothing to attend college, between receiving scholarships for financial need and grants from FAFSA (Bruenig 113). To sum up his argument, the majority of people who would benefit from free college tuition are those who do not need to benefit, because they already have plenty of resources available to them to help with tuition (Bruenig 113). So, while Bishop 4 Navient see eye to eye with CFCT on free college tuition, one could hope that they could come up with a compromise. While these two companies may seem that they have no underlying common goals, there is definitely one major thing they can agree on. The Campaign for Free College (CFCT) believes that college tuition should be free. On the other end of the discussion, Navient Corporation would feel that college students need to figure out how to fund their education on their own. What they would agree on is that people deserve to have a higher education, even if they afford it on their own. The best compromise that could come from these two stakeholders is if they could work together to come up with a plan to make community college free and/or the first two years of university free. They could require that students have a certain ACT/SAT score and a certain high school GPA. Another addition to the compromise is that if a student drops out before finishing the two years of schooling, they have to pay back what they received in education. This would incentivize people to stay in school. The Campaign for Free College Tuition (CFCT) would have to make a compromise because not all four years of education would be free, only two. Navient would have to make a compromise because they would lose money from potential loans that people would have to take out in those first two years of education. In an article titled Community College Brings Campuswide in the Enrollment Management Report, the author Joan Hope, who has a Ph.D in English Literature, writes about how in Tennessee, there is a program called the Tennessee Promise. It offers recent high school graduates from Tennessee, that have met set requirements, free tuition (Hope 1). When they began this program, they noticed some great benefits. First, the average amount of students enrolled in community college increased by 1,000. Second, the amount of credit hours taken increased from 11 to 13 on Bishop 5 average. Third, the campus noticed that the students would actually stay on campus more than ever before, which increased the amount of people going to the campus dining hall and increased their profits since more people were spending money than usual. Fourth, it encouraged a lot of students to apply who normally have, because they may not have known about their options for funding college (Hope 6). Overall, it looks like this community college compromise worked well for Tennessee, and could be implemented in other states with support from both of the stakeholders. In conclusion, The Campaign for Free College Tuition (CFCT) and Navient Corporation disagree when it comes to the controversial topic of college tuition and whether or not it should be free. CFCT believes that tuition should be free, while Navient believes it However, both organizations can agree that anyone who wants to attend a university should be able to. Both organizations could come to a compromise that at least community college and/ or the first two years of university should be free. Imagine a country where more than half of the people had college degrees. It would lead to a lot of innovation and make the United States more competitive in a global economy. If people were able to get their foot in the door of higher education by getting their first two years paid for, it could lead to great improvements in the United States. Bishop 6 Works Cited Andrews, Rodney J., Stephen DesJardins, and Vimal Ranchhod. The Effects Of The Kalamazoo Promise On College  Economics Of Education Review 29.(2010): 722 737. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Bruenig, Matt. The Case Against Free  Dissent 4 (2015): 112. Project MUSE. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Campaign for Free College  Campaign for Free College Tuition. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Fast  Fast Facts. National Center for Education Statistics, n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Hope, Joan. Free Community College Brings Campuswide  Enrollment Management Report 7 (2016): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Navient. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Navient Total Assets  Navient Total Assets (Quarterly) (NAVI). YCharts. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Median Income Is Down, But Public College Tuition Is Way  ProPublica. N.p., 25 Aug. 2016. Web. 21 Jan. 2017.