Butz 1 Dana Butz Mrs. Penuliar ENC 1002 29 January 2017 Animal Testing: The Good, The Bad and The Ugly Animal testing is more than just using animals as test subjects to ensure that substances are safe for human consumption. Animal testing is defined as the use of animals for various research or development projects. The use of animals as subjects for testing and experimenting can be dated back to 300 BC when they were used in biomedical research by Greek physician- scientists. It was not until the twentieth century when animals became important to drug testing in the United States with the passing of the 1938 Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. This act required drugs to be tested on animals before the drugs could be marketed (Hajar). Since then, countless companies have used animals testing to ensure the safety of their products for human consumers. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, and Johnson & Johnson are two stakeholders in the ongoing debate of animal testing. Although PETA believes that all forms of testing on animals are unethical and laws should be put in place to end it, and Johnson & Johnson believes that using animals is sometimes required to develop safe products, they both believe in the safety of their targeted audiences. These two stakeholders can compromise by joining together and lobbying for the implementation of laws that will get rid of animal testing and allow human volunteers to be subjects for research and experiments instead. PETA, focuses on four areas in which the largest number of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: the food industry, the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About PETA). The underlying motivation behind beliefs Butz 2 is that violating animal rights is worse than violating human rights because animals speak for (Maroufi). PETA believes that there are countless alternative methods to animal testing that can be as equally or more effective in the testing of consumer products. Some of these alternative methods include in vitro methods, in silico models and the use of human volunteers. If these methods were implemented, it would save millions of lives, as well as millions of dollars and a significant amount of time during the testing process. PETA not only supports the research of alternate methods, but it also funds the development of non-animal methods. One corporation that receives funds from PETA to conduct research is MatTek Corporation. MatTek Corporation has created a human cell-based tissue that can be used for safety testing, product development and basic research (Call for Short Proposals). This is just one example of how non-animal methods are as equally effective as animal testing methods. The funding of MatTek also shows that PETA is proactive about their beliefs; instead of just voicing opinions, PETA donates money to help with the progression of non-animal methods. Johnson & Johnson is a company that produces pharmaceutical products, medical devices and the largest range of consumer products. This company prides itself with acting ethically and responsibly as a business and producing effective products of a consistent quality. However, to ensure the safety of these products, animal testing is implemented. On the Johnson & Johnson website, it is stated that 2000, the use of animals in research has decreased over 60 (Our Strategic Framework). The reason that they have not completely eradicated animal testing from their company is because government agencies require certain data that only animal testing can create before these products can be released onto the market. Johnson & Johnson does not necessarily support the use of animal testing for their products, but Butz 3 the familiarity and acceptance of it makes it easy for companies to complete the required testing to gain approval for their products. An argument for using animal testing is that animals are used in a way that is almost impossible to recreate using human subjects (National Academy of Sciences 4). The organization Pro-Test reveals that research has played a vital role in virtually every major medical advance of the last (Benefits). This is proof that companies who use and support the use of animal testing discover life changing advancements. Some advancements that have changed the course of medical history include gaining an understanding of the Malaria lifecycle, the function of neuron and more information inside organ transplants (Benefits). In 1966, the Animal Welfare Act was signed and is currently the only Federal law that regulates the treatment of animal subjects. Companies, such as Johnson & Johnson, follow the requirements of this law, which allows their continuation of using animal subjects during the testing process. The fact that there are still no specific laws banning the use of animals in product testing gives companies more leeway in how they chose to test their products. Johnson & Johnson clearly states that to animals should be used whenever and they take the treatment and care of their animals used in testing very seriously (Our Strategic Framework). Although the argument continues over the use of animal testing, benefits from this method can be seen in many circumstances, all while ensuring proper treatment and care of the animals used as subjects. PETA and Johnson & Johnson have very different views on animal testing. main goal is to eradicate the practice of animal testing because of the main argument that animals have no way to defend themselves. Supporters of PETA believe that they must step in to defend the lives of the innocent animals that are tortured every year. Johnson & Johnson, on the other hand, does not necessarily support the use of animal testing, but they believe that in certain situations it Butz 4 is more effective to implement the use of animal testing. Although these two stakeholders do not see eye to eye on this issue, there is one common underlying goal. Both stakeholders strive to ensure the safety of their targeted audiences. For PETA, their targeted audience is both the animals in danger of being test subjects, as well as people and organizations that are also fighting toward the end of animal testing. If PETA did not exist, millions of animals would continue to die every day due to mistreatment and a torturous environment. Johnson and targeted audience is the consumers that are using their products in their everyday lives. If Johnson & Johnson did not test their products, whether using animals or not, their consumers could be in danger because of unsafe substances that are released onto the market. Although these two situations seem very unrelated, the underlying goals are very similar. Both stakeholders are concerned with the safety of their audiences, but the approaches to reach that level of safety are fueled by different motivation. One way that PETA and Johnson & Johnson could work together to reach a more central goal is to join forces and fight for laws that only allow human volunteers to be test subjects. This will eliminate all use of animal testing, as well as provide companies with subjects that are able to give verbal consent. Johnson & Johnson must understand that testing will be slightly more complicated due to a finite number of subjects, instead of an endless supply of animal subjects. Companies must also choose subjects that are physically and mentally ready to be exposed to whatever is being tested. Since mission is to get rid of animal testing, it would only be appropriate if PETA recruited human volunteers and ensured that they were ideal subjects. This would give PETA a chance to team up with companies such as Johnson & Johnson to reach their compromise together. PETA will also have to continue to fund research that confirms the safety of the humans that volunteer to be subjects. Implementing a policy that will ensure any medical Butz 5 attention the subjects may need during the testing process would also be necessary for both the safety of the subjects and the effectiveness of the testing. This compromise will force companies to be more careful when research and testing is done. Using human subjects can also lead to social benefits, which are beneficial outcomes received by someone other than the subject, such as people in society. In a journal written by Dr. David B. Resnik, a former associate director of the Bioethics Center at East Carolina University, he states that testing and research that involved human subjects useful because it produces social benefits by generating knowledge with practical Dr. Resnik also explains that human subjects are beneficial because the benefit gained from using them is greater than the cost. Using human subjects is also more ethical because humans are able to verbally give consent before undergoing testing. This will eliminate any criticism about how unethical animal testing is. By coming together and working toward a common goal, PETA and Johnson & Johnson can eliminate the unethical uses of animal testing for good. After centuries of using animal testing for medical purposes, consumer purposes and research, the debate of this issue has grown. While one side of the argument fights to eradicate the use of animals as the subjects of testing, the other side thinks that the use of animal testing is necessary for certain situations. The underlying question is simply if it is ethical or not. To reach a conclusion, stakeholders on either side of the debate will be forced to come together and fight for their common underlying goal: the safety of consumers and the subjects involved. PETA and Johnson & Johnson are two stakeholders that not only have influence in this issue, but they also have the power to come together to reach a goal that will benefit everyone. Butz 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Pro-Test: standing up for science. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Call For Short Proposals - Peta & Mattek Team Up To Offer Tissues For Free. 03 August 2015. Web. 29 January 2017. Hajar, Rachel. Testing and Heart Views : The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association 12.1 (2011): 42. PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maroufi, Chogollah. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine. Science, Medicine, and Animals. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1991. Print. Our Strategic  Johnson & Johnson. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Resnik , David B. Social Benefits of Human Subjects Research  Journal of Clinical Research Best Practices 4 (2008): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.