Blashinsky 1 Samantha Blashinsky Professor Smith Comp 1 29 January 17 How social media affects athletes In society it seems that all individuals have some sort of social media. The media is able to send out news and information for the world in matters of seconds. For most individuals the media is used for their benefits, but for those who the media is talking about is not always beneficial. Athletes these days have huge amounts of pressure and have people watching their every move. Social media can be both good and bad for their use. Since athletes are in the public eye so much it is easy for them to be role models for the youth, but can also make it easier for them to get themselves in trouble just like any other person can for miss behavior pictures or context. It just so happens that athletes are in the public eye so much which creates publicity on their end but also numerous amounts of pressure that can lead to other tragic things. This research will focus on how social media affects athletes. Through Social  Vermont Law Review 37.(2012): 413. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 In this article, use of Social Media for Companies and Athlete Marcus Hauer talks about Marvin Austin who was a star defensive tackle for the North Carolina Tar Heels. Austin was kicked off the team for breaking the NCAA code of conduct. He tweeted something that was not allowed and was receiving special benefits. Although he was probably breaking a rule that was not allowed. It is the point that the media makes things way worse than what they actually are and can portray people for something that they Blashinsky 2 This source is connected with my topic because it shows something so small in social media can be blown up to get the athletes in trouble. The author Marcus specialty is in technological sciences and is known for writing this article on social media. I really liked this article because it pointed out how everything through the media is over emphasized to purposefully look for problems. McKelvey, Steve. This Tweet Sponsored By ... The Application of The New FTC Guides To The Social Media World Of Professional  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal 11.(2011): 222. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In this Application of the New FTC Guides to Social Media World of Professional Steve McKelvey and James T. Masteralexis talk about how social media is also causing athletes to have mental health issues. Playing at the college level and professional level causes a lot or pressure from being in the public eye and the athletes can either take that and make something great out of it or other times it can destroy them. Author Steve McKelvey is the Assistant vice president and academic affairs and professor of mathematics, statistics and computer science. This source is credibly because the specialty is in computer sciences and knows the exact facts of what social media can have on individuals. I really liked how this article pointed out the deeper aspects of how social media affects the athletes such as mental health issues. People do not realize that amount of pressure athletes have and how it can really mess with their heads at times. That is why I like this articles because it supports my article with different examples that the others. Blashinsky 3 Penrose, Meg. Tinkering With Success: College Athletes, Social Media And The First  Pace Law Review 35.(2014): 30. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In this article, they talk about more the legal issues that athletes have with social media. It is illegal for especially student athletes to promote themselves on social media for promoting themselves. There are many rules that they must follow. Sometimes they break rules without even knowing that it was a rule in the first place. This article also talks about the argument of the first amendment taking place. There are regulations that they must follow and certain things they cannot post. The argument is that they should be allowed to post whatever they want but that is not the case because they have eyes judging and watching their every move. The author of this article is Meg Penrose who is the professor of law at Texas A&M University School of Law. Meg also worked under two professional judges so she has lots of experience of the law. She is very credibly for this source because the article has to do with the amendments. This article supports the claim of the research topic on how social media affects athletes except this is more in the legal ways. It is relevant to this topic as well because it continues to show how there are numerous ways how athletes can be affected. Bentley, Eric D. Unnecessary roughness: why athletic departments need to rethink whether to aggressively respond to the use of social media by  The Computer & Internet Lawyer 2013: 19. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Blashinsky 4 In this article, they again talk about the first amendment. The argument is that the athletes have unprotected speech. This article states a lot of the same things on how social media for athletes are always being watched and have to be extra careful. In order for the athletes not to get in trouble it is important for them to be very smart. Most of the time their coaches will have a set or rules that they must follow in order to stay out of trouble and on the team. Eric D Bently, does a good job on examining the events that took place at the University of Missouri. He discusses whether athletes at higher levels across the country have the right to fight for the first amendment. He also is a lawyer who has a lot of knowledge which makes this article very credible because it is coming for someone who knows a lot about the topic. Lewis, Melvin1, and Carla2 Hugg. Review Implications, Best Practices For Social-Media  College Athletics & The Law 12.9 (2015): 1-3. Education Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In this article, Lewis talks about how student athletes come to college with preexisting mental health issues steaming from the pressure that they receive from friends, family, and social media. Everybody now a days has Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, ect. Although social media can be something positive for athletes and the department, one wrong thing said or stated can turn situations around very quickly. In athletics, there is something called compliance which is all the NCAA rules. Most of the rules deal with social media and the trouble the athlete get with it. The same rules that apply to everyone else if you say it out loud than put it online for the whole world to see it. The only difference is that for athletes the consequences can be way worse. Blashinsky 5 The authors of this article and Melvin Lewis and Carla Hungg. Lewis has a PH.D and is an assistant professor of sports management at the University of Alabama. Hungg is a graduate research assistant is sports business management at the University of Alabama. Before Alabama, she worked at LSU Sports Properties. Both authors have a lot of back ground and knowledge of sports and the laws. Their jobs are very important to athletic apartments because they make sure that all their athletes and the programs are doing the right things so they get in trouble and make the university look bad. Stubblefield, Patrick. CHALK TALKS--: Evading The Tweet Bomb: Utilizing Financial Aid Agreements To Avoid First Amendment Litigation And NCAA  Journal Of Law & Education 41.(2012): 593. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article talks about some of the same information in the previous article. The argument is how social media bands from student athletes could violate the first amendment. Social media has caused athletes harm in their recruiting process as well. For example, when a young athlete is being recruited by a university the coaches make sure they check all their social media accounts to know for sure they saying anything they supposed to. Most young athletes do not realize this and this is also when the argument comes in for freedom of speech. Patrick Stubblefield does a good job about providing good information on the first amendment and backing up the points on how individuals have the right to say what they want. Even though there are lots of rules that athletes have to follow it seems unfair that they have to Blashinsky 6 be more careful on what they have to say. The same thing can go for non student athletes trying to get a job. Their boss may look up their social media accounts to make sure they are getting good people to work for them.