Aviles 1 Saul Aviles Ms. Smith Composition I 01/19/16 Ideal Choice Diabetes is a disease which affects the insulin producing beta cells inside the pancreas, thus leading to increase levels of glucose in the blood. So far incurable, 350 million people worldwide have the disease while an estimated 3.4 million deaths a year are caused by diabetes alone. Stem cells are remarkable cells with the ability to turn into any cell within the human body, essentially doing the specific function that the original cell was created to perform. By inserting stem cells into a damaged or diseased area, such as the pancreas in patients diagnosed with diabetes, stem cells will begin to function as beta cells, ultimately producing insulin which would in turn regulate the glucose levels in the body, curing them of the disease. There are however, risks as well as criticism associated with the use of stem cells which stall the medical progress of stem cells. All in all, the question stands, can stem cells be used in the treatment of patients diagnosed with diabetes? Dey, Devaveena1, ddey@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in, and Annapoorni2, anu@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in Rangarajan. Stem Cells: A Dormant Volcano Within Our  Resonance: Journal Of Science Education 12.3 (2007): 27-34. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. There are two types of stem cell, Embryonic stem cells, as well as Somatic stem cells (adult stem cells). Embryonic stem cells are derived from inside the blastula (early stage Aviles 2 embryo), while adult stem cells (much less accessible than embryonic SC) are taken from tissues found within the human body. The ability to adapt, change, and function as any cell in the human body is why there has been so much focus and experimentation on stem cells usage in the medical field. Due to their remarkable ability to turn into any cell in the body, stem cells have been looked towards for possibly curing patients diagnosed with diabetes. However even though the use of stem cells for curing patients with diabetes seems promising, there are ethical concerns, such as terminating a in order to retrieve embryonic stem cells. Devaveena Dey was a PhD student in Molecular and Cell Biology when she wrote the article. Her main research revolved around stem cells and cancer, and she has published multiple peer reviewed articles about the topics. The author gives credibility to the research paper because she is familiar with the topic and the research is accepted by her scientific peers. The article is relevant to the research paper because it supports the use of stem cells with scientific evidence and reasons, but also highlights the flaws and counter argument. Master, Zubin1, zubin@zubsplace.com, and G.2, g.crozier@gmail.com Crozier. The Ethics Of Moral Compromise For Stem Cell Research  Health Care Analysis 20.1 (2012): 50-65. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stem cell research is the most promising regenerative treatment in the world today, however, there are many ethical as well as health issues associated with the use of stem cells. First, the use of Embryonic stem cells can be seen as ethically wrong, because in order to retrieve the cells, the blastula (debatable life) will have to be destroyed. Many see a blastula as a life or possible human being, thus by destroying it, a life is essentially being taken away. There are also health issues that can come from the procedure, such as: ovarian hyper stimulation syndrome, abdominal pain, strokes, renal failure, heart attacks and possibly ovarian or uterine cancer. In Aviles 3 order to avoid the moral debate, many researchers look towards somatic stem cells which are taken from adults, who can give consent. However, there is one major issue with using stem cells, cancer. Stem cells are unspecialized cells which means that with a bit of modification, they can become any cell in the human body, however when the modifications are made, there is the possibility that the modification can cause the stem cells to become cancerous. Zubin Master holds a PhD in Cell and Molecular Biology from the University of Toronto. He has written a substantial number of articles and papers on stem cells and the ethical concerns behind using stem cells for medical purposes. This article focuses on the ethical, as well as, the health issues involved in using stem cells for medical procedures, such as the treatment of diabetes, which the source above only lightly touches on. El-Hossary, Nancy, et al. Intravenous Vs Intraperitoneal Transplantation Of Umbilical Cord Mesenchymal Stem Cells From Jelly In The Treatment Of Streptozotocin- Induced Diabetic  Diabetes Research & Clinical Practice 121.(2016): 102-111. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article describes an experiment done on mice to test the curing abilities of stem cells and whether or not they will be successful in curing diabetes. Umbilical stem cells were gathered, cultured, and prepared for weeks. They were then injected into the mice, either intravenous (through a vein) or intraperitoneal (and the results were measured, recorded, and compared (control group) over a span of 56 days. Overall, the experiment was a huge success and the stem cells not only reduced the glucose levels of the mice, but also fixed damage done to the pancreases tissue. Overall, it shows that stem cells successfully managed to treat diabetes in rats, which are completely different from humans, but the results show the promise of using stem cells for treatment plans. Aviles 4 The article is of high importance because it forms the backbone for the research paper and the claim of using stem cells to cure diabetes. The article provides scientific facts and evidence that support the claim, thus giving credibility to the statement. El-Hossary received her PhD from the Modern Sciences and Arts University and is currently working on research at the Faculty of Biotechnology in Cairo, Egypt. Vanikar, Aruna V., Hargovind L. Trivedi, and Umang G. Thakkar. Stem Cell Therapy Emerging As The Key Player In Treating Type 1 Diabetes  Cytotherapy 18.(2016): 1077-1086. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article describes different sources of stem cells, how they are acquired, the pros and cons of each, as well as the outcomes of the experiments each was used in. The stem cells have been used on either animals or humans, and have had temporary successful affects but no definitive cure. Although the end goal has not been reached, the research and experimentation done on stem cells is by far the most promising form of treatment of diabetes compared to an insulin pump, which prohibits the involvement of certain activities, as well as pancreas transplant, which has a huge waiting list, not to mention that many do not even are able to find a match or have to deal with body rejection. Aruna Vanikar has published over 200 articles and citations, as well as being a huge influential researcher in the medical community. She has also received several awards/recognitions on her stem cell research articles and contributions. The article is important to the research paper because it gives scientific data and results which give hard core evidence of using stem cells to cure diabetes. It also supports the precious citation by further providing proof of the use of stem cells. Aviles 5 Xing, Bao-heng, Feng-zhen Yang, and Xiao-hua Wu. Full Paper: Naringenin Enhances The Efficacy Of Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Pancreatic Endoderm In Treating Gestational Diabetes Mellitus  Journal Of Pharmacological Sciences 131.(2016): 93-100. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article discusses how Embryonic stem cells have been proven to successfully treat rats diagnosed with diabetes. An experiment is conducted, which uses Naringenin (an anti- oxidant), in the hope of improving the results that embryonic stem cells have on treating diabetes. The stem cells were cultured and transplanted into the kidney capsule of the subjects and the glucose levels of the rats were measured over a span of 20 days. Over the 20 days, it was seen that the mice implanted with the Naringenin as well as stem cells produced a more stable and quicker normalized glucose levels than mice implanted with just embryonic stem cells, which had a higher glucose level. Feng-Zhen Yang has a PhD in organic chemistry, and has majored in nanotechnology, and materials chemistry. He has published over 70 articles, half of which discuss the possible medical of using stem cells for treatment purposes. The article relates to the research question because it states that stem cells have been a success in the treatment in diabetes in mice, and some experimenters have moved on to discovering ways to improve the efficiency of stem cell treatments. It also paves a way for the possibility of using stem cells to successfully treat diabetes in humans. Lv, Shasha, et al. Mesenchymal Stem Cells Transplantation Ameliorates Glomerular Injury In Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetic Nephropathy In Rats Via Inhibiting Oxidative  Diabetes Research & Clinical Practice 104.1 (2014): 143-154. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Aviles 6 The article discusses how Mesenchymal stem cells (bone marrow stem cells) are implanted in rats to test the regenerative and healing capabilities that the cells have on diabetes. The rats were inserted with STZ, intraperitonially, in order to induce diabetes. The rats were than separated into control (no MSC inserted) and experimental groups (MSC inserted), and studied for a period of 6 weeks. The data concluded that the experimental group contained a lower glucose level and no sign of oxidative stress which is a side effect caused by diabetes. Both Shasha Lv and Jiang Chang work for the Nephrology Research Institute of Shandong University and the Second Hospital of Shandong University. Together, they have produced over 100 scientific and medical articles. This article relates to the research question because it involves further supports the ability of stem cells to treat diabetes in rats, and show the greatest potential in treating diabetes in humans. It includes experimental data to support the claim and give credibility to the research question.