Patel 1 Krishna Patel Professor Ryan 2/22/17 ENC 1102 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Advertising has become the bulk of most of our surroundings in society, especially with the growth of major industries. It has become the center of attention everywhere we go with hundreds of billboards, hours of television commercials, and even worldwide campaigns. Dove, the widely used soap brand across the nation, has started a movement with the purpose of aiding women in building body confidence. This movement, the Dove Self-Esteem Project, strives to touch young girls around the world and boost their self-esteem concerning body image through education and engagement of parents Girl Should Feel Free To Be order to increase awareness of this issue and achieve its goal of reaching out to young girls dealing with anxiety and body confidence, the Dove Self-Esteem Project utilizes visual rhetoric in its advertisements by representing the youth in its campaign, using slogans that could persuade the older audience to join the movement, incorporating statistics that may turn heads toward the project, and portraying the girls as the center of attention Girl Should Feel Free To Be incorporation of game-changing strategies into its advertisement of three girls, each consisting of a slogan, aids in proving its effectiveness of its goal. desire is to help Patel 2 the youth, specifically girls, and the advertisement represents three young girls full of confidence, which can be seen from their body language of crossed arms. The campaign is also set to increase parental involvement, which can be inferred through the statement above the first girl, wants to be just like you, The advertisement gives off more of an optimistic sensation to the audience as the written portions compile to formulate the overall goal of the project which is make a difference in a and to make world where beauty is a source of confidence, not Dove emphasizes the fact that everyone, no matter what age, gender, sex, or race, has the opportunity to change a life. It also stresses the issue of anxiety in the world and not enough confidence concerning beauty and body image. main motive in advertising is to attract the audience closer to its campaign. In order to do so, it utilizes images that may pull the audience towards the text and overall advertisement. These images include young girls that the Dove Self-Esteem Project strives to engage and take part in the campaign. With a touching slogan given to each girl, an association of the text and girl is created, linking two positives and making it an overall optimistic image. Chyong-Ling Lin and Jin-Tsann Yeh, authors of the article Awareness of Women: Media- Portrayed Idealized Images and Physical discuss the positive outcomes of incorporating classical beauty of women in an advertisement and its effects on the audience. It motivates the consumers to actually consider the product as and explore what the advertisement has to offer beyond what it is physically portraying (Lin and Yeh). The advertisement also presents reason and logic through the questions it raises for the audience. For example, the statement a world where beauty is a source of confidence, not raises the Patel 3 question of how the world can become anxiety-free and what is Dove going to contribute to fix this issue. The white background symbolizes a sense of pureness for the images sitting on top of the white. It gives the girls a chance to be the significance of the advertisement which sets them as the center of attention. This lets the audience know that the main focus is them and their beauty. Along with game-changing strategies, Dove uprightness in its advertisements in order to attract readers to its product/movement.The motive is to help girls gain self-esteem and give them beauty confidence. In another one of advertisements, the heading states you choose Dove, you help girls build Therefore, the advertisement is trying to point out the fact that no other brand will help a girl reach self-esteem like Dove does. In this particular advertisement, three different girls are shown to set a clear audience of the youth, however, one of them is a different race. This use of diversity in the image depicts intention of helping girls of all races and cultures as no girl should be left behind. It seems as if there is bias in the description as it sends out the message of the brand making positive changes through only itself. However, this bias allows the reader to ponder of nothing but the brand being stated. It also sets a positive environment for the readers as nothing negative is being said about another company. The incorporation of the statistic of the number of people Dove has helped also creates a definite tone of positivity throughout the advertisement. The Dove Self-Esteem Project motivates its audience through ethical means, in other words, through honesty and integrity. It utilizes statistics in most of its advertisements in order to prove its effectiveness. Specifically in this advertisement, it states reached 15 Patel 4 million young girls with our self-esteem in smaller print under the main purpose of the brand. According to the article in the Numbers! (cover the authors discuss the sophistication and diversity of statistics in advertisements through the use of proven information (Pliske et al.). This helps the reader become more aware of the subject and relate to the issue on a personal level (Pliske et al.). Dove is letting the audience know how effective its campaign is and how many lives it has touched through the program (Pliske et al.). The advertisement also raises the question of how its self-esteem education touched millions of girls across the globe. It makes the audience wonder what the educators do that makes the program so effective to so many people and their parents. It also touches the audience through emotional figures, such as the three diverse girls. The diversity gives the audience a sense of belonging no matter what race they are and are welcomed to join. Each advertisement plays a role in the main mission of the Dove Self-Esteem Project in their own way. However, both also work together effectively to reach the goal of spreading self- esteem and body confidence to the audience of young girls. One advertisement focuses mainly on what the campaign is about, while the other aids in portraying diversity and statistics to prove to the audience its effectiveness. Together, the advertisements send optimism towards the way through the portrayal of strength in the youth, classical beauty, self-confidence, and overall main motive of the project. With trends continuously changing and emerging into completely new ones, mindsets also tend to divert. intentions are to set these mindsets to thinking that beauty comes from within oneself. This is why the Dove Self-Esteem Project is targeting young girls. Education Patel 5 about psychological well-being and self-esteem is very crucial to the current generation and to the preceding ones as well. Dove utilizes many game-changing strategies that have been here all along, such as something so simple as education, in order to reach out to millions of girls of this generation along with their parents to help them through their journey. Dove has many other movements and campaigns it has to offer to women of all ages and is continuing its cycle of programs. As the perception of beauty continues to amend through the coming generations, either there will be an increase in support groups and self-confidence programs or people will start to adapt to the changes to the point where natural beauty will become an alien concept. Patel 6 Work Cited Girl Should Feel Free to Be Dove Self-Esteem Project, selfesteem.dove.us/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Lin, Chyong-Ling, and Jin-Tsann Yeh. Awareness of Women: Media- Portrayed Idealized Images and Physical Journal of Business Ethics, vol. 90, no. 1, Jan. 2009, pp. doi:10.1007/s10551-009-0026-z. Pliske, Rebecca M., et al. the Effectiveness of an Integrated and Intensive Research Methods and Statistics Course Teaching of Psychology, vol. 42, no. 2, 2015, pp. doi:10.1177/0098628315573139.