Rocchio 1 Chris Rocchio Instructor Ryan ENC1102.059 26 February 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric All over the world, animals are being held captive for the pleasure and research of humans. Some of these animals are held in poor living conditions and people must come to their defense. Most people believe that it is not humane and fair to the animals to be kept in places that do not mirror their natural habitat directly. One of the biggest organizations in the world in which fights for the rights of animals is the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Per the PETA mission statement, focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment PETA has over 5 million members and supporters and fights for the rights since the animals cannot fight for themselves. One of the main formats of public education used to inform people of the issue that PETA uses is advertisements. Two of the main advertisements used to inform others on the issue uses Waka Flaka and a world renown whale from SeaWorld to relate and get the viewer to look more into the issue. The first advertisement used by PETA to relate and inform the viewer has a large picture of Waka Flaka holding a small dog. The dog has a very sad face on him and so does the person holding him, Waka Flaka. The audience this advertisement is aimed towards is a younger one. Most of the younger audience knows who Waka Flaka is and what he does. Waka Flaka is a rapper who is always doing very exciting and crazy things. The objective of this advertisement is Rocchio 2 to show people that if Waka Flaka is serious about it, it must be something to be worried about. The tone of the advertisement is very serious and its goal is to get the issue across in all seriousness. PETA puts the word coward in red in a context of grey words to get the word to stick out. When people see the word, coward stand out, it may make them feel insecure about themselves if they are the ones keeping animals in poor conditions. Next, the first advertisement used by PETA to relate and inform the viewer on the topic of poor living conditions of animals in captivity has numerous rhetorical appeals. PETA ensures the credibility of the advertisement by using ethos and putting their logo on the advertisement. Since the advertisement is now considered credible, it makes more of the viewers believe the information. The advertisement also appeals to timeliness. It uses Kairos by saying lives may depend on (Waka Flocka Flame: Be Their Protector, Not Their Bully) . This makes people believe the animals could die at any time if the viewer does not act now. The most prominent part of the advertisement is the large image of Waka Flaka holding the small dog. This taps in the pathos appeals to show how the emotion of the dog and Waka is very serious and humorless. The second advertisement in which PETA uses to fight against and gain support for the poor living conditions of issue is based on a world renown whale at SeaWorld. There has been multiple reports of orca whales attacking some of the trainers at SeaWorld and this advertisement is trying to portray that to a more serious extent. The man in the mouth is SeaWorld CEO, Jim Atchison. The audience of this image is anyone who is willing to help send the word of freeing the whales. This advertisement has a very serious tone and gets the viewer to think hard on the issue because of what the text says next to the whale. The text makes you believe that if you let the whales go, they have a reason to attack. Rocchio 3 Given the circumstances, the second advertisement gets you to think hard about the message that is being sent to the viewer. The image makes you think hard because of all the rhetorical parts that are appealed to. Once again, PETA uses the credibility of ethos and adds their logo to the advertisement so that people can see that PETA endorses, supports, and verifies the advertisement. The most important part of the advertisement is the text which says will let you go, if you let him This text appeals to Kairos because the text appeals to time. The whale will let the CEO go, as soon as he is set free. The only reason the whale is doing this is to let the people know he want to be there anymore. The text also appeals to logos since the text is there for reasoning. By reasoning, the viewer can infer that the whale is only doing to the CEO, what the CEO has done to him. The whale is holding the CEO because the CEO has held him over the past years. For PETA to get their message across they must get their word out to the people. The best way for them to do this is to advertise. The advertisements get the viewer to think abnormally about the issue in hope that it will change the viewpoint of the viewer and help get them more involved in the issue. In the first advertisement, if the viewer sees a very serious Waka Flaka, they know something is wrong and they must see what is wrong enough to change Waka Flakas normal personality to seriousness. In the second advertisement, the text creates a sense of reason to get the reader to think about what the whale is doing by attacking the CEO in the image. The Whale is just trying to get his message across in the only way he can do so. The advertisements create a wonderful image to promote the goals and viewpoints of PETA by creating an abnormality based off social norms in each of the advertisements. In conclusion, PETA is trying to get the viewpoint of its members out to even more people with hopes of spreading the word of how awful some of the living conditions for animals Rocchio 4 in captivity are and how they must be improved. The advertisements are the best way to inform viewers because the rhetorical appeals brought to the viewers makes the viewer think and relate about the issue at hand. Each image uses different rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, and Kairos to promote the goals of PETA. In the end, the only thing that PETA wants is for the animals to be safe and happy, and why should anyone want anything else for the animals? Rocchio 5 Works Cited PETA. Seaworldofhurt. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://www.seaworldofhurt.com/comic-con-fans- greeted-airport-massive-anti-seaworld-cartoon/>. PETA. Waka Flocka Flame: Be Their Protector, Not Their Bully. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/features/waka-flocka-flame-cowards-abuse-animals/>. Zarrin, Javad, et al. Manycore Simulation for Peta-Scale System Design: Motivation, Tools, Challenges and  Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory, vol. 72, 01 Mar. 2017, pp. 168-201. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.simpat.2016.12.014. About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rocchio 6 Image 1 Rocchio 7 Image 2