Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Coral destruction is an issue that has become increasingly prevalent in society. However, many people may not be aware of what is actually occurring and the consequences that come with it. The NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program produces infographics and images that help bring awareness to the problem of coral destruction and bleaching. An infographic on coral bleaching and how it occurs and an image of a coral reef that has been bleached help to show the purpose of the CRCP which aims protect, conserve, and restore the coral The NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program was created to help maintain coral reefs and the environment around them. With pollution leading to increased global warming, coral bleaching is an issue that is less well known than other environmental issues, but is still important. The program has three main focuses that are threats to coral reefs including climate change, land-based sources of pollution, and unsustainable fishing practices. Several images and infographics have been produced to show some of the effects of these threats and what causes them. The CRCP works with scientists to help research and provide education about coral reef destruction. The first image is an infographic found on the CRCP website that describes coral bleaching and how it occurs. The second image shows a diver next to a section of coral that has been bleached. The infographic shows many rhetorical strategies. The overall message of the infographic is to inform the public about coral bleaching and how it occurs. its audience seems to be directed towards people who are not informed about the topic and maybe a younger crowd since the language is very basic. Ethos are shown by the logo in the bottom right of the infographic. This includes the NOAA company logo and the website for the conservation program. Since the logo is included, this helps to make the information in the infographic credible. Pathos can be shown in the infographic with some of the words they use in the explanations. Words such as and are used as emotion words that can cause whoever is reading to feel sympathy. With this emotion, the reader may feel an urge to act. Logos are shown in this infographic by the explanations for each of the coral bleaching steps. Clarifications for the steps provide reason for the steps and why they occur. This satisfies the appeal to reason. The infographic shows kairos as well. Since there is a limited amount of coral reefs in the world and the infographic describes their decline, they will eventually all be bleached unless people become educated and work to make a change. The eye is first drawn to the large writing that reads and then goes to the pictures that show the steps of coral bleaching. The eye is also drawn to the far right side since it is a different color than the rest of the image. Even though the writing is much smaller on the right side, it is a different shaped format which is appealing to the eye. In the second image, a diver is shown next to a group of bleached coral. The purpose of this image is to show that coral bleaching is an actual thing that happens, not just something to scare everyone. The audience of this image is more directed towards a crowd that is slightly more educated and can realize what is going on in the image. Ethos are shown in the image in the scuba diver and the tools they have for what seems to be measuring the coral. There are surveying tools used on top of the coral that seem to be part of one of the companies that works with the CRCP to research coral bleaching. Pathos are used in the image with the bleached coral directly shown in the image. Like the purpose of the image, emotion can be felt when the viewer can clearly see the effects of pollution and climate change on coral reefs. Logos are also used in the image since it is a photo and it shows the actual effect of coral bleaching. The Kairos in this image are similar to that in the infographic in that the number of coral reefs in the world are limited and the reader can see the decline. When the reader first views the image, their eye is drawn to the big spot of bleached coral right in the middle, then goes to the scuba diver holding the survey equipment. Since the images are taken from the NOAA website, they help to provide support for what the CRCP stands for. They help to educate the public which takes steps to protect, conserve, and restore coral reefs.