Mateo 1 Kaely Mateo James Josue ENC 1102 11 February, 2017 Vegans Versus Meat Consumers: their views on animal agriculture For years, there have been opposing views on the meat industry and animal agriculture. Animal agriculture, or animal husbandry is the farming of animals to be used as food and products (Merriam-Webster). A vegan is strict vegetarian who consumes no that comes from animals one who abstains from using animal products (as (Merriam-Webster). Meat consumers are without a doubt, those who eat meat. To settle the differences between vegans and meat consumers and to find common ground, it is important to acknowledge both sides of the argument. Vegans believe it is wrong and unnecessary to slaughter animals so that they can be used as food or made into clothing products, while meat consumers believe it should continue to be an accepted practice as it has been for several years, regardless of their awareness of animal cruelty. As a compromise, vegans should accept that the meat industry cannot immediately be shut down. The compromise for meat consumers would be to contribute to the efforts of less harsh animal agriculture. By both sides making a compromise, disagreements can be settled. Vegans are opposed to the meat industry as well as animal agriculture. They do not believe it is right for animals to be eaten and made into products such as clothing unless it is necessary such as in a life or death situation Consider ). In Mateo 2 Jonathan Safran Eating Animals, Foer explains the relationship of a human and a best friend, a dog (Foer 24). He then goes on to ask the question justification might have for sparing dogs but eating other animals? (24). By saying this, Foer wants to make the point that it is a hypocrisy for people to refuse to eat dogs and not share or apply the same morals to eating other animals. Foer also explains that society has waged war all of the animals and that this war is what he calls (33). Humans wage an unfair war by using technology against animals. Because technology is so advance, vegans can argue that technology should be applied to finding ways in which animals are treated more humanely. It is also important to note the diction Foer uses to describe the industry. By using the term it diminishes animals, making it sound as though they are only products. Likewise, because the meat industry is in high demand, animals are also injected with chemicals and hormones to expedite the process needed to raise them, completely altering what would have been their normal lifestyle This shows lack of care towards how the animals are treated. The main concern of those in the meat industry is to please their customers and to give them what they want as quick as possible. It can be argued that this is not ethical and contradicts morals and standards humans have with other animals such as a dog a cat or a horse. Although meat consumers may be somewhat aware of how the meat industry functions, they stay firm in their belief that it is acceptable to eat meat. As previously stated, meat is in high demand around most of the globe. According to the North American Meat Institute, meat and poultry industry is the largest segment of U.S. The United States ). Based on this information, one can infer that the Mateo 3 industry provides many jobs, which is a benefit. One can argue that if the meat industry declines, there is a risk of unemployment for many citizens working within the industry. The goal of the meat industry is produce a lot of food on a small amount of land at a very affordable As mentioned earlier in the paper, in order to get the most out of their products in a shorter amount of time, those in the industry inject the animals with chemicals and hormones. By doing this, the industry produces more for a cheaper price. Another point made in the documentary Food, Inc. is that the decline of tobacco, many farmers in the south turned to chicken and according to Vince Edward, the industry helped whole This is another argument of why meat consumers would also support the meat industry as well as the continuance of animal agriculture. Meat consumers also argue that meat provides nutrients that vegetables cannot provide such as vitamin B12, Creatine, vitamin D3, carnosine, and docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) 5 Brain Even though vegans and meat consumers have clashing views on animal agriculture and meat consumption, both live in the same society and must make the effort to find a common ground. The common ground between both groups is that both sides recognize that animal cruelty is a very serious issue in both animal agriculture and the meat industry, and that changes must be made to improve how the industry is handled. The compromise for meat consumers would be to help apply these changes for the betterment of the animals. Although the meat industry cannot be completely shut down for the time being, there are ways in which people in the industry can treat the animals more humanely. For example, the industry can go back to farming animals the natural way in which chickens live their natural lives without being injected with hormones and giving them the space they need, not them in a battery which crams to at a time This may cost more money Mateo 4 and time to complete the process, however it would be beneficial for employment as more workers will be required to complete the task. Also, health benefits come with not injecting animals with hormones, returning healthier and fresher meat to society. The compromise for vegans would be having to accept that the meat industry cannot be taken down immediately or easily. However, as mentioned before, new ways of farming the animals can be applied to avoid continuance of treating the animals inhumanely. Also, both sides can agree to create dietary programs such as lessening the number of animals being slaughtered, while meat consumers can still eat meat in moderation (Fischer and Mcwilliams). It is important to see both sides of the arguments on animal agriculture as it makes people more aware of what is happening in the world around them. It allows one to be open minded by listening to what both sides say, and by listening to the arguments from an unbiased point of view. When speaking about a sensitive topic such as this one, it is important for both vegans and meat consumers to be open minded because if not, then the issue will not be resolved and will result in a worse issue than the initial one. By being open minded, both sides can agree that the meat industry is gruesome and that steps should be made to make the industry less harsh towards animals. Mateo 5 Works Cited Consider  Consider Veganism Straightforward arguments for veganism. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Definition of  The Vegan Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Farm  Farm Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Fischer, Bob , and James Mcwilliams. When Vegans  Web log post. New York Times, 16 Aug. 2015. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <https://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/08/16/when-vegans-wont- Foer, Jonathan Safran. Eating animals. New York: Back Bay /Little, Brown and Co., 2010. Print. Food, Inc. Dir. Robert Kenner. Prod. Robert Kenner and Elise Pearlstein. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. The United States Meat Industry at a  The United States Meat Industry at a Glance. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. 19 High-Protein Vegetables and How to Eat More of  Healthline. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. 5 Brain Nutrients Found Only in Meat, Fish and  Authority Nutrition. N.p., 18 Aug. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.