Tan 1 Michael Alvin Tan Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Unifying Humanity and the Machine Technological innovation has contributed to our progression as a society. One of the many advances that are a part of this progression would be artificial intelligence or AI. AI is defined as machines having intellectual qualities such as problem-solving, emotion, or free- thinking on the level of a human. While there has been controversy regarding the AI-human connection, researchers and organizations have risen to the occasion of supporting it. One of these organizations would be the Future of Life Institute, who are a and outreach organization working to ensure that most powerful technologies are beneficial for (FLI). In order to expound upon their mission, the FLI has created two advertisements to appeal to the public; the first ad coming from their main website page and the second being a part of their AI article database. Through the usage of rhetoric appeals in these ads; the FLI aims to bring the AI-human relationship closer together. In the first image, a two-sided tree, one side flourished with life while the other is arid and putrid. A quote surrounds this tree, reading has given life the opportunity to flourish like never or to self-destruct. make a (FLI) When looking at the rhetoric appeals that apply to this advertisement, pathos is the main element in this image and Tan 2 logos should it be taken in a certain context. The pathos created from this image can be linked to the quote and the two-sided tree, which projects feelings of confidence yet uncertainty in the face of artificial intelligence. The emotions brought forth were relevant to not just this case but other instances of technological advancement. For example when nuclear energy was introduced as the next step towards energy systems, tenacity was high but was met with ambiguity. Many found that nuclear energy important insight to policy- and decisionmakers in motivations that underlie the willingness to take action in favor of or against nuclear (Groot and Steg 1372). This perspective is not the only way to look at the image as there is also an element of logos present. The identification of logic within this advertisement can be seen when viewing the quote in the previously stated perspective. has given life the opportunity to flourish like never or to self-destruct. make a (FLI) While technology can yield benefits to advance mankind, the potential for it to outpace human control is in the main argument behind the AI-human enigma 2-3). The concept behind the AI mind is that it is able to process information and create responses on the level of a human. However, as with humans, AI would also be able to advance thus looking at the flaws behind human action and create solutions to maximize output despite the repercussions that can occur. need not imagine a doomsday scenario involving destructive superintelligent AI to understand the difficulty of building safety and security into our digital (Berke 114). The second image depicted an advertisement for the FLI showcasing a human and AI hand reaching for each other in close proximity. While a majority of rhetoric appeals are absent Tan 3 from this advertisement, the presence of pathos is what establishes its nature. Pathos conceived from the image can be stemmed from the analyzing the hands overall. A sense of control and affinity between the relationship of human and AI is put into action through this image. Technology being accessible and creating beneficiaries towards humanity fuels the synergy between man and machine. In regards to the textbook Rhetoric Really Matters, is an appeal to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or (Hoffman et al. 37). Utilization of this rhetoric mechanic creates the previously stated feelings of control and affinity with AI. This brings forth a more meaningful and lasting bond created from a mutual understanding between the flesh and gadget (Graaf 590-591). Beyond all measure, the FLI wishes to create a brighter, harmonic future for humans and AI. In their mindset, technology that maintains a symbiotic link to humans can create nothing but a flourishing population. However, without this exchange technology can forge a destructive path. The images provided further enhances their mission; image one expounding on the ideals of safe technology while image two pushes the boundary for human-AI connections. The future looks brighter through the eyes of progression. Tan 4 Work Cited Page Berke, Allison. The Future of Artificial  Strategic Studies Quarterly, no. 3, 2016, p. 114. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.463514127&site=eds-live. De Groot, Judith I. M. and Linda Steg. Morality and Nuclear Energy: Perceptions of Risks and Benefits, Personal Norms, and Willingness to Take Action Related to Nuclear  Risk Analysis: An International Journal, vol. 30, no. 9, Sept. 2010, pp. 1363- 1373. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sp h&AN=53568291&site=eds-live. Dubhashi, Devdatt and Shalom Lappin. AI Dangers: Imagined and  Communications of the ACM, vol. 60, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 43-45. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1145/2953876. Ema, Arisa, Naonori Akiya, Hirotaka Osawa, Hiromitsu Hattori, Shinya Oie, Ryutaro Ichise, Nobutsugu Kanzaki, Minao Kukita, Reina Saijo, Otani Takushi, Naoki Miyano, and Yoshimi Yashiro. Future Relations between Humans and Artificial Intelligence: A Stakeholder Opinion Survey in  IEEE Technology and Society Magazine 35.4 (2016): 68-75. USF Libraries. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Graaf, Maartje M. A. An Ethical Evaluation of Human--Robot  International Journal of Social Robotics, no. 4, 2016, p. 589. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s12369-016-0368-5. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.If you want to cite an article in the book (print edition):Last name of author, First name of author. of Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. Print. Example: McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. to Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print. Vincent C. Risks of general artificial  Taylor Francis Online. Taylor Francis Online, 24 June 2014. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/0952813X.2014.895110>.