VanWingerden 1 Jonah VanWingerden Mr. Josue ENC 1102 11 February 2017 The Impact of Heightened Government Surveillance Today Americans live in a dependent society that welcomes advances in technology without much thought to an extent that could start to be threatening to the rights. As smartphones, tablets and other devices increased in popularity, their technology and features became more advanced. Some of these devices went from having a simple camera for taking pictures to now including multiple high definition cameras, multiple microphones and even fingerprint scanners. Initially, these technological advances may seem like helpful features to have on a mobile device but what about the people that want to take advantage of this technology? There have been a few instances where the government has used advanced technology as a form of surveillance and there are many organizations who disagree with this. The American Civil Liberties Union and the Global Government Surveillance Reform are just two of the organizations with distinct opinions concerning this situation, although they may disagree on what should be done, they both can agree that something needs to change. While the ACLU believes there should be zero surveillance, the GGSR disagrees and feels surveillance is necessary but needs to be properly regulated. With a specific set of rules and special branch to conduct the surveillance and regulate it, both the ACLU and GGSR can be in peace knowing when they are being surveilled and where their information is going. First, the ACLU is an organization who believes in protecting civil liberties and will fight hard for what they believe is right for the people the para 2). The VanWingerden 2 ACLU believes the actions should always benefit the people. Because of this, they are fighting for the elimination of government surveillance altogether. They demand that since the government is not telling them when they conducting this surveillance and what their using it for, it is against the constitution because they are not being transparent. In regards to past failed attempts at surveillance reform, they have even stated has shown that powerful, secret surveillance tools will almost certainly be abused for political ends and turned disproportionately on disfavored This implies that this has happened in the past and it has not gone well and para 3). They want this idea of government surveillance to go away completely because they feel its infringing on their right to privacy. On the other hand, the GGSR believes the idea of surveillance is okay, but would like to know more about what the government is doing with this information. The Global Government Surveillance Reform is a group supported by influential employees from companies such as: Apple, Microsoft, Twitter, Facebook, and Google. Since these companies that host services and produce devices that are capable of collecting information that the government would be interested in, their opinion on the matter is very important. They establish principles that define exactly what they believe in, touching on transparency, government conflict and government authority Government para 3). Because the included companies play such a huge part in the collection of information, the GGSR is not against the idea of government surveillance although they believe that the current approach of is pushing it too far Open Letter to para 2). Although the ACLU and the GGSR have opposing opinions on what should be done about government surveillance, they both can agree that something needs to be done. The current method of the government just doing whatever they want frustrates both organizations. The VanWingerden 3 ideal solution would be to completely remove the possibility of the government being able to collect personal information or tap into cameras or phones when they are in need of it. The ideal solution is more along the lines of having set standards or guidelines that would be followed when the government needs this information. They would also like to be notified when the government is in need of this personal information and what they are using it for. For both the ACLU and the GGSR to agree on a solution it needs to benefit both organizations. If there were to be a branch of the government specifically dedicated to surveillance that could oversee all surveillance, it could allow standards to be set. This branch could work with the GGSR and ACLU to make core principles to follow when assessing this surveillance. Although there would be surveillance which does not coincide with the ideal solution, it would be completely controlled and only done when it is specifically needed such as threats of terrorism. As for the GGSR, this would more suit their ideal solution mainly because it is less demanding. But they would still have to pertain to guidelines set up in part by the ACLU. Some of these surveillance guidelines would be to limit the way information is collected to volunteered information such as publicly shared photos, posts and locations. Another guideline would be to have an option people can opt in to on their devices to allow government surveillance to be done at any time on this device. This gives the people the option to not be included in surveillance on an individual level while still allowing for surveillance to be conducted. The new surveillance branch would also need to be responsible for notifying organizations of the surveillance. This compromise is a balance between comfort and safety that keeps users from feeling like constantly being watched but also giving them the feeling that their information is safe. A similar case to this is the heightened airport security after 9/11, VanWingerden 4 even though it may seem like an invasion of privacy and waste of time, it is solely there to protect the people (Lim et al. 117). So, for instance, if they want to know what is the number one Google search in the state of Texas, they would have to let Google know they are doing this and explain to them what they are using the information for. Google could then display a message to the people in Texas that their searches are being used for a government investigation. In conclusion, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Global Government Surveillance Reform may have different ideas of how the government should perform surveillance. With almost directly opposing views on what should be done with government surveillance it is still possible for both organizations to agree on a solution. With the creation of a surveillance branch that takes care of both the people and the companies involved by protecting their information but also protecting them. Since technology is constantly evolving, it is difficult to know exactly how this issue will continue to evolve but with the ACLU and the GGSR seeing eye to eye, unwanted government surveillance would no longer be an issue. VanWingerden 5 Works Cited About the  American Civil Liberties Union. American Civil Liberties Union Foundation, Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. An Open Letter to  Reform Government Surveillance. Global Government Surveillance Reform, Dec. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Privacy and  American Civil Liberties Union. American Civil Liberties Union Foundation, July 20014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Reform Government  Reform Government Surveillance. Global Government Surveillance Reform, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. SUN SUN, LIM, CHO HICHANG, and MILAGROS RIVERA SANCHEZ. Online Privacy, Government Surveillance And National ID  Communications Of The ACM 52.12 (2009): 116-120. Business Source Premier. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.