Valdez 1 Nichole Valdez James Josue ENC 1102 14 February 2017 Organ Donation Common Ground Organ donation is an issue which has progressed over the past few years due to society questioning whether or not donation should be mandatory upon the death of a person with viable organs. However, one must wonder if this act would be ethically acceptable after considering factors such as religious or personal beliefs and traditions. The two main stakeholders involved in this controversy are the recipients of the organs and medical professionals versus the families of the deceased and their beliefs. One side of stakeholders has a lot to gain from this, for example, the recipient gets a second chance at living a better, healthier life and the specialist is given the opportunity to practice medicine, fulfilling the oath they took when entering the medical field. The opposing stakeholders, however, may not be fully invested in this compromise because they would not be gaining anything in return while also trying to cope with the tragedy at hand. With the multiple stakeholders to consider, it is difficult to determine if there is a different reasonable compromise as to whether organ donation should be made a mandatory procedure and if so, how can we equalize the end result. In the process of organ donation currently, a patient must register as a donor, state in their will that they would like to donate, or have their family make the decision for them once they have passed away. If the person has clearly stated that they would like to donate their organs, there is nothing a family can do but respect their wishes regardless of their own beliefs. Valdez 2 Though if people do not register to become donors, it is inevitably up to the families to make the decision for them. Society has different views and opinions when regarding organ donation. Malaysia is currently being affected by the fact that there are not enough people attempting to become donors. As stated in the article Attitudes Toward Organ Donation Among Different Ethnic Groups In , In Malaysia, less than 1% of the population pledge as organ Often times in developing countries society does not receive the proper information regarding medical procedures which may explain why they do not agree in Often times, people know enough about the process of donation which leads them to assume it is a more complicated or dangerous procedure than it actually may be. addition to knowledge, negative beliefs and fears regarding organ donation may constitute a significant barrier to organ Once a person has depicted a negative image of donation in their mind, it is likely they will not be willing to learn more about the topic to potentially change their already made up mind. As of 1997, it has been determined that over 90,000 people were waiting for an organ transplant (Amir & Haskell 29). As also stated in the article written by Amir and Haskell, of those 90,000 people, there are almost 60,000 patients who died while awaiting their transplant. Most of the recipients on the transplant list are determined to be minorities. Often times minorities are determined to have different health complications which may prolong or deny their chance at receiving an organ. In particularly, African Americans tend to suffer from various health conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease et al. 29). However, they are found to be the most abundant on the transplant list. Due to the lack of African American donors, this ethnic group does not always receive a fair chance at survival. Valdez 3 After conducting a survey on 70 African Americans, researchers became aware that most of the decisions against donation are due to lack of knowledge and mistrust in the medical department (Brown 29). If society were more educated on the matter, there may be more people willing to donate if the opportunity arose. From a perspective, if the newly deceased patient is eligible for organ donation, they believe in informing the family of the potential donor to assist in possibly obtaining their agreement for donation. In a study conducted in Australia the majority of people surveyed decided that they would agree to being an organ donor if they were ever in the position of needing to do so (Philpot, Steve John, et al. 2). This indicates that doctors must remain careful and unbiased when consulting a family about the benefits of organ donation. When informing the families, they must remain aware of not implying force to donate or seeming to care more about the recipient. As stated in the article written by Philpot, Steve John, et al., are more likely to donate if conversations include information about the rarity of the opportunity for If a family feels forced when having to make a decision about donating their loved ones organs, they will not feel as willing to agree in the donation. However, if they feel as though this opportunity is unique they may feel as though it is their in a sense to donate. In some cases, the family of the donor agrees to follow through with the donation after meeting the family of the recipient. This could be a common ground for both parties since the family gets the chance to meet the person who has saved their loved life, while the family of the donor receives closure in the sense that their loved one may through the person that has received their organ. is imperative that a family understand that Valdez 4 adverse events are possible and that the family agrees the benefits of enabling donation outweigh these (Morrison 5). With the family agreeing and determining that the benefits are more important to potential danger that could come, the life of a potentially fatally ill person is saved. In a published article, the story of a woman who lost her mother is explained and her feelings after meeting the recipient that received her kidney. In this article 31 year old, Brenda Yepez, finally agrees to meet 35 year old Sunny Luna. meeting Luna, Brenda Yepez said: I feel blessed. It gives me more of a  For Luna, 35, it was a chance to thank the family of the woman who gave me a new  she (Tearful Fresno 1). In situations like these, society is able to see the end result and benefit of organ donation while the recipient is able to show their gratitude toward the family from which they received from. Over the past years organ donation has become a major ethical issue worldwide. For families and patients it seems to be a sensitive topic which requires careful consideration while being discussed. From perspective it could mean getting a second chance to live a normal and healthy life, while some may consider it to be an act completely against their beliefs. In most cases society has not been properly informed on the matter, meaning if asked to donate a loved organs they will likely deny. However, if there is a way to educated the people on the benefits, risks and procedures of donation, there would possibly be more of society willing to donate. Valdez 5 Works Cited Villiers-Tuthill, A., et al. Attitudes Toward Organ Donation Among Different Ethnic Groups In  Proceedings (2016): . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Morrison, Wynne. Organ Donation Prior To Benefits And  American Journal Of Bioethics 12.6 (2012): 14-15. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Philpot, Steve John, et al. Randomised, Double Blind, Controlled Trial Of The Provision Of Information About The Benefits Of Organ Donation During A Family Donation  ONE 11.6 (2016): 1-14. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tearful Fresno meeting joins organ recipient,  Bee [Fresno, 16 Dec. 2009. Insights: Essentials . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Brown, Esther R. African American Present Perceptions Of Organ Donation: A Pilot  ABNF Journal 23.2 (2012): 29-33. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.