Buschle 1 Charlie Buschle February 19, 2017 Research Topic: The impact of concussions in the NFL Introductory Paragraph: In the world today, sports remain at the forefront of American popular culture, with no sport being more popular than the National Football League. The NFL is a billion dollar industry that makes is name off of Hail Mary touchdowns, one handed catches, and earth shattering hits. We look up to these teams and their players as if they are indestructible, larger than life superheroes. Because of this, we fail to recognize the effects the game has on these players long term health. Of these effects, the most concerning is the games effect on the brain, more specifically, concussions. This report will analyze the long term effect of concussions on both active and retired NFL players and the lengths the league is going to reduce the frequency of concussions and prevent the impact of further injuries. Annotative Bibliography Harris, Jay Barry. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. Business Source Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article shines a light on Traumatic Encephalophy (CTE), the most dangerous possible effect of untreated concussions. CTE is a progressive degenerative disease of the brain found in athletes who have a history of repetitive brain trauma. This trauma includes symptomatic concussions and other server blows to the brain. While CTE was once prevalent Buschle 2 among boxers in, stating in the there have now been published reports of CTE in retired professional football players. The trauma triggers progressive degeneration of the brain tissue. This trigger can occur months, years, or even decades after the last occurrence of brain trauma. This brain loss may lead to memory loss, confusion, impaired judgement, impulse control problems, aggression, depression, and eventual dementia. This relates to my research topic because it talks about long term effects of concussions on retired NFL players. CTE is the most dangerous long term effect of concussions that has been discovered. Awareness needs to continue to be raised about CTE and other long term effects of concussions because the NFL needs to continue to make efforts to prevent concussions. This piece was written by Jay Barry Harris, a seasoned litigator of more than 30 years of experience. He has published countless articles and frequently lectured on legal issues. Kain, Daniel J. Just A The National Football Denial Of A Causal Link Between Multiple Concussions And Later-Life Cognitive  Rutgers Law Journal 40.(2009): 697. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 This piece further discusses the impact of concussions on current and former NFL players, describing violent collisions in the NFL as primary ingredient behind the incredible success of the Unfortunately these collisions, more often than not, lead to concussions. This article addresses the prevalence of concussions in the NFL and the long term health effects and possible diseases that they could lead to if not treated properly. It also explains the previous notion that concussions, because they were so common, were looked at as commonplace and taken lightly. This article relates to the research topic because it continues to further describe the prevalence of concussions in professional football and just how dangerous they can be on these Buschle 3 health future. These details will help convince the reader that concussions are a serious, life-threatening issue that the NFL needs to handle with concern and care. This article was taken from the Rutgers Law Journal, an annual law review for the Rutgers University School of Law. It is compiled of four issues containing articles, notes, book reviews, and comments written by second and third-year law students at Rutgers University. Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  Brain Injury Canada. N.p., 13 Sept. 2010. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://braininjurycanada.ca/2010/09/13/lou-gehrigs-disease-linked-to-concussions-nfl- players-need-to-raise-awareness-level/>. This article continues with the trend of the dangers of these severe head injuries on NFL players. This piece centers specifically around possible link to a condition that closely resembles ALS, better known as Lou disease. Those same proteins have been discovered in the brains of athletes with CTE, another disease linked to brutal head injuries. CTE is known to cause cognitive decline, abnormal behavior and dementia. Statistics show that NFL players are eight times more likely to contract ALS than the average person. With at least 14 NFL players being diagnosed in the past, ALS caused by head injuries could be more of a threat than the NFL gives it credit for. This piece relates to my research topic because it continues my insight into the long term effects of improperly treated concussions and the possible diseases that it could lead to. The mention of such a well-known life threatening disease like CTE will help convince the reader that concussions are very dangerous, especially when not treated properly. This article was published by the Brain Injury Association of Canada, whose goal is improve the quality of Buschle 4 life and for those living with a brain They are dedicated to this goal and continue their research and efforts to meet this goal. Mecham, Shane C., and Kevin M. Guskiewicz. Hed Case: An Guide To Protecting Their NFL Clients From Concussions And Associated  UMKC Law Review 3 (2008): 699. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article continues to look into the efforts the NFL is making to handle the increasingly prominent issue of concussions and their long term effect. It gives examples of unfortunate cases of effected players, including Mike Webster, who was homeless before he died of heart failure in 2002, Terry Long, who committed suicide in 2005 by drinking antifreeze, and Andre Waters, who committed suicide by shooting himself. All three autopsies revealed the men all suffered from post-concussion-syndrome. As similar cases continue to flood in, the pressure is on the NFL to act. In 2007, the NFL began requiring players to undergo a baseline neurological exam. The NFL Players Association (NFLPA) has also contributed by helping fund the concussion studies by the Center for the Study of Retired. Both the League and the Players Association are working together to make a difference for the sake of their players. This piece relates to the research topic by giving the reader insight into the efforts being made by the NFL to prevent the dangers of concussions. When this topic is discussed, often we just talk about the serious, fatal cases. We, more often than not, neglect the efforts being made by the NFL to solve this major problem and make the game safer for their players. This will give the reader an accurate view of the issue from the perspective. This article is an excerpt from the UMKC Law Review, managed by the Law Review Editorial Board at the University of Buschle 5 Missouri-Kansas City. At this University, Law review membership is considered the highest honor for a law school student. Michael, Elise. School Of Hard Knocks -- The Impact Of The Nfl Concussion  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 33.1 (2014): 289-319. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article chronicles one of the largest instances of former NFL players acting out against the way the league handles the treatment of concussions and other head injuries. It contains the details of a 2012 lawsuit filed by thousands of former NFL players against the NFL. The players, including hall of fame quarterback Terry Bradshaw, were seeking financial compensation for chronic long term injuries, along with financial losses suffered by the former players. The litigation created awareness for the long term effects of concussions and the responsibility to prevent said effects. This article relates to my research topic because it provides an example of players effected by concussions and their actions taken against the NFL to try and make football a safer game. It will make the reader look at it from the perspective rather than a spectator. These details will add to the importance of the issue of concussions in the mind, which will add to their intrigue on the topic. This piece comes out of the Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal who, since 1982, have been a worldwide leader in national and international legal scholarship. For more than thirty years, they have routinely published topical, accurate legal analysis on a wide range of legal actions. Buschle 6 Reich, J. Brad1. When Getting Your Bell  May Lead To Ringing The : Potential Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal 12.2 (2013): 198-231. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article compiles several cases of long term brain damage caused by concussions in former NFL players, including the unfortunate stories of former players such as Junior Seau. It chronicles the history of concussions in the NFL along with the strides the NFL has taken to prevent long term injuries in current and retired players. These injuries, if not treated correctly, can lead to long term brain damage and, at its worst, can cost the lives of countless former players. The danger concussions pose puts the NFL in a difficult position, as they are pressed for time to find solutions to this rapidly growing problem. This ties into my research topic well because it gives countless examples of concussions leading to long term brain damage and even possible death. This will show the reader just how dangerous concussions are and the toll it can take on the human brain. It will also display to the reader the immense responsibility the NFL has in establishing the correct rules and regulations to protect their health and wellbeing, both during their professional career and after they have hung it up. This piece is an excerpt from the Virginia Sports and Entertainment Law Journal form the University of Virginia. They are a comprehensive review of current issues arising in both the sports and entertainment law arenas. Buschle 7