Rahman 1 Ali Rahman Instructor Martha Heiser ENC 1102 Section 068 1 March 2017 The Analyzation of Advertisements Alcohol consumption has been a large part of American culture for a long time. As the scenery of teenage drinking has become noticeably different in recent years, debate has been raised regarding whether the current system (minimum legal drinking age of 21) is working efficiently or if it is imposing negative effects on young people. Some organizations believe the use of specific techniques, such as the introduction of alcohol at a young age, should be used to decrease the harmful aspects involved with alcohol. These groups argue that the legal drinking age should be decreased to 18, to correspond with the usage of these new on-the-rise methods. In opposition, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), an organization that seeks to maintain the current legal age of 21, believe hindering the access to such substances through law enforcement and control is the more successful option. This organization uses extremes to show the possible outcomes that can occur when alcohol is misused to contend their point. MADD creatively presents two advertisements that, using visual rhetoric, demonstrate the significant consequences associated with alcohol consumption in young accomplish support for their argument that the legal drinking age should remain 21. MADD is a nonprofit organization, established by Candace Lightner, that has created a widely-known message for young drink and drive. Lightner created this organization when her daughter was killed by a drunk driver, in hopes to ensure others not experience the same trauma as she. With the help of public health organizations and other Rahman 2 contributors, MADD quickly grew, as well as its efforts toward making a difference. The volunteers who make up the national board of directors are incredibly well-educated/well-known researchers and business leaders. The Chair of the Board, David Strickland, has obtained experience when he was appointed by Barack Obama to serve as the 14 th NHTSA Administrator in 2010 (Strickland). This demonstrates the qualification behind the organization and provides reason to why it has become so well known, as well as an explanation for its continuous achievements. To make their message known, MADD has created advertisements that use rhetorical appeals; they want to influence their views on the subject to match the beliefs. The first advertisement (Image 1) displays a young adult mirroring a middle-aged man who appears to be drinking a beer while driving. Above this, located near the top of the ad, is a large text that reads, Father, Like which serves to stand out and be readily visible. With the combination of this image and text, the initial reaction the audience will likely experience may include instant shock and reflection. The smaller text found under the image applies even more to emotion as it speaks directly to its audience; it hammers at the importance of personal relations between father and son. It is apparent that the ad is narrowing its typically large and general audience to a more specific group, fathers (African American). Because direct messages can be more meaningful, targeting an exclusive group might work to make for a more effective message. It could also be a fallacy as people who are part of this group may see the message as negatively aimed towards them. With the inclusion of these aspects of the advertisement, MADD has established pathos to contribute to the message of the advertisement, which asks fathers to not drink and drive and to be a role model for their sons. Rahman 3 The advertisement also uses other rhetorical appeals to encourage the support of the message in which they promote. Located in the lower right corner, under You is the smallest text of the ad, which provides factual information pertaining to African Americans and alcohol consumption. This educates the audience with information they might not have known prior to reading the advertisement, making them rethink how serious underage drinking is. Handing out facts brings additional support for the central message. Furthermore, the ad contains the MADD logo, MADD is so widely trust to the audience. According to International Journal of Childbirth Education members Patricia Loewit- Phillips and Abbie Goldbas in Against Drunk Driving (MADD): History and is estimated that 94% of all Americans recognize name and are familiar with its purpose of changing national attitudes concerning driving while impaired or intoxicated (Loewit- This statistic is extremely high and demonstrates the credibility that MADD has gained as it emerges into a popular organization. MADD has designed numerous advertisements that use different strategies to convey the same overall message. The second ad similarly uses pathos as image 1 did, but in a different manner. Through the dark-colored picture of the teenage boy standing in front of a gravestone, as well as the large font that states, Bought This Suit For a situation of regret and sadness can be sensed from the audience. It can be inferred that this is because prom, a highly acknowledged event in American culture, was ruined by a devastating accident. The advertisement is presenting a horrific event to act as warning directly to the audience (young adults), essentially scaring them. The past president of MADD, Barry Sweedler, discusses the strategy this organization has used in many campaigns to promote their message. In Role of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) in Reducing Alcohol-Related Crashes in the Rahman 4 Sweedler states that was successful in putting a human face on the problem of impaired and have since used this same humanizing approach to create political pressure to make policy changes It is notable that this organization has had great amounts of practice using pathos to successfully transfer their message. Like the first advertisement, advertisement 2 establishes credibility through the inclusion of the MADD logo. Additionally, it contains the breast cancer symbol accommodated with the MADD logo as well as the Regional Durham Police symbol. These features are significant in maintaining the trust of the audience. It is important to examine fallacies when observing advertisements to complete a full analyzation. Advertisement 1, for instance, badgers specifically to fathers about parent- responsibility. It basically tells them that any mistake their child makes is because of takes away all self-responsibility from the child. This is a fallacy known as ad hominem because it puts direct blame on a person instead of the actual argument. The advertisement is also guilty of false dilemma since it only provides two options for the audience: they either change their ways or their kid will drink and drive. There are many other solutions, such as using communication or enforcing rules. Advertisement 2 is at fault too when it comes to fallacies. First, it assumes that the boy wearing the suit killed someone by drunk driving; this is called hasty generalization. Just because the boy was at a funeral does not put him at fault for ending life, nor does it imply he was drunk driving. This image is supposed to represent the general population of young adults, which is unjust because the majority of young people have not been involved in this type of situation. In addition, this advertisement contains false cause by implying correlation and causation: because the boy is at a funeral, he was drunk driving, and because he was drunk driving, he killed someone. It is noticeable that both ads use only males, which can stir questions of female-biased suspicion, since the organization is Against Rahman 5 Drunk Driving; it might come off as suggesting that only men are capable of drunk driving. Both advertisements involve fallacies that are necessary to understand so that the audience does not make any wrongful the knowledge in which one interprets is highly important. Through the analysis of the two advertisements designed by MADD, one can learn a lot not only about what the organization stands for, but also about what the American culture values. For example, advertisement 1 demonstrates the importance of father-son relationships. Advertisement 2 implies prom to be a major-positive life event. Is this something other cultures would consider significant? If not, there is a high chance the advertisement producers in different cultures would not include father-son relations and prom as parts of their rhetorical appeal. Why would they avoid this? For the same reason one would not see an advertisement encouraging polygyny in the American is not valued or accepted in this culture even though it might be considered a valued normality in another culture. Simply, there would be no point to use irrelevant aspects to develop an advertisement. With this, it can be observed that MADD took values of Americans and threatened those values with the dangers of the involvement of alcohol and young adults to encourage avoidance of underage drinking. Rahman 6 Works Cited Loewit-Phillips, Patricia M. and Abbie Goldbas. Against Drunk Driving (MADD): History and International Journal of Childbirth Education, no. 4, 2014, p.62. EBSCOhost. Web. 23 Feb. 2017 Strickland, David, Mahesh Shetty, Steven Benvenisti, and Barbara Brodt. MADD Support 21. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Sweedler, Barry M. Role of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) in Reducing Alcohol-Related Crashes in the Traffic Injury Prevention, vol.7, no. 3, Sept. 2006, pp. 193-194. EBSCOhost. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Rahman 7 Image 1 Rahman 8 Image 2