Curley 1 Eileen Curley Mark Nusspickel Composition I 26 January 2017 Standardized Testing In the United States, Americans pride themselves on being a mixing bowl. Full of people from across the globe with different backgrounds and languages making every person here unique. But in this country, many of us are assessed and labeled by the same tests that overshadow our individuality. Almost every student around the country is impacted by standardized testing. These tests determine the colleges we attend and ultimately our futures. Although standardized testing has been around for over 150 years, this issue has become more prominent in recent years after the passing of the No Child Left Behind Act. This law passed in 2002, requires students to be evaluated by standardized tests on a national level. This requires states to look at how their students measure up compared to the average student, identifying their strengths and weaknesses providing information to help reform education. Many educational experts disagree on this topic, some feel a fair measurement of a intelligence while others feel these tests put minorities and children with disabilities at a disadvantage. This heated debate raises the question: are standardized tests an appropriate tool when assessing a academic performance or do they take away crucial parts of what encompasses the learning process? Curley 2 Dishke-Honzel, Catharine. To Whom? Teacher Reflections On The Relationship Between Creativity And Standardized Testing in Critical Education 5.3 (2014): 1-16/ Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. In this article teachers are asked to reflect on their teaching processes and how they have been effected by standardized testing. The teachers indicated that to prepare for these tests it takes time away from valuable learning material. Classroom curriculum has been uprooted to focus on improving standardized tests scores. Creativity is increasingly being recognized as an important aspect of a education, with the increasing emphasis on standardized test creativity is being ruined in the process. Teachers discuss their mixed feelings about prepping for high-risk testing while promoting creativity along the way. The results of this interview are referencing the effects of a high-stakes testing environment on students in the United States and Canada. This article addresses the research question by exemplifying how tests affect the classroom curriculum, learning environment, and staff. Written by Dr. Catherine Hondzel, who is the coordinator of research and learning support at Huron University College. research is driven by the goal that educational environments should encompass positive learning, creativity, and prepare students with the skills needed to succeed in workforce. While acknowledging that standardized testing enhances the basic skills of students in areas such as reading and math (Hondzel 1). She advocates for experimental learning in the classroom because she feels students are missing out on a crucial part of their education when teachers cut and change their curriculum to improve test scores. Tests are now being used to determine whether teachers are rewarded or punished for students who meet the standards set by the U.S Curley 3 Department of Education. Teachers discuss how a education will fall short when resources are directed at test taking and not mastery of a subject. LEVIN-EPSTEIN M. TESTING IN FLUX. (cover Principal Leadership 16.3(2015):34-38. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article reflects on the positives and negatives of standardized testing and how it effects students in our schools. Many argue standardized testing is an essential aspect to education in the United States, while others reject this idea claiming standardized tests are a burden on our nations educational improvement. Standardized testing has created a classroom environment where instructors to narrowing curriculums and killing creativity. Testing has also been known to limit course offerings in schools across the country. These tests only measure a small portion of what makes up the entirety of a education. The author of this article covers both sides of the standardized testing debate, discussing both pros and cons and asking educational administrators to weigh in as well. MaryEllen Elia, New York state education commissioner and president of the University of the State of New York stands behind standardized testing and makes it her priority to help parents understand why they test, believe in rigorous assessment that challenges students to show that on track to meet high (Elia 36). Elia also praises New York tests for being a precise measurement of how prepared students are for future success. On the other side of the debate Robert Miller, a Principal of the Year finalist in 2014 and is currently the assistant superintendent of schools in Sand Springs, OK, argues there are very few positives to the current state of standardized testing in our nation. Curley 4 Sternberg, Robert J. Phi Delta Kappan 98.4 (2016): 66-71. Education Full Text: (H.W. Wilson). Web. 4 Feb. 2017. As our society focuses on the advancement of intelligent and the focus on standardized testing increases, we are inversely reducing the importance of creative thinking and wisdom. Human creativity and original thought keep us growing. Our intelligence as a nation has improved and thus, our IQs have increased about 30 point in the 20 th century. This could be correlated to many different factors such as: better nutrition, more and better educational opportunities, technology, reduction in disease and so on. Another reason being that students are being tested more and testing improves the skills on which students are tested (Sternberg 2). In our preparation to do better on testing we have seen a rise in our overall general intelligence. This article relates to my research question because it addresses both sides of standardized testing, how it helps and hurts us. The author, Dr. Sternberg, is a professor of human development in the College of Human Ecology at Cornell University. He previously was employed at the University of Wyoming as the president and a professor in the department of psychology and education. Dr. Sternberg acknowledges that testing increases our intelligence because the more we practice for these exams the better equipped we are for them and the higher we perform. He also explains that education needs to aim at equally assessing: creativity, wisdom, and intelligence. Wagner, Elvis. Of English Learners Left Behind: Standardized Testing As Language International Journal Of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism 12.6 (2009): 721-725. PsychINFO. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Curley 5 The No Child Left Behind Act was passed and signed into law in 2001, requiring all students in American public schools to demonstrate mastery in many different academic standards. The NCLB act is aimed to raise the bar for educational standards, and hold schools and their faculty responsible for making sure each student reaches these standards. These tests have grown in population and have been used not only to meet NCLB requirements, but also to make high-stake decisions, including high-school graduation. In New York, all students must pass these tests to receive a high school diploma (Wagner 2). Leading to many students who are bilingual being punished because of their test scores. Dr. Wagner teaches in the Curriculum, Instruction, & Technology in Education Department at Temple University, he is critiquing the book written by Kate Menken learners left behind: standardized testing as language He writes about how students who know English as a second language are being disciplined for not demonstrating competency on the same standardized test given to students who speak English as a first language. Wagner writes describes how the need to pass the English Language Arts Regents has led schools and teachers to change the way they teach English language learners. Teaching to the test has essentially become the curriculum for ESL classes, rather than pedagogically sound practices that result in second language (Wagner 2). This reveals how standardized testing has changed our educational system, with higher importance on scores than actual proficiency. Camacho, Dawn, and Vickie Cook. Testing: Does It Measure Student Preparation for College & Online Submission (2007): ERIC. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Camacho and Cook address the imbalance of opinions regarding standardized testing, but acknowledge that there is one thing that almost all stakeholders agree on: there is a call to Curley 6 measure the success of public schools in how they are preparing students for college and the workforce. The disagreement lies when trying to assent on the tool used for measurement. Nationally, our school districts carry the burden of preparing their students to meet the objectives given by the state which they need to demonstrate on a single test. A professor from the UCLA Graduate School of Education, Professor Popham explains how standardized tests are constructed from the Army Alpha test, which was designed to identify individuals who were superior intellectually within the group of test takers. The Alpha test then rank ordered each candidate per their aptitude. Current standardized tests are designed to model the Alpha tests which measure a test-takers current standing, instead of their intended use to evaluate a achievement and acquired knowledge. These tests are then used to further the improvement of public schools. Both Camacho and Cook agree that for standardized testing to be a reliable source of information, tests need to be restructured so they go beyond measuring procedural knowledge and put emphasis on conceptual knowledge. This article co-written by Dawn Camacho M.A and Dr. Vickie Cook, the director for online learning, research and service and associate professor of research in the College of Education at the University of Illinois, who is actively involved in faculty development with educational leaders across the U.S and Mexico. Cook is acknowledged for her work which has been published in many national educational publications. This piece connects to my research question because it discusses how standardized tests are created and what they measure versus what they are intended to measure. Demonstrating that although standardized tests do measure a intelligence, tests do not measure individuals acquired conceptual knowledge to think and problem-solve. Curley 7 William, Dylan. Testing and School Educational Psychologist 45.2 (2010): 107-122. PsycINFO. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In Testing and School Williams discusses the need for assessment in education. Accountability tests were created to assess skills that schools intended to develop in their students. Williams acknowledges that schools fail when aligning their classroom curriculum with standard assessment. Where standardized testing falls short is when deciphering the quality of schooling received, while also considering the differences in aptitude, gender, race, and socioeconomic status. Before the NCLB act, standardized tests were used to hold schools, teachers, and staff accountable while at the same time evaluating the quality of education provided to students. The NCLB was the first step towards using standardized tests to improve educational outcomes. After the implication of the NCLB, test scores did rise but whether this is from an overall increase in attainment from students or just a reflection of teachers dedicating more time preparing for these tests is still up for debate. It is widely observed that when any test is made the focus of policy, the performance assessed by that test will improve. After examining the repercussions of mandating high-stake testing, analysis shows an increase in student drop-out rates, inappropriate testing preparation practices, decreased teacher morale resulting in an increase in teacher defection from the profession (Williams 117). Dylan Williams is a British educationalist, who currently works as the Emeritus Professor of Educational Assessment at the UCL Institute of Education. Williams focuses his research on the professional development of teachers. His book Inside the Black Box written in 1998, is a critique on formative assessment. Formative assessment are procedures conducted by teachers with an end goal of restructuring the classroom environment to improve student attainment during the learning process. He displayed his ideas in a documentary series called The Curley 8 Classroom Experiment which was broadcasted on BBC in 2010. Williams article addresses my research topic by analyzing how standardized tests fail to analyze all aspects of a education and knowledge. Tests also neglect to access the amount of information students come into the classroom with making it difficult to pinpoint how much attainment students are receiving from one class alone.