Staton 1 Zachary Staton February 26 2017 Professor Robert Ryan Composition II Analyzing Visual Rhetoric: Abortion For the last decade the issue on abortion has greatly increased. All around the country we can look around and see advertisements trying to end abortion and save lives. Heartbeat International, a group is fighting to end abortion. As stated on their mission page at heatbeatinternational.org, Heartbeat main mission to reach and rescue as many lives as possible, around the world, through an effective network of pregnancy help, to renew communities to Across another group does a great job of portraying and advertising the movement. By examining these advertisements from PROLIFE Across American we can tie them to the mission statement of Heartbeat International, which can help portray their mission in a more visual aspect. I was even born I could Across America) is a bold statement that connects the issue of abortion to those seeing the advertisement. The advertisement immediately grabs the attention by posting the main quotation in big red letters. Bold letters immediately grab attention of any audience and the audience to read the entire post instead of merely just skimming it. The red lettering is used as a metaphor. Traditionally the color red is used to portray scary events or topics. It can also be used to relay a sense of urgency. As a Staton 2 group Heartbeat International believes that life starts immediately after conception. Advertisement number one helps back this up by visually showing that a fetus has a heartbeat just 18 days after conception. Targeting young moms facing an abortion crisis, the tone of this ad from the outside looks cute and happy, but underneath there is a deeper meaning. The deeper meaning obviously is that babies are dying and change needs to happen. Another solid point about this ad is at the bottom of it they have a phone number to call. This is great advertisement because they give the audience something to act on instead of just thinking about something for 30 seconds then forgetting everything they just read when they see another ad two minutes later. ironic that the use something cute can be used to portray death. Rhetorical appeal is evident in this advertisement. Examples of pathos, ethos kairos can be seen. Pathos, an appeal to the emotion is portrayed through image of the baby smiling on the right side of the ad. A smiling baby is an easy way for the advertisement to reach the emotions of a reader because babies are thought to be innocent and pure. So when the reader sees an abortion ad with a baby on infant connects to emotion because the reader with associate the infant with death. The credibility of this ad can be backed up at ehd.org where doctor Paul C. MacDonald and others say that three weeks and one day after fertilization the heart begins to This statement helps to back the ads claim that a heartbeat has formed 18 days after conception. Possibly the most important rhetorical appeal in this advertisement is kairos. This ad and this issue are all about timeliness. The image gives the audience an idea of just how fast the baby is growing. This ad ties Staton 3 directly into the issue that Heartbeat International is facing and protesting against. The ad helps back their claims up that life starts after conception. There is a point to every ad, like the fact that infants have fingerprints nine weeks from conception. The second advertisement is very similar to the first one. Looking at the visual analysis of this ad there is big bold red letter like the first ad. The big bold letters are used to grab the attention because a reader will typically look at what is the most obvious thing on the page. point is you had fingerprints nine weeks after conception is a play on words that PROLIFE Across America uses to get their point across. The play on words is clever and appeals more to than just the visual sense, it also appeals to the ears. By doing this it helps the reader to remember the ad more because of the clever play on words. Similarly to the first ad this second ad leaves a phone number at the bottom of the screen. So many times there are advertisements that leave any way of reaching what it is they want you to reach. By PROLIFE Across America leaving their phone number a mom who that her baby have fingerprints already and decides she want to have an abortion can contact someone and get the help and support she needs. This is exactly what Heartbeat goal is, to provide support and help for women who may be seeking abortion. Rhetorically, the ad has a very similar feel to the previous one. A key to any successful ad is emotion, or pathos. Abortion is already a highly emotional topic, so it take a whole lot to create that emotion in a ad. Since, PROLIFE Across America is a organization they believe that abortion is murder and by placing a baby on the their ad they can connect to their by indirectly Staton 4 saying that by having an abortion killing these cute babies. In terms of ethos, it is unlawful to kill someone and essentially immoral. a point that this article is making in terms or morality and goes right along with Heartbeat International vision and mission. Lastly, logos is evident in this ad because trying to save babies. In logical terms kids are the future and they want to keep the future bright. Heartbeat International is making moves to make abortion unwanted because of this. These two images portray Heartbeat mission and vision very clearly and in a way that some other advertisements might not. The images only capture the goal and mission of Heartbeat International, but they appeal to more than just one sense of the audience, which would be young pregnant mothers thinking about abortion. The ads catch the emotions of through play on words and bold titling. By catching the emotions of their audience they create a connection to the reader that could possible persuade them into the direction of organizations. Through ethos, logos, and pathos PROLIFE Across America has created a connection to their audience through rhetorical appeal and has portrayed a message that would please Heartbeat International, a message that life is precious and that every baby deserves a chance at life. The ads are ideal for Heartbeat International because they capture the essence of what it means to be The images portray a message that creates an atmosphere of innocence and one that makes life look precious. Visual appeal is vital in creating a connection to the audience that an organization is trying to create. The four rhetorical elements are keys in making this Staton 5 happen. Having these elements can be the difference from having an ad that reaches your audience and a ad that your audience just simply skims over. The ads from PROLIFE Across America do exactly this for Heartbeat International. The ads show the mission on Heartbeat International in that they are trying to make abortion unwanted for future generations to come. They show the innocence and preciousness of infants that grasps the emotion of the audience that sees them. Staton 6 Image 1 Image 2