Vieira 1 Alexandra Vieira Professor Gottlieb ENC1102 1 March 2017 No More: Awareness and Engagement The campaign was launched in 2013, establishing its goal to bring awareness to domestic abuse and sexual assault and is most well-known for its many partnerships with large organizations and celebrity supporters. The initiative of the campaign is to not only bring awareness to both issues, but to also help end acts of sexual and domestic violence. The organization defines domestic violence as, pattern of behavior used to establish power and control over another person through fear and intimidation, often including the threat or use of The organization further defines sexual assault as, crime motivated by a need to control, humiliate and harm. Perpetrators use sexual assault as a weapon to hurt and dominate others. Sexual assault is forced or coerced sexual contact without consent. Consent is the presence of a clear yes, not the absence of a The definition of both terms are crucial in developing a campaign that appeals to the audience and can; therefore, successfully promote social reform. The definitions of both issues are made clear and consistent according to the researcher, Basile: a consistent definition helps in determining the magnitude of sexual violence and aids in comparing the problem across jurisdictions. Consistency allows researchers to measure risk and protective factors for victimization in a uniform manner. This ultimately informs prevention and intervention (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Vieira 2 The campaign is targeted to people of all ages through the visual and rhetorical appeals presented in their advertisements. Though many advocacy groups, universities, and celebrities support the campaign; the campaigns major leader is the U.S. Department of Justice. The campaign was cofounded by public/private partnership, and is considered a campaign not owned by one sole organization. It is a movement created to help stop the shaming and silencing of victims, destroy barriers set up by stigmas, and taking action to stop domestic violence and sexual assault. The campaign took root with Law and Order: Mariska Joyful Heart Foundation. The advertisements created by the campaign are impactful and very much necessary for the promotion of the campaigns overall message, in a visually rhetorical format. The visual rhetoric of Figure 1 is placed in accordance with the purpose to address the reality of domestic and sexual abuse towards and among men. The image has a statement placed in the middle of the advertisement that has a written stereotype that many people use to justify or rationalize the manipulation of male victims when it comes to sexual abuse. The statement, he fight carries the stigma that men are strong and; therefore, cannot be taken advantage of. It is a that many may try and use to further bring shame to male victims and can even silence them from reporting and addressing such experiences with others. Underneath the statement, a statistic regarding how many men are forced into doing sexual acts in their childhood is made. It states, in 6 men have had unwanted or abusive sexual experiences in childhood. If you or someone you care about needs help, please visit The statistic is meant to counteract the earlier statement regarding why the male victim fight back. The statistic now gives the viewer a greater understanding of how often such occurrences regarding sexual abuse and domestic violence there are against Vieira 3 men. The appeal to ethos that is being established in figure 1 is the statistic and a website that is placed in the very middle of the poster. The statistic creates an appeal to credibility to the person seeing the poster. Most statistics are presumed to be truthful and accurate. It is presumed that statistics are even backed by a credible source such as a researcher or organization. The color of the text is black and the background is white, but like scholarly articles and newspapers, the color is meant to address important information, the viewer can assume that the issue being addressed is of great importance also. The image of the celebrity in the poster is also in black and white, which makes the topic seem more serious than if it was in highlighted and bright colors. This seriousness can in turn make the creator of the poster more of a credible source. Figure 1, the question he fight is argued with the statistics proving that sometimes even fighting cannot stop the attacker from having committed the heinous act against the victim. In the statistic on the poster, in 6 men have had unwanted or abusive sexual experiences in suggests men can be victimized at such a young age and are not capable to control what happens to them. Both posters create feelings of sympathy for the victims but also a newfound will to take a stand against domestic violence and sexual abuse of all persons. The purpose of Figure 2 targets a broader audience. Rather than explicitly addressing male victims, it concerns those that are victims and those who Another logical fallacy, never going to fix is placed at the top of the campaign ad. The statement is used by some too express why even with bringing the topic into campaigns and television will not change anything. With accordance of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, awareness and efforts should ultimately decrease the number of individuals who perpetrate sexual violence and the number of individuals who are victims. Many prevention approaches aim to reduce risk factors and promote protective factors for sexual Violence: Vieira 4 Prevention This further supports the stress on making awareness of both issues the milestone for preventing those issues to further happen in the future. A statement is placed next to the actress in the middle of the poster that states, violence and sexual assault are preventable. time we all speak out to end this violence. No more excuses. No more silence. No more Like the previous advertisement, the statement stresses the importance of openly taking a stand when he/she or someone he/she knows has been domestically or sexually abused. It provides an initiative for all people to speak out and actively take a stand so that abuse can be prevented and for abusers to be punished for their crimes. In figure 2, violence and sexual assault are preventable. time we all speak out to end this violence. No more excuses. No more silence. No more this statement makes the audience feel like taking authority and standing up for a change. It also brings the audience to feel sympathy for the victims rather than to victim blame. Other feelings expressed are feelings of empowerment and awareness. The figure has the statement, more excuses. No more silence. No more also emphasizes that time is of the essence and that people need to start taking action as soon as possible. The line before that is highlighted blue also pushes the viewer to act fast or else nothing will change. In figure 2, two sources are listed in the bottom left corner. Both contributors to the campaign are organizations. The first contributor listed, being the Joyful Heart Foundation, and the second being the Entertainment Industry Foundation. The website for the campaign, is also listed at the bottom of the poster. The boldest words on both posters are the statement and title, These two words together create a sense of urgency and call for an emergence of change. The first figure gives a website as a source in case in someone is seeking help. Ethos is less apparent in figure Vieira 5 one and two compared to the other rhetorical appeals. In both images the in is blue. The statements underneath are also colored blue. The color blue in business represents the feelings that the viewer can trust the advertiser. Color can also represent honesty, reliability, one- to-one communication, and also wisdom. The rest of the text on the posters is black on a white background. This allows the reader to feel like it is standard text but important. The celebrities placed on the poster are also colored in black/grey/white; this gives the viewer a feeling of seriousness and intensity. The words, are bolded and contrasting shades of blue. The creator of the poster wanted to emphasize the importance of saying no and declaring an end to domestic violence and sexual abuse. Both the questions in the posters give the reader something to think about. mission statement, is to unite victims and to help establish awareness about sexual abuse and domestic violence. The definitions for both terms are needed to create a clear understanding of both crimes. The rhetoric and visual appeals used by the stakeholder in both Figure 1 and Figure 2 are used to establish a certain emotion and response from the audience. Vieira 6 Works Cited Basile KC, Smith SG, Breiding MJ, Black MC, Mahendra RR. Sexual Violence Surveillance: Uniform Definitions and Recommended Data Elements, Version 2.0. Atlanta, GA: National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2014. Know the  NOMORE.org Together we can end domestic violence and sexual assault. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Sexual Violence: Prevention  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 June 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Vieira 7 Figure 1: Vieira 8 Figure 2: