Ferrari 1 Melissa Ferrari Professor James Josue ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Cosmetic and Household Product Testing on Animals When it comes to using cosmetics and household products, many Americans want to ensure that the products are effective, but also safe. To please the demands of the people, the cosmetic and household product companies run several research experimental test on a daily basis. A majority of these tests include testing the products on animals. Researchers use the data gained from these tests to help improve the products for humans. During the process of fixing the products, the animals being tested on usually end up harmed or killed (PETA, 2016). Many disagree with animal research due to the harm and stress it puts on the animals. Countries such as, Europe, India, Israel, Norway, and organizations such as PETA, support animal rights and agree that the companies should stop animal testing. Companies such as Revlon, Raid, Johnson & Johnson, Clorox, Glade, Bobbi Brown, Neutrogena, Maybelline, and Pine-Sol, all pro-animal testing companies, agree research should be conducted, because it ensures human safety and helps improve the products. If pro-animal testers, such as Revlon Cosmetics, could change its formulas to an all organic and chemical-free formula and agree to test its products on human volunteers, while PETA, a pro-animal rights organization, could agree that in certain conditions, such as for the safety of the environment or the workers of the company, animal testing could be allowed, this would allow animal testing to greatly decrease and business for Revlon Cosmetics to increase due to new partnerships that could be gained. Ferrari 2 Pro-animal testing company, Revlon Cosmetics, perform research experimental test on animals on a daily basis. Revlon Cosmetics perform these test, because based on previous research, it shows that these test help improve their products and ensure that the chemicals within the product are not causing any harm on human skin. Revlon wants to ensure the safety of their costumers, since it is their primary concern (Hajar, 2011). Revlon wants to make sure they are only selling safe products, using safe ingredients, and comply with the regulations of the other countries their products are sold in. Revlon stated they would stop testing on animals, but since the company still sells their products to China, which is a country that makes animal testing mandatory, this means that Revlon still test its products on animals and promotes animal testing (Hajar, 2011). For example, to test toxicity of the chemicals put into the product or to see how much irritation a cosmetic may cause to the skin, a rabbits is usually taken and used to perform acute toxicity test (PETA, 2016). Researchers would put the product on the skin of the rabbits and over a long period of time would check if an irritation reaction has occurred. If an irritation has occurred this lets Revlon Cosmetics known that there is a reaction occurring that should not be occurring and that would eventually hurt the human customers, leaving them liable (Hajar, 2011). This helps protect humans and help changes the products formula to be better and to have the least amount of reactions as possible (Hajar, 2011). Pro-animal right organizations, such as PETA, disagree with animal testing. In order to prevent animal testing from occurring, PETA was created. The main goal of PETA is to stop the mistreatment of animals, this includes animal testing, animal abuse, animal fighting, the use of fur and leather, animal suffering, the consuming of animals, and more (PETA, 2016). They believe that animals should not suffer because of humans and that these actions of abused need to be stopped. It was also discovered that the end of a test the animals are killed, normally by Ferrari 3 asphyxiation, neck-breaking or decapitation. Pain relief is not (Leader, 2013) PETA believes the research done on animals is insignificant and only harmful to the animals, because based on several new research discoveries, such as the discovery Pound and others discovered in 2004. The research showed that animal research is inaccurate, due to the animal research being poorly conducted and not evaluated through a systematic review (Pound et al., 2004). Also, even though it is stated how animals have helped research, there is really no proof to support the statement; no research has proven this yet (Pound et al., 2004). So this shows that research is being done for no significant reason, but to cause harm on these animals. If pro-animal testers and pro-animal right advocates, can come together and work together animal testing would decrease and business for the companies could increase. For example, if Revlon Cosmetics and PETA could come together both can meet a large part of their main goal. If Revlon, is willing to give up using chemicals in their cosmetics and begin using organic natural essential oils in their products, this would help limit animal testing. The only reason why cosmetic and household companies test their products is because of the chemicals that are being used (PETA, 2016). The toxicity of these chemicals are unknown and how they would react with a living organism, or a human, is also unknown, so in order to gather an idea of the amount of harm that could be created by the chemical is tested (PETA, 2016). Therefore, using natural essential oils would limit animal testing, since natural essentials oils are known to be pure, have small amount of known toxicity, and have multiple helpful and beneficial functions. If a product wants to be tested, human volunteers can now be used instead of animals, since there are no harsh toxic chemicals in the products. If not humans, products can be tested on in-vitro experiments, which was proven by two researchers, Borenfreud and Puerner, to be more Ferrari 4 accurate than animal testing, when results from animal research was compared to the in-vitro experiments (Borenfreund & Puerner, 2017). Now with the new changes to the formula and to the limit of animal testing, Revlon could possibly lose its business relationship with China. China makes it mandatory for all cosmetics entering its country and being used by its citizens to be tested on animals to ensure safety (Hajar, 2011). Now that Revlon will be using human volunteers and in-vitro experiments more than animals, China may not accept this kind of cosmetic testing and may stop being business partners with Revlon. So even though Revlon may be losing China, because they disagree with the new cosmetic testing, Revlon will actually gain in profit, because of the new business partners Revlon will gain. Since Revlon has stopped animal testing, Revlon can now become business partners with Europe, India, Norway, and Israel, which are countries that only sell cruelty free products to their citizens (Leader, 2013). This shows that from the change, Revlon would actually benefit and nothing will actually hurt the profits Revlon will make, since actually increasing the profits, due to the four new business partners gained. In order for this compromise to work, PETA must be willing to agree that in certain conditions rodents can be used to test products. These conditions could be similar to Animal Testing Ban, which states that animals are no longer used to be tested on, but in certain environmental risk when the product is disposed of or to see if the product has any hazards on the workers creating the product, a certain amount of animals can be used, but only if approved (Leader, 2013). This way, animal testing is limited to only rodents and only in certain conditions that are approved by PETA. With this compromise, PETA has helped limited animal testing and Revlon has increased business while using alternative ways to test their products. Ferrari 5 If Revlon Cosmetics and PETA can agree to work together in order to help limit animal testing, both will be able to benefit. If Revlon agrees to change their chemical cosmetic formula to more of a natural formula and agrees to use in-vitro and human volunteers to test their products, PETA will be able to agree to allow rodent animal testing in certain conditions. Both stakeholders can benefit from this compromise since, PETA will be able to limit animal testing and Revlon will be able to create business relationships with Europe, India, Norway, and Israel, helping the cosmetic line increase in popularity. Ferrari 6 Works Cited Borenfreund, Ellen, Puerner, A. James Toxicity determined in vitro by morphological alterations and neutral red  Toxicity determined in vitro by morphological alterations and neutral red absorption - ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0378427485900463>. Cruelty Free  EU ban on cosmetics testing Cruelty Free International. CrueltyFreeInternational. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.crueltyfreeinternational.org/what-we-do/corporate-partnerships/eu bancosmetics-testing>. Hajar, Rachel. Animal Testing and  Heart Views: The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association. Medknow Publications Pvt Ltd, 2011. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3123518/>. Leader, Jessica. Animal Testing Of Cosmetics Officially Banned In European  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 06 Feb. 2013. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/02/06/cosmetic-testing-animals-skincare- Pound, Pandora, Shah Ebrahim, Peter Sandercock, Michael B. Bracken, Ian Roberts, and Reviewing Animal Trials Systematically (RATS) Group. Where is the evidence that animal research benefits  BMJ: British Medical Journal. BMJ Publishing. Group Ltd., 28 Feb. 2004. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC351856/>. Ferrari 7 Product Testing: Toxic and  PETA. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/animals- usedexperimentation-factsheets/product-testing-toxic-tragic/>. Mission PETA. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>