Crawford 1 Kelly Crawford Professor James Josue ENC 1102 Section 004 15 February 2017 Ending Poverty in America: Organizations Fight for Government Funding Poverty, in its most simplest form, can be defined as a situation in which one can not adequately meet and support his or her own basic needs with the resources available to them. It is estimated that nearly 570,000 people are considered to be homeless or in poverty in the United States on any given day. Every year, a Census is conducted, releasing new estimates, including the number of individuals living below the designated poverty line Are We Asking The Right Questions About Poverty In Each Census, new explanations are tried and tried again for the presented statistics. But despite the explanation given, the same outcome continues to unravel. U.S. Congressman James E. Clyburn, suggests in one of his legislative policy essays on poverty that it is not so much that the poor are incapable of or do not have the proper knowledge to better their own situation, but rather a lack resources needed to do so Developing The Will And The Way To Address Persistent Poverty In In a country rated one of the most prosperous worldwide, the United States can not seem to rid itself of individuals who simply cannot cultivate the means to support themselves and often times their families as well Are We Asking The Right Questions About Poverty In With the continuation of this substantial issue, the questions of, to what extent is the U.S. government responsible on a moral and ethical standpoint, what level of funding should private organizations be endowed with and Crawford 2 what will be the benefits for either stakeholder, are posed in the efforts to find potential solutions in this topic for debate. As many of us are well aware of through, perhaps, the means of following any national news reporters, the U.S. government has a large agenda to tend to, ranging from issues like abortion in women to, in this case, poverty and homelessness in America. The United States of America was constructed on a foundation that is supported by several core ideas and values, one of which being that the government is the people, for the people and by the As a whole, the government serves as a representative democracy, working tirelessly to assess the needs of the nation and all of its citizens and aim towards solutions to combat problems on various scales. Furthermore, the government has individual departments or sectors, such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which are able to take a more direct and focused approach on issues in their field of interest and expertise Alliance to End A number of programs exist, both through government sponsorship or grants and through private organizations or non-profits. The Abuse and Mental Health Services (SAMHSA), for example, is a service provided by the government that deals with improving the physical and mental health of the homeless. Other, non-government sponsored groups, such as National Health Care for the Homeless Council (NHCHC), often have similar objectives in mind Alliance to End However, unlike their government-sponsored counterparts, these independent groups must barter for adequate funding and resources from various sponsors who are frequently affiliated with the government or Crawford 3 contracting agencies. Both types of organizations could be deemed equally involved in the efforts to reduce the issue of homelessness as they have the same adopted mission and compatible goals. However, the extent to which the government and private organizations take on such a responsibility may vary in some instances. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention writes on promoting equity in our health system by outlining the main tenets of public health and the fact that it constitutes a right granted to all citizens Promoting Health Equity: A Resource to Help Communities Address Social Determinants of article, obtained from the Department of Health and Human also acknowledges a dramatic decline in the quality of health provided towards citizens with a decrease in socioeconomic status. health disparities, such as tooth decay, were noted to be more than twice as likely in children coming from poor or homeless families, as a greater number of dental problems in youth who came from these families were left untreated as opposed to non-poor families Promoting Health Equity: A Resource to Help Communities Address Social Determinants of According to calculated 2007 indices, families whose incomes fell below the poverty line were found to be as much as three times more likely to not have a health insurance plan when compared to higher-income families Promoting Health Equity: A Resource to Help Communities Address Social Determinants of Individuals who already are barely meeting ends and putting meals on the table for their families, are not going to have the excess funds to support a semi-annual dental cleaning or visit that is often crucial in maintaining health complications, such as the plaque buildup on smile or the early detection of ovarian cancer before too late. Crawford 4 As one would expect, a similar trend followed for access to care, which was found to decrease as the level of education and assumingly income rates of the respective individual were reduced Promoting Health Equity: A Resource to Help Communities Address Social Determinants of U.S. government and other independent organizations both aim to target ways to reduce the margin of inequity between families or individuals of higher income and lower-income families or the homeless on the basis of health and personal well-being Promoting Health Equity: A Resource to Help Communities Address Social Determinants of main distinction that remains among these two stakeholders, lies on cost-efficiency and the extent to which they feel individually responsible to aid in ending homelessness through administering monetary support. Think of a time in which monetary cost had no weight on a decision made. As much as many of us would rather not admit, chances are there is little recollection in our brains of such an occasion. At this point in time, to much dismay, we have also discovered that money grow on trees. There is some literal price to be paid in practically every situation. Imagine the cost of even attempting to tackle such a widespread issue like poverty, and often as an offspring, homelessness. According to the Health Care for the Homeless Council, in its article Solutions to Prevent and End homelessness has been embedded into our modern social structure for nearly three decades, and signs of it budging appear to be slim any time soon, that is without action of course. Crawford 5 With proper funding and resources, both the government, as well as private groups and organizations have developed the extensive platform needed to combat this issue. The article also outlines preventative methods towards stopping the problem before it even happens Solutions to Prevent and End Homelessness can be viewed similarly to preventing a disease; finding a proper cure or treatment is what will truly aid in keeping the problem at bay Solutions to Prevent and End Currently, citizens at large face an unequal divide between the cost of living in most areas and respective incomes and wages Solutions to Prevent and End The government serves as the main house for funding and providing financial aid for all national projects. In order to accomplish the objectives outlined by a number of independent programs geared towards reducing poverty and preventing homelessness, these groups must appeal to government sponsorships. In the article Universal Solutions to Prevent and End , the National Health Care for the Homeless Council provides a series of recommendations for adopting a set plan to solve this ever-growing problem. Through the establishment of a universal health care plan in which families and individuals are provided regardless of income level, all U.S. citizens will have the opportunity to receive the proper assessment and care necessary to manage personal health and well-being. Affordable housing needs to be adopted through legislation designed to implement an increased supply of low income homes. This will ensure that even individuals at a minimum level of salary and net worth have a roof over their head to provide them with sustainable shelter, and just a place to call home. With the development of these Crawford 6 operations, the issue of homelessness can be dramatically reduced or even terminated. After all, everyone deserve to feel like they belong somewhere, or even just be able sleep soundly, with both eyes closed, knowing they are safe behind closed doors? Judy Garland in the iconic movie, The Wizard of Oz, said it best, no place like Crawford 7 Works Cited CLYBURN, JAMES E. Developing The Will And The Way To Address Persistent Poverty In  Harvard Journal On Legislation 51.1 (2014): 1-18. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Meyers, Marcia K. Are We Asking The Right Questions About Poverty In  Social Service Review4 (2014): 728. Academic OneFile. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Alliance to End N.p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ramirez, Laura K. Brennan, Elizabeth A. Baker, and Marilyn Metzler. Promoting Health Equity: A Resource to Help Communities Address Social Determinants of  PsycEXTRA Dataset (2008): n. pag. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Universal Solutions to Prevent and End  National Health Care for the Homeless Council, 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.