Janeda 1 Haley Janeda James Jouse ENC1102 14 February 2017 Project One Children are subjected to technology in their lives everyday. Teachers are utilizing it as a teaching element so kids are forced to interact with it consistently. Technology is a great tool to use to teach children in a fun manner and to subject them to different cultures. On the other hand, kids are becoming addicted to social media and it is hindering their social skills, as well as having negative affects on their physical being. These are two very different stakeholders that are battling against each other. These two stakeholders could come together to meet a common ground of utilizing technology in the classroom while restricting it, and teaching the students social skills through recess or some form of physical activity. Technology is a very beneficial learning tool utilized in the classroom today. Teachers have started to make it part of their everyday class curriculum. Most students are subjected to tablets or cellphones since they were toddlers so an easy teaching technique for teachers to use because of how long kids have been familiar with it. Many children might even prefer this method of teaching because it is more fun to them. The article Consumers or Next-Generation Learners? Parent Tensions About Child Mobile Technology states that expressed feeling a need to introduce their child to mobile technology at an early age so that the child could keep up with trends in education, social connection, and employment opportunities, even if they preferred to maintain a relatively low-tech (Radesky, Eisenberg, Kistin, Gross, Block, Zuckerman, Silverstein, pg.503) proving the point that children Janeda 2 are subjected to technology from an early age by their caregivers whether they might want to or not. This could aid in the learning development because they have been subjected to the learning device for a long time, making it easier for them to learn the given subject. Caregivers also feel the need to introduce their child to technology early so that they can keep up in the classroom. Technology also can exploit many different ways of teaching a certain curriculum. Teachers can employ games to teach children, making it interactive and hands on. Children can even learn faster and more efficiently by this method. The article Children and Technology states experts maintain that technology is essential to teaching even young children the basic concepts of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) that are considered essential to life in the twenty-first (Purdy, Elizabeth Rholetter) demonstrating that subjecting children to technology might even be necessary. This could be a good thing because children are learning so much quicker, and thus can learn even more coursework in a faster manner. The students are also learning on a platform that they like. Watching movies, playing on tablets, or even on cellphones has become a second nature to kids and operating this in the classroom is not only beneficial to the teacher and caregiver, but also the student. Technology offers such versatility to how they can teach. There are games, PowerPoints, videos, movies, etc. that teachers can use to teach children. This is proven to be way more satisfying then just a lecture, in both ways that kids are more intrigued and are retaining the information. Radesky, Eisenberg, Kistin, Gross, Block, Zuckerman, and Silverstein also state also expressed the belief that their young child could learn better from educational applications than from hands-on toys, because the child was Janeda 3 more motivated to use such an application, the motor skills involved in using a touchscreen are easier, or the child felt more independence in downloading the showing how even the caregivers are feeling a positive effect from this. The book Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A states that factor is computer access at home. Studies have shown that computer access at home is positively correlated with their performance in (Ching-Ting Hsin, Ming-Chaun Li, Chin-Chung Tsai, pg.92) highlighting that technology is improving not only learning new material, but even helping students learn how to read. Another great point highlighted in this is that kids are now motivated to utilize their technology at home to learn. What they are learning in the classroom is being translated to their at home playtime. Technology is no doubt been an extremely helpful tool in the classroom, aiding everybody involved in the schooling of a life. Although technology has its massive positives to learning in the classroom, it might also be bringing some negative side effects along with it. Students might be so heavily involved with technology that its hindering their social lives. An addiction to technology is happening, and kids are having trouble getting away from it. Purdy states generally agree that children who become aggressive or violent when removed from technology or those who are unwilling to leave electronic devices to take care of daily needs such as eating and sleeping are exhibiting signs of and that spending at least ten hours a day on technology are considered This could be extremely harmful to todays youth because their social skills developing because of the constant subjection to technology. One could tell the social skills developing because, as stated above, experts see when students are removed from any form of technology can become irritable which is a sign of addiction. Janeda 4 Students like to use technology for fun, but are also being forced to use it as a tool for learning. When the children are receiving constant stimulation from this technology with no breaks, it is teaching them that technology is the only outlet that they can process information through. They are learning their social skills in a completely different manner, through social media. These children are not learning how to communicate in the real world. However, the book Technology and Culture: The Impacts of Technologies in Everyday states plays an important role in everyday lives, but they can in no way be seen to replace peer relationships or play with friends. While there are friends around, younger children usually prefer play to media use, and certainly prefer the company of friends to the company of (Ian Hutchby, Jo Moran-Ellis, pg. 44) to exhibit a different viewpoint where it might not be harming younger social skills because of their preference to interact with peers rather then technology. This could imply that their addiction to technology is conditioned. This source proves that our drive to use technology is not natural, but learned. Children typically spend eight hours in school, then have play time when they get home. Ten hours of interaction with technology would not be hard for a child to achieve everyday, forcing them to become addicted. Purdy also states impacts identified by such groups have included the development of irregular sleep patterns, behavioral problems, delayed development of social skills, attention difficulties, reduced academic performance, and an increased likelihood of being To verify that not only are social lives being damaged by the constant use of technology, but so are their physical More children are becoming obese and having sleeping issues. These are very large and scary side effects, although it seems almost crucial to keep technology a part of a life in order for them to keep up in school and with the world. Janeda 5 These two stakeholders have a lot of positives and negatives attached to them. Technology is extremely beneficial to schooling in the modern world today and provides a fun, easier platform for students to learn through. On the other hand, even though technology is extremely helpful in school, it can harm the physical and mental being. They are having sleeping issues, as well as an increased likelihood of becoming obese, and harming in the development of their social skills. Technology is necessary in the world we have today, so a solution to this issue would be to simply limit the amount of time children spend on technology in schools and at home. Purdy states prevent the negative effects associated with overexposure to technology, the AAP suggests that screen-free  should be established in all homes and encourages parents to limit the time that children and teenagers spend on entertainment media, which includes television, computing, video gaming, and all mobile To show how even experts might believe this could be a solution to the exposure of technology. Technology in our lives has become excessively crucial for almost every age. Kids are being subjected to all different forms of technology starting younger and younger. This actually is helpful because it is being used heavily in schools and is extremely helpful in them learning faster, and in a form that they love. Technology is affecting children negatively, however, harming their mental and physical health. These two stakeholders are clashing heavily against each other in society today. A solution to this would be to limit technology in schools and at home, so that they both can reach a common ground. Janeda 6 Works Cited Page Hsin, Ching-Ting, Ming-Chaun Li, and Chin-Chung Tsai. The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A  N.p., 1 Oct. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hutchby, Ian, and Jo Moran-Ellis. Children Technology and Culture: The Impacts of Technologies in Everyday  N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Purdy, and Elizabeth Rholetter. Children and  N.p., 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Radesky, Jenny S., Staci Eisenburg, Caroline J. Kistin, Jamie Gross, Gabrielle Block, Barry Zuckerman , and Michael Silverstein. Overstimulated Consumers or Next-Generation Learners? Parent Tensions About Child Mobile Technology  N.p., 1 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.