Andujar 1 Adrian Andujar Instructor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 March 1 st 2017 Intermediate draft The entertainment association is a nonprofit organization that speaks for the gaming community. This organization was founded in July of 2006, in the attempt of making the voices of gamers around the world heard. To do so, the founder of the entertainment association, Mr. Hal Halpin formed a committee of fifteen people in order to create a company that would empower the voices of gamers around the world. The two images that represent the stakeholder have one thing in common and that is that they are both created to show the audience that video games do not make people violent. Both these images use pathos and logos to persuade their audience into getting interested in the topic. The first image presented below, is created by the entertainment association. This image was directed towards the gaming audience as it affects that community more than any other. This image appealed to both pathos and logos as it dealt with both sarcasm and factual evidence. The first image showing someone holding a ak47 with the Pols-Tame bloodlust in video has a hidden sarcastic message in the picture. When you look at the first image, you see two video games on the top left corner. Both games, Halo 4 and call of duty black ops 2 are almost unrealistic. One game is about pixelated aliens and another is about Andujar 2 people fighting each other with jetpacks. Both games have almost unrealistic genres that could not influence people to go to the real world and create crimes. There is lots of scientific evidence that backs up the statements that video games have no influence in a behavior. In the first article, there is a statement that says, research and international and domestic crime data all point towards the same conclusion. Entertainment does not cause violent behavior in the real (ECA). There are lots of scientific research that proves that video games have no correlation to real world violence or crime in general. The second image presented below, is a lot blander but has the same effect as the first image. Since the second image only contains words, it has more of a concrete statement then the previous image. This image mainly uses the rhetorical strategy pathos. With the vibrant colors and weird text format, this image is trying to pull the emotional aspect from the audience. This picture tells you one main thing and that is that people that play video games, believe that video games cause violence. With multiple scientific studies backing up the claim that video games cause no real-world violence, people should know that video games cause violence. But since video games are perceived as violent from spectators, they know the actual side effects of video games as they only watch and not play. To truly understand the side effects of a video games, people would have to put multiple hours into the video game, but since people are lazy they only judge from what they see. The second image really points that out as it basically says that video games are a perception of violence. Since the game is shown violent people believe it makes people violent, which is not true. People play video games for two reasons, the story and to get their name recognized. Everyone wants to be the best so people put multiple hours into a video game to prove that. Andujar 3 The entertainment association wants to rid of the mentality that video games cause violence. But with a mentality so popular, it would take years of research to finally convince people that video games are not harmful. On the road to doing that, the entertainment association helps create legislative laws that ban mature content for people under 18 years old. This will help stop parents into thinking that video game violence stems from a young age and give people that are the eighteen and older the right to purchase mature content. Another thing the entertainment association is doing to help get rid of that violence mentality is by raising awareness for research. In 2009 Obama proposed a proposition to congress to fund 10 million dollars into research on video games violence but was ultimately denied. This is where the entertainment association comes in and raises money towards research that can help back up the statement that video game violence does not correlate to real world violence. In conclusion, these two images created by the entertainment association try to help take down the mentality of video game violence equals real world violence. The two images use rhetorical strategies to make the audience aware of the topic and most importantly contribute to the cause. Video games will only get popular as time goes by so that means the mentality that video games are violent will also goes up. The only way to stop this is by getting interested and helping the cause by donating to research. Andujar 4 Works Cited Bingham, John. Study Finds No Evidence Violent Video Games Make Children  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 12 Mar. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Entertainment Association, n.d. Web. 1 Mar. 2017 The entertainment association(ECA). are not the 19 Mar. 2013,10:30 a.m. Tweet.