Fabacher 1 Andrew Fabacher Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 13 February 2017 The Debate on Compensating Student-Athletes Debate on compensating student-athletes has been ongoing since the early 1900s. In 1910 President Roosevelt prompted the formation of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), after 45 players died between 1900-1905. The original intention of the organization was to provide oversight for safety (Johnson and Acquaviva). In the early 1900s athletes were still paid for their service. However, a 1930s article by the Carnegie Foundation entitled, in American raised the question, it [the concentrate its attention on securing teams that win, without impairing the sincerity and vigor of its intellectual (Johnson and Acquaviva). In 1948 the NCAA adopted the limiting payments to student-athletes to tuition, fees and some living expenses, which put these athletes in the amateur category for sports (Johnson and Acquaviva). Since that time, there has been enormous growth in college sports revenues, with three NCAA divisions and multiple championships held each year. The revenue for 2011-12 was $871.6 million and the whole industry brings in over $11 billion annually through contracts to the NCAA for product licensing deals, apparel sales, television deals, and electronic media such as DVDs, video games and online streaming content (Afshar 99). Student-athletes and their advocacy organizations such as the National College Players Association (NCPA) would like the athletes to receive a share of this revenue stream. While the NCAA and the NCPA both have the well-being of Fabacher 2 student-athletes as the cornerstone of their missions, they have opposing views on whether these athletes should be paid for their service and for the use of their name, image and likeness (NIL). A compromise should be reached between these two organizations that allows for student-athletes to receive an increase in their scholarship amount, while still maintaining their amateur status, to have their sports-related medical costs covered, and to receive deferred compensation when their college career is complete. While the NCAA has always had the well-being of student-athletes at their foundation, for almost 70 years they have also maintained that student-athletes must remain amateurs. As an amateur, student-athletes are unable to be compensated for their work. The NCAA states that, participation in intercollegiate athletics is an avocation, and student-athletes should be protected from exploitation by professional and commercial The Official Site of the ). Further, the NCAA advocates that participation should be motivated primarily by the ability to receive a quality education The Official Site of the ). Former NCAA President, Walter Byers stated that, players are students first, according to the student-athlete terminology we crafted for the NCAA (Cronk 135-165). In other words, the NCAA believes that paying athletes undermines the primary purpose which is education. Moreover, the organization maintains that a college education is more valuable over the lifetime than the payment a student-athlete might receive for their services. Thus, some scholars and educators believe that in lieu of compensating student-athletes or allowing them to share in the profits of promotional and television deals, it is more suitable that the NCAA allow universities to offer full-ride scholarships (Johnson and Acquaviva). While the Fabacher 3 NCAA maintains that paying student-athletes compromises the integrity of their education, other organizations hold an opposing view. On the other side of this debate is the NCPA which advocates for student-athletes to receive compensation for their work. Founded in 1997, the primary goal is to advocate for ability to receive additional scholarship money, beyond what the NCAA calls the Home National College Players ). Critics of the NCAA agree with the NCPA and maintain that raising scholarship amounts by $3,000-5,000 per year will help cover the shortfall that student-athletes experience since full scholarships cover all of their living expenses (Johnson and Acquaviva). According to the NCPA, current scholarships amounts leave 85% of student-athletes living below the poverty line Home National College Players ). The NCPA President, Ramogi Huma said, college athlete, recruit and parent should go to the NCPA web site and look closely at these shortfall numbers. Otherwise, they will find that their full scholarship is leaving them buried in unexpected Home National College Players ). To this end, the NCPA has suggested that a portion of the $11 billion the NCAA will receive from CBS over the next 14 years for television rights to the Final Four Basketball Tournament, should go toward annual scholarship shortfalls. Under the plan, $52 million would go toward Division 1 football and basketball players and an additional $52 million would go toward sports Home National College Players ). In addition, the NCPA believes compensation should be provided to student-athletes in the form of payment for medical expenses for injuries incurred during sports-related activities Home National College Players ). Finally, the NCPA maintains that student-athletes should be allowed to directly benefit from Fabacher 4 commercial opportunities. Research suggests that the refusal violates the rights of publicity (Cronk 135-165). The NCPA and their supporters are strong advocates for student-athletes reaping the rewards of the multi-billion dollar college athletics industry, despite NCAA rules against it. Although the NCAA and NCPA disagree on the issue of payment to student-athletes, they do have several goals and values in common. These include the betterment of the health, safety and well-being of student-athletes. The NCAA is to safeguarding the well-being of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout The Official Site of the ). The NCPA also views the well-being of players as paramount. The organization states that one of their primary missions is, provide the means for college athletes to voice their concerns and secure basic Home National College Players ). Another major issue that both organizations agree on is safety on the field. The NCPA states their goal is to, college brain trauma risks and establish and enforce uniform safety guidelines in all sports to help prevent serious injuries and avoidable Home National College Players ). The NCAA feels similarly on this point, however they do not require sports-related injury costs to be reimbursed. The NCAA states they are to keeping college athletes safe, healthy and ready to compete on the field of play, in their college classrooms and in their future careers. Together with Sport Science the NCAA is working to ensure college athletes are getting the best care The Official Site of the ). The third issue that the two stakeholders agree on is they want students-athletes to receive a quality education, with higher graduation rates. The NCAA is Fabacher 5 committed to an academic environment in which acquiring a quality education is the first The Official Site of the ). And the NCPA states that the NCAA should use its resources to increase graduation rates of student-athletes Home National College Players ). With numerous goals and values aligned between these two organizations, a compromise should be able to be reached on the pay-for-play debate. In order for the NCAA and the NCPA to reach an agreement on whether and how student-athletes should be paid, both groups must compromise on a portion of their stated missions. Any solution to the issue of payment of student-athletes needs to appeal to the desire to have them maintain their amateur status. Further, the solution must appeal to the goal of having student-athletes receive fair compensation. In doing so, the NCAA may have to change their stance on what constitutes an amateur, since past solutions have been rejected due to their strict adherence to the definition (Afshar 99). If both organizations can concede that the basic well-being of its athletes is paramount, then the components of a compromise solution will appease the NCAA, the NCPA and above all the student-athletes themselves. One component of the compromise is to increase scholarships for students-athletes by $3,000-$5,000 so they cover cost-of-living expenses that are currently not covered. In a recent case against the NCAA, vs. the NCAA , the Ninth Circuit Court suggested that, stipend functions as a less restrictive alternative that preserves both the values of amateurism and the integration of academics and (Sheetz 865). An additional stipulation in the agreement would require colleges and the NCAA to put aside a portion of the profits from the general promotional money earned from sponsors and from the use of NIL, specifically for the future use of the athletes. This trust fund concept has been used successfully by the Fabacher 6 International Olympic Committee, whereby athletes are allowed to use promotional money at the completion of their career. A similar set-up would allow student-athletes to receive fair compensation for the use of their NIL, with funds distributed to the athletes after their college career is over (Cronk 135-165). The funds would be paid out on a sliding scale, based on how many college years the athlete completed. Most importantly, the student-athletes would not be receiving money while they are still in school, thus not violating the stance on amateurism, but still allowing them to get paid at a future date (Sheetz 865). Likewise, the trust fund solution would allow for funds to pay for medical bills for sports-related injuries. By appealing to both sides of the argument on paying student-athletes, the NCAA and the NCPA can each get some of their needs met, while still keeping the well-being of these athletes at the forefront of their efforts. Both the NCAA and the NCPA have common ground as it relates to the well-being of student-athletes, with the primary sticking point still being whether or not to pay these athletes for their service. While the issue is still hotly debated, a reasonable compromise must be reached whereby each organization is able to maintain their integrity and get some of their most important goals met. These compromises will benefit the student-athletes, the very individuals that the NCAA and the NCPA proclaim to protect. Fabacher 7 Works Cited Afshar, Arash. Collegiate Athletes: The Conflict Between NCAA Amateurism and a Student Right of  Law Review 51.1 (2014): 99. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Cronk, Erin. Encroachment: Why the NCAA Must Compensate Student-Athletes for the Use of Their Names, Images, and of La Verne Law Review 34.2 (2013): OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Home National College Players  National College Players Association . N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Dennis A., and John Acquaviva. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  Sport Journal 1 (2012): Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Sheetz, Audrey C. Student-Athletes vs. NCAA: Preserving Amateurism in College Sports Amidst the Fight for Player  Law Review 2 (2015): 865. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. The Official Site of the  - The Official Site of the NCAA . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.