McCutcheon 1 Caitlyn McCutcheon Dr. Karen Hanson English Composition 1102 26 February 2017 Animal Captivity to Prevent Extinction People often wonder what it would be like if dinosaurs gone extinct. If humans were alive at the same time dinosaurs were, would dinosaurs really be extinct? By the help of zoos and aquariums, conservation acts are in place to use animal captivity to prevent extinction of species. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums(AZA) is an organization that supports this idea. Other organizations are against the idea of animal captivity because the unfair treatment of animals by promoting entertainment. The AZA has been open since 1971, and now have over two hundred thirty accredited zoos and aquariums across the United States and overseas. goal is to use animal captivity to promote conservation and protect species of animals from extinction. The AZA supports the fact that animal captivity is in favor to contribute to help end the extinction of endangered species and the conservation research that is conducted using two pieces of visual rhetoric. To begin, the first image I selected is a graph showing the decrease of Vaquita in the wild. The Vaquita is a very small porpoise found only in the Gulf of California, Mexico. The species of Vaquita is highly endangered because the large amount of fishing nets being used. CIRVA 8 (Eighth Meeting of the Internacional para la de la Vaquita), Aquarium of the Pacific has been doing research on the Vaquita since 1997. The image has two main rhetorical appeals, being Kairos and pathos. Rhetoric Really Matters definition of Kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to McCutcheon 2 obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Sawchyn). The picture provides a visual representation of how the number of vaquita in the wild has dropped significantly over time. There were five hundred sixty-seven vaquita in the wild in 1997, and now in 2016, only thirty are left in the wild. A review of the CIRVA 8 meeting stated, population survey conducted in October and November 2015 generated an estimate of about 60 (Taylor 18). Between 1997 and 2006 the number of vaquita in the wild dropped by two hundred twenty- seven, between 2006 and 2015 the number dropped by two hundred eighty-one, and between 2015 and 2016 the number dropped by twenty-nine. To try to prevent extinction, the AZA has a group of conservationists who work together to save a species by identifying and prioritizing the conservation need of the species then develops a 3- year Conservation Action Plan (The Need for SAFE). projects fall within four thematic area including public engagement, conservation capacity, policy and legislation, and economic development. Each project, designed to incorporate collaborator expertise to maximize efficiency and effectiveness, is compromised of detailed goals, timelines, (Vaquita Marina Conservation Plans). Pathos is represented by the disappointment, sadness, and concern of how fast the amount of vaquita in the wild has dropped. People often have the urge to do something if they actually see what is occurring. The feeling of disappointment can arise with this image because the reason the vaquita are dying is very preventable. The research was provided by CIRVA 8, Aquarium of the Pacific making the research done credible, which is ethos. The AZA is doing the best that they can to spread awareness and prevent the extinction of the Vaquita. In addition, the second picture I chose was a summary of the field conducted research in the AZA Community in 2015. Approximately one hundred eighty-six million dollars was spent by all of the institutions within AZA research in 2015. Although only forty percent of the McCutcheon 3 projects took place in the United States, a total of seven hundred species benefitted from conservation action. Of those seven hundred species, two hundred twenty-seven of them are listed under the endangered species act. On the 2015 Annual Report on Conservation and Science Highlights, conservation projects addressed conservation threats in a variety of ways, sometimes focused on the target animals themselves, sometimes on their habitats and sometimes by focusing on the communities that they live with or directly impact the targeted (How Do We Engage in Field Conservation?). The main rhetorical appeal that represents this image would be pathos. This image uses the numbers to show how much research was done for the conservation of animals and the efforts to protect endangered species signaling satisfaction. The research done by the AZA signifies logos within the picture. The research in field conservation shows how the AZA is willing to go to different extents to try to prevent the extinction of animals. Most importantly, AZA shows how important preventing extinction and conservation research is to the organization. The first image shows the decrease in the species of vaquita from 1997 to 2016 and the second image shows examples of the field conservation research in 2015 by the AZA. Both images support why animal captivity should be accepted, but in different ways. The first image has a main rhetorical appeal of Kairos and the second image has a main rhetorical appeal of pathos. The first image has a stronger effect on the audience because it appeals to people more as a whole. Since the species of vaquita has less than thirty animals in the wild when there was once five hundred sixty-seven, it brings out Kairos and pathos. People can start taking initiative if they are saddened and worried about different species going extinct. The second image shows pathos but catch as much attention as the first image does. Both images share the idea that the AZA support animal captivity to prevent extinction. McCutcheon 4 The Association of Zoos and Aquariums has effectively shown that animal captivity helps prevents extinction. Both of these images show examples of research of how extinction of animals is occurring and how they are helping to prevent extinction in the future. The AZA supports the fact that animal captivity is in favor to contribute to help end the extinction of endangered species and the conservation research that is conducted using two pieces of visual rhetoric. Without the help of the AZA, an abundance of research would have not been found and more precautions to prevent extinction would not be known. The AZA has made a tremendous impact on research and conservation over the past years. McCutcheon 5 Works Cited Annual Report on Conservation and Science Association of Zoos and Aquariums. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-45. E-text. Vaquita Marina Conservation SAFE Vaquita Marina Conservation Projects. Association of Zoos and Aquariums. www.aza.org/safe-vaquita-conservation-projects. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Vaquita Marina. Association of Zoos and Aquariums. www.aza.org/SAFE- vaquita. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. McCutcheon 6 Image 1: McCutcheon 7 Image 2: