Borges 1 Angelene Borges Professor Winkle ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Breed Specific Legislation- Coming Together Breed Specific Legislation (BSL) has been around since the 80s. BSL is regulations towards a specific breed of dog that is considered dangerous. In the 80s, fatal dogs attacks began to receive more media attention. The media influence raised the fear of specific breeds, prompting cities to ban or regulate those breeds. While many breeds are on the list of breeds considered dangerous, most cities with BSL target pit bulls. Many groups including dogsbite.org, favor BSL. Dogsbite.org believe that regulation of specific breeds help public safety (Lynn). Other groups, including stopbsl.org, oppose BSL. Stopbsl.org believe that BSL is discrimitory and unsafe (Kray). A compromise that serves the purpose of both organizations, includes all the dogs on the dangerous dog list and does not ban any breed. Instead of fighting each other, the organizations could come together to better reach their overall goal. The website, dogbite.org, is described public education website about dangerous dog breeds, chiefly pit (Lynn). The founder, Colleen Lynn, started dogsbite.org after being attacked by a pit bull in 2007. The website states that the group is, by barbaric maulings on public streets and within residential front yards by recognized dangerous dog breeds continue to be tolerated by policy (Lynn). The website conducts research and found between 2005 and 2015 360 American were killed due to fatal dog attacks with pit bulls being the cause of 232 of those deaths (Lynn). It is believed that stricter BSL will Borges 2 prevent dog attacks from happening, instead of dealing with them after they have happened. Therefore, by banning pit bulls the number of attacks will decrease dramatically. from pit-bull type dogs are thought to be more often associated with fatal or serious injuries as a consequence of their size, build and (Raghaven, et al). Pit bulls jaws do not physically lock, but their style of biting make it hard to get the dog off of the victim which leads it to be commonly said the pit bulls have lock jaw (Lynn).This has lead stopbsl.org supports pit bull bans, along with mandatory spay/neuter, micro chipping, liability insurance, and to prohibits felons from ownership. All which only specify towards pit bulls on the website. Stopbsl.org completely disagrees with dogsbite.org and with all BSL. Fred M. Kray started stopbsl.org in 2005 and committed to informing on the flaws of BSL. As well as, informing people of local groups who do not support BSL and of alternatives that could be used instead of BSL. BSL seeks to halt discriminatory, ineffective, unsafe legislation; to educate the public about safe and humane treatment of (Kray). Stopbsl.org promots responsible dog owners and to look at dogs as individuals instead of punishing the whole breed. Studies done on the effectiveness of BSL in Great Britain and Spain have concluded that BSL did not help in stopping people from being attacked (Campbell). BSL often targets not only the breed of dog that the law is written for, but also any dog that looks like that breed. Numerous dog owners have had their dog taken away and have had to take months to prove that their dog was not a pit bull (Campbell). These legislations also leave pitbull owners defenseless most the time, because they do not grandfather in already owned dogs, even if they have no history of aggression. Stopbsl.org describes this as of the (Kray). Stopbsl.org mission is to show the harm in BSL. Borges 3 Dogsbite.org and stopbsl.org both care about the safty of people and dogs. Their overall goal of making communities safer is one that is shared. The way they believe the goal will be reached contradicts each other. The two organizations could come together to propose a bill that cities who want to have or already have BSL would use. The bill instead of targeting a specific breed will include all of the dog on the dangerous dog list. This will help with the stigma against pit bulls while still making passing laws that would affect them. Any dog on the dangerous dog list will have to be licenced and have a record. The record will tell of any aggressive behavior that is reported. A record like this will allow the dogs to be handled as individuals the way people are handled. Also the dogs must be spayed or neutered by the age of two. In 2006, 97% of reported dog attacks were by a dog who had not been spayed or neutered (Campbell). This will also help against breeding dogs for years at a time, while still allowing the dog to have puppies if the owner chooses to. Another part of the bill will be to have harsher punishments against people who fight dogs. Pit bulls specifically are normally targeted by dog fighters as their dog of choice. When the punishments for dog fighters is harsher, the number of people fighting dogs will decrease. This will not only take the responsibility off of pit bulls and put it onto the owner, but it will also make it safer for these breeds. Dogsbite.org will not have pit bulls banned, but will have stricter laws on all breeds on the dangerous dog list. Stopbsl.org will still have breed specific laws on the books, but instead of targeting just pit bulls instead all dogs will be included and the owners of these dog will be held responsible. Many cities who have historically had pit bull bans have in recent years lifted these bans. Between 2012 and 2014 at least 100 cities lifted their ban (Madhani). More cities are reviewing their bans and their current BSL to better suit dog owners and dogs. argue the bans Borges 4 have been ineffective in reducing dog bites and led to millions of dogs being (Madhani). At least 18 states have made it illegal for cities to ban pit bulls (Madhani). These cities instead use laws that target owners of dogs instead of specific breeds, helping to eliminate irresponsible dog owners. Breed specific legislation has been debated since the 80s. Alone, dogsbite.org, for BSL, and stopbsl.org, against BSL, have not been able to accomplish many of the goals listed on the individual sites. By coming together to propose the compromise listed above, both groups followers would help to get the bill signed. Both groups goal of public safety is heard in the bill making it a plausible for supporters of BSL and for people against BSL. Historically the two have not been able to come to an agreement. A new approach could be beneficial to both groups. Borges 5 Works Cited Campbell, Dana M. Pit Bull Bans: The State Of Breed-Specific Legislation  Gpsolo 5 (2009): 36. HeinOnline. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kray, Fred. Stop  BSL . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lynn, Colleen. Pit Bull Attacks - Victims of Dangerous Dog  - Some Dogs Let Go . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Madhani, Aamer. U.S. Communities Increasingly Ditching Pit Bull  Today . Gannett Satellite Information Network, 18 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Raghavan, Malathi, et al. Of Breed- Specific Legislation In Decreasing The Incidence Of Dog-Bite Injury Hospitalisations In People In The Canadian Province Of Prevention (1353-8047) 19.3 (2013): 177-183. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Weiss, Linda. Full Title Name: Breed-Specific Legislation in the United  Legislation in the United States Animal Legal & Historical Center . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.