Mahbubani 1 Amar Mahbubani Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102.024S17 26 February 2017 The ACLU: Join Our Fight The ACLU, or the American Civil Liberties Union, is dedicated to protecting the constitutional and human rights of immigrants, particularly their right to due process. They have been active in voicing their opinions and they regularly advocate for cases that are related to both legal and illegal immigration The ACLU uses advertising techniques that are focused on encouraging non-members to join their cause (Lauro). The first image depicts an elderly yet professionally dressed man that is taking a definitive stance against selective due process by referencing the Bill of Rights, the advertisement aims to indicate the ideals that the ACLU stands by. The second image is more simple but has a similar purpose, it shows an official ACLU card in the background while displaying the words FIGHT  and JOIN , a more direct tactic. Both images are mainly appealing to ethos by portraying the organization as official and expert. At the same time, the first image also puts a heavy emphasis on pathos by using dark imagery to set a serious tone. The intention with either of these advertisements is to expand their base and to spread their message effectively to a widespread audience. The American Civil Liberties Union describes itself as an organization that works in the courts, legislatures and communities to defend and preserve the individual rights and liberties guaranteed to all people in this country by the Constitution and laws of the United  Mahbubani 2 Although they do not have many advertisements that relate to specific topics such as immigration, their overall goals are still directly reflected. In the two presented images, the ACLU wishes to target any non-members that may be invested in any matter that is even loosely related(Lauro). In the first image, the ACLU is trying to establish themselves as a legitimate stakeholder within the concept of selective due process while stirring up emotions that may convince the audience to take direct action. The audience in this case is any person who is able to become a member of the organization and anyone who is interested in preventing selective due process, an example being someone who seeks to defend both legal and illegal immigrants within the court. In order to appeal to pathos, the image makes the reader feel like they have the right to be outraged about these certain issues. The paragraph on the right side of the image gives the reader a platform to identify with and uses language that might make the reader feel empowered. In addition, the image puts forward a stern elderly man with a dark background behind which serves the purpose of demonstrating the seriousness of the topic to the reader. To appeal to ethos, the advertisement brandishes the ACLU logo and motto on the bottom left in color to make it as noticeable as possible. By highlighting the logo and providing a website link, the ACLU is trying to assert their credibility as a formal institution. On the same note, the image also gives the website link and other resources to provide the reader with the next logical step in fighting for that message. This is an appeal to logos despite lack of statistics or hard facts. Although the advertisement does contain these persuasion techniques, use of text is vague and it often relied on buzzwords such as  to attract a wider audience, it prevented a specific stance Mahbubani 3 from being relayed. This rhetorical fallacy proves that this advertisement was more than likely focused on gaining more members for the ACLU. The second image is a blatant attempt by ACLU to increase their amount of members through the use of authoritative speech and indirect imagery. The image does very little to hide its purpose, the large font and concise text makes this evident. The advertisement acts almost as a call to arms by telling the reader to FIGHT  which, like the previous advertisement, empowers the reader. This use of pathos is powerful as it gives the reader the impression that they are actually making a difference against their opponents and convinces them that they are apart of an important cause. The advertisement utilizes ethos by using an image of an official ACLU business card as the backdrop to the text; this subtle inclusion shows that the ACLU is licensed and polished. The card also has the words Your Name  printed onto it, allowing the consumer to imagine themselves as an ACLU member. This in particular appeals to both ethos and pathos by prompting the reader to consider the ACLU as official while possibly having them look forward to their future membership in a positive light. Like the first image, the second image contains very little logos. Again, it provides the reader with a logical pathway towards joining the ACLU but it does not bombard them with facts or statistics, it instead prioritizes logos and ethos. The audience of this image is anyone who might be familiar with the ACLU but is not completely convinced that they are fully dedicated, this image aims to briefly display their devotion to their objectives. The ACLU uses two very different looking images to achieve similar purposes. The ACLU wants to fight injustices that take place within the U.S. legal court system, in order to do this they must have a strong amount of support Both the first and second images Mahbubani 4 testify to this sentiment as they each use various techniques to sway the reader into joining the ACLU. Gloomy colors and strong expressions are used in the first image to set a somber tone while the second image goes with a more straightforward message. It becomes obvious that pathos and ethos are heavily used in both advertisements while logos is kept to a minimum, there are no numbers or stats included in either image. Regardless, the images are able to illustrate the principles and views of the stakeholder accurately. On top of that they both have the potential to contribute to the growth of the ACLU which can essentially further their cause. Mahbubani 5 Works Cited  Civil Liberties Union . ACLU. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Grabianowski, Ed. How the ACLU  . 27 Feb. 2006. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Lauro, Patricia Winters. The A.C.L.U. Is Taking a Provocative Madison Avenue Route to Raise Support for Its  New York Times . The New York Times, 29 May 2000. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Mahbubani 6