Student 1 Student Composition 1011 Prof. Kimber Wiggs Jan 27, 2017 Homelessness With all the conflicts and issues the world had in the past ten years. Clearly that numbers of homeless people would increase massively across the world. Homelessness problems could be discussed in many directions. Numbers of homeless people has increased to between 100 million and one billion. obvious that homelessness is spread in many nations. Having said that, governments were fighting to solve the issue of homelessness and trying to decrease this issue to the lowest they can get. The United Nation described the definition of homeless as those who live without home or shelter, who also have a few things to carry with them, sleeping in streets or any unsafe place for a normal person. Another thing to consider is that families are the most of the homelessness in the world. In January 2015, (564,708) people were homeless on a given night in the United States. Of that number, (206,286) were people in families, and (358,422) were individuals. Nonetheless, what is being done to address the homelessness problem in the world? He, Yinghua, Brendan and Robert A. Rosenheck. Shared Housing a Way to Reduce Homelessness? The Effect of Household Arrangements on Formerly Homeless Journal of Housing Economics 19.1 (2010): Web. 22 Jan. 2017. From this journal discussing, the Arthur gave ideas of how can we help the homeless people by building shared houses in reasonable prices for them to live on. What he is considering is have areas that are specifically to the homeless people to live. Having said that, his idea is to Student 2 have a place that only for them to build their lives again, and give them jobs and cell to live until they can deal with the world outside. Since most projects focused on particularly at homeless people make liberal utilization of the more extensive government programs, outline issues in those projects are specifically applicable to homelessness projects, thus the polarity is less stark than it may show up. This source is connected to the research question because the Arthur is giving idea almost an answer to the question. This journal is giving a solution of how we could help homeless people to give them better live than they had before. The credibility of the source is good because of the Arthur is an Assistant Professor of Economics He received his Ph.D. from the Columbia University and has previously held positions at the Toulouse School of Economics. His research focuses on issues in applied micro, labor, and education. Hwang, Stephen. Homelessness and health. 23 Jan. 2001. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Numerous homeless people suffer from serious medical problems. In addition, In Canada, Toronto, there are thousands of homelessness in the streets who facing the risk of death every day. Hence, the rates of diseases for homelessness are higher for females than males by 31 times. Skins and foot issues are the most infamous for homeless people. Cellulitis, Impetigo, Venous stasis disease, Scabies, and Body lice, what wait for the homeless person while living in the streets. However, the number of homeless deaths in Canada does not even reach the half of the United States. The main reason for this is health care system in Canada. Homeless person often visits the hospital five-time often than original people. Homeless people in the United States cannot enjoy these features. Lack of health insurance is the main reason for this issue. Student 3 More research is expected to recognize better approaches to convey care to homeless people. However, are probably not going to beat the negative impacts of Homelessness and related social ills. The look to pull answers for the issue of Homelessness itself must remain a key need. Dr. Stephen Hwang interests Homelessness, housing as a social determinant of health, health care for homeless persons, marginalized populations, inner city health, urban health, socioeconomic status, access to care, community-based primary health care, health services research. Dr. Hwang has a lot of experience in health for homeless people. Having said that, it would be good to take his consideration for this topic. N. Evans, William, James X. Sullivan, and Melanie Wallskog. The impact of homelessness prevention programs on homelessness. 12 Aug. 2016. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This article is talking about temporary financial assistance programs for those facing imminent homelessness, there is little evidence of their effect. Using information from Chicago from 2010 to 2012, numbers that the unsteady nature of funding accessibility promotes to good-as-random variation in the allocation of resources to individuals seeking assistance. The cost of reducing homelessness through rent assistance includes the operating costs of the call center and delegate offices as well as the cost of the financial assistance. Altogether, the estimation of these costs to be about $720 per caller referred. Given to the main estimates of the effect of calling the HPCC when funding is available, calculating the cost per homeless spell averted to be about $10,300. This cost per homeless spell deflected would be lower if the program were better focused toward those for whom financial assistance is more effective at reducing the number homelessness. Student 4 This source helps to answer the research question by giving reasons why should we care more about the issue. The source credibility is strong due to the three writers. Three professors from the University of Notre Dame. William N. Evans have Ph.D. in Economics from Duke University in 1987, and 20 years on the faculty in the Department of Economics at the University of Maryland. James X. Sullivan, Sullivan co-founded the Wilson Sheehan Lab for Economic Opportunities (LEO). LEO is a research center that works with service providers and government agencies to find research driven solutions to poverty in the U.S. Melanie Wallskog The senior from Bloomington, Indiana, is co-authored a paper with two of her professors. Sharman, Stephen. A new study reveals the scale of problem gambling among the homeless population. University of Cambridge, 2 Apr. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. According to the writer, there are many ways that could people to be homelessness. One of the ways is gambling. Many homeless population issues they facing is drugs and alcohol. In addition, the majority of the researchers focus only on these two factors ( Drugs, and Alcohol) while they forget about gambling. Having said that, not quite easy to spot the gambler more than drugs and alcohol addiction. Therefore, gambler person is much harder to identify than others issues. Gambling addiction has affected it many people over the years. The main reason that as I think is that those people play gambling to fill up the empty of his life. The relation between the subject from the topic in this source and research question is gambling could ruin any ideas and solutions that are made to help homeless people. Gambling addiction lead to family divide before it leads to homelessness. Filling up the emptiness would be the solution, which will help the person to have more time with his/her family and leave any chance of losing everything in his life. The credibility of the source is really reliable. The Student 5 University of Cambridge is one of the most famous universities in the United Kingdom. The writer Stephen who made the research about the relationship between the homelessness and gambling. Steve gained his Ph.D. from the University of Cambridge, he also gained a BSc in Psychology from the University of East London where he began working in the field of gambling disorders. Tipple, Graham, and Suzanne Speak. of Homelessness in Developing Habitat International 29.2 (2005): Web. 21 Jan. 2017. What the Arthur say, developing countries still fighting to find a process to get rid of this issue. is a place where a person is able to establish meaningful social relations with others through entertaining them in his/her own space, or where the person is able to withdraw from such Tipple, Graham 2005). Having said that, the definition of homelessness does not apply in every place in the world. Homelessness in developing countries might be the people who live in shelters and have a permanent home. On the other hand, homelessness in the poor countries could mean people who live in the streets and find a roof to live on. This source is connecting to the research question because it discussing about what these developing countries did to help those homeless people. The solutions for homelessness issue would not work in every place. The solutions that worked before in developing country will not for sure work in a poor or third world countries. It all depends on what the country is suffering from and trying to solve it so homeless people will effect the change positively. The credibility of this source could be discussed as a trustworthy. Not only that Graham Tipple is a master of arts, he has experience of 30 years in housing and urban development issues in developing Student 6 countries. He has published over a hundred papers on urban policy in Africa and the developing world in general. From what the writer has done in his life, clearly that his point of view could be reliable. Watson, J., J. Crawley, and D. Kane. Exclusion, Health and Hidden Public Health 139. (2016): Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Homelessness and poverty are the most reason for social exclusion. For what a homeless people suffer from the society, it could affect the look of people to homeless. Having said that, Expense and exchange arrangements that shape salary disparity emerge in a vacuum, rather they reflect basic social convictions about the reasons for destitution and the general population esteemed deserving of offer help. People who experience mental illness are also overrepresented among those who become homeless in Europe, Australia and the US, at least among single Shinn, 2010). Despite the fact that the condition of homeless can unquestionably prompt to tension and melancholy, the relationship amongst homeless people and mental disease has a tendency to take after a social determination demonstrate. That is individuals who encounter emotional instability are differentially prone to end up distinctly homeless. This topic is connected to the research question because this source is giving a solution that would help homeless people. The country taxes and social welfare rules shape the structure of disparity in countries, more, are related to levels of homelessness. Similarly, as people in some cases settle on decisions that may lead them to be homeless, countries settle on decisions Student 7 that can prompt to high rates of poverty for their people and differentially high rates for socially prohibited groups. Marybeth Shinn wrote about how-how to prevent and end homelessness and create opportunities for groups that face social exclusion. She is a professor in a department of Human and Organizational Development at the University of Michigan. In addition, she has a lot of experience to deal with the homelessness issue and what solution should we take to end the problem.