Masut 1 Samantha Masut Professor J. Josue ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Animal Research: Is It Right? For years, the controversial issue of whether or not animal testing should continue to be legal has been widely considered and argued. Organizations like the Research Defense Society or more recently known as Understanding Animal Research, are in favor of animal testing because they believe animals are vital to the scientific process to help advance human and animal health. On the other hand, organizations such as the European Coalition to End Animal Experiments are strongly opposed to animal research and are doing their best to protect animals from experimental testing. Although the two organizations have completely different point of views, there are ways for them to find common ground such as the UAR lessening their use of animal testing and instead using alternatives that have been proven scientifically helpful in research. The first stakeholder, Understanding Animal Research (UAR), is a non-profit organization that was founded at the end of 2008. Originally, the organization had the name Research Defense Society but after teaming up with another organization known as the Coalition for Medical Process, the programs decided to change their name. The organization is run by members of a council who each bring their own knowledge of the different sectors which the organization represents (Understandinganimalresearch.org). The main goal of Understanding Animal Research is to achieve a broad understanding of the humane use of animals in medical, veterinary, scientific and environmental research Masut 2 in the UK (Understandinganimalresearch.org). According to Understanding Animal Research, animals have advanced the scientific understanding of human and animal health for over one hundred and fifty years (Understandinganimalresearch.org). Scientists and researchers continue to use animals for a couple of reasons. For example, animals and humans have the same organ systems performing the same tasks in more or less the same way (Understandinganimalresearch.org). In addition, animals suffer from similar diseases to humans including cancers, TB, flu and asthma (Understandinganimalresearch.org). Because of these reasons, Understanding Animal Research supports the use of animals in biomedical research. Animal research is often used to discover how the basic processes of the body work and how these can go wrong when the body is affected by disease or illness (Understandinganimalresearch.org). Without this crucial information, it will be more difficult to create and develop effective treatments for illnesses affecting animals and humans. Although many see animal testing as morally and ethically wrong, Dr. Robert Palazzo, President of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) has said that, are living longer, healthier lives and we owe much of that success to biomedical Also, there are many rules and regulations accompanied with animal research within this organization that ensure the safety of some animals. This includes ethics committees that exist to ensure that the potential benefits of research outweigh any suffering to the animals. There is a legal requirement to replace animals with alternatives, refine experimental techniques and reduce the numbers of animals used in research (Understandinganimalresearch.org). Therefore, this organization is required to try and Masut 3 find alternatives to using animals for their research whenever animal research may cause animals to suffer. The second stakeholder, the European Coalition to End Animal Experiments (ECEAE), is a grouping of twenty animal protection organizations across the European Union (EU) (ECEAE.org). The organization was founded in 1990 by a group of animal protection organizations from across Europe who wanted to see an end to cosmetics testing on animals (ECEAE.org). The ECEAE first began with the main goal of ending animal testing associated with cosmetics. They were successful in 2009 when it became illegal to test cosmetic ingredients on animals anywhere in the EU or sell or import into the EU any animal tested ingredients to be used in cosmetics. The ECEAE created a Humane Cosmetics Standard, symbolized by the Leaping Bunny, and has the only internationally recognized scheme that guarantees a company has moved away from animal testing (ECEAE.org). Since then, the ECEAE has aimed to end the cruel and painful experiments done to millions of animals across Europe. The ECEAE is the leading EU body specialized in this area and has stakeholder status with official EU bodies, which intersect with animal experiments (ECEAE.org). Besides believing that animal research is morally wrong, the ECEAE also believes that animal research is scientifically unreliable and other humane alternatives can be quicker, cheaper, and more effective (ECEAE.org). To try and stop animal experiments and research, the ECEAE runs targeted campaigns towards products such as household products, cosmetics, botox, and primates. Each of these campaigns explains the animals that are targeted, how they are affected, and how to help. For example, their campaign on household products shares about the tragedy of many animals such as rabbits, hamsters, rats and mice that are Masut 4 injected, gassed, force-fed, and killed to test everyday household products like air fresheners and dishwasher tablets. Recent research by Cruelty Free International and the Dr Hadwen Trust suggests between 82 and 154 million vertebrate animals (115 million on average) are used in testing worldwide each year (Crueltyfreeinternational.org). In just the countries of the EU, it was reported that in 2011 used 17,896 dogs, 3,713 cats, 358,213 rabbits, 6,686 horses, 6,095 monkeys, 675,065 birds, 77,280 pigs, 28,892 sheep, 30,914 cattle, over 1,000,000 fish and over 8,500,000 (Crueltyfreeinternational.org) To stop this cruelty, the ECEAE encourages people all over Europe to join their organization and participate in their campaigns or donate to their foundation. The many different opinions of humans worldwide on the subject of animal testing vary widely, as shown through the UAR and ECEAE. Although animal research is used in many countries, the UK is among the top ten animal testing countries in the world (Crueltyfreeinternational.org). Though these organizations have opposite standpoints on this topic, both of these organizations are from the UK, which gives them some common background, and an easier possibility of finding a compromise. The best way for these two organizations to come to an agreement is to talk about their goals and beliefs and find something in their mindsets that is of the same view. I believe that even though the UAR and the ECEAE are of different opinions on animal testing, the UAR would be willing to lessen or even eliminate their use of animal testing. On their website, the UAR explains that they believe that should never be undertaken lightly and animals should only be used when there is no alternative method (Understandinganimalresearch.org). As stated previously in the second paragraph, the Masut 5 UAR is committed to the 3Rs of reduction, replacement and refinement as basic principles of humane animal research, and expects their members to actively employ these to improve animal welfare. This means that the animals should be replaced with non-animal research methods wherever possible, that the minimum number of animals needed to give meaningful results should be used, and that research methods should aim to both improve the quality of the data obtained and reduce suffering wherever possible (Understandinganimalresearch.org). This could be a point where the two organizations compromise. There are many other alternative ways to test for illnesses, treatments, and diseases such as test tube test methods, models based on human cell and tissue cultures, virtual drug trials, computer models and simulations, and stem cell and genetic testing methods (Neavs.org). Therefore, instead of using physical animals, they could use samples of human volunteers, models, and technology. According to an organization called PETA, alternative options to animal testing are not hindered by species differences that make applying animal test results to humans difficult or impossible, and they usually take less time and money to complete. For example, at the European Union Reference Library for alternatives to animal testing developed five different tests that use human blood cells to detect contaminants in drugs that cause a potentially dangerous fever response when they enter the body. The non-animal methods replace the crude use of rabbits in this painful (Peta.org) On the opposite side of the spectrum, I believe that the ECEAE, although very against testing animals, could compromise by trying to understand the point of view. Animal research has saved millions of lives, and has cured many illnesses and diseases. According to The California Masut 6 Biomedical Research Association, nearly every medical breakthrough in the last 100 years has resulted directly from research using animals (Procon.org). The ECEAE does not have to test animals, but I believe that they could be more understanding of why the UAR does what they do, and realize that it is not such a selfish, morally wrong act because the UAR is trying to save the many lives of struggling humans. There will never be a right or wrong answer to animal research because of the multitude of opinions and reasoning backing up those opinions. But, the UAR, who agrees with animal testing, and the ECEAE, who disagrees with animal testing, can work together to find the best way to save both animals and humans. This could be through many different ways such as the UAR reducing their use of animals in experiments or using another way of experimenting besides animal testing such as cellular testing or stimulation. This way, both sides are taken into consideration and can find common ground. Masut 7 Work Cited About  Forty reasons why we need animals in research Understanding Animal Research. Chris Magee, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.understandinganimalresearch.org.uk/about-us/science- action-network/forty-reasons-why-we-need-animals-in-research/>. About  Understanding Animal Research position on the use of animals in research Understanding Animal Research. Chris Magee, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Akhavan, Kamy. Animal Testing -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Alternatives to Animal  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Cruelty Free  Cruelty Free International. Cruelty Free International, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Drumbeat Creative, Download  ECEAE Download Publications. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.eceae.org/en/resources/download- publications>. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Alternatives to Animals in  In Testing. New England Anti-Vivisection Society, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.