Castle 1 Samantha Castle James Josue ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide The debate for legalization of physician- assisted suicide is growing exponentially in the United States since the late Since 1991, five states have legalized physician-assisted suicide and since then more Americans are petitioning for full legalization across the United States (New Heath Guide). However, the Supreme Court has yet to pass this law because there is no actual being violated for not legalizing physician-assisted suicide. There are two major stakeholders that are currently at odds with each other on this issue, ERGO and the Ethics Task Force. The Euthanasia Research and Guidance Organization (ERGO) is on the side for physician-assisted suicide whereas The Ethics Task Force is on the side against physician- assisted suicide. In order to stop the debate about physician-assisted suicide in America, these two stakeholders must use their common ground of helping patients to agree on a compromise of palliative care for their patients. The first stakeholder, ERGO, is the organization that argues for the legalization of physician- assisted suicide. holds that voluntary euthanasia, assisted suicide, physician- assisted suicide, physician-assisted dying, and self-deliverance, are all appropriate life endings depending on the individual medical and ethical (Humphry 4). This moto, found in official textbook, proves that they believe in killing a patient when the conditions of that patient are terminal. This means that when a patient is in pain on their death bed, that it is Castle 1 ethical for them to ask their physician to end their life. This process is either done by the physician prescribing a lethal drug to the patient and the patient administers the drug themselves, or by the physician delivering the lethal drugs to the patient themselves. However, no matter what process the physician decides to pursue, they are both considered physician-assisted suicides. ERGO wants to achieve full legalization of physician assisted suicide so that all Americans can exercise their right to choose when, and how they die. They believe that it should be up to the free Americans to choose how they want to go out of this world and that they should be able to control at least this one part of their (Humphry 5). argument assumes that there is a sense of dignity that they have when they can control how and when they die, a feeling of pride that they can get when they can let themselves go by their own choosing, not by sitting in a hospital bed waiting until it all stops. The Euthanasia Research and Guidance main goal is to ensure the well-being of patients and to help them have a choice. On the other hand, the Ethics Task Force is the stakeholder arguing against physician- assisted suicide. This organization focuses its arguments on the issues of human morality and ethical principles. The Ethics Task Force promotes the ideas of palliative care. care aims to prevent or reduce suffering and hopelessness at the end of (Masterstevd 2). The Ethics Task Force supports palliative care more because aimed toward making the patient comfortable in their final days, rather than ending their life all together. The Ethics Task goal is to make physician-assisted suicide completely illegal in the United States and in other countries as well. This organization assumes that suicide is suicide no matter what the circumstances are. For example, even if the patient is dying, ethically and morally, suicide is still considered wrong and is not something the Ethics Task Force wants to condone. Castle 1 This organization has compiled a list of potential risks to legalizing physician- assisted suicide. The list is as follows: pressure on vulnerable persons; (2) conflict between legal requirements and the personal and professional values of physicians and other healthcare (3) an increase in the incidence of nonvoluntary and involuntary medicalized killing; (4) killing become accepted within (Masterstevd 3). This excerpt from the article on the Ethics Task Force highlights the main risks and concerns with completely legalizing physician-assisted suicide. According the organization, the personal, ethical values of the physicians will be compromised, if in fact the supreme court legalizes physician assisted suicide. Medical professionals must face a moral decision every time they have a patient that is terminally ill. Especially since they believe in the physician oath they all took when they graduated med school that specifically states, will neither give a deadly drug to anybody who asked for it, nor will I make a suggestion to this (Meffert 2). For every patient that was terminal, doctors would have to ask themselves if it was right or wrong to let them die. If physician-assisted suicide was illegal, these medical professionals have to undergo this decision. All of the arguments that the Ethics Task Force makes is based off of their main goal of protecting their well-being. The Ethics Task Force and ERGO do not agree on a widespread of issues. ERGO believes that patients want to end their suffering all together, while the Ethics Task Force believes that patients just want to be comfortable instead of in pain. Even though these stakeholders disagree, a compromise can be made. These stakeholders do agree that patient well- being should be the main focus of their organizations, and should be the main focus of physicians. They both were inspired by the same oath that states, do no (Meffert 2). This small agreement is considered their common ground. Having common ground is an Castle 1 important aspect of any argument. It means that there may be a chance for compromise among the different stakeholders involved in the debate. In this case, both these stakeholders hold the ideals and beliefs of ill patients in high regard. However, they disagree on what the beliefs of patients are. The Ethics Task Force and ERGO have two ways they can compromise on their debate between physician-assisted suicide. First, they can agree on purely state authority. This meaning that there would be no federal law, but each individual state could pass its own law to be against or for physician-assisted suicide. For this compromise both ERGO and the Ethics Task Force will have to give up their goals for federal legalization and federal illegalization of physician- assisted suicide. Second, they could compromise for the use of sedation. This sedation would fall under the terms of palliative care, which is when someone with a terminal illness decides to be put under heavy sedation in order to relieve some of the pain (Coombes 6). This meaning that the patients can be put unconscious for several hours to make them a bit more comfortable toward the end of life, without killing them. For this compromise, ERGO would have to give up their ideals for voluntary suicide and compromise for voluntary monitored sedation, while the Ethics Task Force would have to give up some of their beliefs on treating symptoms and just making the patients comfortable and compromise for heavier medication and sedation. When carrying out both of these compromises each organization is forced to give up a little bit of their ideals. However, these compromises can lead to a more peaceful hospital environment and can dramatically improve patient well-being, which as mentioned earlier is the main goal of both organizations. Castle 1 Both ERGO and the Ethics Task Force have dedication and pride toward their values and beliefs about physician- assisted suicide. However, the debate cannot continue forever. A compromise must be made between the two before any progress or change can occur. By evaluating the goals and beliefs of these two stakeholders and establishing their common ground of consideration for patient well-being these compromises can be made and can end the tension and cease the debate between them. In the case of physician-assisted suicide, the agreement on patient well-being as a main belief by both stakeholders, led to the compromise on state legislature and the use of sedation instead of suicide. Thus, ceasing the arguments and creating peace. Castle 1 Work Cited: Humphry, Derek. Final exit: the practicalities of self-deliverance and assisted suicide for the dying. Eugene, OR: Hemlock society, 1991. Print. Materstvedt, Lars Johan, David Clark, John Ellershaw, Reidun Anne-Marie Boeck Gravgaard, H. Christof Josep Porta I Sales, and Charles-Henri Rapin. Euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task  Palliative Medicine 17.2 (2003): 97-101. Web. Where Is Euthanasia  New Health Guide. N.p., 24 Nov. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Coombes, Lucy H., Theresa Wiseman, Grace Lucas, Amrit Sangha, and Fliss Em Murtagh. Health-related quality-of-life outcome measures in paediatric palliative care: A systematic review of psychometric properties and feasibility of  Palliative Medicine 30.10 (2016): 935-49. Web. Meffert, Jeffrey J. Physician oaths and their current  Clinics in Dermatology 27.4 (2009): 411-15. Web.