Fisher 1 Chase Fisher Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Government Supporting Autonomous Vehicles Self-driving vehicles have seen rapid development in the past few years. These vehicles can drive mostly on their own, can change lanes, and can come to a stop, all while the has his or her hands off the wheel. These vehicles are seen as a great development that is long overdue by some, and a possible ethics issue in the eyes of others. In favor of these vehicles is The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA). This government organization is encouraging the development of these vehicles as they make the policy regulating these vehicles. Currently the policy allows for relatively free development of the technology. The NHTSA justifies this freedom by saying that the vehicles will improve safety and that they are trying to give the developers space. To support their claim that these vehicles bring can bring greater safety, the NHTSA says that 94% of accidents are caused by human error. they believe that these self-driving vehicles can lower that number and save lives. To spread their message the NHTSA uses images and successfully supports their argument that self-driving cars will change the way the world drives and save lives. The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration uses two images to support their claim that self-driving vehicles are good for the world. The first image shows a crash test dummy sitting safe in a car and a render of what an autonomous vehicle sees. The smaller image showing the vehicles vision shows that the vehicle can see the other vehicles and obstacles on the Fisher 2 road. The NHTSA wants this image to show people that the autonomous vehicles are safe and can see just as well as a person. This is a use of ethos, which Rhetoric Really Matters defines as an appeal to credibility (McKee & McIntyre). This image shows the autonomous vehicles view and in this the viewer of this image sees that the vehicle can see well. This adds credibility to the claim that self-driving vehicles are safe. The NHTSA is showing that the vehicles are not blind robots with this image, they are showing that these vehicles can see just as well, or maybe better than a person. Also in this image is a crash test dummy. This portrayal of a crash test dummy is different than the normal destroyed version that is usually seen by people. The use of a intact crash test dummy, which looks safe, is a use of pathos. Pathos is defined as an appeal to emotion, according to Rhetoric Really Matters (Gayle Lee, McKee, & McIntyre). This appeal to emotion is done by making the viewer think these vehicles are safe, because of crash test dummy is safe. This use of pathos makes the viewer think about the safety of them and their family and how their current vehicle may be unsafe. This use of ethos and pathos combine to provide an image that show the viewer that these vehicles are safe. The crash test dummy and the image of the vehicles view show combine to show safety of the vehicle and the accuracy of the systems driving people around autonomously. Along with the previous image, the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration uses another image to support its claim that autonomous vehicles will improve safety. This second image shows NHTSA administrator David Strickland and a quote. The quote reads its potential to save lives and prevent injuries, connected vehicle technology could be a real game-changer for vehicle Connected vehicles as mentioned in this quote are a result of autonomous vehicles as these vehicles would likely send signals to each other alerting them of their upcoming actions. This means that these two vehicles can avoid the possibility of a Fisher 3 collision. Strickland says that these connected vehicles have the possibility to save lives and prevent injury. This statement is an appeal to Logos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, logos is an appeal to logic (Lane, McKee, & McIntyre). statement is an appeal to logos because saving lives is a logical argument that most people can agree with. The desire for safer, and greater developed connected and autonomous vehicles which will save lives is a logical goal, and a reachable goal. This quote helps the NHTSA show the public that this is a serious issue which could help save some of the over 30,000 people that die in car accidents every year in the US (automated vehicles). Coming along with this quote is a picture of David Strickland and his title. The inclusion of these elements in this image adds an appeal of ethos. Ethos is shown through these elements because Strickland is a credible person. Strickland holds an important position and this gives him credibility on this issue. By including the picture and title of Strickland the NHTSA is attempting to use one of its high-ranking officials to show that this is an important issue. This image uses logos and ethos, by using these rhetorical appeals the NHTSA successfully get its message across that these autonomous vehicles are good and can save lives. To show that autonomous vehicles are an important and needed development the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration uses two images. These images include quotes and scenes which help get the message across that these vehicles are safe and wall improve safety. The first image, which shows a crash test dummy and the view that the autonomous vehicle sees, successfully uses ethos and pathos. The use of these appeals shows the viewer that these vehicles are safe and effective for transporting them and their family. The second image shows NHTSA administrator David Strickland and a quote. Ethos and logos are seen in this image and show that these vehicles are safe by showing that people who have a high- Fisher 4 ranking position believe in them and their development. These images work together to show that these vehicles are safe and have the potential to improve the safety of all drivers. The NHTSA uses three out of the four rhetorical appeals in these two and does so in a way that successfully supports their claim that these vehicles can save lives. Fisher 5 Works Cited National Highway Transportation Safety Administration. U.S. Department of Transportation, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gayle Lee, Kendra, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text.