Kago 1 John Kago Mark Nusspickel Composition 1 January 29, 2017 Pollution In China And How Affecting The World. Introduction China is a nation that is located in Eastern Asia. China, America and Germany are considered to be the most powerful countries. All of these countries have the largest factories plants in the world. These factories have advantages and disadvantages. The advantages include efficiency, energy. But the disadvantages include pollution to the atmosphere and chemical waste. This countries face problems of pollution for many years, but we will look at china which is considered as most polluted. Pollution has been happening across the world in many different ways such as in industries, cutting of trees, burning of coal etc. Through out the years the world has been experiencing sudden new changes in the weather such as the melting of the ice caps because of the increase in temperature. There will be providing evidence about the different sources of green house gases released in the atmosphere. Some places in the world experiencing less rains, some experiencing extensive rain and cold than usual. This factors show that the weather is changing due to green house gases emission. These gases are released across the world but only specific country releases these gases in a higher percentage such as China. There will be facts stating that china is polluting the climate, reasons for this emission and if the country is trying to stop the pollution. My question is if china Kago 2 really is playing a big role in the pollution? And if it is affecting the world in different ways? LI, ANTHONY H. F. Hopes Of Limiting Global Warming? China And The Paris Agreement On Climate  China Perspectives 1 (2016): 49-54. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article of limiting global warming? China and the Paris agreement on climate talks about the china and Paris climate summit that was a meeting to agree on reducing the emission of carbon in the atmosphere, since carbon is a green house gas and is normally released through the burning of coal. China releases the carbon in the large factories. It provides information how china cooperated with other cities in the states to create technologies that are efficient in energy and releasing small percentage of carbon. The other topics been discussed include the 21 conference of parties under the united nations on climate change, establishment of the inter- governmental panel in 1988 and the Kyoto protocol in 1997. It provides a comparison graph of the level of emission of carbon in China, India and America through out 1970 to 2012. Mr. Anthony H. F. I is a (part time) teaching assistant, obtained his bachelor degree of social sciences and M. Phil. The author has been very much interested with issues involving the weather such as, sustainable development, climate change and urban studies. These factors influenced him to write an article of climate change in china involving with other countries to be reduced. Kago 3 This article is providing me with very broad information of how china has taken measures to reduce the emission of carbon by cooperating with other countries. Also countries around the world getting involved with China to try reduce carbon emission. Qian, Zhengmin, Hung-Mo Lin, and Walter F. Stewart. Seasonal Pattern Of The Acute Mortality Effects Of Air  Journal Of The Air & Waste Management Association (Air & Waste Management Association) 60.4 (2010): 481-488. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article Pattern Of The Acute Mortality Effects Of Air provides information of a study population that were used to explore seasonal patterns of association between air pollutants and cause-specific mortality. Materials and the method used to study the area and population. The data collection and the statistical methods and data analysis. Article provides information on season and year model of all natural mortality such as cardiovascular diseases. This article provides me with answers for the number of deaths air pollution has caused? The amount of emission? The kind of diseases that people experience? Zhengmin Qian did medicine at Pennsylvania state college. Hung-Mo Lin also did medicine in Pennsylvania. Walter F. Stewart is in Geisinger center for health Research, Danville, Suk, William A., et al. Environmental Pollution: An Under-Recognized Threat To Health, Especially In Low- And Middle-Income  Environmental Health Perspectives 124.3 (2016): A41-A45. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Kago 4 This article pollution: An Under-Recognized Threat To Health, Especially In Low- And Middle-Income talks about pollution caused in industry leads to health been in danger in high, low and middle-income countries. It talks of America in high-income country having non-communicable diseases, which include birth defects, which causes infant death. Low and middle-income countries it includes Ghana South Africa all been at environmental risk. It then explains more about the toxic chemicals and pesticides been polluted especially by the highly income countries. Talks of how the manufacture and use of chemicals has shifted to low- income countries, where labor costs are low and environmental and public health protections are few. This will answer some of my research questions such as what chemicals will affect the which is well explained in the article. It focuses on children been affected by the toxic chemicals produced in the factories. This information will help me. The article also provides information of the more income countries that were involved in emitting chemicals and now the middle and low-income countries are also emitting. Takarada, Yasuhiro. Transboundary Pollution And The Welfare Effects Of Technology  Journal Of Economics 85.3 (2005): 251-275. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article Pollution And The Welfare Effects Of Technology talks about economy development increasing in major countries been a factor in pollution. If countries government are taking measures to reduce pollution around the country. they talk about an experiment for an equilibrium model between two countries, Kago 5 by showing the effects of technology transfer on the terms of trade and pollution emission. The studies showing that industrial pollution has led to reduction of fishing, damaged crops, forests and beach closures. Describes how japan (ODA) official development assistant has been involved in japan by providing training courses on climate change and replaced obsolete generating equipment to developing countries. The article is relevant with some few information on pollution. Answering various question, such as providing me with information of what sources does pollution highly happen? What fators does the government take to reduce the countries emission of pollution? What places other than the atmosphere does the pollution affect? Yasuhiro Takarada is a Nanzan University graduate with expertise in resource economics, environmental economics and international economics. Wrote this article because he felt that the economy growth is a major factor for pollution in a country. Watts, J. China: The Air Pollution Capital Of The  Lancet 366 North American Edition.9499 (2005): 1761-1762. CINAHL. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The article the air pollution capital of the talks about how china has progressed through the years. During the Olympics in China they claimed to go green, but they still have the worst levels of nitrogen dioxide been polluted to the atmosphere. It later shows how china pollution through out the years is still increasing and the number of deaths leading to that increasing in numbers. They specify in the capital city of china Kago 6 Beijing having a lot of smog in the air which affects the health of citizens and leads to them having respiratory diseases. The article is relevant to the topic because it touches on pollution through out the year and showing specific country that is experiencing pollution emission. The article describes well that china is in top 4 countries emitting green house gases. It answers my research questions of what gas is produced and if China is a big factor of pollution. Wen, Zongguo, Fanxin Meng, and Min Chen. Estimates Of The Potential For Energy Conservation And CO2 Emissions Mitigation Based On Asian-Pacific Integrated Model (AIM): The Case Of The Iron And Steel Industry In  Journal Of Cleaner Production 65.(2014): 120-130. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article Of The Potential For Energy Conservation And CO2 Emissions Mitigation Based On Asian-Pacific Integrated Model talks about the emission of CO2 been produced in China iron and steel factories. The CO2 level is increasing from 2010 to 2020 according to Asia-Pacific Integrated policy (INT). It also gives information of the machines used in the industry releasing less CO2 to atmosphere. The china government is doing intensive work on energy saving and emissions reduction, by using energy saving machines and emissions reduction of iron and steel. It provides a lot of statistics on the energy and CO2 level emission. This article will answer my question if China is doing anything to solve the issue of pollution. If the government of china is using efficient machines the releases less CO2 in the iron and steel factories. Kago 7