Reid1 Martin Reid James Josue ENC.1102 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft: When two competing stakeholders make a conscious decision to put their differences aside for the sake of a greater issue affecting the Earth, greatness is almost always achieved without a question. Founded by Kiichiro Toyoda, in Aichi, Japan, Toyota Motors is a Japanese automobile company that designs and manufactures hydrogen fuel cell, and basic fuel-based vehicles. Tesla Motors on the other hand, founded by Elon Musk, is an energy storage/ automobile company that designs, manufactures, and sells, electric cars. Although these companies are at odds with one another in sense that Toyota uses fossil fuels to power its vehicles, and Tesla feels that cars should be primarily powered off of electricity; these are two thriving companies that are undeniably top 15 car brands within their perspective categories (Linkov, 2016). Despite the major differences in how they design, and or manufacture their vehicles, with design and electric manufacturing parts these two ability to collaborate and make some of the most fuel-efficient vehicles ever known. As mentioned previously, Toyota Motors Inc. was founded in 1937, Aichi, Japan, by Kiichiro Toyoda. To power their vehicles, Toyota Motors uses fossil fuels for their flagship vehicles, such as the Toyota Corolla, and for some of their other vehicles Toyota creates a chemical reaction between Oxygen and Hydrogen. According to Toyota.com, they call these vehicles Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (Toyota. 2016). A Hydrogen fuel cell is a new way for Reid2 electricity to be generated to power a motor (Toyota, 2016). Much like Tesla uses electricity to power their vehicles, Toyota uses Hydrogen rather than fossil fuels (gasoline). Toyota uses Hydrogen to power their vehicles because hydrogen produces absolutely NO carbon dioxide emissions. Also according to Toyota.com, it has been discovered that by using hydrogen in fuel cell vehicles the time it take to fuel up a car dramatically decreases typically only 3 minutes (Toyota, 2016)! On the other hand, Tesla Motors was originally founded by Martin Eberhard, Marc Tarpenning, Ian Wright, and Elon Musk in 2003. Elon Musk and his colleagues founded Tesla Motors with two concrete goals to be accomplished. The first stands as their mission statement today, that is, accelerate the advent of sustainable transport by bringing compelling mass market electric cars to market as soon as (Tesla, 2016). Their second was prove that electric cars are indeed better than cars that constantly rely on the burning of fossil fuels to power their (Tesla Motors, 2016). Soon after Tesla began making their first sports car model which would eventually become known as the Roadster. With the making of this vehicle Tesla would go on to become the first car company to produce a 100% electric sports car. This was extremely significant because, for the first time if a consumer owned the Tesla Roadster, he or she ever have to return to a gas station or repair shop for the maintenance of their vehicle. Tesla Motors placed a no-fault warranty of eight years on their models. Much like any other great competitors, these Tesla and Toyota are constantly looking for, fighting over, and trying to invent the most efficient way to power a vehicle. In a web article written by Tony Seba, the CEO of Tesla Motors Elon Musk referred to concept of hydrogen fuel cell cars as in a video where he is discussing the future of Tesla Motors (Seba, 2015). Musk continues on satirically poking fun at the concept saying, the Reid3 use of rockets Hydrogen would be suitable, but not for (Seba, 2015). Toyota Motors saw this video, and according to Benjamin Zhang from businessinsider.com responded by releasing a commercial about their 2015 Hydrogen fuel cell vehicle the Toyota Mirai. In this commercial they explained what a hydrogen fuel cell was, and how it works, while also sarcastically poking fun at comment about their concept by suggesting Toyota Mirai could even run on (Zhang, 2015). This type of fierce competiveness makes finding common ground to build a compromise a much more difficult process. In addition, Tesla and Toyota are indisputably two very different companies that make very different vehicles. However, Toyota and Tesla both strive to be two of the most efficient car companies ever known. With these two companies not just about their sales, about the bigger picture, that is, to erase environmental footprint automobiles leave on this earth. The constant competitive nature between these two companies has indirectly forced them to continue reinventing and innovating their products to make our environment a cleaner place to live in. Unlike many other car companies, Toyota and Tesla understand that the excessive carbon dioxide emissions in the air is a rising problem that can lead to bigger problems such as global warming. So they are building cars in their own perspective ways that are not adding to this issue, but instead solving the issue. Even when they are being driven, these cars emit no carbon dioxide into the environment. So the big question is, can these two thriving companies build a compromise allowing them to collaborate on the making of a vehicle? Absolutely. Toyota and Tesla could be the birth of a dynamic duo when considering all the advancements they have made on the use of electricity in cars and fuel efficiency with the parameter of their own company. Reid4 If these two companies were to come up with a compromise and collaborate together, the two companies would work together to create a vehicle that would be designed by Toyota and Manufactured by Tesla. This proposed fusion car would use a hydrogen fuel cell to power its engine, while also being a 100 percent electric. Basically, the car would have the interior and electronics of a Tesla, while maintaining the exterior of a Toyota, with electric battery. For those concerned about affordability, the price would be the average of the two cheapest models from both companies. According to Alan Ohnsman, and Craig Trudell from BloomingsbergBuisness.com, Toyota reportedly agreed to buy 50 million dollars in stake, while also selling Tesla their California Factory for a bargain of 42 million dollars (Ohnsman & Trudell, 2016)! This makes the manufacturing process for the fusion car a much more viable case to present; and also shows the growing relations between Toyota and Tesla since 2003 when Tesla was created. In conclusion, Toyota is a successful car company that has continuously thrived on selling innovative vehicles that run on the use of fossil fuels, and now the use of electricity and hydrogen. Tesla Motors on the other hand, believes that nothing but pure electricity should be put into a vehicle and they have been very successful proving it. However, when you look at both of these recent goals, objectives, and achievements, you can clearly see that at the end of the day they are both working to achieve one common goal. They really competing against each other, they are competing with the force of nature. Tesla and Toyota, are simply working to save the earth from their consumers themselves. This competition is much bigger than the parameter of their individual companies, about the environment. With the sleek designs of Toyota, and the advanced technologies of Tesla, Tesla and Toyota have the ability to show the world just how eco-friendly a vehicle can be. Reid5 Reid6 Works Cited: Ohnsman, Alan & Trudell, Craig. the Tesla-Toyota partnership 7 August 2014. Web. 2016 Toyota Motors. Tesla Motors, 26 February 2016. Web. 2016 Tesla Motors.Tesla Motors, 26 February 2016. Web. 2016 Linkov, Jon. car brands make the best 23 February 2016. Web. 2016 Seba, Tony. vs. Tesla-can Hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles compete with electric 23 October 2015. Web. 2016