Espeland 1 Stine Lise Espeland James Josue ENC 1102-100 February 14, 2016 Protection of the Rainforest The danger of the loss of our rainforests is a topic that has been in focus among politicians, scientist and media for a long time now. It is common knowledge that the loss of the rainforest means much more than just losing some forest. Losing the rainforest will also have a very big affect on out environment and ecosystem as well as it will be problematic for the humans that live in the area and lose all their resources. This is a topic with many concerns and something people have a lot of opinions about. The first stakeholder in this paper is Ostrich, a journal of African Ornithology, they are about the life that gets lost, and about the environment that will no longer be the Secondly, the other stakeholder is researcher Jon Strand who is also concerned about how economy will be affected with the loss of the rainforest and have from that mapped out which parts of the rainforest that is still valuable and A compromise in this situation could be to use research of the mapped out areas and protect it so it be used in any way that might harm the rainforest and all the creatures that has their habitat there. On the other hand, in favour, for economical gain for the poor people that work in the rainforest, as well as the companies that gain from it, we would use the mapped out parts of rainforest as an attraction. With the loss of the rainforest follows also the loss of life. Ostrich is the journal of African Ornithology and writes about their concerns about the loss of bird communities that comes from logging and clear-cutting of the forest. Their focus in the Journal is the Espeland 2 environmental aspects of biodiversity and that there is need for bird conservations in the rainforests that are being cut down. Ostrich is mainly focusing on the loss of birds because they lose their habitat when the rainforest is cut down and how hard it will be to recover after this. major challenge is to understand the consequences of these habitat changes for biodiversity and the time scale at which biodiversity can recover after such (Ostrich, 2016) Also they show us that even after many years it is still showing that the communities of birds that were harmed in the clear-cutting or logging have still not fully recovered. It is for this reason that they feel like the need of a conservation for birds in the primary forests. The economy the rainforest provides is in many areas large, if they lose this the economic will also be lost. Jon Strand writes in Ecological Economies about economic models they have about the rainforests as well as he writes about the ecosystem services and ecological economics that there is to find in the rainforests. What he has in concern is that the forest may dry out or burn because of fire risks, which will have big economical consequences. economic value of a rainforest is modeled as a dynamic asset subject to fire risk and potential increase in (Strand, 2017) He moves on with this statement as to write about what would happen if this was the case because the asset value of the rainforest lays in the knowing of a constant growth of the rainforest. if the rainforest does not grow, but instead gets dryer or in bigger risk of fire then the value would be lost. He is not saying that it is right to use the rainforest just for economic gain, he agrees with Ostrich that the life of the rainforest is more important and that we need everything the ecosystem from the rainforest provides. What he is doing is that he modeled the marginal value of rainforest losses to find out what could be restored of the damaged areas and what was lost for good. What been looking into then is what they can do with the lost areas, and how much value there is to find in Espeland 3 If we can use the areas that Strand has mapped out to be lost, then that could possibly be one solution to the issue of deforesting the rainforests. Both of these stakeholders have in common that they are passionate about the fact that we need the rainforest, and the ecosystem that the rainforest provides. They are concerned about the environment and shares the belief that we really need the rainforest, not primarily because of our economy, but because of the ecosystem it provides and all the life that will be lost if we loose it. To achieve their purposes they could both sit down together and look at each work, and see how many similarities they are worried about. That they are worried about the animal and living species life, about the economy that will be lost, and about how important the rainforest is in general to the earth and what we need to keep on going. They will see that they have a lot of similar points, and therefore they can look at that and compromise with the solution to co-work with finding out how they can work together to make the rainforest and the life in it conserved. Both of them look at how the future will be if we loose the rainforest and all the species that goes with it. In other words their concerns are a lot of the same, except that Ostrich is mostly focusing on the birds in their journal while Strand is focusing on mapping out the damaged and the survived parts of the rainforest and how they can gain financial benefits from that. Because they have similar ideas and concerns it should be possible for the two stakeholders to find a valid compromise. Ostrich is mainly focusing on the loss of birds because they lose their habitat, so we could start there, to try and keep the habitats for the animals by making the rainforests a place that humans are not allowed to change. Strand is worried about how this can affect the economy, and also mentions the humans that live in these areas and make their living off of it. That can be something that needs attention too. So a compromise could be that they work together to make other jobs and Espeland 4 markets for the humans in the areas. In that way it could solve more than the rainforest issue. It could also provide less fortunate people work and possibilities for a better future. To accomplish these factors they will need a lot of help. So to start off small, they need to get attention, to make their case heard and familiar. When they get the attention they need to convey their message they need support, and support can be found a lot of places such as companies that might be interested in expanding their service and market to other places, or politicians that can forward their requests and after that make a plan to make a market that is not dependent on the rainforest. The mapping Strand did to find which parts of the rainforest is too damaged and which parts that can be saved could also be something to work on for the two stakeholders. They cold make a compromise to use the damaged part and try to use that for economic gain, using the land to build an attraction that will not be of harm to the of the rainforest. Therefore if we are completely conserving the living and promising parts of the rainforest and make it safe from human interference and it can be in favour to both parties. Ostrich gets their rainforest conserved and free of interference so the birds and other creatures that has their habitat there can continue as they are. While Strand gets to use his mapping in other economical perspectives, instead of using the parts of the rainforest that is in good shape, he gets his economical success from attractions on parts of the rainforest that is no longer in good shape anyway, which then could give work opportunities to local people that previously earned their money from use of the rainforest. Even though we most likely will never have the rainforest back to the way it used to be, and how big it used to be, it is still an important case that needs to be taken seriously and taken care of. Ostrich makes their case about the danger of all the bird communities that will be lost if we let our rainforest be chopped down. Strand has very Espeland 5 good points about how the rainforest is good for our economy, but the most important points of view he has is the mapping of the destroyed and still living parts of the rainforest, and how that can be used in the process of saving what is left. These two stakeholders have potential to look at the similarities and the differences they have and make it into research that possibly can be important to save the rainforest and all the living creatures that have their habitat there. Espeland 6 Work Cited: Greaves, Emma. Stanisstreet, Martin. Boyes, Edward. ideas about Journal of Biological Education (Society of Biology). Vol 27. Autumn 1993. Latja, Pirita. Malinga, Geoffrey M. Valtonen, Anu. Roininen, Heikki. of bird communities after selective logging and clear-cutting in Kibale National Park, Ostrich: The Journal of African Ornithology. Vol 87 Issue 1. February 2016. Strand, Jon. the marginal value of rainforest losses: A dynamic value function Ecological Economics. Vol. 131. January 2017. Tisdell, Clement A. Wilson, Clevo. in an Australian Rainforest: Their Attraction for Visitors and Ecological Economics, Ecology and the Environment Working Paper. Vol 103. 2004. Prideaux, Bruce. tourism, conservation and management [electronic : challenges for sustainable development / edited by Bruce Earthscan forest library. E-Book. Vol xix, 321. 2014.