Tran 1 Randy Tran James Josue Enc 1102 14 February 2017 Physician-Assisted Death According to Clarence Braddock in his article about Physician Aid in Dying, physician assisted death (PAD) to a practice in which a physician provides a competent, terminally ill patient with a prescription for a lethal dose of medication, upon the request, which the patient intends to use to end his or her own The topic of physician-assisted death is highly controversial in contemporary media because of the ethical dilemmas it bestows between both doctors and patients. Doctors and patients are both stakeholders that are at odds with each other. Doctors are against the legalization of physician-assisted suicide while patients are for the legalization of it. A compromise would be to legalize the process but have a check and balance for it that is mandated by both physician and patient. Physicians play a significant role in physician-assisted deaths. These medical professionals supply the patients with the specific dosage of prescription drugs with the intent to end the life of the patient that is not mentally impaired. According to Monika Ardent this is one of the main reasons why physicians are against the legislation and passing of physician-assisted deaths. Mentally impaired patients have their affected which causes them to not weigh the cause and affect of their (Ardent). Patients that are mentally impaired are not thinking appropriately and are on more of the verge of committing suicide rather than actual beneficial death. Suicide is defined as Tran 2 death out of despair that impairs judgment, intervention thus losing the ability to carefully weigh the benefits and burdens of continued (Braddock). The connotation of suicide weighs heavily on physicians because of the negative impact it will have on not only their career but also their mental health. It is heavily portrayed and seen in the media of the bond that a doctor/physician has with their patient. Having suicidal patient impacts a physician heavily and will damage their ability to perform their occupation at a supreme level. There is also a difference between physician assisted death and euthanasia. Physician assisted death is the medical professional giving a lethal dosage of medicine to a patient and allow them to ingest or inject it on their own free will while euthanasia is a medical professional directly giving the patient a lethal dose of medicine. Another reason why physicians are against the legalization of physician assisted deaths is because they believe it will be a gateway to the assisted deaths of other medical illness such as those who suffer physiological distress, schizophrenia and (Ardent). Physicians do not want to escalate the ability to prescribe killing dosages to patients because of their mental or physical health. They have the foresight to understand the gravity of the situation and how it will mature as time goes on. Physicians are against the legislation of physician-assisted deaths due to the future implications that it could derive. Patients want the legalization of physician-assisted deaths so they are able to terminate the suffering that they endure. The main argument that patients have for physician assisted deaths is the end of their pain. Patients are done with the prolonged agony that they have to face everyday on a life that has been time stamped by physicians. death is inevitable then physician assisted deaths might provide the good death that appears to be (Ardelt). ultimate goal is to either get better or not have Tran 3 to suffer. Patients believe that doctors do not understand the suffering that they have to endure everyday and that with the legalization of physician assisted death they will have a more peaceful death. Another argument that patients have for physician assisted deaths is that they want to select their time of passing specifically in the cases that the patient has an illness that will leave them mentally handicapped. Patients want to have the power to choose their own fate. They do not want to be robbed of their mental facilities and want to suffer the relentless pain of disease. According to Braddok means more than pain; there are other physical, existential, social and psychological burdens such as the loss of independence, loss of sense of self, and functional capacities that some patients feel jeopardize their (Braddock). Suffering is not always capable of being relinquished by standard medical practices. It is broader than just physical pain and extends to mental pain also. The continuation of pain hurts a patient more than a physician can comprehend or has been taught. Physicians are perceived to know the best for a patient but they are not able to understand the position a patient is in or the pain they are feeling. The legalization of physician-assisted death allows for patients to be free of pain that is caused by incurable diseases or mentally handicapping diseases. Physicians and Patients are both at odds with each other due to contrasting ideologies. A compromise that is beneficial to both parties is the passing of physician- assisted death with clauses that are beneficial to physicians such as the clause to refuse any patient euthanasia. There can be more clauses as the physician sees fit such as the clause to not enact physician assisted death on specific cases such as those that have patients that are not mentally capable of making their decision or those that have patients who have depression or suicidal tendencies. It could be said that doctors know best and that they Tran 4 were the ones that went to medical school so they should be the ones choosing to legalize physician assisted death and studies show that a majority of physicians are against the ratification of this act (Seale). Patients however have the power over the physicians. They are the ones that go to physicians and keep them in business. Patients have the power to pick and choose physicians and it is in their best interest to please the patient because they are the ones that are keeping physicians in the job. Patients should also respect the physician however so this is why the clauses in the legislation would be enacted. There have also been states that have already passed legislation on physician-assisted death and from the article Court Cases(Assisted Suicide) practice was first legalized in Oregon, in 1995, followed by Washington and more recently Vermont, California, and Cases[Assisted Some states have already begun the necessary measures to start legislating the act of physician-assisted death. There has been actual testing done by states that have approved the legislation, so physicians and patients have information and statistics to look after. Seeing how these states have been using the system for 22 years and disbanded it yet, the process has been successful and should be used as a model for the compromise presented. Another counterargument to physician-assisted death is that it is morally unethical and that it is against the role as a healer. Healing has many definitions and ways to be thought of however. Especially in the cases of an incurable illness or disease it can be considered healing to negate all symptoms and illness through death. This will cleanse the mind and soul and can be a form of healing. The argument of physician-assisted death being unethical because it is against the code of healing is erroneous due to the fact that it is considered healing in a form. Also presented in the article by Timothy Quill U.S. Tran 5 Supreme Court unanimously held that New prohibition on assisting suicide does not violate the equal protection rights of terminally ill adults seeking physician assistance in committing (Quill). The U.S. Supreme court believes that there should be assisted suicide and that the government of America has been accepting of the legalization of the act. Physician assisted death will always be a controversial topic in contemporary media. Many physicians will always refute while many patients will always desire it to be legalized. These two stakeholders will have to meet a compromise to get any movement with the issue. The passing of physician-assisted death will allow for the relationship between patients and physicians to elevate. The act of physician-assisted suicide has been around since ancient Greece and Rome (Seale). It was used for people of higher social status in the hierarchy to be spared of their prolonged disease and distress. It has been around for thousands of years and has not changed at all except that it can be applied to all social statuses now. The patient should have some of the leeway however since it is ultimately their life and them controlling how the physician is able to stay in practice. Tran 6 Works Cited Ardelt, Monika.  Physician-Assisted Death. Thousand Oaks: n.p., 2003. 424-34. Print. Braddock, Clarence H. Physician  Physician Aid-in-Dying: Ethical Topic in Medicine. University of Washington, 18 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Seale, Clive. Sign In: Registered  Legalisation of Euthanasia or Physician-assisted Suicide: Survey of Attitudes - Feb 27, 2009. N.p., 27 Feb. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Court Cases (Assisted  Court Cases (Assisted Suicide) Wisconsin Right to Life. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Quill, Timothy E. Physician Assisted  The Hastings Center. Hastings, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.