Gallagher 1 David Gallagher Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Carbon Caused Global Warming Tax Global warming has transformed into climate change. What used to be man-made, or anthropogenic warming of the planet, is now referred to as climate change. This mainstream belief that humans are responsible for changing the climate of the Earth is re-enforced when we experience smog, acid rain, oil spills, and other man-made phenomena. Even though these localized events are proven anthropogenic, the temperature of the planet, and influence on it, has been debated for years. Climate Lobby and Friends of Science have opposing views about climate change. Politicians around the world have used this issue to propose a tax on carbon emissions on fossil fuel based companies and consumers. These proposals have been resisted by certain populations, countries, and businesses. By examining the details of this issue, certain compromises can be obtained when dealing with human caused pollution. There is room for a middle ground that regulates the air polluters without taxing the population. What is the goal of the CCL? According to the CCL website: The Climate Lobby (CCL) is an international grassroots environmental group that trains and supports volunteers to build relationships with their elected representatives in order to influence climate Operating since 2007, the goal of CCL is to build political support across party lines to put a price on carbon, specifically a revenue neutral carbon fee and dividend at the national level (CCL, citizensclimatelobby.org). Gallagher 2 The CCL believes that the consumption of fossil fuels leads to a rise in greenhouse gases and therefore a rise in temperatures on a global scale. For the United States, they propose a four step fee on all fossil fuels and other greenhouse gases at the point where they first enter the economy (CCL, This proposal begins with a $15 per ton of CO2 equivalent emissions with at least a $10 per ton per year increase total U.S. CO2- equivalent emissions have been reduced to 10% of U.S. CO2-equivalent emissions in 1990 (CCL, It goes on to explain dividends given to each consumer household, and initiates tariffs on goods entering the U.S. The focus is to attract people with similar ideas to help sway lawmakers to implement this Fee and projected to prevent over 230,000 premature deaths over 20 years from improved air quality (CCL, What is the goal of FoS? of Science (FoS) is a non-profit organization run by dedicated volunteers comprised mainly of active and retired earth and atmospheric scientists, engineers, and other professionals This group was founded in 2002 in response to signature of the Kyoto Protocol (an international agreement to reduce emissions). FoS details 10 myths of climate change. Its Goal is: To educate the public about climate science and through them bring pressure to bear on governments to engage in public debates on the scientific merits of the hypothesis of human induced global warming and the various policies that intend to address the CO2, constitutes about 0.04% of the atmosphere (friendsofscince.org). They also argue that CO2 is not a pollutant, as it essential to life on Earth. It is necessary for plant growth since increased CO2 intake as a result of increased atmospheric Gallagher 3 concentration causes many trees and other plants to grow more vigorously How much CO2 is in our atmosphere? According to a study published on 25 November 2005, record of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations measured on the EPICA (European Project for Ice Coring in Antarctica) Dome Concordia ice core extends the Vostok CO2 record back to 650,000 years before the present Concentrating on the interval between and thousand years ago, lowest and highest values (of CO2) measured during a glacial cycle are on average 182 (plus or minus) 4 ppmv and 296 (plus or minus) 7 ppmv, respectively 300 parts per million is equivalent to .03% of the atmosphere. This corresponds to the FoS data mentioned earlier. Dr. James Hansen (https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/0804/0804.1126.pdf), a climate scientist, and former head of the NASA Goddard divisions wrote about CO2 emissions in 2008 in a paper titled, Atmospheric CO2: Where Should Humanity In this paper, he states that CO2 levels currently reside at 385 ppm (or .0385% of the atmosphere) and targets a 350 ppm level. He argues through Cenozoic Era CO2 studies that the Antarctic ice caps were formed when CO2 levels were around 450 ppm (or .045% of the atmosphere. A return to these levels would therefore melt the ice, and cause sea level rise. To achieve a reduction of carbon dioxide levels, he proposes a tax similar to proposal, rising price on carbon emissions and payment for carbon sequestration is surely needed to make a drawdown of airborne CO2 a reality (James Hansen, Is a carbon tax feasible? Oren Cass, wrote about the present status of the Carbon-Tax in 2015, comparing it to a Shell Game. He points out some of the difficulties in creating this tax; Gallagher 4 To model a relationship between CO2 emissions and costs, IAMs (Integrated Assessment Models) must first assume a climate - that is, how quickly the climate will respond to a doubling of CO2 in the atmosphere. The modelers then have to translate a temperature increase into tangible impacts like sea-level rise, storm intensity, and crop yields, and then translate those impacts into economic then a rate must be selected at which to discount the year-by-year costs back to present day (Cass, nationalaffairs.com). On June 23 rd , 2005, Yury Izrael, Director, Global Climate and Ecology Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences and Vice President of the United Nations International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) made a statement questioning the Kyoto Protocol: Atmospheric CO2 was 280 ppm in 1880, and now stands at 378 ppm. It has increased by 31% since the pre-industrial but temperatures have increased by only 0.6 degrees. Paradoxically, temperatures tended to rise by 1 to 12 degrees at peak intervals, with carbon-dioxide fluctuations totaling not more than 300 ppm. Therefore I believe that the link between activities and rising temperatures has not been proved completely (Sputnik International, sputniknews.com). We can agree that both CCL and FoS agree on several points. They both realize that bringing people together can influence legislation. They both agree that Global Warming is real, the amount of carbon dioxide in the air, and that humans contribute to this among other pollutants. What they disagree on is the impact of the anthropogenic carbon footprint and the proposed regulation to control pollution. We can see from research that there is no correlation between carbon dioxide and warming. CCL must give up the notion that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere influence temperatures globally. FoS must give up their climate law struggle. In Gallagher 5 order to keep our planet safe for future generations, there should be some kind of legislation that penalizes polluters, but is not invasive to citizens. The Clean Air Act of 1970 is a working example of a law that not only deals with pollution by penalizing violating companies, but also has been amended to be self-accountable. part of the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act, Congress required the EPA to conduct scientifically reviewed studies to assess the benefits and the costs of the Clean Air (Lockwood, Estimated results from the time period 1970-1990 concluded: 40 percent reduction in sulfur dioxide, a 30 percent reduction in oxides of nitrogen, a 50 percent reduction in carbon monoxide, and a 45 percent reduction in total suspended particles. The modeling predicted an annual reduction of 184,000 premature deaths, 674 cases of chronic bronchitis, over 22 million lost days at work, and other outcomes. The EPA concluded that the total monetized health benefits from the Act during the 20-year period ranged between $5.6 and $49.4 trillion. During that period, the costs to comply with the act were estimated to be approximately $0.5 trillion (Lockwood, theatlantic.com). Our entire society can benefit from further understanding of Global temperature change. If human health is suffering due to anthropogenic pollution, it is certainly not due to the addition of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Friends of Science and Climate Lobby should follow the path of the Clean Air Act and hold meetings to discuss improvements on this act, and ones like it. They must use science and results from experiments to make conclusions. It is our responsibility to hold groups like these accountable when they attempt to alter policy. Gallagher 6 Annotated Bibliography 1) The Editorial Board, Ambitious Carbon Tax New York Times, 24 October 2016, www.nytimes.com/2016/10/24/opinion/washington-states-ambitious-carbon- 2) Insight into Climate Friends of Science, 2017, www.friendsofscience.org/index.php?id=1 3) Climate Climate Lobby, 2017, www.citizensclimatelobby.org/about-ccl/ 4) F. Gonzalez-Rouco, H. von Storch, E. Zorita, soil temperature as proxy for surface air- temperature in a coupled model simulation of the last thousand AGU Publications, 12 November 2003, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2003GL018264/full 5) Urs Siegenthaler, Thomas F. Stocker, Eric Monnin, Dieter Luthi, Jakob Schwander, Bernhard Stauffer, Dominique Raynaud, Jean-Marc Barnola, Hubertus Fischer, Valerie Masson-Delmotte, Jean Jouzel, carbon cycle-climate relationship during the late Sciencemag, 25 November 2005, http://science.sciencemag.org/content/310/5752/1313.full 6) Change: Not a Global Sputnik International, 2017, https://sputniknews.com/analysis/2005062340748412/ 7) Alan H. Lockwood, the clean air act has saved $22 trillion in health-care The Atlantic, Sep 7, 2012, https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2012/09/how-the-clean-air- act-has-saved-22-trillion-in-health-care-costs/262071/