1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 1/28/2017 P1 Early Draft The penny has been the lowest denomination coin in the U.S for over 150 years. Around twenty percent of pennies have gone out of circulation. People have started to leave pennies in between their couches and even throwing them on the ground. As inflation increased the real value of the penny has decreased tremendously. As it stands today the penny cost more to make than the face value of it. During the early you were able to buy items with a couple of pennies, today a penny buy anyone much of anything. This has caused some people to want to see the removal of the penny entirely. Other countries such as Canada have recently removed their one cent coin. People and organizations are still fighting back to keep the penny alive. This is leaving people to decide which side of the coin they are on. How important is the penny in the U.S? Chande, Dinu, and Timothy C. G. Fisher. a Penny? Need a Penny?Eliminating the One Cent Coin from Canadian Public Policy / Analyse De Politiques, vol. 29, no. 4, 2003, pp. Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 This source is about the one cent coin being removed from Canada. It describes that the cost of producing their one cent coin was greater than the revenue that coin would generate leading to a loss of money for every coin made. It then proceeds to state that the Seigniorage, or 2 the net income generated by governments in the course of printing of coins or paper money, for the U.S coin is about 0.2 cents per penny. This means that the government is making money on every coin they create. The paper also analyzes the effects of rounding to the closest five cents if the penny is removed. All non cash transactions would still be priced to the penny but cash transactions will be rounded depending on the ending number of the purchase. A researcher named Lombra had concluded that rounding would lead to an increase in price level to the U.S before sales tax. This helps the research question because it is explaining how the government is still making a profit on the penny even if not instant and that a country similar to the U.S is doing better without their one cent coin. This source is credible as it references Lombra who is an important researcher on the value of pennies in the U.S. It was also published in 2003 which makes this piece relevant to the topic as it only started to become a problem in the Sanburn, Josh, For Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 2013, pp 36-40, Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 In this article Sanburn talks about the Jarden Zinc products, which is the company that supplies the U.S government with zinc in order to make the pennies. He states that in 2006 it cost two cents to make the one cent coin. This is due to inflation slowly rising. The Zinc Company argues that removing the penny could hurt charities that have penny drives. Though organizations like the salvation army state that they hope that if the penny is removed, people will still donate in order to help people in need. A senior economist, Francois Velde, states that it costs ten cents to make a nickel so removing the penny make a difference as the government is still losing money on every nickel they make. He instead wants to remove the 3 nickel as well as the penny in order to round prices to the nearest dime. Sanburn then shows the steps it would take to remove the penny from the U.S. This source connects directly to the research question. The source shows a bias towards removing the penny. He made an argument as to why the penny as important because the age of credit cards is making cash a lot less needed. The article is very recent, 2013, showing that over time the penny has cost more to make. Sanburn is a Writer for Times magazine. He has references to author and economists that focus on the topic of the penny. Lombra, Raymond E. the Penny from the U. S. Coinage System: An Economic Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 27, no. 4, 2001, pp. , Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 This journal is about the direct effects on the removal of the penny. Lombra believes that there will be a rounding tax of 600 million per year. He states that it will be disproportionate and will affect the poor far worse than everyone else. He goes on to talk about how removing the penny can have a strong negative effect on firms and businesses. He targets supermarkets and convenient stores that have low profits. All the direct effects of rounding cash transactions could lead them to have to raise the overall prices of items. Lombra did an experiment to test the net effects of rounding as a consumer. His results showed that within 60 to 93% of transactions would be rounded up. The indirect effect of removing the penny would cause an increase to the price level overall. This paper helped answer the research question. It showed the exact effect removing the penny would have. The penny is important because if it is taken from circulation it will increase the price level. Lombra is very relevant to the talk about the penny. Many other authors use his 4 experiments as evidence on the effects of removing the penny. He has written in other journals talking about the Federal Reserve, and the impact of monetary and fiscal actions. A search through other articles he has written in shows that he is an expert on U.S coinage and is seen as a leader on the talk of the penny. Whaples, Robert. to Eliminate the Penny from the U.S. Coinage System: New Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, 2007, pp. , Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 Whaples wrote in this journal to challenge the things that Lombra said about removing the penny. He argues that the experiment Lombra conducted is not accurate because he based it on consumers buying only three items. Whaples states that it is unknown how many items consumers buy from convenience stores but many purchases are over three items. He goes on to say that calculations did not include tax. Whaples collected data from 200,000 transactions and concluded that the total effect of rounding to the nearest nickel would be very small. He then challenges impact on inflation because most tansactions today are non- cash based. Whaples is an economist who has written in journals talking about the inequalities of work to how removing the penny wont effect us as bad as some think. This journal was written in 2007 compared to when Lombra first wrote in his journal in 2001 so it makes sense that Whaples would be able to challenge Lombra on this topic. He uses the same tables that Lombra used in his journal to make his claims on why they were wrong. He was able to challenge one of the leaders in the talk about the penny in a way that was not used in other sources. Gore, Jeff, and Weller, Mark. It Time to Ditch the New York Times Upfront, vol.147, no. 6, 2014, pp 22-23., Academic Search premier, web, 01/22/2017 5 In this article Gore, Jeff begins by comparing the value of the penny in the 1920s to what consumers think of the penny today by saying the 1920s, two pennies would buy you a newspaper from a street vendor. These days, people even bother picking up pennies off the What is trying to say is that inflation over all those years caused the penny to seem almost worthless today. In the consumer market now a penny even get you close to buying an item. He goes on to say how it costs more than a penny to make a penny and that due to the federal budget being under a large amount of stress that the government make coins that few people care about. A very important line he said was but inflation requires that we periodically reform our coinage What he saying is that as the lowest denomination of money undergoes inflation for many years, it becomes worth less and less. When that form of money becomes worthless, the government should create a new coin or remove old ones to match the way the economy is looking. From a different perspective Mark Weller believes that penny should stay in circulation. He states that it helps keep prices in check because there is no rounding to the nearest nickel. He also goes on to say that if the government stops minting coins they would have to mint more nickels and that would in turn cause a bigger loss in money. Finally he tells people that care for pennies to donate to one of the many charities that raise money through penny drives for important causes such as cancer research or that help the hungry. This article really helped answer research question as it provided two different perspectives on the topic of the penny, Gore believed that the U.S would be better without it and a Weller thought that it is important to keep it in circulation. This source can be trusted as Jeff Gore has a PhD in physics and helps runs the group for Retiring the and Mark 6 Weller is an executive director of Americans for Common Cents. They are sponsored by Jarden Zinc Products, the company that provides the U.S government with zinc,. Cavanaugh, Tim. reign:: least valuable coin Reason, vol. 42, no. 8, 2011, pp 70, Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 Cavanaugh begins by stating that the removal of the one cent coin has become a trend across the world starting with New Zealand. In Mexico the one centavo been circulated since 1992. He goes on to say that people who are in favor of removing the penny make the argument that the amount of time people use searching for change results in millions of dollars in opportunity cost each year. He goes on to say that one of the biggest threats to the penny, Jim Kolbe, retired from the house in 2006. He wrote numerous bills in effort to stop producing the penny. A company, Coinstar, does polling and market research on the feelings toward the coin. They found that 66 percent of Americans support keeping the penny as legal tender. He states that there has been less physical money produced during the start of the credit unwinds. This article helps the research question as it gives a more bias approach to both sides of the argument. It gives the perspectives of citizens living in the U.S and the way they feel about the penny which is important as the citizens are the main people keeping the coin in circulation. Cavanaugh is a senior editor at Reason magazine and has references to many people that have a background on this topic such as Ray Lombra and Mark Weller. 7