Frimpong-Manso 1 Kwadwo Frimpong-Manso Karen Hansen ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Ghana Wages Labor disputes have become a prevalent issue in Ghana. Most unions tend to be in disagreement with the government over their welfare services and condition of work. This led the government of Ghana to set up the Fair Wages and Salaries Commission (F.WS.C.) to purposely resolve all labor-wage related issues. However, their work has been open to scrutiny. Recently the Ghana Medical Association (an association of medical doctors in Ghana) approached the F.W.S.C demanding full payment of their arrears (monies owed by the government to medical doctors). No agreement was reached so they withdrew their services and embarked on a strike action. The GMA claims that the Government of Ghana owes them because the new model of paying doctors reduced their wages drastically (Avorkpo). The FWSC on the other hand strongly disagrees. In the campaign to inform the general public about the ongoing issue, they used 2 images; one was used before the strike and the other was used after. The Ghana Medical Association has been able to effectively use these two pieces of visual rhetoric to enhance their argument and rally the support of the general public. The GMA uses a rather different approach in their visual rhetoric; they display the effect of what will happen, in their images, instead of really portraying their side of the argument. This is done to place emphasis on what they plan to do if their wages are not paid to them or if they reach an agreement with the FWSC. For instance, in the first image, a hospital sign can be Frimpong-Manso 2 seen with the words Emergency  The aim of that is to underline one of the main action plans the GMA intends to take if their needs are not met, which is to withdraw emergency and urgent care services. In addition to that, the is to make people feel empathy for those who are in urgent care or have family there. This is a rhetorical appeal known as Pathos. According to Kendra Gayle, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre, Pathos a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience, and help them (Gayle et al 37). That is, it is an appeal to emotions. The GMA are appealing to the emotions of Ghanaians by uploading this photo on their Facebook page to draw in the general public and help them connect to the situation. Another rhetorical appeal being used in the first image is Logos. Logos is an appeal to logic (Lane et al 32). In image 1, it can be seen that the color of the sign reading is in red. Red is usually associated with danger or anger and it seems logical and makes sense that the GMA will use this to further prove their point and emphasize the importance of their emergency services. Also, the red color is using pathos because when people see it, feel empathy as they know the effect the strike will have on people in urgent care. According to Patti Bellantoni, colors play a major role in influencing emotion. This could be another reason for the choice of red. Kairos is another rhetorical appeal that can be identified in image 1. Kairos is an appeal to time (Hoffman et al 41). In image 1, a sense of urgency can be felt just by the words as it suggests that people will get hurt if the needs are not met on time. This will urge the general public to get involved so that the will not go ahead with their planned strike action. In addition to the afore mentioned, ethos is another rhetorical appeal that can be identified in image 1. Ethos is the appeal to credibility or authority (McKee at al 27). Although not known to the world, the white box with which the Emergency Unit sign is on, can Frimpong-Manso 3 be seen in hospitals all around Ghana. Its unique design is used as signs, and for directions in big hospitals. These association with hospitals and doctors is an appeal to image credibility because people will immediately be able to tell the image has to do with doctors. Image 2 has its fair share of rhetorical appeals as well. From the image, it can be seen that the people in the picture are in a uniform. This is an appeal to their credibility as medical doctors and is an effective use of ethos. In addition to that, the doctors can be seen parading the streets holding placards with writings on them on a sunny and probably hot day. This is done to appeal to the emotions of the general public to feel empathy for the doctors who have to go through all this just to get their wages paid to them. Their appeal to the emotions of the general public is making use of the rhetorical appeal Pathos. Logos, as described above, is an appeal to logic. The GMA said that they will embark on a strike action if their needs were not met and so it seems logical that they are using a picture of doctors who are supposedly on strike to further enhance their argument and remind everyone of the consequences of a strike action. In addition to the rhetorical appeals mentioned above, Kairos can also be identified. Just like image 1, the GMA is using this image to urge the FWSC to resolve the issue with their wages so as to prevent a situation where medical doctors will be parading the streets instead of being in hospitals practicing their profession. It is also urging the general public to get involved because every citizen knows be a major breakdown if, vital professions such as, doctors decide to withdraw their services. The Visual rhetoric has undoubtedly enhanced their argument and will definitely help them get the support of the general public. After careful analysis and a critical evaluation of the images, it can be determined that all the rhetorical appeals can be found in them. Their images appeal to the emotions and feelings of the general public making use of Pathos. The Frimpong-Manso 4 images also appeal to credibility by using certain features. For instance, the uniform in image 2. This is making use of Ethos, which is an appeal to credibility or authority. The sense of urgency that can be felt in both images is an appeal to time and this is known as Kairos. Lastly, it makes sense for the GMA to show doctors protesting, and the effect of a strike action so as to enhance their argument. This is a great way of using logos. These rhetorical appeals were effectively used and will enhance their argument. In summary, the Ghana Medical Association is at odds with the Fair Wages and Salaries Commission over their wages. Their decision to use visual rhetoric to support their side of the argument has proven to be effective because of the rhetorical appeals in them. Their images might get the FWSC to reconsider and will definitely get the attention and support. Frimpong-Manso 5 Works Cited Avorkpo-Takyi, Rebecca. Statement on Strike Ghana Medical Association. http://www.ghanamedicalassociation.org/v3/index.php/2013-03-15-11-35- 36/gma-news/138-press-statement-on-doctors-strike-action. Accessed 29 January 2017. Bellantoni, Patti. If Purple, Gonna Die : The Power of Color in Visual Storytelling for Film. Burlington, MA ; Oxford : Elsevier/Focal Press, 2005. Gayle, Kendra, Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allysin Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allysin Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. Frimpong-Manso 6 Image 1. Image 2.