Jarvis 1 Jelani Jarvis Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The reality of ADHD - Images One of the main controversies in the medical field today is about the existence of ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder). It is a mental condition that makes it difficult for the victim to maintain attention, while simultaneously suffering from the challenge of remaining still. However, organizations like NIH (National Institutes of Health) identify ADHD as a result of bad parenting and that it cannot be considered as a real mental condition due to the lack of a certified test for its diagnosis Institutes of Advocates for ADHD on the other hand, namely CHADD (Children and Adults with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder), which strives to improve the lives of people affected by ADHD, state and defend the fact that it is a very real mental condition which affects many individuals from young to old, both male and female. Having been diagnosed of this disease, it is proven that the individual runs the risk of depression, drug use and problems with relationships both professional and personal. Images, being able to speak a thousand words, is used by this organization to effectively convey their message to the public, targeting audiences of different age-groups by the way in which color and facts are used within these images. Supporting their goal of convincing the public of the reality of this illness, the organization uses a cartoon-like image with a variety of colors to target the younger audience to depict the smaller scale (personal) impact of ADHD on individuals. The second image however strives to target more the elder audiences as it shows the Jarvis 2 more larger scale impact of this condition showing the variety of individuals affected in the United States alone, along with the financial loss is has created as well. - The National Resource on With the crosshair on the younger audience, CHADD uses this cartoon-like image to symbolize the sleep deprivation that individuals suffer from being a victim of ADHD. The appearance of both the sun and the moon at the same time, whereby the sun is more to the upper left of the image while the moon is at the lower right indicates state of the individual under sleep deprivation. It shows that as the sun rises whereby the individual is supposed to be properly rested and energetic, the moon is still there lingering at the bottom of the image to show that even though the sun is risen, the feeling of tiredness which mainly occurs in the night (when the moon is up) is still present within the person. The droopy eyes on both the sun and the moon signify this as well. Using this manner of design, the organization is able to make an appeal to pathos in causing the viewers to feel some pity towards the sufferers of ADHD. An appeal to pathos may be considered as which pertains to the experience or sensitivity toward emotion (Hoffman and Wiggs 22). The stars and the planets in the background is an indication of the mental state of these individuals as being tired, it would be more difficult for them to pay attention to anything, so these stars and planets indicates that their focus is or tend to gaze a lot. The colors used on both the sun and moon also has an appeal to pathos. The sun, being colored with dull colors of brown, beige, and red orange in contrast to the bright yellow captivating appearance of the actual sun imply the dull day experiences a person suffering from this symptom of ADHD. The moon likewise with colors of teal and different shades of green in contrast to the bright white color of the light given off by the actual moon. Jarvis 3 With the second image, the organization focuses more on the vast occurrences of ADHD and the debt it causes, therefore capturing the attention of older audience. The rhetoric appeal of logos is used mainly within this image byway of factual evidences and statistics. Logos may be referred to as as it appeals to logic and reason (Hoffman and Wiggs 23). As they placed the phrase MILLION in blue across an outline of the United States, it served the purpose of showing the large amounts of persons in the United States alone affected by this condition. The blue color, against the black outline of the country captures the attention. Below this contains a statement preceded and proceeded by large dollar signs which serves the purpose of raising awareness within the viewer as it signifies the large amount of money that it costs persons on a whole having suffered of this. This statement, being BILLION TO $266 BILLION was also written in red as a form of alert to the reader indicating that it is an important message therein. Underneath of this statement yields many persons from young to old, male and female, cripple and standing affected by this mental condition. The looks on these persons faces also result in an appeal to pathos as they all are wearing frowns, sad, hopeless eyebrows, and a form of defeated posture. These persons have their heads slightly down, just as a person would if they were feeling bad. Some individuals having their hands across their torso holding themselves and some with their hands in their pockets or straight down their sides in a manner that a person feeling hopeless would. This all invokes a feeling of pity and sympathy within the viewer as they realize that all types of people are affected by this and by the look on their faces, they really desire help. CHADD with their goal of improving the lives of people affected by ADHD was able to raise awareness on the reality of this condition as they conveyed emotions towards the audiences through these images. The first image was successful with the use of the colors and the Jarvis 4 contradicting art to give sense of how persons dealing with sleep deprivation feel and therefore bring forth sympathy within the viewer. The second image brings the statistical data to awareness as it informs the audience of the number of victims of this condition, and the different types of persons it affects. Jarvis 5 Works Cited The National Resource on CHADD The National Resource on ADHD. N.p, n.d. Web. 26. Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Institutes of Health National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d Web, 26 Feb. 2017. Jarvis 6 Image #1 Jarvis 7 Image #2