Cabreros !1 Eldin Cabreros ENC 1102 Alison Missler 27 February 2017 Dying with a Choice The option of having a natural or an artificial death as part of an end to an unbearable suffering is what some terminally-ill presents do not have the option of, specially in states lacking Dead with Dignity laws. Dead with Dignity is a nonprofit organization that has a goal of establishing and providing a political structure of supporting physician-assisted suicide to states lacking such laws like Florida. Physician-assisted suicide is an end-of-life treatment where a professional prescribes medicine to voluntarily terminate a patients life if asked to by the patient. Images that work to promote the support of physician-assisted suicide revolves around demonstrators who relay messages through social networks in support of the passage of Dead with Dignity laws. Other images inspire direct action towards its audience to join their movement of influencing local governments in passing such laws. Dead with Dignity uses state- inspired images and images of patients to reveal the goal of passing laws in support of physician- assisted suicide by triggering the audiences sympathy towards terminally-ill patients, evoking their credibility through a movement, and appealing to logic with the idea of freedom of decision by patients. To highlight their goal as part of a movement, Dead with Dignity uses an image that list various states that have passed Dead with Dignity laws in the passed years. The simple image features six states at six different years with the font size of the name and year growing larger as Cabreros !2 it becomes more recent. A changing font size creates an appearance of a movement within the image, a movement that reveals the goals of the organization. The goals of Dead with Dignity consist of advocating the legislation of Dead with Dignity laws in states that lack them (Dead with Dignity). By creating an appearance of a movement, the image appeals to ethos or the state of being credible as an organization in support of physician-assisted suicide since it evokes their large impact within these states. The District of Columbia passed Dead with Dignity laws in 2017 as emphasized by its large stature in the image (Dead with Dignity). Such magnitude in stature appeals to kairos or timeliness as a result of its recentness, persuading its audience of legislators and the public in general to join their movement now. It influences it audiences by creating the perception that if they join movement now, their direct action would have a larger impact on local governments and terminally-ill patients in terms of supporting physician-assisted suicide. An image that inspires its audience to join their movement in accomplishing their goal of passing Dead with Dignity laws also influences them to empathize with those being affected by such laws. An element within an image that provoke the audience to feel empathy to those affected by Dead with Dignity laws is the patients. By featuring patients or terminally-ill individuals in their images, Dead with Dignity allows those affected by physician-assisted suicide to share their story. Many of those who had the courage to tell their story to the organization share the hardship of not being able to let go and pass peacefully (Dead with Dignity). Being able to convey such story in a single photograph entitles the audience to understand the situation of terminally-ill patients and to feel sympathy to those facing difficulty in states lacking Dead with Dignity laws. There are six states that have legalized physician-assisted suicide while many have elderly and Cabreros !3 terminally ill patients who have debilitating illnesses that cause them to be depressed and lonely (Huntoon 98). An image that includes elderly and terminally-ill patients appeals to pathos or emotion as it evokes their desire to die peacefully from an unbearable suffering while triggering the audience to sympathize their desires. The image of two elders also appeals to timeliness as a result of their age, prompting the audience to take quick action and create an impact now. The fact that they are elders and the possibility that they are terminally ill signifies an impending doom as their lifetime has ben reduced and are nearing death. By having an image that provokes it audience to feel sympathy to those in hardship while prompting them to take quick actions, it directs them to think about the freedom of choice. The freedom of decision by patients is what Dead with Dignity attempts to emphasize in their images as portrayed by the text they contain. One of the images consist of a quote by a person named Jim Carberry that reads all deserve to live in a society where we have to make our own end-of-life (Dead with Dignity National Center). The image then ends the quote by placing a link to their website in a white transparent box similar to a dialogue box. Such detail in an image appeals to ethos or credibility for it portrays Dead with Dignity as an organization that can be trusted to relay someones message. It gives the organization a type of vocal power to raise awareness about physician-assisted suicide as a result of their responsibilities of informing the public about Dead with Dignity as an end-of-life option (Dead with Dignity). In addition, the image also appeals to logos as the content of the text that reads end-of-life influences the audiences to think about the idea of freedom of decision of by patients. Such statement within a quote signal synonyms of freedom like indicating that patients should have the power to have and make end- Cabreros !4 of-life decisions (Noah and Fegeinson 738). Another way Dead with Dignity influences the audience about the freedom of decision is the simplicity of their images. The image that reads six states with an continuously changing font evokes this idea by giving its audience the decision to join their movement in support of physician-assisted suicide. To reveal their goal of passing laws in support of physician-assisted suicide in states that lack them, Dead with Dignity uses various elements to trigger a response from its audience. The changing font size in an image that list six states at six different years evoke the credibility of their movement based on the large impact it had on these states. Having elderly or terminally-ill patients as a main focus of their image triggers an emotional response from its audience as it influences the public to feel sympathy and empathy to those facing hardships in states that lack Dead with Dignity laws. The textual content of their images appeal to logic as it makes their audience think about the freedom of decision by patients and having physician-assisted suicide as an end-of-life option, signaling the right or the power to make and have end-of-life decisions. Images the idealizes the freedom of decision by patients reveal the importance of the patient in terms of receiving healthcare and as the primary decider of their wellbeing. Cabreros !5 Works Cited Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29 January 2017 Thesaurus Huntoon, Lawrence R. Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: The Destruction Of Morals, Ethics, And  Journal Of American Physicians And Surgeons 4 (2016): 98. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 January 2017. Noah, Barbara A. and Neal R. Feigenson. Avoiding Overtreatment at the End of Life: Physician-Patient Communication and Truly Informed  Pace Law Review, vol. 36, no. 3, Spring2016, p. 736. Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29 January 2017