Andraos 1 Michael Andraos Professor Luce ENC 1101 2/11/2017 Physician Assisted Suicide and America The debate of Physician Assisted Suicide (PAS) being a right to Americans has been a prominent topic of discussion for decades now in regards to whether it should be nationally legal or not. PAS is the practice where a patient who is terminally ill (Six or less months to live) has the right to request a prescription of a lethal dose of medication to be actively euthanized. The ethics and laws of this practice is a highly controversial argument, where both stances have objectifiable claims. Many do not believe that an individual should have the right to end their own life, even when death is near, while others disagree. In addition to this, in states where PAS is legal, the amount of regulations and restrictions is also questioned, where individuals argue that there are too many or too little requirements to receive a prescription for PAS. Although many believe that PAS is an unconstitutional action, every individual should have the right to decide their fate the way they choose. University, Santa Clara. Assisted  Resources - Bioethics - Focus Areas - Markkula Center for Applied Ethics - Santa Clara University. Claire Andre, Manuel Velasquez, 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article explains the points of view on both sides of the argument about if an individual should be allowed to end their own life, and if so, what qualifications must be achieved. Claire Andre and Manuel Velasquez explain the crisis of an individual named Harold and his brother who had about one year left to live, but filled with agonizing pain. PAS was not legal in their state, so a lethal dosage of drugs could not have been prescribed. Every day Andraos 1 brother pleaded to be put out of his misery, and eventually, Harold snuck a 0.30 caliber pistol into the hospital and ended his pain. The brother was convicted for murder, but many believe it was unjust: a person should have the right to end his life without any complications. However, the same can be said about a stance against the legalization of PAS, and his or her ability to exercise their right to oppose giving a lethal dose. In addition to this, who do we allow to proceed with PAS? To draw a line between two individuals lives, where one is more worthy than the other, is impossible. This applies especially in the case of those who suffer, but are not conscious of their decisions. Allowing someone to speak upon their behalf, whether it is to end their life or to preserve it, is a complicated situation. Manuel Vasquez, author of Business Ethics: Concepts and Cases, the most renown business ethics book in the world, received his undergraduate and masters from Gonzaga University, and his Ph.D. from the University of California. He also provided teachings of business ethics to over 2,000 business school faculty. Claire Andre, one of the founders of Issues in Ethics, was the Associate Director of the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics. Physician-Assisted Suicide: Is It  @berkeleywellness. Peter Jaret, 26 Apr. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article touches most questions and concerns of PAS. Many worry that if PAS is legal, those who are ill will be encouraged to end their life shortly. None the less, there is no evidence to support this claim. Furthermore, currently there are support groups for those who are severely handicapped, to not go forth on a suicide. They try to implement a healthier lifestyle for emotionally and mentally disrupted people, while also promoting alternative treatments that may not have been tried. This article conjointly explains those who argue with a religious foundation. These individuals who oppose PAS due to religion reside to the of idea. This Andraos 1 claims that all lives are sacred, and it would be unholy to violate it through an act of unnatural fate. Peter Jaret is the author of many books, one being Nurse: A World of Care. He is a prominent contributor to the New York Times, National Geographic, Readers Digest, and many other periodicals. He has received two James Beard awards, and the American Medical Association award. Physician Assisted  The Hastings Center. Timothy E. Quill, Bernard Sussman, 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article explains the legal complications of PAS Timothy E. Quill is the founding director of the Hastings Palliative Care Program at the Unversity of Rochester.