Ajayi1 Hadijat Ajayi Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 20 February 2017 Impacts of the Digital Social Revolution The emergence of the easily accessible, worldwide web has allowed internet related outlets to increase exponentially. The internet has become commonplace in nearly every American household, and amongst a vast number of various cultures around the world. Websites and the recent invention of smartphone applications, have centered on leisure, business endeavors, educational advancement and any number of other focal points. Social media has emerged as an open avenue to post and comment based on the personal inclination. This has resulted in a heavy burden falling on the users; exposing and allowing critique from anyone with computer-access, on their posts. The monopoly of internet based activities has inevitability led to the arrival of new, unprecedented benefits and drawbacks of a digital society. Despite the rapid advancement of technology and internet usage, research supporting the long term effects of social media and social networking has yet to be fully developed. Thus, in depth, longitudinal studies are not available for analysis. However, there have been a number of studies to support the advantages of social media and/or social networking mainly through use of surveys. The data presented will also address the negative associations of social media and social networking based on the information volunteered from each sample population. These sources will ultimately address the idea of social networking, defined for this paper as, the use of social, web-based outlets for business or marketing purposes, is just as effective, if not more effective, than the use of social media, defined for this paper as, the use of social, web-based outlets used strictly for leisure and connecting with members of community. Ajayi2 Belangee, Susan, Marina Bluvshtein, and Daniel Haugen. Connectedness: A Survey of Perceived Benefits and Disadvantages of Social Media The Journal of Individual Psychology 71.2 (2015): 122-34. Web. An online volunteer survey of the perceived benefits or disadvantages of social media usage was administered, via email, to the population of Alder Graduate School. This survey requested demographic information and data regarding the use of social media. The participant then continued to answer the research question, What are the perceived benefits and disadvantages of using social media in higher education, professional development, and in general human  (Belangee, 124) Researchers dissolved the broad statement into seven sub-statements, which survey takers responded to, using the Likert scale. (Belangee et al., 124) Based on data retrieved, social networking is a seemingly appropriate form of successfully coordinating employers and other professionals, with potential colleagues. (Belangee et al., 128) This particular statement was worded and framed with the least bias and clearest focus. This statement easily calls for the experience of each individual, rather than the individual inferring about the community as a whole. Dr. Susan Belangee is not only a Ph. D, but is more specifically a Licensed Professional Counselor. She holds some other professional classifications, however this is most relevant to her credibility within this specific study. Marina Bluvshtein is a Ph. D LP from the University of Alder, along with Daniel Haugen, who earned a Ph. D in social work from the University of Minnesota. Ajayi3 Sum, S., Mathews, R. M., Pourghasem, M., & Hughes, I. (2009). use as a predictor of sense of community in older Cyberpsychology and Behavior, 12(2), 235-239. This article dug into the effect of social media use on loneliness, sense of community, and general health in participants 55 and older. This survey was conducted over a period of six months in Australia and aimed to have candidates rank how they associated their use of the internet and social media to their overall happiness with their place in their lives and in their communities. Results show a positive correlation between internet use and a heightened sense of online and offline community, reducing the feelings of loneliness and alienation. (Sum et al., 238) Sum et al. do make the point of effective and ineffective uses of the internet. Researchers conclude that using social media improves sense of community and involvement when they use the internet to associate with known associates and friends. On the contrary, when the internet is used to communicate with strangers or unknown people, the advantage of using internet is diminished, and anxiety and loneliness are concentrated. (Sum et al., 238) This study is unique in the specific age demographic targeted. This community holds the leverage to make the least biased analysis of their perception of the internet. Being that this is an older community, they would have had the luxury of experiencing a society completely independent of such advance use of the internet in the way of social interaction, as well as the experience of the progression of social media and the opportunity to either participate or refrain based on what many could call All four authors of this work are credited Ph. Ds within the field of health science. Shima Sum, Mark Mathews and Ian Hughes are all graduates of the University of Sydney, with focus within the School of Behavioral and Community Health Sciences. Shima Sum and Mohsen Pourghasem both are also associated with the Biomedical School of the University of Sydney, Ajayi4 while Pourghasem is recognized at the Department of Medicine at the Babol University of Medical Sciences. Andreassen, Cecilie Schou, Pallesen, and Mark D. Griffiths. The relationship between addictive use of social media, narcissism, and self-esteem: Findings from a large national survey. Addictive Behaviors 64 (2017): 287-93. Web. Aside from the harmless intentions of social media, the boom in the frequency of social media activity has resulted in the appearance of detrimental effects, namely, addiction. A web- based survey of a large Norwegian population allowed three researchers to analyze social media use in relation to addictive behaviors, narcissism, and self-esteem. The main goal of this study was to analyze how demographics and other individual factors played a role in the association with social media addiction (Andreassen, 291). Studies concluded that women, those who are single, those who are less educated, younger generations, current students, and those who, on average, have a lower income, scored higher on the Bergen Social Media Addiction Scale, BSMAS, than their opposite counterparts (Andreassen, 290). Narcissism seemed to have a positive correlation with the addictive use of social media as an activity, reinforced through the idea of feedback from potentially large numbers of other (Andreassen, 291). Although this study yielded limitations due to the open-access, self-reporting study design (Andreassen, 292), it was still effective in understanding what type of person or lifestyle may lead to an addictive approach to social media avenues. This study is also helpful to understanding, in part, how such addictive behavior could be a reality. This study cannot prove causality, however, the researchers were able to infer how narcissism and self- esteem play a role in the conclusions accumulated from the survey results. Ajayi5 Cecilie Schou Andreassen is a professor at and earned her Ph. D at the University of Bergen in the department of Clinical Psychology. Pallesen is also a credited Ph. D from the University of Bergen and holds expertise in psychosocial sciences. He is also noted for his background in clinical psychology, behavioral science, and abnormal psychology. Mark D. Griffiths is a professor at the School of Social Sciences at Nottingham Trent University. He earned his Ph. D at University of Exeter, and is notable for his abundant presence within the research community, authoring over 1000 articles, over 140 book chapters, and a number of other research projects. Ji, Sung Wook, Young-Jun Choi, and Min Ho Ryu. The economic effects of domestic search engines on the development of the online advertising market. Telecommunications Policy 40.10-11 (2016): 982-95. Web. The concept of advertising through social media sites and online marketing are recent strategies that have evolved into what has often proved to be a sustainable avenue for reaching consumers. A study conducted by three students of South Korean colleges examined the effect of marketing within domestic search engines. The experiment took place over the course of five years, lasting from 2009 to 2013, and was able to track data in regards to the growth of the audience when introduced to a domestic search engine. (Choi et al., 982) The data, overall, suggests the presence of a domestic search engine aids to the expansion of the online advertising market (Choi et al., 992). This is in turn interpreted as useful to business and marketing managers, as they are able to expand their market while introducing and reinforcing the presence of their product. Choi et al. did not ignore the influence of globally dominant search engines, such as Google or Yahoo. Data from the experiment suggests that compared to the global search engines, domestic platforms help establish an cultural which are more Ajayi6 reflective of the local culture. These domestic platforms help promote not only the product of the locals, but also which can be understood as political, economic, or other social views shared by the current natives (Choi et al., 992). The authors of this article are each students of different colleges in South Korea. Sung Wook Ji had earned a Ph. D in Telecommunications, while Young-jun Choi has earned a Ph. D in Economics. Both have experience attending both colleges in South Korea, but also within the United States. Min Ho Ryu has earned a Ph. D in IT Business and also worked at a school within the United States. Kaplan, Andreas M., and Michael Haenlein. Users of the world, unite! The challenges and opportunities of Social  Business Horizons 53.1 (2010): 59-68. Web. This article details the difference and distinguishing features of social media and social networking. This work describes Social Media as the exchange of Generated or information created by the user and posted on the internet via the World Wide Web and the technological foundations set forth by the refinement of the web (Haenlein, 61). Social Networking is described as websites or applications that allow for users to create personal profiles, then have the ability to invite colleagues to share that information as well as their own personal content (Haenlein, 63). Section Four of the article breaks down company advice in regards to Social Media use. There are five points of advice that were developed about the use of media. The following interpretation of advice about the use of media was taken from pages 65 and 66. The points about the use of media include choosing the right application to benefit both the business and the audience, making that application unique and specific, and ensuring that multiple avenues of social media remain in coordination with each other. The last two points of advice are crucial to the success of using media for business. Integrating social media with Ajayi7 traditional media will allow for the conversion of enthusiasm from witnessing social media, to sales and revenue, when those customers are drawn into the company and product through commonplace marketing. Although this article did not include an experimental portion to aid in the credibility of the given information, examples highlighting the success of each strategy are provided. This particular article has frequently been cited. Corresponding author, Andreas M. Kaplan is a Professor of Marketing and Communications at the business school ESCP Europe, but is also a member of the executive committee, as the acting Dean for Academic Affairs. He has earned a PhD in Business Administration at the University of Cologne. Counterpart, Michael Haenlein, is also a Professor of Marketing at ESCP Europe and the Scientific Co-Director of one of the research center. He earned a PhD from the Otto Beisheim School of Management in 2004. Haenlein holds expertise in Customer Relationship Management, marketing research, and social media. He is also active in the academic community as an editor and author of academic journals. Both Kaplan and Haenlein continued to further their education, each having earned their Habilitation. Pempek, Tiffany A., Yevdokiya A. Yermolayeva, and Sandra L. Calvert. College social networking experiences on  Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology 30.3 (2009): 227-38. Web. This article details a study which aims to address why and how young adults use social media. For the purposes of this study, Facebook was the only social network analyzed and the sample population consisted of 92 undergraduate students. It includes the results from the hypothesis stating social media interactions will prove to be influential to the growing adult (Calvert, 229). The method of this experiment consisted of a diary documenting the amount of Ajayi8 time spent of social media sites each day, what kind of activities students participated in and open-ended questions. A 54-queston survey accompanied the diary and utilized the Likert scale as well as demographic information about each user. Results of the diary/survey study show an average of 65% of students include self-reflective information, i.e. favorite music, section, etc., to express who they are (Calvert, 232). Results also show most spent most of their time looking at profiles, photos, and reading own news feed and wall posts. Each of these activities yielded at least 45% of the audience checking as the percent of time they spend doing said action (Calvert, 234). Data presented in the remaining tables of the results section aids the concept of a sufficient amount of online or catching up on status without any direct interaction with that person, is avid in the realm of social media (Calvert, 235). The discussion highlights the possibility of young adults using Facebook as an avenue to facilitate self-disclosure which promotes personal identity, but also is likely to aid in the resolution of key developmental issues that arise during the transition to adulthood (Calvert, 236). Corresponding author, Sandra L. Calvert, is currently a Professor of Psychology at Georgetown University. She is also the acting Director of research center Digital Media Center. Professor Calvert is an expert in digital media and has served on two committees for the National Academies. Tiffany A. Pempek is an Associate Professor of Psychology at Hollins University. She specializes in developmental psychology is currently active in the research community. Yevdokiya A. Yermolayeva is currently a double-major in psychology and sociology.