Cruz 1 Alan Cruz Mrs. Hanson Section 013 27 February 2017 A commercial comes on and a kid sees his or her favorite athlete wearing green while drinking Pepsi. Now, that same kid wears green and only drinks Pepsi. What is put on the media whether it is in a movie, show or commercial plays a tremendous role on societies decisions. Media is everywhere and it is hard to control what should or should not be broadcasted next. Due to this, families are introduced to certain aspects of life that have not yet been explained to their children. The Parental Television (PTC) overall goal is to protect families from graphic sex, violence, and profanity that is in media, which includes video games, television shows, and movies. To add on, both images shown by the Parental Television Council use different rhetorical appeals but still reach the overall goal and explain how bad media can affect the youth. To start, image A shows how playing video games can affect children just as cigarettes affect adults. This overall concept plays a role on parents through the use of logos. Since the picture is correlating cigarettes and video games in a negative aspect many parents who are seeing this are contemplating whether or not to take away their daughter or sons video game system. This not only affects the child when they are young but also in the future. As the child is playing more games the more of an addictive personality they will have. Furthermore, study has shown that smoking and playing video games are correlated because they tend to have the same sensation when practicing, such Cruz 2 as the sense of relief and relaxation. (Raiff 1453) The question that arises now is if video games are a gate way to smoking cigarettes. The same rhetorical appeal is seen in image B which shows a little girl looking outside the window. The picture contains a text that states protect their children from tobacco, drugs and drinking, and pornography; yet millions allow their children to watch violent This quote makes the audience think twice about how they are raising or going to raise their children; these violent programs contribute as much as drugs and pornography do. However, both images contain text that tries to convince and grab the attention by bolding the letters and trying to portray an ardent tone. One could also say because of some the words being bolded the organization is trying to call to action through the use of Kairos. This will lead the audience to act upon the issue. Next, in image A both of the children are playing the video game seem. While one seems to be very focused and stressed the other seems to be enjoying the others misery. Due to the fact that there are to two types of moods in this image there could be many speculations and the audience could take both moods into negative context. For instance, the boy who is focused and stressed can give the audience a sense of sorrow because the child is actually dwelling over something that is not real. Pathos is being shown because of the different emotions being brought out of the image in order to support the goal of diminishing violent media. To add, the boy who is enjoying the game is enjoying it for the wrong reason. This could also lead to bullying or finding happiness through others down falls. Even though it may seem drastic it may be a possibility. Sanne Nikkelen, Helen Vossen, Jessica Piotrowski, and Patti Valkenburg examined a 1,017 adolescents to show how television can corrupt children. Study Cruz 3 showed that frequent acts of violence affects the arousal function. (Nikkelen 659) Due to this, the children are showing related behaviors to those who have ADHD. More important, both images A and B show credibility through the information in the image. First, image A has a text at the bottom of the image that says of Experimental Social because the image compares Video games and Cigarettes, the text at the bottom gives the image meaning in the sense that an actual experiment was done comparing the two different aspects. Second, image B states 3,000 studies in the last 50 years have PROVEN CONCLUSIVELY that are children are adversely affected by exposure to media As soon as the audience reads the last 50 years have their attention has been grabbed because it shows that these proof of the studies that have been done. Overall, both images show the rhetorical appeal of ethos in order to persuade the audience and make sure they actively paying attention to what the images are trying to exemplify. The Parental Television Council is trying explain and show how media violence is corrupting the youth through the images. Both images show the different ways media can affect their overall outlook on life. For instance, image A shows the two boys are trying to win a game while one is miserable the other is enjoying the others misery while staring at the game. Image B, shows a little girl staring out the window with a sense of regret and sorrow. In addition, both images are showing how children should not be acting or living there lives. The PTC is trying to help by targeting the main source which is the parents because they are the ones who enforce the rules in their households. Cruz 4 Ultimately, The PTC to protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful effects. There overall mission is to provide a safe environment. Both of the images portray their overall message, with similar appeals but in different ways. These images play a great role and they will affect the audiences opinion whether they are towards or against the issue. Cruz 5 Cruz 6 Parents Television Council -  Parents Television Council - Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Nikkelen, Sanne, et al. Media Violence And ADHD-Related Behaviors: The Role Of Parental  Journal Of Broadcasting & Electronic Media 60.4 (2016): 657-675. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Raiff, Bethany R., Brantley P. Jarvis, and Darion Rapoza. Prevalence Of Video Game Use, Cigarette Smoking, And Acceptability Of A Video Smoking Cruz 7 Cessation Intervention Among Online  Nicotine & Tobacco Research 14.12 (2012): 1453-1457. Academic Search Premier. Web. 21 Feb. 2017