1 Richard Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 February 2017 PETA: Advertisement for the protection of animals The ethical treatment of animals as a topic is one that has been on the controversial side due to how humans often use animals as test subjects for different products or for consumption. According to Animals Australia, companies such as Colgate and Febreze are two of the many companies that regularly test their products on animals before making their way into the market (Animals Australia). According to NPR, it has been estimated that the United States alone consumes billion pounds of meat including both poultry and beef (NPR). As a result, PETA, an organization that advocates for the ethical treatment of all animals, has openly expressed complete disdain for the terrible treatment that animals have received from humans over the years. goal is to create awareness on the treatment of animals and how boycotting certain companies and converting to veganism can effectively better their treatment in the world. By examining the pro-animal rights message promoted by image #1 and image #2, the specific usage of visual rhetoric allows PETA to appeal to the general public by relying on artistic representations of animal abuse that consist of dark color schemes and alteration of images. The target audience for PETA is the general public since their organization functions through donations that are made by people who support the cause for animals. To attract an even bigger number of supporters, PETA strives to emphasize how much they care about the treatment of animals. On their website, PETA explicitly states that creature with a will to 2 live has a right to live free from pain and As an organization, they believe that rights is not just a is a social movement that challenges traditional view that all nonhuman animals exist solely for human (PETA). desire to promote the concept of ethical treatment is reflected on the images used as advertisement for their organization. Advertisements that are often presented in public billboards, and through different forms of social media such as Facebook in order to gather as much attention as possible from the general public. Through the use of images, organizations can effectively convey their message towards the targeted audience through the implementation of rhetoric appeals. Two forms of advertisement that have been released by PETA showcase the effective use of pathos and logos to get their message across. The first form of advertisement involves a black and white image of a child wearing a sweater that was made from the wool of a sheep that was left critically injured. The second form of advertisement makes uses the image of a turkey that was altered to have the face of dog with the phrase you eat your dog, why eat a In the first advertisement, PETA utilizes a black and white color scheme throughout the entire image with the exception of the blood that can be observed from the stomach area. Through this image, it is evident that PETA has the goal of creating awareness towards the way companies often treat animals to advance their economic agendas. These artistic choices were taken by PETA to create emphasis on the pain that animals often have to go through for the betterment of human lives. By not making the image fully colored, PETA is able to effectively ignite feelings of sadness for the sheep that was stripped from its wool to make a sweater. In addition, by deliberately leaving the color of the blood as red, the focus of the audience is quickly directed to the sheep as a way for PETA to showcase how much suffering the sheep is in. Furthermore, by implementing the phrase you by this (the sweater), you support this 3 (mistreatment of sheep) PETA is able to convey the message of how there is no ethical way of using animals as a mean to produce clothes for human use. In contrast, the same image would not have been able to effectively create the same feelings of sadness in its audience had it been fully colored as that would make the image deviate from the negative connotation. design choice of implementing the phrase you buy this, you support is able to make their audience believe that is only logical to think that animals go through extreme forms of pain and suffering during the production of clothes. Furthermore, the phrase support looks slightly bigger to emphasize how there is no other logical way to feel about the usage of animal-based clothing. Logically this appeals to their audience as they can now be aware of what materials were used to buy the clothes they either own or about to buy. In the second advertisement, PETA evokes negative feelings of sadness and pity from its audience by showcasing a turkey that has the face of a sad dog in order to make the general public feel bad about the choice of having meat be a part of their diet. When considering how the United States alone consumes billion pounds of meat (NPR), it goes without saying that millions of animal lives have been ended for the sake of humans. The sad look on the face is meant to make the audience change their mind over eating meat as it makes them think where the line can be drawn in terms of when is it truly acceptable to eat other animals. The rhetorical question used on the second image appeals to the reasoning of the general public that has already converted to veganism. The question posed by PETA is meant to make its audience question the logic behind eating meat given how humans are the only species that are able to consciously rationalize what is considered to be right or wrong. This demonstrates that the only way to promote the ethical treatment of animals is to boycott meat industries by converting into veganism. Ultimately, PETA is illustrating that they want their 4 audience to realize that there is no reason to consume other animals and how the act itself is completely unethical. The two selected images illustrate how PETA is able to effectively convey their message through different forms of advertisement. The primary goal behind their advertisement is to promote the ethical treatment by boycotting companies that use animals to make clothes an how veganism is the only way to ethically live among animals. Consequently, PETA strives to show that they believe in the ethical treatment of animals through the use of pathos and logos in their forms of advertisements. 5 Advertisement #1 6 Advertisement #2 7 Works Cited Animals Australia. Animal testing facts: Which companies and brands still allow testing on  Animals Australia. n.d. Web. 24 February 2017 NPR. A Nation Of Meat Eaters: See How It All Adds  NPR. 2012. Web. 24 February 2017 PETA. Why Animal  PETA. n.d. Web. 24 February 2017