Bertran 1 Peter Bertran Kristopher Luce ENC1101 January 21 st 2017 Tourism in the Dominican Republic Tourism is the main source of income in the Dominican Republic. The millions of tourists coming from all over the world every year helps to make the country grow and develop as a whole. The climate, beaches, food, and culture makes this paradise a great attraction for people who want to take a vacation, or simply, get away from the bad weather. The Dominican Republic offers a plethora of activities that will make the tourist feel welcomed and has attractions that you can only experience while being there. Similar to many islands, it offers great contact with the ocean, giving a tranquil and relaxing vibe. One of the main attractions for the tourists is that all hotels are all- inclusive, which means that once you pay you have free and unlimited access to every perk included in the resort. Tourism is what has kept the Dominican Republic growing, but what factors contribute to its development and acquiring income? However, many people may argue that tourism can bring illegal practices and unwanted diseases to the island. Gonzalez, Fernando, and Rodrigo Terc. Dominican Republic Tourism 4 May 2012. This article talks about all the historical and cultural attractions you can find in the Dominican Republic. Not only it has the largest museums in the Caribbean, but it is also Bertran 2 most recognized for its natural endowments. These include natural parks and reserves, the highest number of visiting whales, and a vast quantity of exotic animals. The author describes the best attractions and hot points to visit in the Dominican Republic. This relates to the perks including weather, beach, tourists to come from all over the world and crash at this paradise. Fernando Gonzalez and Rodrigo Terc, the authors of Dominican Republic Tourism (along with other members) are students of Microeconomics in Competitiveness at the Harvard Business School. They intend to develop new ideas and suggestions for the Dominican tourism so that it can keep expanding and attracting tourists in order to bring more income to the country. Gonzalez, Clara. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <https://www.dominicancooking.com/about>. This article talks about the origin of the Dominican cuisine and how to cook it. In this article we can appreciate some of the Dominican most memorable dishes. Moreover, the article provides guidelines and recipes when cooking Dominican food and provides us pictures of the main dishes that are eaten at lunchtime. The food is also one of the main factors that attract foreigners. Many people want to come to the Dominican Republic and taste different dishes and spices. Due to this article they will have a better picture of what Dominicans eat and what can be expected when they visit. The author of this article, Aunt Clara, is an iconic figure of the Dominican Republic who specializes on the Dominican cuisine. Her website provides recipes of Bertran 3 every Dominican dish for anyone who wishes to learn and prepare them. Aunt Clara lived and studied at London and graduated in Politics and Social Anthropology from the University of Canterbury. In 1999 she moved back to the Dominican Republic and ever since then she has had a great interest in cooking. United Nations. Who We  World Tourism Organization. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. This article is from the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) and provides facts about the increases of tourism worldwide and their expectancy about the development of it. It focuses on the importance of tourism and how it helps every destination with jobs and the world commerce overall. The article also makes emphasis on the benefits that tourism gives to every destination and gives us better understanding of why tourism matters. This article is provided by the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), which is the United Nations agency responsible for the promotion of sustainable and universally accessible tourism. This website lets us know more about this organization by clicking the link Here we can find out more about their goals and program management, as well as the member states that get together and help tourism keep growing while also regulating it. Bertran 4 Epsgarlo, Elizabeth Van. Dominican  Countries And Their Cultures. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.everyculture.com/Cr-Ga/Dominican- Republic.html>. This article has a plethora of information and categories that help us understand more the culture of the Dominican Republic. Included in this list of categories we have: religion, etiquette, socialization, marriage and family, gender roles and statuses, health care, arts and humanity, etc. All of these include valuable information that will give the tourists a better picture of the country and its people when they visit. The article focuses on every aspect of the Dominican culture to facilitate interaction between foreigners and natives. One of the most interesting things about this article is the cooperation from a plethora of writers and authors who got together and gathered information and then combined it with one another to provide to the public. All of these authors are professionals in different fields such as, sociology, geography, history, etc. And then got together to compose this article. This article is not just composed by these professionals, however. It also has research from the United Nations and the United States Department of State. Mark Padilla, and Sissi Garland. Sex, Drugs and Disease: Taking a Look at the Other Side of Tourism in the Dominican  FIU News. N.p., 25 Sept. 2014. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Bertran 5 This article talks how currently the Dominican Republic has the highest prevalence rates of HIV infection. This is out side Sub-Saharan Africa. It states that nearly 75 percent of these cases occur mostly in the Dominican Republic. The article also supports the claim that tourism can bring unwanted diseases, which is stated in the counter argument. Many tourists come to the Dominican Republic with the intention of having a good time and get away from life. Prostitution is one of the more popular practices in the country. This is mostly experienced in highly touristy zones and as stated by medical anthropologist Mark Padilla, it is contributes to a major regional health crisis. The author of the article is FIU News (Florida International University) with the help of medical anthropologist Mark Padilla. He is former professor at FIU and is now working on a multiyear study, which aims to identify and address the different factors that are colliding and contributing to a major regional health crisis. Planas, Roque. Dominican Republic Emerges As Drug Trafficking Center Of The The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 23 Jan. 2013. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. This article talks about how the Dominican Republic continues to be the main portal of drug trafficking in the Caribbean, with an increase in the past two years of 800 percent of the cocaine to the United States and Europe. According to the European COPOLAD Program (Drug partnership cooperation program between the European Union and Latin America), the lack of control and technological resources of the country pose a major threat to the national security interests of the United States and Bertran 6 European countries. They also state how the use and trafficking of drugs have created violence on the streets of Dominican Republic, presenting the case of 28 year old Francina Hungria, who was attacked by two criminals and shot, which caused her to lose her eyesight. The article is provided by the Huffington Post, which is an American online blog that provides information about the daily issues in the world. This site offers content about politics, business, entertainment, culture, technology, etc. The blog was launched on May 9 th , 2005 and was ranked #1 on the 15 Most Popular Sites list by eBizMBA Rank.