Vega 1 Leonardo Vega Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC1 Sec 008 February 20, 2017 The Contention Continues: US Pro-Tennis Decline in the Global Arena Tennis greats Sampras, Agassi, McEnroe, and Connors have made the USA the most successful nation in the Tennis Open Era. Unfortunately, we are losing our tennis power, currently reaching a mere American tennis is at a serious low point. There has been no Grand Slam winner in the last thirteen years (since Andy Roddick won the 2003 US Open) and no semifinalist in over seven years. Moreover, no American player has reached the quarterfinals for the last twenty-one Grand Slams. The struggle experienced by the American tennis circuit is a topic of loud contention among players, coaches, and tournament directors. Coaches and players blame situation with the on a poor approach to technique and tactics, compounded by the lack of clay court training. Directors take issue with the below-average inconsistent rigor used to certify coaching professionals. One point of common ground however lays on the weak multi-level approach, which fails to grow the popularity of the sport because it focuses in country-club players and year-round, overexposed weekly competition. The underlining factor behind the US Pro-Tennis not measuring up to the world may simply be a problem of inclusion and long-term commitment. The USTA must promote the sport of tennis to all youths, not just the and create a plan that supports their gradual development deep-rooted in commitment to excellence not just profit. Can American Pro-Tennis regain competitive global standings if male players are consistently more exposed to high performance clay-court training, highly-qualified and Vega 2 accountable coaches, as well as more diversified and inclusive sponsorship opportunities to grow within the sport? (wc: 270) Konigsberg, Eric. U.S. Tennis Rise The New York Times, The New York Times, 22 Aug. 2014, www.nytimes.com/2014/08/24/magazine/can-us-mens-tennis- Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. The thesis focuses on various US top-youth tennis players who have been to lead the return of American male players to the global top rankings. All of them have been enrolled at one time or another in prominent tennis academies that concentrate in intensive boot-camp training, which focused mostly on players to just perform well in competition, rather than encourage their abilities in long-term results. One of the tennis Noah Rubin, chose against the fast- developed, polished, ideal player, to follow his one-on-one, father-coach support. Despite winning the Wimbledon Tennis Championship in 2014, his career as a pro-tennis player has not taken off properly, losing almost all the support of the Unites States Tennis Association (USTA), after a series of injuries and losses in the national circuit. His future in tennis seems uncertain because of limited training, lack of coaching support and sponsorship. Equally unclear is the professional tennis prospective of US top-youth male players Spencer Papa, Michael Mmoh and Stephan Kozlov, who in contrast to Rubin, attended super academies funded by the USTA. The problem with these players lies in the one-size-fits-all approach of American academy coaches whose main goal is to turn young talent too quick into the pro-circuit, without the proper long- term support, even though the USTA suggest players first go to a four-year college program and then join the pro-tour. Pat McEnroe, USTA General Manager of Players Vega 3 Development, is working on rigorous certification for teaching pros that can support skills and technique development in early training, as well as long term patronage for more experienced players who chose to turn pro. The article appears in The New York Times Magazine, one of the largest circulation among metropolitan newspapers in the US, featured under The US Open Issue, in the eve of the US Open 2014. The author, Eric Konigsberg, has been a collaborator and writer for the NYT since 2009. Other magazine collaborations include The New Yorker, Rolling Stone, and Tin House. One of the main faults in tennis training development of American male players is the lack of proper coaching support and USTA sponsorship for these talented young athletes once they turn pro. Many show great expectations for a future in the pro-tennis circuit, but fall short early in their careers due to lack of continuing training and financial support. This in US male tennis representation within the professional arena is an issue that is particularly ventilated during the days surrounding the American Tennis Major, the US Open. (wc: 422) Morales, Miguel. Tennis Dying But It Does Need Forbes, Forbes Magazine, 11 Sept. 2013, www.forbes.com/sites/miguelmorales/2013/09/06/american- tennis-isnt-dying-but-it-does-need-help/#3c12fc956807. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. In this article, Miguel Morales, the online editor for contributor network, covers the sport of tennis, while following the money angle. The author discusses the desperate changes needed in the development of US Tennis with Todd Martin, a former American pro, U.S. Open finalist and managing director of Todd Martin Tennis. Martin insists that in a sport like tennis, we must get youngsters more Vega 4 interested by making the sport more accessible to them. The USTA wants to focus on creating more regional training hubs, and provide enough funding to local clubs and organizations that support children that are less fortunate. He also points out that coaching education must with the tennis advancements in other countries to provide the proper platform to support the future training of US tennis. Like their European counterparts, coaches must be made accountable for keeping their credentials and necessary training up-to-date, to avoid a fine. This article presents the expert opinions of Lawrence Kleger, the Executive Director of Tennis at SPORTIME, and Patrick McEnroe, the General Manager of Player Development. They tell that the future of US Tennis is in the hands of simply getting kids excited about playing it, so they pick sports. This discussion is relevant to the topic of US tennis recent decline, which has been linked directly to the lack of diversity and inclusion within the sport. (wc: 240) Foster, J. Soils BBC News, BBC, 23 May 2002, news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/tennis/French open/1952120.stm. Accessed 8 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the inability of one of the greatest American tennis players in Open Era, Pete Sampras, to win the elusive clay-court Grand Slam, the French Open. At the time the article was written, Sampras had played the French Open twelve times, reaching his at the 1996 semi-final. Up until 2002, Sampras had only been able to reach second and third rounds at the French Open. The BCC reporter contrasts the dismal failure in the tournament to Swedish great Bjorn Borg, Vega 5 who has won six French Open and five Wimbledon titles, transitioning from clay to grass surface with no problem. The article suggests that coach, Tim Gullikson, lacks the experience and ability to teach the American how to adjust his powerful play-style from the faster hard and grass courts to the slower clay surface. The obvious problem affecting the decorated American player, winner of thirteen major titles at the time, is simply the failure to recognize the need to train on clay courts at home, and play more warm-up tournaments on clay before the main French event. The article appears in the front page of BCC Sports News Feed, French Open Special Edition, published in the eve of the 2002 French Open. J. Foster is a tennis contributor and writer for BCC Sports in 2002 and focuses the article on Pete elusive French Open win, suggesting that at this point, the win in Roland Garros is beyond The validity of this decades-old BCC Sports reporting on the topic of the decline of U.S. Tennis in the professional arena, is that it chronicles the on-going struggles American male players have endured on clay-surface tournaments, and its significant effects on the global standings. Team Sampras coldshoulder on clay-court deficiency marked the beginning of a snowball effect on US male tennis players who until today continue to neglect training on the slower surface. Experts believe that improvement on clay cross-training would have given him the French Open wins needed to maintain higher ATP rankings, setting up an exemplary standard for the next generation of American players to follow, therefore minimizing a in the future of US Pro Tennis within the global arena. (wc: 375) Vega 6 Kamperman, Kurt. Awards over $400,000 in Recreational Tennis Grants to 45 Non- Profit Organizations across the USTA, 15 Aug. 2009, Accessed 9 Feb. 2017. This article looks at a new series of grants that the Recreational Tennis Division of the USTA is distributing to non-profit organizations across the US to develop tennis programs for children and adults alike within our communities, to promote diversity in the sport. It reports on grants totaling $400,000 that will be awarded twice a year to organizations such as Parks and Recreation, and school districts, among others. There are two types of grants: Community Partnership Investment Awards (CPIA) and Program/Project Support Grants (PPSG). will be larger awards of up to $50,000 to community organizations that are required to match the USTA investments to grow the game of tennis locally and support Some of the CPIA recipients in 2009 are Arthur Ashe Youth Tennis in Philadelphia, PA Charlotte Tennis Association in Charlotte, NC, and Tennis and Education Inc. in Saint Paul, Minn. PPSG awards will be smaller grants of up to $5,000 to support smaller general tennis programs, funding projects and equipment for smaller entities, such as Love to Serve Inc in Chicago, IL, City of Charleston Department of Recreation, SC, and Miami Dade Community Center, FL. The USTA is the national governing body of tennis in the U.S. It focuses on promoting and developing the growth within local communities and in a professional level. The article, published in the USTA News Magazine, is written by Vega 7 Kurt Kamperman, USTA Chief Executive of Community Tennis in 2009. Kamperman leads a team in the headquarters of USTA, located in Boca Raton, FL, that manages the funding and provides accountability to the USTA at a national level. The Recreational Grants Program is at its early stages, and while it helps implement local tennis programs around the country, it fails to fully assess the focus on diversification and inclusion of the sport at the community level. If the USTA cannot ensure local moneys are being used to support children of various racially and income diverse backgrounds, then it is not promoting the love of tennis equally among young athletes, which does not do much to benefit the sport in the long term. This is relevant to the decline in US Tennis because to raise future professional tennis players committed to excellence, we must first teach the love of the sport to all youth equally. (wc: 387) McCann, Mimi. Roddick: The 2003 U.S. Open Comeback Will Make You A Bleacher Report, 27 Aug. 2009, http://bleacherreport.com/articles/243619- andy-roddick-his-2003-us-open-comback-will-make-you-a-believer. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Since 2003, no American male tennis player has won a tennis Grand Slam. This article begins by recounting a set-to-set description of the decisive points surrounding the momentous victory of Andy Roddick at the 2003 US Open. That day he was crowned of the Big At the time this article was written, six years after U.S Open win, he had only reached four Slam finals: three Wimbledon and one US Open. Sports correspondent Mimi McCann reports on consistent track-record, never dropping below Top-10 in the world for Vega 8 seven consecutive years (2002-2009), amassing twenty-seven career titles by 2009, as well as a U.S. Davis Cup Team win in 2007. The author suggests that skill could be described as because of his single biggest weapon: his iconic, huge serve. In 2009, he had clearly improved his back hand tremendously and was more fit than ever. Confident, strong and determined, Andy Roddick was a favorite this year, filling all the requirements to achieve his second Major Title win, on his favorite surface, the fast-pace hard courts of Flushing Meadows, New York. But Roddick would go on to be a In 2009, Roger Federer happened to Andy Roddick. The loss was not due to lack of preparedness, poor fitness, bad form, or court readiness. His loss this year, just like his previous four Slam losses had a first and last name: Roger Federer. Bleacher Report provides real-time sports coverage by a team of lead writers specializing in team-specific sports and major topics surrounding U.S. sports. Bleacher Report is a subsidiary of Turner Sports, a leading sports coverage destination in the US. Mimi McCann is a level one Sports Correspondent that specializes in tennis highlights. The article presents an interesting angle to the defeat of Andy Roddick during the 2009 US Open. By that time, it had been six years since and American player had won a Grand Slam. Even though Roddick was a favorite to win his second Slam title that year, having his best form and serve ever, he exited the tournament early. Experts suggest what happened to Roddick at the 2009 US Open had not thing to do with bad form, ill-technique, or physical limitations, it had to do with a bigger than life moment of tennis greatness in the Open Era called Roger Federer. Winner of fifteen Major Titles across all court surfaces by 2009, Roger Vega 9 Federer has been and continues to be a global nemesis not just to American male players but to all Pro-Tennis players in the world. His expert, on hard surfaces surely have taken away many opportunities for American players to win. Just like Roger Federer prevented Roddick from attaining his second Slam victory, the player of all often referred to as can partly be responsible for the of US Pro-Tennis in the global standings. (wc: 466) and USTA, 2015, www.usta.com/About-USTA/USTA-Awards/grants/. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. The USTA identifies as the single most significant hurtle preventing multicultural player from accessing the sport of tennis in the US. In 2015, the USTA introduced the Multicultural Grants Program offering grants not just to community organizations to boost equal tennis participation among young aspiring athletes, but to individual players that will grow the sport in the US. Diversity and inclusion grants have been the most improved sources of financial assistance for high performance players focused on not just growing the sport of tennis, but on representing the US in the professional platform. The High-Performance Grants program has experienced tremendous advancements to enable a tennis ability and to further their college careers, awarding very generous lump sums of up to $6000 for a single player in a fiscal year. Regional chapters have been designated to manage funds concerning individual development and ensure proper allocation of funds. However, other grants such as USTA Equipment and Facilities Program and the USTA Professional Coaching Development are not as competitive Vega 10 and the diversity and inclusion grants. The application process of the Equipment and Facilities grants is very rigorous because it requires a detailed review of the administrative and financial aspect, as well as the long-term goals and established programs of the organizations applying for funds. The USTA recommends the Facilities Grants of up to $10000 are used for maintaining and purchasing equipment for established youth tennis programs, such as Quick Start, and specifically deters the use of these funds on the building of real-clay courts, because of the high cost involved. Arguably, the most criticized USTA grants program is the Professional Coaching Development grant. USTA funding for certified tennis professionals is weak, due to the basic and easy certification process sponsored by the governing professional tennis teaching organizations, the United States Professional Tennis Association (USPTA) and Professional Tennis Registry (PTR). Basically, anyone with internet access, time and will to complete the online program gets certified to coach tennis. Unfortunately, two of the most important faces of US tennis that need considerable improvement, coaching professionals and building more clay-courts go mostly unfunded. The USTA dedicates a detailed section online to the description of the many available funding opportunities for individual tennis players, coaching professionals and organizations that promote and develop the growth of the sport of tennis in the US. This is a very credible source as the information published here has the backing of the governing body of tennis in the US. The USTA has provided tremendous assistance to developing young athletes who are interested in joining the tennis pro-circuit, which helps the much-needed sponsorship support of US Pro-Tennis. However, USTA Vega 11 has fallen short in helping improve the certification rigor of coaching professionals, as well as the building of clay-court training facilities. The of US Pro- Tennis standings in the sports global arena has been associated with the lack of clay-court training and the inability of US coaches to train elite players on the slow-pace surface. This is a huge problem for American male pro-players because without that knowledge we fail to be as competitive as our European counterparts, which deflects American confidence and moral. (wc: 510)