Terry 1 Taquon Terry Hannah Lay February 12, 2017 ENC 1102 The GMO Debate For many years, people have tried to determine whether Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) should be put out of production due to potential harms on human health. There are many organizations with biased opinions as to why these modified crops are or are not dangerous. The most known company in supporting the continued production of GMOs is the company Monsanto. This group works closely with the FDA to assure that each of their GMO seeds are safe for consumers. While this organization and many other producers are in favor of GMOs, there are still those who are against it. The organization GMO specifically aimed at either having GMOs put out of production, is an organization who believes that Monsanto is responsible for the within GMOs. Although Monsanto and many other producers believe that GMOs are not harmful and they should continue to be produced, many anti-GMO organizations such as the GMO believe they should be banned for health and safety reasons. Even with so many differences between these two organizations, they do however have something in common: they know for sure whether GMOs are safe in the long run. In order for the tension between these two stakeholders to boil down, they should consider informing consumers more about GMOs and have them labeled so that consumers have a choice when purchasing their groceries. Terry 2 Monsanto, established in 1901, is a company that works closely with farmers all around the world helping to create more sustainable agriculture. They strive to produce more efficient harvests in order to make balanced meals more accessible to families in need (Monsanto). They do so by providing farmers with plant seeds that have undergone which is the process of transferring genes with dominant survival traits into vegetable or fruit plants (Monsanto). These types of plants are what most would call Genetically Modified Organisms or GMOs for short. Knowing that many people are averse to the thought of consuming such products, Monsanto has been working closely with many regulatory agencies to ensure safety among consumers. Most commonly, it is the Food and Drug Administration who tests and reviews the products of Monsanto. As stated on their website, Monsanto.com, each of their seeds undergo many years of testing and harsh approval processes. According to Monsanto: seeds have been tested more than any other crop in the history of no evidence of harm to humans, animals or the In the article modified (GM) crops: milestones and new advances in crop written by Ayushi Kamthan, she states that crops can help fight malnutrition due to enhanced yield, nutritional quality and increased resistance to various biotic and abiotic (Kamthan et. al, 1). With so many proposed environmental benefits and research on health effects, it is a wonder why many people still reject GMOs. Many consumers, mostly those who eat organic, detest the fact that GMOs are being sold. There are also those who have no idea what GMOs are and continue to purchase goods without knowing what putting into their bodies. This is why the organization GMO stepped up to the plate. This organization was established in 2007 with its mission being Terry 3 to preserve and build upon non GMO goods, and educate consumers on how to make smarter choices when purchasing goods. Labeling also plays a significant role in this organization going against these modified goods. As mentioned on their website, 64 countries around the world require that GMOs be labeled, however it is not required in the United States (Most Trusted Seal). Within the website, it states that the absence of mandatory labeling, the Non-GMO Project was created to give consumers the informed choice they (Most Trusted Seal). They not only believe that GMOs are harmful to consumers in general but to our environment also. It is stated on their website that crops are responsible for the emergence of herbicide resistant and which can only be killed with more toxic This stakeholder mentions to its readers that GMOs should be restricted because they have only been tested by the corporations that produced them and are making profits from their sale. Through outreach programs and marketing support to other anti-GMO companies, the Non GMO Project has become the market leader in GMO avoidance. Also, this organization has come up with a standard in hopes of assisting farmers and manufacturers on avoiding GMO contamination within their products. They do so by informing them on certain methodology, and teaching them how to test for high-risk ingredients. The standard aims to reduce the amount of genetically modified crops worldwide (Most Trusted Seal). In the journal article project prohibits synthetic it states that the standard set by this organization ensures that derived from synthetic biology will not be allowed in the more than 33,000 products that are verified by the Non-GMO (Non-GMO). Although these two stakeholders have opposing views on whether GMOs should be allowed, they do share one thing in common: neither of them know for sure whether GMOs are Terry 4 safe or harmful for humans in the long run. According to both Monsanto and the Non GMO Project, there have been no epidemiological studies investigating the potential effects of GMO food on human health. In other words, there have been no studies investigating the health of GMO foods amongst different populations. Another area where these two stakeholders share similar views is on the public safety and support of the consumers. Although they propose going about it differently, each company lives off of striving to help provide consumers with cheaper, healthier foods and a cleaner environment. Monsanto does so by providing farmers with the GM seeds that they believe are not harmful to consumers or to the environment. This ultimately leads to goal of making balanced meals more accessible to families in need because farmers are able to produce more. On the other hand, the Non GMO Project goes about it by producing their own products GMO free and informing the public on the dangers of GMOs. To keep each stakeholder from bumping heads with one another, they need to meet in the middle and come up with a compromise. A suitable suggestion would be to inform consumers more about what GMOs are, how they are produced and have them labeled so that the consumer has the choice on whether to buy or not to buy GMO products. In the small article now touts pro-GMO Mark Lynas states that say they are for choice, and if consumers have a choice, then activists fight (Blake). He believes that labeling and giving the consumers the choice will eliminate fears when purchasing goods (Blake). Relating to that in the article of Knowledge on Attitude Formation and Change Toward Genetically Modified authors state that consumer attitudes toward GMOs may be triggered due to lack of information, which leads to uncertainties pertaining to GMO technology (Zhu & Xie, 1). As mentioned in the Non GMO mission statement, Terry 5 they believe that consumers have a right to know what is in their food. Based on website, their pledge is to respect the concerns of their customers and consumers. Therefore, if both stakeholders came to a mutual agreement on the suggested compromise, then I think that the tension between the opposing sides will die down because the consumers will begin to have a choice of what they put in their bodies rather than going in blind. In conclusion, the GMO debate is one that has quietly snuck its way into the lives of many. It is one that has been overlooked by many because no one really knows if it is potentially harmful in the long run. Monsanto, leading producer of GMO seeds believes that these seeds should continue to be produced because each of their products have been tested to ensure safety, and it is very beneficial to the crops of farmers. However, many non supporters such as the Non GMO Project, believe that GMOs should stop being produced because they could be harming consumers and they are bad for the environment. Even with both stakeholders on opposite sides of this issue, they both had something in common: neither of them know for sure whether GMOs are safe or harmful for humans in the long run and they are both concerned with the public safety and support of consumers. By meeting in the middle, informing consumers more about GMOs and having GMOs labeled, consumers will have the choice and the debate can be silenced once and for all. Terry 6 Works Cited Blake, Cary. Ex-Environmentalist Now Touts Pro-GMO Crops,  Farm Press 38.3 (2016): 4. Reference Bank (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 8 Feb. 2017. Kamthan, Ayushi, et al. Genetically Modified (GM) Crops: Milestones And New Advances In Crop  And Applied Genetics 9 (2016): 1639. OneFile . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Non-GMO project prohibits synthetic  World 2016: 19. OneFile . Web. 8 Feb. 2017.  Sustainable Agriculture Company . Monsanto, 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  NonGMO Project . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zhu, Xiaoqin, and Xiaofei Xie. Effects Of Knowledge On Attitude Formation And Change Toward Genetically Modified  Analysis 5 (2015): 790. OneFile . Web. 12 Feb. 2017.