Ferguson 1 Nate Ferguson Professor Lay ENC 1102 12 February, 2017 Doctors vs. Athletes: The Debate on the Dangers of Football Football is most popular game, yet there is an ongoing controversy on whether or not it is safe. Doctors believe that football is a dangerous game and that there are serious health consequences associated with it. Football players and others passionate about the game argue that new rules, regulations and developments in new technology and helmets have made the game safer. A compromise to this controversial issue would be to perform yearly exams on athletes as well as their equipment. These exams would increase the safety of the equipment and put the concerns to rest that football safe. Doctors believe that football is an unsafe sport because of the health problems they have both short term and long term. Dr. Guskiewicz quoted likelihood of serious squeal may increase with repeated head 2003). From this article their study proved that players with a history of concussions are likely to have delayed health effects in the future than those with no history. Doctors are also concerned about how many concussions one player may get just in one season. A study found out that in 15 players with a concussion may have additional concussions in the same playing season; and previous concussions may be associated with slower recovery of neurological (Krabak, 2007). Doctors have tied the history of previous, and untreated concussions to long-term health problems. found that concussions that are ignored get worse, and cause other problems in the future. A big reason why doctors Ferguson 2 believes this happens is because when athletes do get a concussion they go through the right protocol, or they get the right amount of recovery time before returning. Doctors believe that it some people applied simple common sense when they think somebody is concussed then that will reduce the chance of issues and injuries in the future. On the other hand Athletes believe that football is not more dangerous than other sports. Rules have been changed to help keep players safer. Additionally, better helmets are being developed and new technology is being made to prevent injury and make sure every athlete is safe. Rule changes that prohibit chop blocks and the horse collar tackle, which include grabbing the jersey at the nameplate or above and pulling a runner towards the ground, have been implemented recently (Play Smart, Play Safe). Rules such as these focus on limiting aggressive contact, especially near vulnerable parts of the body. From the first day football players have put pads on the equipment has been getting better as the years go on. the past 90-plus years, helmets have evolved from soft leather that offered minimal protection to polycarbonate shells with advanced suspension and cushioning (Health & Safety from NFL football operations.) It seems like as the years go on the game of football gets safer. The reason that being as we proceed into the future they find new protocols and new technology that makes the game safer. A compromise between these two sides is essential to end the debate on weather or not football is a safe sport. Stephanie Bonjn, who works with the NFL nurses, came up with the idea of wearable sensors on helmets that can measure head impact frequency and magnitude in football players. She stated that goal was to quantify the impact detection rate and validity of the direction and peak kinematics of two wearable sensors: Ferguson 3 a helmet system (HITS) and a mouth guard system (Bonjn, 2016). This new technology will make it easier for doctors to know if somebody has had a hard head-on- head collision. Instead of relying on the player to say that okay, the doctors can just check the sensors on the helmet and determine the severity of the collision. This can prevent further contact and injury. This allows doctors to perform yearly exams on athletes, by going back and looking at the sensors and the impacts of the hits. This also will make them exam every helmet being worn after and before every game. Along with this compromise, more strict regulations and therapy on those who have had a concussion previously can help prevent long-term brain damage. In the end its up to the player to make the sport safe. If the proper rules and protocols are followed and if the player seeks treatment immediately, the health consequences of concussions will be minimum. Doctors and football players can find a common ground by understanding that football can be a dangerous sport. However, improved technology and rules about the sport continue to make the sport safer. Involving more doctors and continuing research ways to safely play the sport while keeping it fun, can relive the worries of both sides of the argument. Ferguson 4 Work Cited: Guskiewicz, Kevin M., et al. Cumulative Effects Associated With Recurrent Concussion In Collegiate Football Players: The NCAA Concussion  JAMA: Journal Of The American Medical Association 290.19 (2003): 2549. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Jim, and Rules Changes: Eliminated the Three-Man  NFL Play Smart, Play Safe. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Krabak, Brian J.1, et al. Recurrent Concusions -  Medicine & Science In Sports & Exercise 39.(2007): S109. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Siegmund, Gunter P., et al. Laboratory Validation Of Two Wearable Sensor Systems For Measuring Head Impact Severity In Football  Annals Of Biomedical Engineering 4 (2016): 1257. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Health & Safety NFL Football Operations. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.