XU 1 LEI XU ENC 1102 Ms. Hannah Lay 12 February 2017 Accountability of non-profit Charity Nowadays, charity organizations are becoming a hot debate among society. The original purpose of a charity organization is to help people with difficulties. However, as charity organizations turn into more general and large currently, many fraud activities start to appear. Non-profit organizations have always been working for people with the disadvantage. Organizations like UNICEF, states on its official website that their mission is to protect children with most disadvantage and work with others to overcome the obstacles that poverty, violence, disease and discrimination place in a UNICEF ). In the article Creating Philanthropic Foundations to Deal With Grief: Case Studies of Bereaved Parents, Kelly R. Rossetto claims: Healing is a nondenominational faith-based support group that began in this organization offers mothers with grief experience an opportunity to help others with same experience in order to make their life meaning ful again (533). However, In the article Fraud and Corruption in U.S. Nonprofit Entities: A Summary of Press Reports 2008-2011, Deborah S. Archambeault1, Sarah Webber1, and Janet Greenlee states that fraud occurs highly in business and non-profit organizations, Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) estimates in its most recent fraud study, covering for-profit and nonprofit organizations, that the typical organization loses 5% of its revenues to fraud each (qtd. in ACFE, 2014). People donate their money and love to the charity organization but in some case, subscribers can not know how their money was used in. Because fraud activities appear in many non-profit charity organizations. Thus charity XU 2 organizations should open their financial statement to the public, let people know where their money be used in. In the meantime, the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners should provide useful advice to the public in order to improve awareness of people and help them to choose normative charity organizations. UNICEF is a non-profit organization which aims to assist the children, and people with disadvantages. This organization appeals to people join them and make a contribution to the society, such as help children who live under the bad environment or suffering in violence. Especially this organization helps helpless children regardless of national boundaries: works in 190 countries and territories to protect the rights of every UNICEF ). Not only did UNICEF set up donation activities, they also provide a chance for people to volunteer with them and share their stories and created a social platform on the social medias, so that people can speak out their own voice and see what this organization did. Moreover, Moms Healing is another type of non-profit charity organization. This organization is different from UNICEF. Instead of money donation, this organization suffering in the grief of losing their child provides a platform to share stories and help another mother who has same grief experience to come through the pain. One mother who joined in this organization said: brings back that pain, but yet, at the same time willing to do that if it helps somebody else. So, changed a lot of my (Rossetto 534). Some non-profit charity organizations involve donation and not. However, they both provides the opportunity for people to join them and work together to help people who are suffering currently. On the other hand, an association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) is different from XU 3 the non-profit organization in some areas. Since the target of ACFE organization is to reveal the dark side and investigate fraud activities in charity organizations, nonprofit sector is particularly sensitive to the negative effects of fraud. In terms of fraud exposure, many nonprofits lack sophisticated internal (qtd. in SOX; Spillan & Ziemnowicz, 2011). Here are some examples of corrupt charity organization resulted by fraud activities. In the article 50 Worst Charities in America: Tax Records Show Most Profits Go To Solicitors, author Rebecka Schumann listed: The total donation received by Wish was $127.8 million, and this solicitor profits are $109.8 million, Fund of organization received donations of $98.0 million and its solicitor profits was $80.4 million (Schumann). Thus in view, there is high chance fraud activities exist in non-profit charity organizations. Even though these two organizations seems opposite to each other in some area, both of them still share common ground since they both agree to help people with difficulties. Since the goal of the nonprofit charity organization is to help people with disadvantage, and the mission of ACFE is to detect fraud in order to reduce fraud rate. They can both work together to allow more people could receive the help. However, except big non-profit charity organization like UNICEF, and volunteering charity organization like Mom Heling. There are still have a big number of small non-profit organizations exist in the society, the trust is a critical issue for charities and for the entire nonprofit sector. Charities rely on the trust to survive and to accomplish their charitable (qtd. in Bryce, 2007; Gaskin, 1999; Sargeant & Lee, 2004). Charity organizations need to earn back their reputation and build a good reputation for themselves by providing information to prove XU 4 themselves as trustable negative reputational effects of a scandal involving a nonprofit organization can negatively impact future (qtd. in Petrovits, Shakespeare, & Shih, 2011; Prakash & Gugerty, 2010). They should advertise their goals, and some detailed information to let people know what they are doing and where they use the money. They should write and make a video to improve awareness of the public about how to justify normative charity and corrupt charity. The ACEF organization could choose to work with normative charity organizations to get more information and do more survey in order to gain useful information to detect fraud activities in charity organizations. All in all, even though ACFE and UNICEF have differences and contradictions, both of them have the same objective which is to help people with difficulties. Although there are fraud activities exist in some non-profit charities, still have the non-profit organization like UNICEF and Healing are focusing on help people. Non-profit normative charity organizations should work together with an organization like ACEF to fight against those fraud activities. And enrich knowledge about charity organizations in order to help them make the right decision when they intend to donate. In this way, both of stockholders could achieve their common goal, which is to allow people with disadvantage could really to get help from charity organizations. XU 5 Works Cited Archambeault, Deborah S., Sarah Webber, and Janet Greenlee. Fraud And Corruption In U.S. Nonprofit  Nonprofit & Voluntary Sector Quarterly 44.6 (2015): 1194. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bourassa, Maureen A., and Abbey C. Stang. Knowledge Is Power: Why Public Knowledge Matters To  International Journal Of Nonprofit & Voluntary Sector Marketing 21.1 (2016): 13-30. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Rossetto, Kelly R. Creating Philanthropic Foundations To Deal With Grief: Case Studies Of Bereaved  Death Studies 38.8 (2014): 531-537. Academic Search Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Schumann, Rebecka. 50 Worst Charities in America: Tax Records Show Most Profits Go To Solicitors [FULL  International Business Times. N.p., 05 Dec. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. UNICEF  Home UNICEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.