Kelsey Lay Lay 1 Instructor: Emil Smith Composition 1101/002 February 18, 2017 Adderall and the College Student Adderall is a combination of and dextroamphetamine which are central nervous system stimulants that affect chemicals in the brain and nerves that contribute to hyperactivity and impulse Psychiatrists prescribe this drug to treat people with Attention Deficit Disorder with or without hyperactivity (ADHD or ADD). These conditions make a person either unable to focus or unable to control their impulses. It is prescribed to over 2.5 million people in the United States each year. As this may be an alarming number of people who use Adderall, the number of people who use Adderall and do not need it is alarmingly higher. The most common abusers are college students. Students who are prescribed Adderall can make a profit by selling their unused drugs to other college students who have not been diagnosed with ADD or ADHD. College students especially around final exam time seek these pills to help them study and pull all-nighters to get end of the year projects done. Other students who are normally shy want to use the pills because they feel they make them more talkative and likeable amongst their fellow students. These students do not feel they are doing anything wrong taking these pills and feel invisible against any potential harm. Is Adderall and its illegal use on college campuses in the United States harmful to the students and considered cheating? Lay 2 Aberg, Simon Essig. Study  abuse by college students: What you need to  2016. National Center for Health Research. Web. 23 January 2017. This article Abuse by College Students: What You Need to is a current document that talks about Adderall, why this drug is so popular amongst college students and how easy the drug is to get whether prescribed or not. The article states that 2.5 million people are prescribed Adderall yearly. However, many students use this for non-medical reasons without having a prescription. In the last ten years manufacturing of stimulant drugs has increased by nine million percent. A survey conducted by the FDA of more than 10,000 college students who were prescribed Adderall across the United States showed more than half had been approached by fellow classmates wanting to purchase the drug. In a survey by the Society for the Study of Addiction they found that out of 10,000 college students nationwide 7% had abused the The vast proportion of student who have used the drug without a prescription tend to be white, belong to a sorority or fraternity, and have less than a B average. The article goes on to tell how college students justify taking the drug illegally. Students do not feel guilty about taking the drug because they do not feel they are doing any harm to themselves and they are just using it as a study aid. They are helping themselves and their behaviors while also helping a fellow student make money who may be short on cash. The article goes on to explain the possible dangers of the drug and how it can affect someone who is not diagnosed with ADD/ADHD. The drug can cause insomnia, weight loss, gastrointestinal problems, blurred vision, increased body temperature, increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, reduced circulation, and irritability. In extreme cases, students who already have a heart condition, it can cause hallucinations, cardiac arrest, and death. Lay 3 This article is related to the research topic because it explains the overuse and dangers of Adderall by college students. It gives statistics that were obtained by research and sample study groups by the author on several different college campuses. It also has research to back up his claim on the dangers of the drug for someone who is not prescribed the medication. This source is credible because it is sanctioned by the National Center for Health Research and all claims had to be verified before it was published. The article contains statistics and certified research on the subject. Nauert, Rick, PhD. Use of ADHD Meds as Study  2 May 2014. PsychCentral. Web. 23 January 2017. The article of ADHD Meds as Study discusses the use of Adderall amongst college students and whether it is ethical or just another form of cheating. It looks at highly selective colleges such as Yale and Harvard and surveys students as to whether their illegal use of Adderall is cheating. It also breaks down its research as far as which year of study the drug is misused the most and for what reasons students at Ivy League schools take the drug. It also performed a study and found that it is most illegally used by athletes and Greek society members. It also discusses what schools are doing to stop this problem on campuses. The author also conducts surveys of students who take the drug illegally along with those who take it legally, asking them if they feel it is ethical to take Adderall without a prescription. This article is relevant to the topic because it statistically describes the use of Adderall in highly competitive colleges and discusses how students view taking the drug without a prescription. It has statistics and studies to back up the stated information. This article is credible because it was performed by a well-known psychologist who has numerous years of education Lay 4 and experience in this area. The article is also approved and sanctioned by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Kroutil, Larry A., et al. Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants in The United  Drug and Alcohol Dependence 84 (2006): 135-143. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The journal article Use of Prescription Stimulants in the United details the demographics of the abuser of Adderall. The author breaks down statistically what types of students are more likely to misuse the drug without a prescription or by a student who falsely obtains a prescription. He also further categorizes misuse by age groups and race. The data is from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health. In 2005 the most prevalent misuse was by those aged 12-25 and those white. Ten percent of those fit the criteria for dependence. The National Survey on Drug Use and Health have estimated over 21 million Americans over the age of 12 have used a nonprescribed stimulant at least once in their life. Of those 21 million 7.3 million reporting misusing ADHD stimulants, which represents 34.7 percent of all lifetime stimulant abusers. It was further reported that 2.6% of persons aged 12-17 years old and 5.9% of persons aged 18-25 have ever misused ADHD stimulants. An overwhelming amount were This study was based on in home interviews in all 50 states including the District of Columbia. The NSDUH conducted this survey in all neighborhoods, rich, poverty stricken, predominately white or black, and homeless. Those interviewed were 12 and older. The author also gives documented cases that show that side effects that have been caused by the overuse of this drug when it is used by individuals who do not truly have a chemical imbalance and have ADD or ADHD. In 2005, the Federal Food and Drug Administration issued an advisory that the drug has caused sudden unexplained deaths of young taking Adderall. It has been shown that the drug can cause psychiatric or cardiovascular harm. Lay 5 This journal article is relevant to the research question because it gives verified statistics that show the classes of people misusing the drug and shows the demographics including age, race, and college students. It confirms that most overuse of Adderall is by college students. It further gives data that outlines the risks associated with taking Adderall for a prolonged amount of time. This article is credible as it was found in the University of South Florida library research database. The statistics in the article were verified and confirmed by the National Survey on Drug Use and Health. The statistics and article were both peer reviewed. Fenton, Ann P., and John M. Wunderlich. Mental doping: the untold story of modern law school  Student Lawyer 2010: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The article doping: the untold story of modern law goes in depth on the overuse of Adderall on college students who take Adderall as an aid to take college exams and law school entrance exams. The article explains the benefits of taking Adderall and outlines the risks. Adderall benefits the student by allowing them to have greater focus and concentration on the subject matter. Students try to gain an advantage by As far as risks, students who have taken the drug illegally some have been reported to develop social intolerance, psychological dependence, and severe social disabilities. Abuse of Adderall can also lead to other serious health risks. The Food and Drug Administration has warned users that improper use of Adderall can cause risk of high blood pressure, heart rate irregularities, increased risk for stroke and heart attack, and mania. The study group for this statistical analysis by the author was students preparing for the law school entrance exam and those in law school. The author goes on to explain his view on whether the taking of these stimulants to increase performance are ethical and morally right. He makes the comparison someone abuses Adderall, it is like allowing some students to take Lay 6 a math test with a calculator while others must go On the other hand, if a student is prescribed the medication and truly has ADHD/ADD he equates that to used is like a person with poor vision wearing glasses so they can see the ball as clearly as someone with 20/20 abuse usurps the accommodation provided to those with real disabilities, thus denying them an equal playing The taking of Adderall unethical. It creates an unfair advantage and causes the abuser to illegally obtain the drug which makes it immoral. This is a valuable article to the research as it looks at Adderall and use from a legal standpoint. It states case law on using a stimulant drug such as Adderall to assist in taking tests and whether it should be legal or illegal. This article and research will help in determining if the use of Adderall without a documented illness by college students should be considered cheating and unethical. This article is credible as it was taken from the University of South Florida library research database. The study outlined in the article was performed by law students and overseen by legal experts. Data was collected from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration. Goodman, John. Enhancement, Cheating, and Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal. 2012(2010): 145. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The journal article Enhancement, Cheating, and has in-depth research about whether the taking of Adderall is truly defined as cheating or ethically immoral when used to focus on tests or assignments and to stay awake to study for tests. In a survey of college students across the United States, performed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Resources (2009), they found that there were twice as many full-time college students abusing the drug then their same age counterparts who were not full time students. The author Lay 7 gives in-depth analysis on different situations and outcomes and then gives the reader a statistically analyzed perspective on whether the use of non-prescribed Adderall is an aid or is an ethically immoral form of cheating. The author gives examples of the drug use for cognitive enhancements and measures whether it should be considered cheating. He measures cheating as someone an unfair He equates the use of Adderall to an Olympic athlete using a performance enhancing drug. If an Olympic athlete is given a performance enhancing drug it improves his chances of winning against another athlete who had not taking the drug. He measures this against a student who takes Adderall illegally and one that does not take the drug. The student taking the drug increases their chances of doing better on exams than one that does not take the drug. This creates an unfair playing field so this would be considered cheating. The author gives examples of the drug use for cognitive enhancements and measures whether it is cheating. This article is related to the research topic because it gives various standards one should evaluate when determining whether the taking of Adderall is ethical, especially in college to help focus. The author examines different situations where college students take Adderall and shows scientific data on the outcomes with and without taking the drug. This article is related to the topic because it helps to answer the question on whether taking Adderall is ethical by determining if it is really a form of cheating. This article is peer reviewed by various psychologists from John Hopkins University. Another evaluator was a study group made of college students from various areas of the United States. The article was found on the University of South Florida library resource website. Lay 8 Gomes, Jennifer, Tammy Song, Lynn Goodwin, and Paul J. Toriello. Stimulant Abuse on University Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment 21.7 (2011): 822-33. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The article Stimulant Abuse on University discusses how the abuse of stimulant drugs such as Adderall have significantly risen over the last decade on American college campuses. The article contains statistical information to show what groups are most likely to use the drug without a prescription. In a survey in 2008 by the Drug Enforcement Agency the percentage of abuse of Adderall is between 4% and 22% and is the highest in colleges with Greek societies which is 35%. They also conducted a survey over the internet of college enrolled students (18-24) in 2004, which 2,502 individuals responded. The results showed the most likely abuser is Caucasian (74%), male (53%) and off campus housing (56%). Multiple other surveys were conducted throughout the United States and the FDA concluded that who attended colleges with competitive or highly competitive admissions criteria were two times more likely than students who attended less completive colleges to misuse the were two times more likely than women to report non-medical use and Caucasians were more likely than other races to report non-medical The authors analyze the purpose of college students taking the drug. The main purpose was to get They take Adderall to help them study for long periods of time and improve their concentration. The students also take them to increase alertness, stay awake longer, increase energy level, be more productive, and to focus. Students have also said they take the drug to improve sociability, suppress alcohol, heighten effects of alcohol, and simulate cocaine use. The article continues to explain the advantages of the possible ramifications and risks both health and legal wise. In 2007 the Federal Drug Administration required that all drug companies warn consumers of the risks associated Lay 9 with stimulant drugs. These risks include depression, heart problems, possibility of stroke, weight loss, and high blood pressure. They were also required to inform consumers that the mixing of these drugs with alcohol could prove deadly. The author explained that if caught both the seller and buyer could be prosecuted as the drug must be prescribed by a licensed psychiatrist or physician and must be taken by only the person the drug is prescribed to by the doctor. This article is very important to the research question because it gives verifiable statistics that will help to answer the question on whether the use of Adderall is out of control on college campuses. The authors have gathered their data by sending surveys to students on campuses from all areas of the United States. These surveys are completed and sent back anonymously so that students can give honest answers. It is also a very valuable article in determining the answer to the question on whether the advantages of taking the drug outweighs the risks. This article is credible as it is verified as valid by the University of South Florida library resource department. The authors are affiliated with the School of Social Work at East Carolina University and the Department of Addictions at East Carolina University.