Echeverria, !1 Javier Echeverria Emil Smith Composition I January 29th , 2017 Ethical Debates of the use of Genetic Engineering Since the Nazi regime, genetic engineering has been a controversial topic due to its ties with eugenics which was prominent during that period of time. Following the Second World War, this science had a relatively quiet period but experienced a resurgence in the when researches saw the benefits of modifying the human genome. Soon scientists possessed the capability to eradicate genetic diseases in human embryos that could present harm during the lifetime. Currently, one of the main purposes of genetic engineering is the implementation of specific genes from some species to other to enhance their capabilities. One example is the implementation of a bioluminescent gene in trees with the intent of conducting them to glare at night thus reducing the use of electricity to illuminate certain areas. Despite the benefits that genetic engineering presents, there still exists arguments that question the use of this science. Many of these arguments question how the modification of the human genome can affect a human throughout their life time. Other concerns come from an ethical standpoint questioning what authority do humans have to interfere with the natural state of species. This leads many to consider if the use of genetic engineering for the treatment of genetic diseases and interchange of genetics between species is safe and ethical? Echeverria, !2 Gleen, Linda MacDonald. Ethical Issues in Genetic Engineering and  ActionBioscience - promoting bioscience literacy. American Institute of Biological Sciences, Nov. 2013. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.actionbioscience.org/ biotechnology/glenn.html>. Genetic engineering is defined as the use of techniques to modify an genetic make up. This usually occurs by removing genetic material from an organism to add it to another. This is largely due to the similar genetic sequences that exists in all species, in return, the transgenic organism can adopt the new genetic material with no problem. Currently in the field of genetic engineering, many developments to further the practice. In one instance, a subdivision of the topic called transgenics, allows scientist to develop organisms that have genes not found in the species. A popular development occurring in this field is the plant Here, scientists implant a gene from a firefly into a houseplant which creates plants that provide a soft illumination in the darkness. One of the goals is to create trees that could glow in the dark, providing light to streets and pathways and thereby saving energy. Other areas being developed include genetic manipulation of stem cells by growing tissue with a 3-D printer. Despite the many benefits of genetic engineering, there exists many ethical issues associated with it. Some social concerns include questions such as will have access to these technologies and how will scarce as medical advances and novel treatments be One popular ethical debate is the concern of species boundaries. There are many Echeverria, !3 controversies associated with genetic manipulation of species. Many people believe that it is immoral, against the laws of nature and that species boundaries should be fixed and not intertwined. Others believe that these boundaries are just boundaries placed by humans where in actuality many species mate with other species creating hybrids in many cases. Despite this, there exists several known risks associated with the transplantation of cells or organs from animals to humans for medical reasons.. For example, there is a small but significant risk of the transmission of usually fatal zoonotic diseases, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (aka cow The article Ethical Issues in Genetic Engineering and Transgenics by Linda McDonald Glenn, addresses all the different perspectives in the debate about genetic engineering. This article relates to the research question because the author discusses the ethics associated with genetic engineering. Glenn mentions the arguments that stand on the premise that genetic engineering is beyond the authority of humans to interfere with nature. Throughout the article, it is easy to tell that the author contains expertise on the science of genetic engineering. This is attributable to the fact that she holds a Master of Laws degree in bioethics and a Masters in Clinical and Translational Research. Linda McDonald Glenn is also a bioethicist who has held faculty appointments at California State University and the Alden March Bioethics Institute at Albany Medical Center. She has also taught at the University of Vermont College of Nursing and Health Sciences, and the University of Sciences in Philadelphia, Department of Biomedical Writing. She is also a Fellow of the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies and a Bioethics Project Bioethics Project Scholar. Echeverria, !4 Sivapatham, Renuka. Ethical Implications of Human Genetic  SAGE. Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 19 Aug. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http:// sage.buckinstitute.org/ethical-implications-of-human-genetic-engineering-2/>. DNA editing techniques have been available for a few decades allowing scientist to understand gene functions and molecular pathways. Recently there have been many developments in the field of genetic engineering that has allowed a faster and more efficient way of modifying gnomes. Some of the techniques that allow this are either the Zing Finger Nucleases, Transcription activator-like effector nucleases and most recently the Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic repeats. The Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic repeats is the most recent of the techniques and offers the most advantages. One way it serves as a more advantageous procedure is the fact that it makes it easier to target a specific gene and it is often more proficient in generating the desired recombination results. Currently this techniques of genetic engineering are having so much success that human trials are currently being done in Human Laboratory in China. In the Human Laboratory, scientist were able to genetically modify embryos and remove a mutation that causes the blood disorder thalassaemia. Despite the positive effects, the use of these procedures is highly regulated in the United States. In one instance, the US National Institute of Health (NIH) director, Dr. Francis Collins, released a statement emphasizing the policy against funding research involving genome editing of human embryos and the ethical concerns regarding this technology. In regards Echeverria, !5 to the ethical concerns, it seems that the international committee has already agreed that the use of genetic engineering for the prevention of mutations and diseases in embryos is inevitable. The complications arise when this science is used for cosmetic reasons such as changing eye color or even enchanting some athletic traits. This is where skeptics ask are we to manipulate However, it so simple for people who suffer from these genetic diseases. If it is possible to prevent genetic diseases and create healthy humans, why not manipulate genes? The author is able to relate to the research question because she considers all the ethical issues associated with genetic engineering. In this specific article, Sivapatham provides ethical reasons for why we should encourage the use of genetic engineering. This is illustrated when she describes the help needed by those who suffer from genetic diseases such as muscle dystrophy. The author Renuka Sivapatham has great expertise in her field. She completed a Bachelors and Masters of Science in Molecular Biology from Aarhus University. She is currently completing her PhD at the University of Denmark and has published various peer reviewed scientific articles for organizations such as the PLoS One and and Stem Cells Reviews. Frewer, Lynn J., Chaya Howard, and Richard Shepherd. Public Concerns in the United Kingdom about General and Specific Applications of Genetic Engineering: Risk, Benefit, and  Science, Technology & Human Values 22.1 (2000): 98-124. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Echeverria, !6 The research paper Public Concerns in the United Kingdom about General and Specific Applications of Genetic Engineering: Risk, Benefit, and Ethics written by Lynn J. Frewer, Chaya Howard and Richard Shepard, investigates the terminology and reactions of respondents to different uses of genetic engineering. These uses vary from food related, agricultural and medical applications of genetic engineering. Once the respondents reacted to 15 different applications, then the results compared with those of a second study where fifteen more specific applications were used as stimuli. Finally the results were submitted to a Procrustes analysis which is a form of statistical analysis that is used to compare the results of surveys. It was revealed that applications that concerns animals of human genetic material were viewed with concerns involving the ethical nature of the applications. The genetic modification of plants on the other hand were viewed as beneficiary and at times a necessity for the progress of humanity. The study aforementioned research relates to the research question by discussing the ethics behind genetic engineering and how the public views different applications related to the use of genetic engineering. The researchers clearly show expertise in the areas concerning genetic engineering. Lynn J. Frewer is a professor at Newcastle University located in England. She has held positions such as head of IFR and has her research in topics such as the effects of genetic in agriculture. Chaya Howard who also participated in this research, graduated from the University of Reading and followed up to become a research scientist at the university for more than 10 years. Echeverria, !7 Rollin, Bernard E. The Perfect Engineering, Science, and  Science & Education 23.2 (2012): 509-17. Web. The research paper The Perfect Storm - Genetic Engineering, Science and Ethic by Bernard E. Rollin discusses the role of ethics in the field of genetic engineering.Throughout the paper, the author illustrates how uncertainty and conflicting ethics has been a major factor in the societal rejection of the modification of genetic materials in humans and other species of animals. Rollin describes the factors that have contributed to make what he calls prefect concerning ethics and biotechnology. This perfect storm is what he considers the main factors of societal rejection of genetic engineering. The factors include poor social understanding of ethics; a Law for Scientific Ideology; vested interests dominating ethical discussion. The author concludes the paper by discussing his beliefs on how to break the vicious cycle of ignorance on the topic of genetic engineering. His proposal is a significant educational thrust; by educating the public and eliminating false stigma, the general public will see the benefits and potential risks of genetic engineering. The research paper relates to the discussion of ethics in genetic engineering by discussing how such ethical discussion have impacted the progress of the field. It discusses not only how society perception of genetic engineering ha been warped but he also provides a solution to educate the general public. The author is credible due to his rigorous background in academics and research. Bernard Rollin s an American philosopher, currently professor of philosophy, animal sciences, and biomedical sciences at Colorado State University. He is also a notable alumni with a PhD Echeverria, !8 from Columbia University in New York City. In addition to numerous articles in the history of philosophy, philosophy of language, ethics and bioethics, he is the author of Natural and Conventional Meaning (1976), Animal Rights and Human Morality (1981, 1993 & 2006), The Unheeded Cry: Animal Consciousness, Animal Pain and Scientific Change (1988 &1998), Farm Animal Welfare (1995),The Frankenstein Syndrome (1995), Science and Ethics (2006), and Putting the Horse Before Descartes (2011). Sandel, Micheal J. The Case against Perfection: Ethics in the Age of Genetic Engineering, by Michael J.  Human Reproduction & Genetic Ethics 14.1 (2008): 39-40. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. In this book, author Micheal J. Sandel examines the ethical issues that surround genetic engineering. The author illustrates the potential that can occur once humanity becomes accustomed to genetically modifying humans. He is able to admit the potential benefits that the field offers but also realizes the potential problems of children being designed by parents to present aesthetic traits such as hair and eye color. The author also draws parallelisms between the old state-controlled eugenics programs such as those in Nazi Germany and the free market economy pressures on child production. One of biggest fears is the fact that within the possibility of genetic engineering, more blame can be placed by the future generations on the parents for not selecting traits that could allow them succeed. Sandel writes that a potential world, in which parents can specifying the sex and genetic traits of their children, would be a Echeverria, !9 world that is inhospitable to those who wont have access to the procedures. This would change the landscape of the world socially by creating classes based on genetic factors.. The book The Case against Perfection: Ethics in the Age of Genetic Engineering by Micheal J. Sandel relates to the research question by addressing the potential pitfalls that can serve as consequences associated to genetic engineering. Micheal J. Sanders has expertise in the topic of ethics behind genetic engineering due to his academic and professional career. He is a recognized American political philosopher and a political philosophy professor at Harvard University who also served on the George W. Bush Council on Bioethics. Gunderson, Martin. Human Rights, Dignity, and the Science of Genetic  Social Philosophy Today 22 (2006): 43-57. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In the text Human Rights, Dignity, and the Science of Genetic Engineering, Martin Gunderson discusses the turbulent history regarding the use of genetic engineering. The author illustrates how over the past decade, there have been various organizations that have called the banning of some procedures that modify the human genome due to violations in human rights and dignity. In return to such protests, organization such as Unesco established Article 11 of the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights which states that practices such as the cloning of the human genome is strictly forbidden. Another example of these bans placed is when the European Council took a strong stance by implanting an article that states genetic engineering can only be used used for therapeutic and diagnostic processes. Despite these restriction and bans, the author fails to understand why such bans are placed. He argues that they Echeverria, !10 fail to provide a rationale for such a ban. He argues that there are forms of germ-line and non- therapeutic engineering that are compatible with human rights. This article relates to my research question by discussing the ethical and moral consequences and reactions that have been caused by genetic engineering. The author illustrates this perfectly by depicting the call for the ban of genetic engineering due to potential human rights and dignity violations. The author is credible due to is his academic experience in the field of philosophy of human rights, ethics, healthcare. He is also a wrote peer reviewed articles such as Genetic Engineering and the Consent of Future  Journal of Evolution and Technology, and Enhancing Human Rights: How the Use of Human Rights Treaties to Prohibit Genetic Engineering Weakens Human  Journal of Evolution. Martin Gunderson is also a professor of philosophy of human rights, ethics and healthcare at Macalister College.