Rodriguez 1 Andrew Rodriguez Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 2-13-17 The Acceptance of Esports as an Official Sporting Event The concept of Electronic Sports or Esports has been around as long as video games themselves have. Video games have always fostered a sense of competition and comradery wherever they go. This concept can be seen as early as the classic arcade cabinet, people from all over the arcade would come just to watch two people battle it out for the highest score. As the games progressed so did the competitions. Soon, the home console would be introduced to the average gamer where the Internet would further foster this sense of competition. With the addition of the internet players could compare their scores with other gamers in the area. Furthermore, some games even began offering multiplayer capability where one player could connect with others over the internet. It is here, in the realm of multiplayer games, where the true concept of Esports was born. These kinds of games have become increasingly popular in society and often times have communities with over one million active players. These games are so large and competitive that they have developed an active pro gamer scene. Some of these games include the popular (Multiplayer Online Battle Arena) League of Legends, Dota 2 and, popular FPS (First Person Shooter), Counter Strike Global Offensive. These pro scenes include player contracts with salaries, organized teams, and organized events all over the world including a world championship. Often time these events are held in major sports arenas and Rodriguez 2 streamed in front of enormous crowds. All of these facts pose the question: At what point does Esports become an official sporting event? Tribbey, Chris. Watching People Playing: Game  Broadcasting & Cable 146.24 (2016) 12-13. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article discusses various Esports events that have been aired or sponsored by international companies such ESPN and Xfinity Comcast. In one example he references the agreement between the ESL (Electronic Sports League) and the Esports team Evil Geniuses. agreement has Xfinity as a brand sponsor during ESL broadcasts and tournaments, and will see Comcast supply training facilities with Gigabit Pro internet (Tribbey 12). Another instance of these agreements is between the European broadcaster Sky and the gaming company Ginx TV. This agreement would launch a 24 hour Esports channel covering many popular games. E-Sports TV, featuring major ESports tournaments from around the world, including coverage of ELeague, E-Sports Championship Series, and The International Dota (Tribbey 12). This article was written by Chris Tribbey as an informative piece of writing regarding the growth of Esports. Chris Tribbey is a member of the Broadcasting & Cable writers team and is an award winning journalist. He has more than 20 years of writing experience and has covered various topics extensively. C., T. Swanson: Esports An Opportunity For  Broadcasting & Cable 146.20 (2016):. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses an interview with the Vice President of the incredibly popular and amazon owned streaming platform known as Twitch. In the interview they asked him questions Rodriguez 3 regarding his platform and how he views Esports. More specifically they asked him about the statistics Twitch has released behind the Esports they show on the platform. To which he responded with fact that global is very interesting to me, and having it being pretty evenly distributed globally. Think about baseball, basketball, football, with few soccer, which is late coming to the professional party in the usually have a huge international (Swanson). Furthermore, his statistics show that the people watching games are not always the one playing them proving that Esports is not only a participatory sport but also a spectator sport. They also asked for his opinion regarding the people who do not believe Esports will ever take off. To which he responded the birth of a new entertainment experience, and we can argue all we want whether these guys are athletes in the physical sense, but they are high level, competitive experts in their field, and they play competitions for a lot of (Swanson). This article comes from a direct interview with the Vice President of Twitch, Andy Swanson. He has been an Esports evangelist for as long as his platform has existed, his streaming service provides the largest amount of content for gamers in the world. The interviewer goes by the initials C.T. and the source come from Broadcasting & Cable. Fuchs, Andreas. Let The Games  Film Journal International 110.10 (2007): 34-36. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article shows how even before the current boom of Esports people were seeking ways to put Esports on the big screen. This article gives four examples of various entertainment complexes that bring big level game play to the everyday gamer. One example they give is National Amusements in which the company promised to bring gaming up to a scale that no one has ever seen. They delivered by providing the complex 60 Alienware Area-51 7500 Rodriguez 4 personal computers powered by the Intel Core 2 Extreme processor, and the  in game consoles, headsets and 20-inch (51 cm) fast-response LCD flat-screen monitors, the designed- from-scratch area is certainly not your typical arcade. Even if they do not want to play themselves, visitors can view the action live on the oversized 110-inch (280 cm) digital projection system and plasma screens from a dining area that offers Pepsi products and features Doritos and Oberto Meat Snacks. CyGamZ also has dedicated party and meeting rooms with 32- inch (81-cm) LCD screens and complete Internet and business hook-ups. Most important, perhaps, is the choice of consoles that comprise a dozen of Xbox 360 and PlayStation 2 each, ten regular Xbox, two new Nintendo Wii and the corresponding 42-inch (107-cm) plasma screens for This enormous interest in a dedicated Esports facility was very rare at this time and furthermore, groundbreaking technology for everyday users. This article was written by Andreas Fulch; he uses the Film Journal International as his primary source. This article shows that interest for theater level Esports was shown as early as the Film Journal International is a popular cinema related magazine however, this periodical was written as a piece regarding Esports level of play on big screens like movie theaters. Technology: Get ready for sports to turn Unreal: Could we soon be tuning in to videogame tournaments rather than the big match? Some countries already  The Guardian (London, England) 2008: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article helps to give historical context to the rise of Esports in the UK with the example of one of the earliest Esports events. the labyrinthine infrastructure of this huge edifice, hidden away in a small suite on the fourth floor, 200 gamers have gathered to play Unreal Tournament 3, a hardcore first-person shooter where players run around huge Rodriguez 5 arenas, picking up weapons and blasting each other to bloody This event offered a prize pool of up to fifty thousand euros and took place in the famous Wembley Stadium. This tournament was the largest ever to take place in the UK and showed it what more could come from the UK Esports scene. This article also compares where the Esports communities of the USA and South Korea are at this time. In the USA there are already pro gaming circuits where players are on exclusive contracts with these circuits. At one point David Hill the president of Fox Sports at the time lost a bidding war for the rights to ESPN football footage for DirecTV. After losing this David said should go create the next great sports  recalls Andy Reif, CEO and commissioner of the CGS (Championship Gaming Series).  we help build this sport, own a piece of it - we be paying rights He immediately thought videogames. More and more people play every day, unlike traditional sports, which are struggling for participation. So we said, see if it can work for . Even this advanced Esports community was behind that of South Korea where pro Starcraft players, pro gamers of a popular real time strategy game, were superstars. These players were millionaires, constantly sought after by women and even some have their own clothing lines. This article was written by Keith Stuart as a newspaper article for The Guardian. This newspaper is a popular British daily paper. Keith Stuart is one of The Guardians main gaming editors, he has written about video games and technology for twenty years. The purpose of this article was to give historical context to the Esports pro scenes in the UK, USA, and in South Korea during 2008. Jacobs, Jana. WELCOME TO Esports: MORE THAN JUST A  Finweek (2016): 30-34. Business Source Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Rodriguez 6 This article helps to give good insight into how major league Esports athletes are treated in comparison to other athletes. This articles states that China, eSports is recognized by the General Administration of Sport, and players reside in gaming houses that are dedicated to training them. They have the best coaches, hand-eye co-ordination specialists, psychologists and agents at their This quotes goes to show how seriously Esports are taken in other countries, particularly Asian countries. South Korea arguably prioritizes Esports over physical sports. According to this article Korea has its own dedicated eSports stadiums, and in this country, like China, eSports players are akin to the Usain Bolts and Cristiano of the world. They attract audiences of millions and swim in massive prize This article also discusses the size of the various prize pools for high level Esports, specifically for games like DOTA 2 and CS: GO. Lastly, it covers the growth of Esports in South Africa and how the community for Esports is developing in that region. This article was written by Jana Jacobs as an article for Finweek magazine. This is one of South most popular business magazine. Jana Jacobs has been a long term journalist for Finweek, her articles cover many topics ranging from tech to business and politics. The purpose of this article was to give context to the professional treatment of Esports athletes in comparison to the athletes of physical sports. Furthermore, this article helps to illustrate the size of the prize pools of various Esports events. Electronic Sport and Its Impact On Future  Sport in Society 2 (2010): 287. SwePub. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article helps to discuss the argumentative differences that the media and public health have with Esports. This article states that good health and video games are opposing forces and that you cannot have both. The author states are often regarded as a virtue, Rodriguez 7 whereas computer gaming is looked upon as a This quote clearly shows the issue society has with gaming as a whole. Furthermore, the article seeks to discuss the qualities of Esports in comparison to the definition of a sport. The article does this through various questions regarding Esports and its future. This article was written by Kalle Jonasson and Jesper Thiborg. Both of the authors work in the department of sports studies at the University of Malmo in Sweden. This article was published as part of book called Sport in Society but was accessed through Taylor and Francis Online. This purpose of this article is to analyze the qualities of Esports relative to the definition of a sport. The article also discusses the potential future of Esports at the time period.