Kennedy 1 Victoria Kennedy Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 30 January 2017 As Religiosity Grows, Morals and Intelligence Decline The world has been controlled by religion from the beginning of civilized humanity. Humans have evolved drastically over millions of years, but only one thing has remained constant throughout its existence; religion and its malevolent, misogynistic, homophobic, racist, and ethnic cleansing properties. Christianity is simply a cloak of ignorance to protect the minds of the unaware, to reassure the malicious believes in insecurities and judgements of those who are different. People crave something to always be there in times of need. In the religions like Islam and Christianity served as the African American crutch in the civil rights movement, belittling the full potential and accomplishments of the individual. On the other hand, Christianity was used yet again as a mask to the evil acts committed by millions, especially by the KKK. The KKK used and manipulated Christian followers to spread hate and bigotry. Christianity mainly served to justify the maltreatment of African Americans and those who the group classified as a minority. This method of control continues to be used through many malicious organizations including Christian based cults and hatful church groups who discriminate against an endless variety of minorities. Masking their hate crimes as acts and servitude to god allowed these organizations to grow rapidly, spreading across the United States and especially in the poverty engulfed white communities. have been the fruits of Christianity? Pride and indolence in the clergy, ignorance and servility in the laity. In both; superstition, bigotry and Benjamin Franklin stated: way to see by faith is to shut the eye of Is sole purpose in life to serve as an alibi for bigotry and a brainwashing agent that promotes ignorance? In Negative Impact on Modern American Nicolas Baker discusses his encounters with Christian parents who home school their children and incorporate biblical scriptures instead of science. He states that prayer will almost always allow religious people to feel as though they are truly making an effort, without actually doing which is basic fact, he describes how this happened in multiple situations in his experience as a home schooling teacher. A child was unable to solve a mathematical problem and instead of doing the task, the parent told the child to to god and he will give you the According to the SERI all of the states to compete in a technology fair were blue states besides one red (republican) state, Indiana, which eventually turned blue in 2008. Anti-intellectualism has become an expected norm in Christian based communities and households and a great number of people will remain Christian today for no other reason than the social norms and pressures that made them Christian yesterday. Ignorance is praised in Christian communities who value education, especially science. The blinding of children from a young age with Christian theology ultimately leads to Kennedy 2 the decline in intellectual people in the community. The reliance on a divine being in place of action and responsibility is part of the decrease in morality across America. Nicholas Baker is a credible source due his time and experience with the topic of Christians in academic home schooling settings and has written an article in along with multiple other academic authors. BAKER, NICHOLAS M. Negative Impact on Modern American  Skeptic, vol. 20, no. 4, Dec. 2015, pp. 56-59. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN =111988510&site=eds-live In a study by Total criminal defense, tests and compares the religiosity and crime rates of each state in the united states. Identifies the states in which are the most religious (Utah, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia) and the states that are the least religious (Washington, Oregon, Nevada, Vermont, Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, district of Columbia). He then identifies the states the most peaceful states (Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Minnesota, North Dakota, Utah, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Iowa, Washington) and the least peaceful states (Louisiana, Tennessee, Nevada, Florida, Alabama, Texas, Arkansas, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Maryland). Out of these more than half of the states with higher crime rates were part of the top ten most religious states while more than half of the less religious states had more peace. There is an obvious correlation between religious affiliation and the volume of violent crimes. This study relates back to the morality of those who are religious. It is originally believed through stereotypes that those without religion are more likely to commit a crime or lack morality than an individual who is Christian is. Total criminal defense is a credible source due to official and educational values including the use of professionals of law. http://www.totalcriminaldefense.com/blog/2012/12/11/religion-and-crime-correlation-jzbdg/# http://www.totalcriminaldefense.com/criminal-rights/ In Ku Klux Klan, Conservative Politics and Religion: Taking Extremism to the Political The authors, Andrew Selepak and John Sutherland, discuss the relationship between the Ku Klux Klan and Christianity. They study the positive correlation involving white Christian conservatives and their acceptance of the values and beliefs. The growing branch of extremists are altering their messages and agendas to mimic Christian values and ultra-conservative politics ultimately justifying their organization as a pro-white, anti- immigration group who believes in conserving white culture and traditional ideology. project core values and ideology that align with more traditional, conservative, Christian beliefs, which taken as a whole, positions the Klan not as a racist hate group, but instead as pro-white organization. Kennedy 3 These efforts are blurring the line between extremist groups and rightwing politics. This in return attracted greater numbers in followers as the Klan would have previously been seen as the enemy in society but instead took on the shadow of a respectable Christian movement that was looking out for the interests of the white race. This can be inclusively be reflected to Nazi ideals and the removal of a specific population of people to produce a more pure race or society. Andrew Selepak is a credible source due to his multiple academic journals and articles involving the skinhead organization, the KKK, and the manufacturing of hate and white criminals. Selepak also has his with specialization in Social Media, this allows him to better understand social constructs and perform extensive research on the topic of white radical religious groups. Selepak, Andrew, and John Sutherland. Ku Klux Klan, Conservative Politics and Religion: Taking Extremism to the Political Politics, Religion & Ideology 13.1 (2012):75-98. Web In Side of Heaven: Race, Ethnicity, and Christian Alvaro Nieves and Robert Priest focus on the troubles Christian groups and churches have with the acceptance and changes required to diminish the historically traditional and conservative prejudges directed towards those of racial and ethnic minority with little success in the as well as the 6% rise in Christian hate group activities after September 11, 2001. Also discussed is the relationship with hate groups and their relationship with god, using it as a justification and empowerment method. like the Aryan Nations, Kingdom Identity Ministries, the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, Kinsman Redeemer Ministries, as well as various skinhead and neo-Nazi organizations, all invoke the name of God and vociferously proclaim, is on our For most of these radical groups, God is at the center, offering a virulent racist theology and a vigilante form of In Attempts to understand and alleviate the real plight of impoverished white racists can avoid the difficult questions of moral accountability or direct them to religious justifications. While the civil rights movement continued to escalate, threaten, and damage the social status and ego of the poor white class the Klan grew in numbers, this is because during the the segregation of those in rural isolation or in urban slums progressed causing the children in this area less likely to receive an education and therefore less likely to progress in life. Instead, they were ultimately trapped in poverty. As African Americans started to progress in the socioeconomic ladder, the poor white class clung to the only thing they had, whiteness and given This mentality gave way to the creation of many white supremacy Christian based hate groups. Robert J. Priest is a Professor of International Studies and a Professor of Mission and Anthropology with over nine years of experience. research interests have focused on race and ethnicity, short-term missions, moral discourse, witchcraft, preaching and culture, money and missions, religious conversion, and anthropology of religion. At Trinity he has worked closely with PhD students in Intercultural Studies, and has supervised more than 30 PhD dissertations in the last decade. He serves as vice president on the boards of both the American Society of Missiology and the Evangelical Missiological Dr. Nieves is also a sociology and anthropology professor, he has served this position for six years. Before becoming a professor at Wheaton College he was a Senior Research Scientist at Battelle, Pacific Northwest Kennedy 4 Laboratories in Richland, Washington. He has also written several research and journals about race, religion, ethnicity, and how the bible effects heritage. Nieves, Alvaro L., and Robert J. Priest. This Side Of Heaven: Race, Ethnicity, And Christian Faith. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Nieves, Alvaro L., and Robert J. Priest. This Side Of Heaven: Race, Ethnicity, And Christian Faith. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 9 Feb. 2017 like the Aryan Nations, Kingdom Identity Ministries, the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, Kinsman Redeemer Ministries, as well as various skinhead and neo-Nazi organizations, all invoke the name of God and vociferously proclaim, is on our For most of these radical groups, God is at the center, offering a virulent racist theology and a vigilante form of Using and abusing the Bible. In Existence of Religion as a Survival the author, Ken Cleaver, discusses the desire and need for religion in society. Cleaver makes the point that people cannot survive without religion. it serves as a reason to live, something to rely on and look forward to in a life that is purely existential. Without a transcendent force and symbolic structure there truly is no foreseeable hope in a universe controlled by entropy. This symbolic structure supplies the need for a purpose, a purpose that is predetermined by god who ultimately makes up for the of power or the disability of individuals or the community to handle Religion is a crutch for hopelessness, for guilt, for the powerful, and for the powerless. The power in which god possesses god, the individual. The individual and collective individuals have the power to do the acts that are mistaken for blessings and the work of an omnipotent being. This article can strongly justify the reliance of religion in the civil rights movement. While segregation and tension crippled America African Americans turned to religion, especially Christianity. Although Christianity helped the black community in a time of need, it belittles the power of an individual. People thank god for the changes in society during the civil rights movement when all of the protests, marches, sit ins, and speeches were all performed by people in the community. The power resides in the individual, not god. prayer will almost always allow religious people to feel as though they are truly making an effort without actually doing so. Choices were made and actions were performed by powerful people with the will to change their situation. The pro segregationists were just as active in their religion as the black community, believing god had made blacks and whites unequal and segregated as seen in the bible on multiple different occasions. Ken Cleaver earned his PhD in church history and theology, he has also been involved in church programs and organizations. He is experienced academically, through missionary, and through publications relating to the bible, slavery, and the labeling of religious groups being signified to as cults. CLEAVER, KEN. The Practical And Ethical Considerations In Labeling A Religious Group As A  Journal For The Study Of Religions & Ideologies 11.33 (2012): 164-181. Humanities Source. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Kennedy 5 In Free, Hateful, and Harmful Ronald Turner discusses the use of free speech to justify the open prejudice and discrimination against people of color, homosexuality, and how it is questionable under law due to its incitement to violence. Turner makes the point that understandings of the First Amendment presuppose that legal toleration of speech- related harm is the currency with which we as a society pay for First Amendment Referring to those who have the intent to cause harm to others and raises the question: is the currency of harm in concept and reality, and should we not be concerned that in certain contexts some members of an and society will pay a high, indeed too high, a price for the free-speech interests of Christian hate groups actively having to defend their rights of free speech and cautiously stay inside the boundaries of fine print to continue protesting show the conscious lack of logical morality in the slightest. The first amendment rights of those who preach and spread hate speech can lead to avoidable violence, racism, and prejudice by adding a more defined moral code or guide line, ultimately eliminating the spreading of groups like the KKK, Westboro Baptist church, Neo-Nazis, etc. (all Christian based organizations) The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all fiction: jealous and proud of it; a petty, unjust, unforgiving control-freak; a vindictive, bloodthirsty ethnic cleanser; a misogynistic, homophobic, racist, infanticidal, genocidal, filicidal, pestilential, megalomaniacal, sadomasochistic, capriciously malevolent  - Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion. This is not the god America should be under. Ronald Turner is an alumnae law center professor of law. primary areas of expertise are in the areas of labor, employment, and constitutional law. He teaches employment discrimination, labor law, torts, constitutional law, and a course on HIV/AIDS and the TURNER, RONALD. On Free, Harmful, And Hateful  Tennessee Law Review 82.(2015): 283. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 http://www.law.uh.edu/faculty/main.asp?PID=44