Jameson Karnes Dr. Oana Cimpaen English Composition 2 February 22, 2017 Project 2 Essay In modern America, gun control has become one of the most controversial topics in society. You either fall in the category of a gun nut or that of a pacifist liberal. The National Rifle Association Foundation would fall into the category of gun nut, violence advocates, and other labels, however they only want to further the education and safety of firearms. They advocate the progression of firearm safety without the advancement of gun control of any kind. They, and other organizations with similar views, create advertisements and cartoons to spread their beliefs and disprove the views of their opponents. The organization employs clever color scheme, logos, and colloquial wording to spread their message of gun safety and education. The NRA has been a powerful stakeholder with many advocates across the country, when they speak people listen. Their advertisements become spread across cities and states, and their message always turns heads. The first advertisement is a simple message on a black and white background. The message reads: your right to Self The message is straightforward yet it dives into one of the most talked about issues in American society today. The NRA is attempting to get more people to advocate for one of the oldest and most important statutes ever written. Everybody has an opinion on guns and therefore on gun control. They want to spread awareness that the second amendment is in danger of being infringed upon. The ad can be read by everyone and the message will be understood. The advertisements simple black and white background makes it seems as though there is only two options, one that is right and one that is wrong. The color scheme makes the message itself black and white as though what they are advertising is the right option and any other is wrong. Their message stands on one side, or one color, and the opposing message, that gun control is necessary and gun regulations are necessary, is the other color. The two colors, black and white, are at opposite ends of the spectrum showing that they are nothing alike and are at conflict with each other. The words are in white as if self-defense is pure and wanting to protect it is a righteous cause. It is placed in the black background as if the right to self-defense is what is holding crime back from happening and harming to you. The color scheme also allows the words to pop off of the advertisements and jump at you catching your attention, as any effective advertisement should. The lighting of the advertisement also focuses in at the center of the advertisement where the message is placed so as to shift focus to that part of the advertisement. The lighting could also be interpreted as though the NRA is light upon the and trying to help people understand the situation and pick the correct side. The logo is the symbol of American freedom holding firearms. This further shows what message they are trying to spread. The eagle represents American freedoms, in particular the right to bare arms. The eagle is capitalizing on its rights and it is wielding two guns. The color of the logo: red background, white lettering, and a blue trim, also represents the American colors. They show that the NRA only has the best interest of the United States in mind and wants to protect it as long as possible. The appeal to logos is apparent in this advertisement as they say to defend your right to self-defense. A firearm is the most efficient and powerful way to defend yourself in history. Any logical person would choose to have a gun at their side when they are being attacked at home or in public. A gun raises your chances of making it out of a confrontation alvie skyrocket. The second advertisement by the NRA shows the silhouette of a man holding a rifle in a sunset while in a desert setting. There is a message across the bottom of the advertisement that reads: am a responsible gun owner. I am the The message here is clear, the people who are causing the problems with guns are not the safe, responsible gun owners of America. The ones who are causing the problems are the criminals and those of an unsound mind who have obtained a gun because they have not received the treatment they need. The citizens of America who follow the law are responsible and do not deserve to have their rights infringed upon. The ones who need to be cracked down on are the criminals and those who obtain their guns illegally. The NRA is becoming the representative of the people whose voice needs to be heard. The background of the advertisement shows the sun setting creating a peaceful, relaxed vibe for the message to be conveyed. They are trying to show that guns are not something to be scared of, that when handled properly they can be enjoyed in a relaxed environment where people will not be harmed. While you should always be cautious when using a firearm, you do not need to be scared of them. The setting is a traditional environment where people go to practice their shooting, the desert. The desert is an isolated place where the odds of someone getting hurt decreases. Responsible gun owners go to places that are safe to practice their shooting, isolated environments, gun ranges, or hunting zones, all places where gun practice is safe and under control. The NRA continues to advocate safe and responsible gun practices to show that the people who would be affected by gun control are not the ones who deserve it. The silhouette of the man show the face because the NRA is trying to show that any American citizen could be in the role of the shooter. The average Joe could fill the role which fits right into the goal of showing that anyone can be educated on firearm safety and anyone can safely enjoy guns recreationally or rely on them for safety. The NRA has always been an advocate for gun safety and education, they have been spreading their message for over 100 years. They have grown into the most powerful stakeholder of gun control and have millions of members across the country. They teach citizens and police officers firearm safety to ensure that guns are not being misused. As they have grown, their advertisements have become more meaningful and more powerful. The two advertisements I used here show this, they are simple, yet meaningful and their words carry a weight known to anyone who is aware of the gun control debate. Their message stands clear: guns are necessary for safety and self-defense, but also when used responsibly they can be used recreationally. Their color schemes in the advertisements brings a myriad of meaning into the advertisements that seem so simple at first glance. The logos they appeal is also represented in the first advertisement in that a firearm is the first thing a logical person would choose to have to protect themselves. The colloquial wording of the advertisements shows that they are speaking to the common man and anyone can understand their message. The NRA has long advocated gun education and safety and that will continue to be their goal as long as gun control debates are prevalent in American society. The Hills Blog, http://thehill.com/sites/default/files/blogs/nraad.png . Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Behance, Alexis Capitini, https://www.behance.net/gallery/8640661/NRA-Advertising- Campaign . Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.