Mihm 1 Mason Mihm Ms. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Benefits of Physical Activity Among Children Parents are faced with many tough decisions regarding how to raise their children. Decisions such as, naming the baby, breastfeeding or bottle feeding, and cloth or disposable diapers. Often, parents will stay true to their family traditions when making these decisions. However, when it comes down to deciding if parents should involve their kids in sports or not, many are indecisive. Research suggests that many parents are divided on the issue. These discrepancies beg the question of, whether or not parents should involve their children in sports or physical activity? Some parents, argue that involving their children in sports may cause self- esteem issues or that forced involvement will cause the child to get burnt out and lose interest. On the other hand, there are many extremely beneficial effects of children participating in sports and parents need to be informed of these benefits. When kids are involved in team sports growing up, they are exposed to different routines, habits, and coaches. Attending sports practices regularly ensures that the child is on a regular schedule, exercising consistently to get better at a skill gets a child in a good habit, and coaches are always the ones who hold the child accountable for their actions. Other reasons parents should consider pushing their kids to be involved in sports are because it instills discipline, ensures that the child is active and healthy, improves coordination, and leads to better performance in school. Mihm 2 Vella, Stewart A., Dylan P. Cliff, Christopher A. Magee, and Anthony D. Okely. Sports Participation and Parent-Reported Health-Related Quality of Life in Children: Longitudinal  The Journal of Pediatrics 164.6 (2014): 1469-474. Ebscohost. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The purpose of this study was to strengthen understandings of the benefits of participation in sports and how that directly relates to a Health-related quality of life (HRQOL). They hypothesized that children who maintained sports participation from ages 8 to 10 years would report greater levels of HRQOL, in children who had never participated in sports. HRQOL characteristics include physical, emotional, social, and school functioning. Stewart Vella, the primary author, states encompasses an perceptions, beliefs, expectations, and experiences relative to their physical, social, and psychological (1469). HRQOL is becoming of increasing importance to chronic conditions and diseases, such as cancer, heart disease, and diabetes can be caused by low levels of physical activity. Due to these circumstances, the article suggests that parents should consider involving their children in a sport they are interested in because many studies have revealed that child involvement in sports are beneficial and improve HRQOL. According to Vella, psychosocial health benefits of sports participation are evident among children and adolescents, including self-esteem, positive social interactions, and a reduction in depressive (1469). The results from this study reviled that sports did indeed, have a positive effect on the 8 to 10-year-old HRQOL. In fact, results also showed that benefits of sports participation were strongest for females. This article was published in June of 2014 in the peer-reviewed journal The Journal of Pediatricians. Stewart Vella, the primary author, is a part of the faculty at the University of Wollongong, located in Wollongong, Australia. Mihm 3 Holt, Nicholas L., Bethan C. Kingsley, Lisa N. Tink, and Jay Scherer. Benefits and challenges associated with sport participation by children and parents from low-income  Psychology of Sport and Exercise 12.5 (2011): 490-99. Ebscohost. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. This purpose was to examine the data collected from 17 low-income families, to interpret their perceptions of the benefits associated with participation in youth sports. Out of the 17 families, 35 individual interviews were conducted by two trained researchers. According to the article, were asked questions about their sport participation in general (e.g., How long has your son or daughter been playing [chosen Are there any other sports that he/she plays? What are your personal experiences of your involvement in sport? What is it you like best about your involvement in (493). The same questions were asked to everyone that was being interviewed so that the interviewers could interpret the data and find patterns in the responses. Through establishing individuality and relations between responses and using advanced interpretive analysis, the researchers were able to come to a conclusion. Based on their results, the interviewers could conclude combined data from parents and children demonstrated some clear associations between sport involvement and children gaining a range of social and personal developmental (494). It is widely understood that sports may become expensive when parents have to pay for gear and other necessary fees. However, these results emphasize the importance of sports participation and show that even low-income families agree that sports involvement is important for children, regardless of the families financial hardship. This article was published in September of 2011 in the peer-reviewed journal Psychology of Sport and Exercise. Nicholas L. Holt, the primary author, is a part of the faculty of physical education and recreation at the University of Alberta, located in Edmonton, Canada. Mihm 4 Pitchford, E. Andrew, Erin Siebert, Jessica Hamm, and Joonkoo Yun. Parental Perceptions of Physical Activity Benefits for Youth With Developmental  American Journal on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 121.1 (2016): 25-32. Ebscohost. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on the parental opinions of the beneficial outcome of physical activity among children with disabilities. A survey was conducted, that asked a total of 113 parents and caregivers if they believed that their disabled children benefited from physical activity. Children of the respondents ranged in age from 2-21, with the average being about 12 years old. The primary disabilities, present in these youths, included intellectual, physical, behavior, and sensory impairments. The author, Andrew Pitchford, states expected, the parents and caregivers with greater beliefs of the benefits of physical activity for their children reported higher rates of physical activity for their (28). Therefore, in making the decision to involve their disabled children in sports, these parents and caregivers may have already had the beneficial factors in mind, but the survey results revealed an overwhelming favor for the benefits rather than the negatives. The study also analyzed the amount of physical activity these kids were participating in. Children with disabilities engaged in at least 60 min of physical activity on an average of 3.69 days per week. Pitchford concludes by saying these results suggest that youth with disabilities whose parents and caregivers have more positive beliefs of the benefits of physical activity are adequately active for more days during a (29). This article was published in 2016 in the American Journal on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities. Andrew E. Pitchford, the primary author, is a part of the faculty of intellectual disabilities at the University of Michigan, located in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Mihm 5 Slutzky, Carly B., and Sandra D. Simpkins. The link between sport participation and self-esteem: Exploring the mediating role of sport  Psychology of Sport and Exercise 10.3 (2009): 381-89. Ebscohost. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The focus of this article centers around the impact sports have on self-esteem. primary aim of this investigation was to examine whether sport self-concept mediated the relations between time spent in sport activities and subsequent (382) stated the author, Carly Slutzky. They hypothesized that time invested in both team and individual sports would improve sport self-concept, and that sport self-concept would be positively associated with self-esteem. Sport self-concept refers to the feelings about their abilities in said sport, and their confidence in these abilities. As results were collected, over the period of a year, from children ranging from kindergarten to sixth grade, there proved to be a positive correlation between involvement in sports and their self-esteem. Overall, findings showed that kids who invested more time in team sports reported higher sport self-concept. Furthermore, this study was able to correlate these higher sport self-concept results with higher self-esteem levels among children. In fact, the author also highlighted the point that analyses suggested that these relations did not vary across gender, sport ability, sport importance beliefs, or peer (381). I found this to be fascinating because one would be inclined to believe that all of these factors would somehow, serve a dampener on overall self-esteem levels in general. All in all, this article serves as proof to the particular importance of child involvement in sport. This article was published in May of 2009 in the peer-reviewed journal Psychology of Sport and Exercise. Carly B. Slutzky, the primary author, is a part of the School of Social and Family Dynamics at the Arizona State University, located in Tempe, Arizona. Mihm 6 Janssen, Ian, and Allana Leblanc. Systematic Review of the Health Benefits of Physical Activity and Fitness in School-Aged Children and  International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity (2010): 183-219. BioMed Central. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. The purpose of this research article was to conduct a systematic review of studies investigating the correlation between physical activity, fitness, and health in school-aged children. This study was carried out in Canada. Having said that, the first physical activity guidelines for Canadian youth was introduced in 2002. The author, Ian Janssen, explains that following recommendations were made: 1) Children and youth 5-17 years of age should accumulate an average of at least 60 minutes per day and up to several hours of at least moderate-intensity physical (1). The reason these recommendations were made was that physical activity was associated with numerous health benefits. This study proved physical activity would help prevent or counteract different health outcomes known to be related to school-aged children. The health outcomes in the systematic review included high cholesterol, high blood pressure, overweight/obesity, low bone density, and depression. Results indicated that even modest amounts of activity could have health benefits on the children. However, to achieve the greatest health benefits, the children should strive to participate in vigorous intensity activities. activities had the greatest health benefit, other than for bone health, in which case high-impact weight bearing activities were (1) stated Janssen. Therefore, children would receive the most benefit from high intensity, cardiovascular, activity. This article was published in May of 2010 in the International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity. Ian Janssen, the primary author, is a part of the School of Kinesiology and Health Studies at University, located in Kingston, Ontario. Mihm 7 Boreham, Colin, and Chris Riddoch.  The physical activity, fitness and health of  Journal of Sports Sciences (2010): 915-929. Routledge Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. This article observes how activity levels have a long term effect on their future lives as adults. Three main observations were postulated. First, evidence shows that more active children generally have healthier cardiovascular profiles, develop higher peak bone masses, and are leaner than children that do not exercise. there is a biological carry-over effect into adulthood, whereby improved adult health status results from childhood physical activity. In particular, childhood obesity may be a precursor for a range of adverse health effects in adulthood, while higher bone masses in young people reduce the risk of osteoporosis in old (915) as the author describes. Finally, a activity levels are likely to carry over into adulthood. These all make valid points, but supporting evidence for these points are weak. Although there is little scientific evidence that backs up these three observations, the author does an excellent job of summarizing his research when he said, is intuitively logical that preventive measures that is, the fostering of active lifestyles should be lifelong objectives, commencing in early (923). It is particularly hard to establish a relationship between childhood activities and adulthood behaviors because during the adolescent period there are so many naturally occurring shifts in activity patterns. These shifts in patterns make it difficult to establish confound relationships. This article was published in December of 2010 in the peer-reviewed journal, Journal of Sports Sciences. Colin Boreham, the primary author, is a Sports and Exercise Scientist of over 30 years standing who specializes in exercise and sports science at University College Dublin, located in Dublin, Republic of Ireland. Mihm 8 Works Cited Vella, Stewart A., Dylan P. Cliff, Christopher A. Magee, and Anthony D. Okely. Sports Participation and Parent-Reported Health-Related Quality of Life in Children: Longitudinal  The Journal of Pediatrics 164.6 (2014): 1469-474. Ebscohost. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Holt, Nicholas L., Bethan C. Kingsley, Lisa N. Tink, and Jay Scherer. Benefits and challenges associated with sport participation by children and parents from low-income  Psychology of Sport and Exercise 12.5 (2011): 490-99. Ebscohost. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Pitchford, E. Andrew, Erin Siebert, Jessica Hamm, and Joonkoo Yun. Parental Perceptions of Physical Activity Benefits for Youth With Developmental  American Journal on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 121.1 (2016): 25-32. Ebscohost. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Slutzky, Carly B., and Sandra D. Simpkins. The link between sport participation and self-esteem: Exploring the mediating role of sport  Psychology of Sport and Exercise 10.3 (2009): 381-89. Ebscohost. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Janssen, Ian, and Allana Leblanc. Systematic Review of the Health Benefits of Physical Activity and Fitness in School-Aged Children and  International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity (2010): 183-219. BioMed Central. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Boreham, Colin, and Chris Riddoch.  The physical activity, fitness and health of  Journal of Sports Sciences (2010): 915-929. Routledge Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.