Chase Mitchell Instructor Tisdale Composition 1 3 February 2017 Space Exploration: Worth It or Not The amount of money, time, and effort put into the space exploration program is tremendous compared to other aspects of American society. We could find other inhabitable planets that we wish to settle down and build civilization like we did here on Earth. Whether we should be putting millions of dollars into the space program has been a growing concern for the past several decades. While you have those who are for venturing out into space in hope to find new life, you also have the opposite views of dealing with the problems that are on Earth and helping us survive, rather than worrying about what is in the realm to which we have no idea of. In 2005, NASA had a budget of 16.2 billion, which is equivalent to about 20 billion today. As our national debt continues to increase tremendously, we still decide to put money in organizations and causes that directly benefitting life on earth, which brings upon the question: Is the money the country spends on space exploration worth it or not? Baum, Seth D. Viewpoint: Analysis Of Space Exploration: Some Ethical  Space Policy 25.(2009): 75-80. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article is a cost-benefit analysis on decisions about space exploration. Cost- benefit analysis (CBA) is used by many government agencies around the world. It is required that all agencies of the Executive Branch of the United States use CBA, therefore making it well known. The article is relevant to the topic because it discusses possible benefits from space exploration in the future. One of the would be that we gain insights about our place in the universe. For example, cosmic microwave background radiation, which provides strong evidence for the Big Bang model of the formation of the universe, as well as studies related to the distribution of life in the universe. Another benefit is the reduction in the risk of the extinction of humanity and other Earth life. Without space exploration, which would lead to space colonization, the survival of humanity and other Earth life will be over the course of the next hundreds or thousands of years because of global warming and many other issues worldly involving the atmosphere. Colonizing could get us away from threats of the people on Earth such as nuclear warfare, pandemics, immediate climate change, as well as disruptive technology. Whitman Cobb, Wendy N. Supporting Space Activities? An For US Space  Space Policy 27.(2011): 234-239. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article lists plenty of poll questions by the public about spaceflight activities. Through polls we will be able to see the opinion on space exploration and how it compares to other activities going on around the world. The article is relevant to the topic because it shows views over time in the form of statistics but the polls are from 2003 so it most likely is different than it would be today if the same polls were taken. The first poll was to me how important you believe the space program is to our It was its lowest in 1994 at approximately forty percent in favor but in 1995 it skyrocketed because of the release of the movie Apollo 13 up to about fifty-five percent. There are many results on different viewpoints about space, such as public willingness to travel in space, emphasis on NASA programs, percentage of NASA budget, and the importance of other governmental programs compared to space. This article shows mostly positive views on the space program, such as the majority of the public thinking NASA is doing a or job. DeGroot, Jerry. The US Government Should Cut NASA  Space Exploration, edited by David Haugen and Zack Lewis, Greenhaven Press, 2012. At Issue. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/EJ3010356216/OVIC?u=mcle22101&xid=eb507c74. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Originally published as The Space Race Is a Pointless Waste of  Telegraph, 25 Feb. 2009. This article is about why the US government should cut funding for the space exploration. It contains input from well-known individuals, like Stephen Hawking and Dwight Eisenhower, for and against space exploration. It mainly showcases the funding aspect of the space program as well as the public opinion of it with evidence of issues on the planet rather than worrying about the outer space. This article is relevant because it shows opinions on the NASA program. For example, Stephen Hawking, a famous researcher, discoverer, and author, has argued that must colonize other planets to endure long-term On the other hand, Dwight Eisenhower, one of the US past presidents, once vetoed Apollo and said rocket fired signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not These two views are completely opposite even though they are coming from highly regarded people, such as a former President of the United States, so it makes sense that the nation has split opinions on this topic. Carroll, Joseph. Public Divided Over Money Spent on Space Shuttle Program: Americans Continue to Rate NASA  Gallup Poll Briefing (2006): 1-4. Business Source Premier. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article is about the public and political party views on the money spent on the space shuttle program. The relationship between the parties and public are like the national viewpoints on space exploration. The author, Joseph Carroll, is a scholar in the field of literature and politics being mainly interested in how the public feel about specific aspects of society. even across the board when it comes to whether worth the money or if the money should be spent a on a different area with a small portion with no opinion at all. There is also an overall excellent rating of the job that NASA is doing 1990 through 2006, but it is unlikely that the ones who took the poll know much about the space program. Democrats are leaning towards that money should be sent other ways than in space exploration, while republicans believe that it is worth the money. Logsdon, John M. Viewpoint: Why Space Exploration Should Be a Global  Space Policy 24. (2008): 3-5. ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article is about why Apollo, the NASA program that resulted in American astronauts making several flights and landings on the moon, should not be a model for future space explorations. One of the reasons is because of the of the program. Within the article, it states that budget was increased by 89% in the months following President 1961 speech announcing his decision to go to the moon. The following year, it went up another This statistic showed the impact that the President had on the people to influence them to support the space program. This article is relevant because the author, John Logsdon, is a former member of the NASA Advisory Council. He was on the Columbia Accident Investigation board where he investigated what happened to cause the destruction of the Space Shuttle Columbia in 2003. He is also frequently cited as an authority on space policy and history by press. He is supportive of furthering the space exploration program of helping those who will support his dream of humanity a multi-planet Jeff Foust Weighing the risks of human  The Space Review: Weighing the risks of human spaceflight (2003) (page 1). Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article is about the human lives that are being put into risk from furthering space exploration. Within the article, it relates the risk of human spaceflight with extreme sports, such as rock climbing, snowboarding, and mountain biking. There is a four percent fatality rate with spaceflight accidents which is the same percent of people who have died climbing Mt. Everest. Congressman Joe Barton, Vice Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said accident rate of one every 62.5 missions, through which 14 American astronauts have lost their lives, is simply not The author of this article is Jeff Foust. Foust is a senior aerospace analyst journalist, and publisher. He went to California Institute of Technology with a degree in geophysics and a Ph.D. in planetary sciences. Rick Hauck, a former astronaut who flew in three space missions in the 80s, during a lecture at the Wilson Center in Washington addressed the issue of the risks of spaceflight. He notes that impossible to completely eliminate the risk of human space travel, either to the crews themselves or people on the ground who could be in the path of the shuttle. He also stated that in the Columbia accident if the shuttle broke up a little earlier, more people would have been at risk.