Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Causes and Treatments for Depression among College Students Many college students experience anxiety and depression throughout their college years, especially their freshmen year. Some students start missing their parents, while other students face some difficulties transitioning from High School to University. In fact, many students drop out of college after their sophomore year or change their major to an easier major after their freshman year. By conducting experiments and questionnaires, researchers were able to find different causes and treatments for depression and anxiety. Researchers believe that social life, money problems, grades, and lifestyle might have an effect on depression rates. Fortunately, there are many treatment methods that can prevent students from depression and anxiety. Many colleges and Universities offer therapy sessions to students who are feeling down and depressed. In addition, college involvement, social interaction, and healthy lifestyles can prevent students from having depression and anxiety. It has, also, been mentioned that family support and involvement can reduce depression rates among college students. Social media and might affect performance rates and eventually cause them to become depressed too. Depression used to be characterized before as an emotion or feeling, but now depression is considered a mental illness. Before, the main treatment methods for depression were medication and psychiatry, but now treatment methods have differed too. What causes students to become depressed and how can students prevent it? Storch, Eric A., Jonathan W. Roberti, and Deborah A. Roth. Factor Structure, Concurrent Student 2 Validity, and Internal Consistency of the Beck Depression Inventory Second Edition in a Sample of College Depression and Anxiety 19. (2004): 187-189. Web. 2 February 2017. Beck Depression Inventory is a self- report system that measures the amount of depressive symptoms a person has. A sample of 576 college students have taken this test for researchers to understand the causes of depression and anxiety among college students. (Storch 187) Another test was given to different college students in order to measure the tendency of people to experience anxiety and depression, this test is called the State- Trait Anxiety Inventory- Trait version. According to the results, the reasons behind anxiety and depression for college students are loss of pleasure, loss of interest, past failure, irritability, and agitation. (Storch 188) According to the authors no major errors were conducted throughout the experiment; however, students may have responded in a biased way which might have limited the results of this research. (Storch 189). According to the article, college students experience depression due to their fear of failure and exam pressure. This article answers a part of the research question and discusses the reasons behind depression and anxiety among college students. This article was published in a journal called Depression and Anxiety in 2004. Multiple authors have written this article, however Eric A. Storch was the main author. Storch is a professor at the College of Medicine at the University of South Florida. Tandoc, Edson C., Patrick Ferrucci, and Margaret Duffy. Facebook use, envy, and depression among college students: Is facebooking  Computers in Human Behavior 43:2 (2015):139-146. Web. 2 February 2017. Student 3 Many research experiments have been conducted in order to find whether Facebook and depression among college students is positively correlated. This hypothesis was proved by some research experiments, but denied by other experiments. (Ferrucci 139) An online survey was made for college students to conduct a statistical analysis that determines whether Facebook and depression are related. The results showed that heavy Facebook users experience higher levels of Facebook envy. Facebook envy is when a person feels that all his Facebook friends are happy and starts wishing the opposite for them. Students who reported higher feelings of Facebook envy also showed more symptoms of depression, however Facebook on own cannot lead to depression. (Ferrucci 143) This article explains that Facebook and social Media might cause depression if used excessively. The article answers a part of the research question and explains how Facebook might effect college students negatively. Facebook envy is what causes college students to become depressed, since they start believing that all their friends are happy except them. This article was published in a journal called Computers in Human Behaviors and it has been peer reviewed. The article has multiple authors, however Patrick Ferrucci is the main author. Patrick Ferrucci is an Assistant Professor at the University of Colorado, and majoring in Journalism. Westefeld, John S., and Susan R. Furr. Suicide and depression among college  Professional Psychology 18:2 (2010): 119-23. USF library. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. The article and Depression among college explains the results of a questionnaire taken by 962 students at three different colleges and universities. 81% identified themselves as students who have experienced depression throughout their college career. The main tackled reasons for the causes of depression were grade problems, relationship problems, loneliness, and money problems. One of the questions considers whether the students thought Student 4 about committing suicide, and 32% of the students have answered yes. The surveys responses have revealed many treatment methods that students suggest. These treatment methods were making people more aware of the situation, more understanding faculty, individual counseling, more activities that brings people together and not just partying, study groups, and educating people about the signs of depression. The article explains and discusses the reasons behind depression which answers the research question. The major reasons are grade problems, relationship problems, loneliness, and money problems. This article was published in 2013 by the American Psychological Association. There are multiple authors for this article, and they are John Westefeld, and Susan Furr. John Westefeld is a professor of counseling psychology at the University of Lowa College of Education. He earned his PhD in counseling Psychology from the University of Carolina. Susan Furr has 20 years of experience as a full-time counselor, and 19 years of experience as a counselor educator. most recent publication is in the Journal of Addictions and Greif Counseling. Beiter, R., R. Nash, M. Mccrady, D. Rhoades, M. Linscomb, M. Clarahan, and S. Sammut. The prevalence and correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college  Journal of Affective Disorders 173:2 (2009): 90-96. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article is about a survey distributed among college students to explain the reasons behind depression and anxiety. The reason why this survey was conducted is due to the increase in yearly visits to Franciscan University Counseling Center. 374 college students between the ages of eighteen to twenty-four have taken this survey. The survey consists of demographic questions, questions related to the level of concern related to daily life situations, and twenty-one questions related to the Depression Anxiety Stress scale. The top three concerns for students Student 5 were academic performance, pressure to succeed, and plans after graduation. The demographic question helped the researchers know who were the most depressed students among all. The main objective is to find the reasons why college students experience depression throughout their college careers. The author R. Nash is a researcher who have published more than seven articles and works in Texas A&M University, College Station. Also, M. MCcrady is a professor at University of New Mexico, Albuquerque teaching clinical psychology. In addition, D. Rhoades is a professor at the University of Arizona teaching Educational Policy Studies and Practice. These are the main authors in the article and most of the other authors are also professors at different universities in other states. Jerome, Sarris, Adrienne Carolyn Coulson, Isaac Schweitzer, Michael Berk. medicine for BMC Psychiatry 14:1 (2014): 1-28. USF library. Web. 19 February 2017. This article is about how lifestyle nowadays have caused an increase in the depression rate especially among college students. Usually, the ways people use to get treated from depression is medication and psychiatry. However, researchers have found out different for depression that will help students change their lifestyle and become happier. These lifestyle treatments include exercise, healthy diet, social life, and reduction of nicotine, drugs, and alcohol. Also, according to the article, lifestyle treatments can help students prevent depression. Unfortunately, the article did not discuss how the data and results were collected but rather discussed the results of the data. medicine for shows how modern day lifestyle affects our mood and gives treatments for depression. It answers the research question on what causes college students to become depressed and gives solutions to reduce depression or prevent it. Dr. Sarris Student 6 Jerome works at The Melbourne Clinic as a Principal Research Fellow. Dr. Adrienne works at the Melbourne School of Population and Global Health as a Deputy Director of Non communicable Diseases. The author Carolyn Coulson is a Theatre Associate Professor at the University of Shenandoah. Micheal Berk is a professor in Clinical Medicine at Washington University Clinical Associates. Levens, Sara M., Farrah Elrahal, Sara J. Sagui. Role of Family Support and Perceived Stress Reactivity in Predicting Depression in College Journal of Social and Clinical Psychology 35:4 (2016): 342-355. USF Library. Web. 19 February 2017. The article shows how depression is a common mental illness among college student. especially incoming freshman students. However, researchers were wondering whether family support prevents depression or increases the depression rate among college students. After conducting a questionnaire, the results showed that family support depends on the level of anxiety. Students complaining from low levels of depression and anxiety showed that family support protects them from having depression and vice versa. In conclusion, family involvement in college lives actually prevented them from having depression and anxiety. The article links to my research question by showing that family involvement could cause students to become more depressed if they had high levels of depression and anxiety. However, family involvement can reduce the levels of depression if students had low levels of stress and anxiety. One of the authors, Sara M. Levens, is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychological Science at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The author Farrah Elrahal has earned her of Science degree in Psychology from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. Sara J. Sagui will become a Doctor of Philosophy in Health Psychology in may from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte with a 3.9 GPA.