Sorto 1 Elena Sorto Ms. Ashely Tisdale Composition I 13 February 2017 Organic Eating: Does It Really Matter? Ever notice while you are grocery shopping that the price of organic food is dramatically more than non-organic food? Organic food is said to be better for you than non-organic food and therefore is more expensive. The difference between organic and non-organic is organic food has no pesticides and no added hormones. A lot of people agree that eating organic makes a difference in the long run. Think about it, not putting all those chemicals into your body. Our bodies were made to eat from the earth and not with any kind of chemicals including processed food. These chemicals are said to be the cause of cancer and other diseases. Ever eat so much junk food and then you just feel bad? not even that full you just feel bad. If you were to eat a lot of natural, organic, food from the earth you feel that terrible feeling. Yes, if you eat a lot still feel full but you feel terrible. All of these reasons explain why organic food is more expensive than non-organic food. But, does eating organic really make a difference? Is it really worth the extra cost? Reiss, Richard. Johnston, Jason. Tucker, Kevin. DeSesso, M. John. Keen, L. Carl. of cancer risks and benefits associated with a potential increased consumption of fruits and Food and Chemical Toxicology. www.elsevier.com/locate/foodchemtox. 5 September 2012 In this article it discusses how a number of cancer cases could have been prevented if half of the Sorto 2 U.S. population increased its fruit and vegetable consumption by one serving each day. They tested their theory and found out that approximately 20,000 cancer cases a year could have be prevented by increasing fruit and vegetable consumption. They found that there were benefits for fruit and vegetable consumption for prevention of esophageal, pharynx, lung, and stomach cancer. They also found that fruits and vegetables with pesticide residue were found to have negative effects on the body and had ties to cancer. A survey reported that organic food buyers estimated the risk of mortality from consuming conventionally-grown food to be at a level nearly as great as the annual lung cancer risk for a smoker of one pack or more of cigarettes per day. This being said, eating more fruits and vegetables has a lot of positive, cancer fighting benefits to your body but, also eating fruits and vegetables without out the pesticides (organic) has an even greater benefit. So, put the junk food down, spend the extra money and benefit your health by eating organic fruits and vegetables. Watzl, B., E., Hoekstra, J, Kulling, S., Lydeking-Olsen, E., Rowland, I., Schilter, B., Klaveren, J.V., Chiodini, A., in press. Application of the BRAFO-tiered approach for assessment to case studies on natural foods. Food. Chem. Toxicol. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fct.2011.02.010. This article talks more about natural foods rather than organic foods but it is all somewhat the same concept. It states that natural foods provide a large variety of essential nutrients and contribute to a healthy lifestyle. evidence that oily fish have shown to have great health benefits. It is not recommended that you eat fish all the time because of mercury. Another healthier alternative to many things is soy. Soy has been proven to have negative effects as well but it is better than others. Some foods still have their down sides but, in moderation, they are still better than making unhealthy food choices. Farmed fish is another talked about food Sorto 3 item. While it is better for you to eat whole foods, that including fish, if you can you should try to avoid farmed fish. Farmed fish are the same as non-organic meats. They are given a feed and in the feed are chemicals that no body should be eating. If you eat too much farmed fish or fish with a large amount of mercury it is proven that it will have great negative effects on your health. Same goes for eating fruits and vegetables that have pesticides on them- they will have many negative effects on your health. Foods: What You Need to Know About Eating Organic Foods: What You Need to Know About Eating Organic: The Benefits and Basics of Organic Food and How to Keep It Affordable, www.helpguide.org/articles/healthy-eating/organic-foods.htm. Something that probably does not come to mind when you think of organic food is the environment. Organic farming is actually better for the environment. By farming organic you reduce pollution, conserve water, reduce soil erosion, increase soil fertility and use less energy. All of these things greatly benefit the environment while also make for a healthier and chemical- free food for you. Organic produce contains fewer pesticides, such as fungicides, herbicides, and insecticides, used in most agriculture and the residue that may remain on and in the food that we then put into our bodies. Farming without pesticides is also better for birds and animals that are close by as well as the people that live by the farm. These pesticides are sprayed and therefore are dispersed into the air, which moves around, and spread into nearby homes and then breathed in by neighbors. One common belief is that organic food is pesticide free, but it actually is not. Organic produce contains lower levels of pesticides than conventional produce. The difference between the two is that organic produce farmers use naturally-derived pesticides rather than synthetic Sorto 4 pesticides. Natural pesticides are less toxic and have fewer health risks. Your exposure to harmful chemicals and pesticides will definitely be lowered by eating organic produce but not 100% pesticide free. Organic Food - Benefits, Scientific Research &  Organic Facts. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Eating organic has a good amount of health benefits. Some of these benefits are antioxidant capacity, pesticide reduction, heart health, immune system, antibiotic resistance, overall health, better taste, environmental safety, and animal welfare. According to multiple studies is has been shown that the antioxidants from organic food have more of an impact than conventional food does to your body. It is believed that this is due to the amount and kind of chemicals that are used on conventional foods and how they interact with the different vitamins, minerals, and organic compounds. Vitamins, minerals, and organic compounds are extremely essential for the positive impact of the fruits and vegetables to help with the prevention of serious diseases such as cancer and heart disease. This also would effect things like premature again, vison problems, and cognitive malfunction. Research has proven that choosing organic food will increase your intake of desired antioxidants and reduce your exposure to toxic heavy metals. Heart health is very important and is definitely something we all should be concerned and aware of. It has been shown that when animals are allowed a longer amount of time to graze on grass it increases the amount of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA). CLA is a heart-healthy fatty acid that will promote cardiovascular protection. CLA is found in breast milk and meat that is of higher quality animals that have been raises free range or cage-free. Sorto 5 Organic  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Something that you might think about when you see is how it is farmed. The processes of organic farming is a lot different than conventional farming. When farmers farm organically they use sustainable techniques that enhance the natural fertility of a farm. They do this by using techniques such as crop rotation, companion planting, biological pest control, and naturally-sourced fertilizers. They use fertilizers such as compost, manure, green manure, and bone meal which are all naturally sourced. A survey taken suggests that people found many reasons for avocation of organic farming with these being the top reasons: sustainability, openness, self-sufficiency, autonomy/independence, health, food security, and food safety. Just as we have regulated food and medicine we have the same for organic agriculture methods. Organic agriculture methods are internationally regulated and are legally enforced by many nations. These standards are based mostly by the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM). The international Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements is an international organization for organic farming organization that was established in 1972. The market for organic food has grown rapidly since 1990, having reached $63 billion worldwide in 2012, because this is such a fast growing market that has spiked interest in many people it makes it even more important that it is regulated by an organization like IFOAM. Parker-Pope, Tara. One 3-year experiment in eating organic food - all the  The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 Dec. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. A 49-year-old man by the name of Dr. Alan Greene did a three-year experiment where he ate only organic food. In the article he describes his experience as challenging than I thought it would He goes on to say that some of his struggles were when nothing he could Sorto 6 find was organic. He also says that since organic farming methods are costlier to the farmers it is also costlier to the consumer. He found that he was paying almost twice as much for organic as opposed to conventional sometimes. Greene is a pediatrician so he is accustomed to illnesses due to his career, but he found that he was rarely ill. He also noticed that his urine was a bright yellow which indicates higher amounts of vitamins and nutrients. Greene talks about how eating organic was relatively easy, but where he found he was challenged with it was in corporate cafeterias, convenience stores, or when dining out. It is hard to find organic food conveniently which is a down side of trying to live an organic lifestyle. Now that he has reached his 3-year goal he has continued to eat organic but is still deciding if he will ease up on his restrictions. Greene loves the way eating organic has made him feel and wants to continue to eat mainly organic.