Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 29 January, 2017 The Long-Term Effects of Foster Care Foster care is a nation-wide topic that has been highly debated since its beginning which was sometime in the mid-19 th century. This is due to many reasons, some of these reasons include the stripping of children from their birth parents, the high cost of keeping children in foster care which currently stands at around $530 a month per child and the high number of children put in foster care this number is currently at 415,129 in the United States. A fostered child is one who has been legally placed in a home with a state-certified care giver with the chance of being legally adopted at some point in time. Fostering can have many effect on the parents and children included in the process. While some of these effects may be good or bad I would like to look further into the social and emotional effects this process has on the children who have been put in foster care. Foster care has been known to hinder social development through the trauma of being split from their parents especially if it happens at an older age. It has also been known to prevent emotional development and cause severe attachment issues. These effects are why I aim to answer the question does foster care lead to long-term effects on the children involved? Soloman, David, impact of foster parent training on child disruptive Sage publications Inc., December 1 2016, Vol.22 issue 1, page 3-13, article. Student 2 This article described that children in foster care have a higher risk of behavioral and emotional problems later in life leading to an increased need for extra care. In his research Soloman used a total of 15 studies with 1,400 foster children to ensure a large enough sample size for accurate results. To conduct his study, he had foster parents attend 16 sessions of training to learn how to correct and handle behavioral and emotional problems as they occur in their foster children. In the end his study showed that with the proper training foster parents can increase a academic and behavioral abilities throughout the rest of their lives. This article gives great statistics and information supporting that fostering can have a positive impact on social and emotional behavior if approached a certain way. This source is credible due to the many trials and studies that were done by many medical students and also due to its large sample size. It also relates to my research question due to the fact that it studied and found that fostering if controlled and done a certain way can actually lead to a positive outcome for the fostered children. Miller, Sarah, Attachment in the Face of Systemic Disruption: Clinical Treatment with Children in Foster Care and the Adoption and Safe Families Smith College studies in social work, March 2011, page 26-80, article. This article talks about children who have been placed into foster care for a variety of reasons. Specifically, it focuses on children who have been placed in a foster home at a young age due to instability and substance abuse. Its results concluded that these children will incur severe depression and separation Student 3 anxiety and how this causes advanced emotional attachment of these children to their now foster parents. This can lead to permanent effects on the child in the future such as fear of being alone or problems connecting with anyone else. This source is credible due to it being written by the person who conducted the research, Sarah Miller has a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois and has extensive background in Public policy and health. It also tells of in-depth studies on particular children and their individual results. This source relates to my research question because it says there are long-term emotional effects of fostering including abnormal emotional attachment from the children to their new foster parents due to the stress caused by being torn away from their birth parents. Lightfoot, Elizabeth, experiences and outcomes of children in foster care who were removed because of a parental In children and services review, March 2016, article. This article is about the impact that foster care can have on children and the different effects that can happen because of the reason they were placed in foster care. In this article there are studies and statistics about the long-term impact that having a parent with a disability can have on a child. It also talks about the detrimental effect that having to be placed in a foster home because of a parental disability has. In Lightfoots study it is shown that 19% of all foster children in the United States had parental disability as one of the leading reasons for their placement in foster care. It also shows that children with this as their Student 4 primary reason were expected to have a longer stay in the foster care system. They also have a 22% higher chance of having permanent custody revocation from their birth parents. It is shown that these longer stays cause the child less stress and emotional trauma and actually have a positive emotional result on the child because their original home situation was more likely to be a high stress environment due to having to handle and take care of their disability. This source is credible due to it large sample size and the certified researchers who conducted it. This relates to my research question because it shows that being placed in a foster home because of a parental disability has a positive long-term emotional effect on the fostered child. Barber, James, profile and progress of neglected and abused children in long-term foster in child abuse and neglect, 2009, article. Barbers study involved 235 children in foster care at the point of entry, then again after 1 year and lastly again after 2 years of being in a foster home. This study showed that neglected children were more likely to have a physical or mental disability and more likely to show a decline in parent contact over time. This study also showed that once a neglected child is placed in foster care their chance of forming a psychosocial disorder decreases by 27%. A psychosocial disorder is a mental disorder caused by life experiences or traumas. This article is credible due to the amount of times the children are followed up with, which is at least three times. It is also credible because the Student 5 researcher James Barber has vast experience in conducting research as he has multiple published books such as Work with This study also related to my research question because it shows foster care has a positive long- term effect on children placed in foster care due to neglect. Simmel, Cassandra, and Protective Factors Contributing to the Longitudinal Psychosocial Well-Being of Adopted Foster Journal of emotional and behavioral disorders, July 2007, article. Simmel studied children who were in foster homes for long periods of time from 6 to 8 years. They studied the history of the child including the amount of parental attention they had previously received and the situation their original home was in. The result was that children that came from neglected families have a better chance of psychological well-being due to the fact that they come into a foster home with parents who provide them with more contact and social and emotional experiences. However, this study also found that foster children who were moved from home to home had an increase in behavioral problems. This article is credible due to the large sample size and the amount of time that the children were studied. It is also credible due to the fact that there were many doctorate students working on this research. research is relevant to my research topic because it showed that foster care can have a positive effect on children by providing a more attentive home. While it can also have a negative effect Student 6 on children if they are not kept in one home and are forced to move around from family to family throughout their stay. Dance, Charilyn, The Adoption of Children from Public Care: A Prospective Study of Outcome in Journal of American Academy of child and adolescent psychiatry, October 2001, article. This source studied the outcome of 108 children that were placed in the foster care system at a late age leading to them being adopted in the late stages of their childhood. The results of this study showed that the longer the child was in foster care and the later they were adopted by a permanent family the more behavioral difficulty they had. One notable statistic they had was that 38% of children ages 5-11 still in foster care were in the abnormal range for disruptive behavior. However, only 26% of children who had been adopted between the age of 5-11 were in the abnormal range for disruptive behavior. This study is credible due to the credentials of the researcher Charilyn Dance who is a senior researcher at the University of Bedfordshire with 20 years of experience in welfare research. Her research relates to my research question because it shows a comparison between children in the foster care system and children that have been adopted. Its results were a negative impact on behavior the longer a child is in foster care. Student 7