Anderson 1 Rebekah Anderson Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 21 February 2017 Doctors Without Borders: Medical Aid Where It is Needed the Most Not everyone in the world has great health systems like the ones that are found in the United States. Doctors Without Borders is an organization that voluntarily travels around the world to provide medical aid to those who are suffering in some sort of conflict or disaster. This provides the basic health system that everyone in the world should be getting. To promote its organization, Doctors Without Borders uses visual images to convince the viewer to support them and donate money for its cause. The two images that will be discussed in this essay have a relationship that expresses distinct emotions among individuals. The ultimate message brought out by these two images helps contribute to the main purpose of Doctors Without Borders because each picture presents ways in which this organization can help people around the world who need it. Without Borders or Sans is a non-profit organization that was formed in Paris, France in 1971 by French (MSF). They are funded with donations made by private owners and anyone else who decides to donate to their program. The main goal of this organization is to provide equal medical care to individuals worldwide who are affected by some kind of disaster without discriminating against a beliefs or appearance. One of its main beliefs is that everyone deserves equal medical care. They do not treat patients based on their color, cultural beliefs, gender, religion, etc. According to their website, Doctors Without Anderson 2 Borders is run by certain guiding principles which include impartiality, accountability, and (Doctors Without Borders). All of these principles tie together to formulate their main belief that everyone deserves equal medical care. For example, August 11, 2016, Doctors Without Borders went to the Central African Republic to carry out 17 different projects that would treat patients suffering from an epidemic crisis. A couple of months later in October 25, 2016, Doctors Without Borders teams were in Afghanistan treating 34 patients who were wounded while fighting in Lashkar (MSF News & Stories). These few examples show that Doctors Without Borders will treat patients with quality healthcare without regards to a beliefs or ethnicity. This organization has been successfully achieving its goal of providing high quality healthcare to people who desperately need it across the world. The first image that contributes to the main purpose of this organization is a picture of a doctor treating a child. This picture is a direct representation of the overall message because the doctor is providing healthcare to a child who is living in a poor environment. In this photograph, several strategies were used to highlight its overall meaning. For example, the pathos appeal was used to generate emotions in the viewer. In the photograph, the doctor embraces the child while treating her. As the doctor holds the child, the viewer develops a sense of comfort and hope because the embracement symbolizes that this organization will bring hope in the world. The doctor holding on to the child gives the viewer a reassuring feeling that the doctors are well trained and can save the lives of many people. The image also uses this rhetorical appeal to make the audience feel sorry for the child by using the facial expressions of the doctor and the child to develop this emotion. The child is looking off to the side with a worried and helpless facial expression as the doctor looks focused on her patient Anderson 3 with a serious look on her face. The facial expressions used in this photograph remind the viewer of the harsh environments some individuals are suffering in. The emotions brought out influence the reader to feel sorry for the individuals that are suffering and lean towards supporting Doctors Without Borders because the reader thinks that this organization will improve these lives. Another way the image provokes a feeling of remorse is by using a child as the patient. A child was used purposefully in this photograph to increase the emotions of the audience because people will want to contribute to the organization if children are in danger. Another rhetorical strategy that was used in this photograph was the appeal to ethos. When viewing the image, the audience can assume that the person treating the child is a doctor because she is holding a pink stethoscope which is the universal symbol of a doctor profession. The symbolism behind the stethoscope ensures credibility to the program because the audience can trust that the workers know how to perform their jobs. Also, the image intentionally chooses to use a bright pink stethoscope so that the audience notices it on the doctor right away to further establish credibility. An appeal to logos is also used in this picture because of the picture is taken in a harsh environment. One can assume that the child is living in a poor situation because the child is wearing oversized clothing, and the doctor is treating the patient outside instead of in an indoor hospital. If the audience considers what the bigger picture is, they can visualize the fact that the patients who need the medical aid have no type of successful healthcare in their country. These facts will convince the audience that Doctors Without Borders is needed to help fix these issues in undeveloped countries. The last rhetorical appeal, kairos, is used in this image because of the serious need for medical care in certain countries. Kairos is used because a sense of urgency develops when the audience sees children becoming ill. If nothing is done to resolve this issue Anderson 4 soon, many people will die from these illnesses due to a lack of proper healthcare. The image is a direct representation of this purpose because it reflects how Doctors Without Borders wants to provide equal medical care throughout the world. The second image that represents Doctors Without Borders is a photograph of a family living in a harsh environment. This photograph also uses the rhetorical appeals to further support the purpose and goals of this organization. The appeal to pathos is the main strategy used in this image because it uses children as the main argument like the first image did. The use of dark colors in the background emphasize the infant and young girl so that the viewers will focus on them. The unhappy look on the young face gives the viewer the impression that she is suffering which causes the viewer to feel upset about her suffering. The young girl also clings to the wall to emphasize that she is a helpless child who is desperately looking for hope in what seems like a hopeless world for her. An emphasis on the infant sitting on the lap can also be brought to attention because the infant is also used to bring out emotions in the audience. Similar to the first photograph, the second image emphasizes children to develop a sense of worry in the audience. The image is highlighting the fact that infants are not being provided with the proper healthcare which instills a sad feeling in the audience which will cause the audience to support this program. The appeal to ethos is also presented in this image. The photograph presents people that are suffering in third world countries due to a lack of medical care. This ensures the credibility of Doctors Without Borders because it supports the motives of the organization. Doctors Without Borders states that they the idea that poor people deserve third-rate medical care and strives to provide high-quality care to (Medecins Sans Frontieres). The picture is an example of the type of people that are incapable of receiving Anderson 5 quality medical care which supports the idea that this organization wants to help individuals that are living in poor environments. An appeal to logos can also be detected in this image due to the use of a family living in a rough environment. This image uses logos to remind the reader that people in third world countries cannot afford the proper medical care that is found in developed countries. Because of this issue, the audience will support Doctors Without Borders because these developing countries need the help of this program to improve the quality of their medicine. The final rhetorical appeal, kairos, can be observed in this photograph. The image uses the children living in an underdeveloped country to inform the audience that they need to act now so that the people suffering can survive. By supporting Doctors Without Borders quickly, the people suffering will survive and the quality of their medical care will be increased. These rhetorical appeals aided the second image in its visual representation of Doctors Without Borders and supported the purpose of the organization which is to provide everyone with equal and quality medical aid. In the final analysis of these two images, one can infer that the rhetorical strategies used in each photograph helped represent Doctors Without Borders. They are excellent visual portrayals of how important the organization is to the development of third world countries. They show how Doctors Without Borders is helping the individuals living in these underdeveloped countries. Without this program, these countries would not be receiving the proper medical treatment that they need to survive and fight off diseases. Thanks to the influence of these images, Doctors Without Borders has gained the attention of many individuals and private owners that are now supporting this organization in achieving their goal of providing equal medical care to everyone. Anderson 6 Works Cited Donate to Doctors Without  Donate to Doctors Without Borders. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. About  Sans (MSF) International. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Purpose and Mission - Doctors Without  Google Sites. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.