Michelle Tran ENC 1102 25, February 2017 Professor Alison A Plea for Help Natural disasters, political dispute, and warfare is out of control. These incidents affect the majority and the after effects can destroy many lives. People go hungry, people die, and lives are stripped away. The World Food mission is to make sure that every man, woman, and child has access to the very basic needs of life. To ensure that people in developing countries are able provide for themselves with a bit of assistance given. The World Food Programme is presenting a plea to the audience to ask for assistance to help the underprivileged. The World Food Programme utilizes images to evoke the compassion towards the impoverished, provide authority through experience, and appeal to a call to action through timeliness for their mission of asking for contributions to provide for the impoverished. In the images presented, the World Food Programme highlights several features that trigger a sympathetic emotion to sway the audience in aiding the developing countries. Both images chose a child as the focal point, because for a parent it is an instinct to protect a child in need, certainly mothers. The first image presents a little girl holding a bar-like piece of food with her scarred hands as she nibbles on the outer plastic wrapping. She is not familiar with the food by the way she is eating the plastic wrap. The child is directly staring at the audience with her making the atmosphere seem more personal. She is looking into the eyes with a sadden look formed from the crinkling of her eyebrows as her head is slightly tilted downward, focusing on her eyes. She is not living in a sanitary environment due to the fact that when examining the background, there is clothing and blanket lying on the bare dirt ground. The helpless girl is the focus of the picture, since the background is slightly blurred to not drive attention away from her face. The second image displays a WFP member aiding a malnourished, bare naked child. The child appears to have a bloated belly, but it is actually swollen from the lack of protein consumed due to the inability to afford meat. The appearance of the child makes the audience worry for the wellbeing of the child, with limbs extremely skinny to the point where ribs are shown. In the background, many adults and children are seen crowding around the boy being helped. The image cuts off some people to highlight the boy receiving help. The people in the background is clothed in ragged and torn clothing. The lack of clothing on the boy emphasizes the anatomy of the child, compared to the clothed people in the back. Every meticulous piece mentioned points out the insufficiency of the people, making the audience feel as if it is a necessity to provide for them. Another way the World Food Programme asks the audience for help is through the use of presenting experience through an authority. In the second image, shows a lady assisting a malnourished child. In bold words, the front shirt of the lady Food Meaning, she is a representative from the WFP coming to aid the people. The donations from the audience would allow WFP representatives to be able to carry on with future accomplishments like missionary trips. Contributions from the audience will be put into use, as one can tell from the picture. The World Food Programme is promising a change with the donations given and the money will be contributed to a cause based on past experience given in the picture. Having an authority present establishes trust between the audience and the organization, in this case, the World Food Programme. In both images, the World Food Programme requests the audience to contribute to their cause through a statement. The first image in white bolded capitalized letters. The text color is in white to stand out from the colors in the background. Bolded words captures attention and implies an emergency. A call such as aims for an immediate response. The word gives off the sense of urgency. The image contains a child eating and asks the audience to which portrays a feeling that the donation would be able to provide hungry children with food. Asking for donations is the overall message WFP is trying to present to their audience and the first image perfectly captures their message. In the second image, it reads save lives The phrase triggers the audience to contribute to the mission of the World Food Programme. The World Food Programme is saying that if the audience donates, they are saving a life of a person in need. The word exudes urgency, seeking a reaction to ask the audience to act immediately. The faster the World Food Programme receives donations, the faster a life can be saved. All donations given is used towards a cause of helping a poverty-stricken person, which slowly promotes the goal of the World Food Programme. For a message to be conveyed, the World Food Programme utilizes several images to establish trust between the organization and the audience with an authority, inquire a call to action through timeliness, and target the emotion with sympathy. The World Food Programme aims to assist the impoverished with donations received by the audience. The message to ask the audience to contribute to their goal of being able to provide for the developing countries with food, resources, and medical aid. The World Food Programme strives to find an answer to their plea.