Lee !1 Lesther Lee ENC 1101 Alison Missler Feb 27, 2017 Target Advertisement Strategies Target is an organization whose primary objective is to achieve an equal society by accepting individuals with distinct experiences and unique beliefs in the community. Additionally, Target promotes diversity and inclusivity of people of all gender, race, age, and social, economic, and political backgrounds to realize its purpose which explains the reason why it changed its bathroom policy. Persons can now go to the bathroom of his sexual preference, despite their gender (Paul et al 109). The organization realizes the ability of simple images to convey complex messages, which texts alone cannot. Hence, the use of bright colors in its advertising images, which also incorporate Ethos, Pathos, and Kairos, to advocate for an all- inclusive society. The below two discussed images are examples of the power of the pictures to communicate efficiently. The image described is one of the ads of Target Corporation which mainly symbolizes their new change of bathroom policy. The overall scope of the ad is harmony in diversity. The picture is seemingly divided into two parts consisting of a bottom segment that is largely red in color, where the center portion forms two white circles and one red circle. This bottom part of the image is dull while the top of the picture incorporates many colors, which makes up a rainbow. The background of the upper side of the image is bright, as the choice of color is purple. This seems to be incorporated in order to draw the audience attention to the rainbow, which Lee !2 seems to be the main focus point. The flat bottom side of the picture seems to sink below the top bright side which shows that Target is trying to relay a message to society that some action is needed to make the world a better place as one part is sinking over another. Moreover, the organization directs that the solution is on the top side of the picture, as it uses a brighter color as the background, while the bottom side is dull due to the dark contrast. Being able to look at this image, one can immediately see a representation of Ethos within the bottom portion. As stated above, the two inner white circles form into the bullseye that Target is famously know for. Aside from that, the fact that Target chose to have the top portion of the image as a rainbow, gives its viewers a sense of Pathos. The rainbow in itself is a representation of diversity and equality within the LGBT community which allows people who identify as Gay, or come from a different background to feel welcomed. This symbolizes and lets the audience know that stands for equality and is slowly merging a society that more accepting as well. Looking at this image with a closer eye, one could also argue the representation of Kairos. Although it has nothing that claims to be done in a timely fashion, it could be looked at through a perspective of time because of modern society which has evolved trough time to accept diversity and people who come from different lifestyles and places. However in this case, it involves Transgender rights. This image uses colors to highlight how diverse society is. Moreover, the bright rainbow colors at the top depict the impact of embracing each uniqueness: acceptance brings harmony and happiness in the society. The use of the dark colors on the bottom portion shows the ugly side of an unequal society, where the minorities are Lee !3 secluded. The Logos rhetorical appeal comes into play when the ad implies happiness in an equal society, but sadness in an unequal culture. Logos challenges humanity to use logic in deciding if they prefer a just and happy society, or an unjust and gloomy culture. Furthermore the colors show that time has come for society to accept everyone, and soon, it will be inevitable to accept diversity as part of a healthy community. The image described next also belongs to equality campaign. The picture shows people of both female and male genders who also seem to be ethnically as well as physically different. The individuals have formed a circle, and are holding a piece of cloth with the reoccurring rainbow scheme which houses them in as they carry a happy and broad smile. As mentioned above, the use of many colors indicates the fact that every human being is alike despite physical differences and preferences. One could see how this particular piece of cloth is a symbol that Target uses to illustrate their point of view on how a unified society empowers diversity. Throughout the distinct rhetorical devices, Pathos is the one that seems to be identified the most in this image. The use of people with various skin color, hair texture, an clothing lets the audience know that it is okay to be different. Because of this, mission statement is seen evident in the fact that they cater to all people despite their differences. Lee !4 Throughout the two images, Target seeks to increase acceptance and inclusivity by reaching out to the LGBT community providing an emotional attachment that translates a message that all people are welcomed with acceptance and respect. On the same note, Target plays a crucial role in advocating for equality that is shared with experiences and unique points of the communities where we live and (Target). The organization seeks to achieve social justice by highlighting every role, and the impact of both equality and inequality in the community. Lee !5 Works Cited Gobe, Marc. Emotional Branding, Revised Edition: The New Paradigm for Connecting Brands to People. Skyhorse Publishing, Inc., 2010. Paul, Alison Kenney, Thom McElroy, and Tonie Leatherberry. Diversity as an Engine of  Deloitte Review 8.1 (2011): 109-121. Valenti, C. Companies begin marketing to gay  ABC News (2012).