Anderson 1 Brooke Anderson Ms. Tisdale Composition 1 5 February 2017 Financial Benefits of Legalizing Marijuana Medical marijuana is a debate sweeping across the nation. Some states have passed it medicinally, while others have gone all the way to legalizing it for recreational purposes. This is still a hot topic in America since it is still federally illegal. Many people can see both positive outcomes of the legalization and drawbacks of it. However, with the finical benefits of passing Marijuana everywhere this should not even be up for debate. Since the legalization of there has been many benefits with the tax money collected from dispensaries. In states where marijuana is fully legal, pot and smoking accessories can be taxed up to 25%. In just the first two years of legalization in Colorado they have collected 45 million dollars in tax revenue (Vaida). Other states, seeing their benefits, have been following the lead. In this past election California, Massachusetts, Nevada, and North Dakoda all voted to legalize it recreationally. There are now eight states in the U.S. that have had the majority of citizens want it legal (Underhill). I think important to consider the benefits for the tax money collected for the recreational use of marijuana. Seeing the results of states who have already legalized it, it poses the question: How could the United States benefit financially from the federal legalization of marijuana? Goltz, Nachshon, and Ekaterina Bogdanov. Lessons from Washington and Colorado: the potential financial gains of recreational marijuana to  Canada-United States Law Journal 2016: 126. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Anderson 2 This article tells exactly how recreational marijuana is regulated in both Colorado and Washington. It also outlines how much profits in taxes the state government makes from the legalization. In Colorado, the first year brought in 40 million dollars in annual revenues. This is so much money that they can use this money to fix public schools. In Colorado also only taxed by 35% whereas in other states it could be more. It shows what Colorado is doing with the millions of taxes dollars they are receiving. Washington has a 37% tax on marijuana sales, and sees the same benefits as Colorado. Washington first gave their money to youth drug prevention as opposed to schools. This is smart because it educations kids, that even though marijuana is legal it is still dangerous. The use of marijuana in these states is still strictly regulated. You cannot smoke on federal land, since till federally illegal and you still cannot have it if you are a minor. This journal will be helpful in showing how much money both of these states have made from the legalization of recreational marijuana. It also shows how it should be regulated so that other states can use that as an example. Jensen, Randal. California Dreams Of Taxing Pot. (Cover  Bond Buyer 374.33408 (2010): 1-31. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article is from before marijuana become legal in California. It is an article showing how much money California would be able to collect if it legalized marijuana. They predicted that they would collect about 1 billions dollars in sales for marijuana. In order to use this for my paper, I can compare to see if this prediction matches the outcome of sales for the first year. If they prove to be true it will show if each state should legalize it as well. If they could accurately predict the income from weed sales in California, then they should be able to do it in every state. Anderson 3 Not only that but they could also use it to predict how much money the federal government can make if they were to legalize marijuana not just the states. This article was published in a business newspaper in California. This newspaper fact checks its sources before they publish them in the paper. Also since this source is older the predictions the author has stated have been proven true, also proving he is a trustworthy author. McGinty, Emma E., et al. Public Perceptions Of Arguments Supporting And Opposing Recreational Marijuana  Preventive Medicine (2017): ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article outlines pros and cons of legalizing recreational marijuana. This article would be good for providing ideas for my counter argument as well as supporting my argument. There is a table that I will use that shows all the pros of legalization that I can address in my first paragraph before I zero in on the tax benefits. It also shows a graph how much tax revenue has increased in states where marijuana is now legal versus in states where not. It also shows how it saves law enforcement money because they spend less on the prohibition of marijuana. It also shows how it opens jobs in this field because they need growers and sales peoples. This creates more jobs in our unstable economy. It also shows that all of the cons of recreational marijuana do not have to do with the economy, proving my point that it is good for financial growth. This author is a graduate from Johns Hopkins University. This is a huge research school which makes her information seem more credible. This is also a peer review source so many other people have reviewed this work before I have read it. Taylor, Kimberly, et al. An analysis of the accounting and financial effects of inconsistent state and federal laws in the recreational marijuana  Journal of Legal, Ethical and Anderson 4 Regulatory Issues, vol. 19, no. 2, 2016. This article focuses on the federal legalization of marijuana recreationally. It shows how it is important for the federal government to legalize it as opposed to the states. This is because if it is still federally legal, then the money people make from it go into banks. In states where it has been legalized there has been a surplus of cash flow that the owners of dispensaries know what to do with. Since banks are owned by the federal government they cannot take the money from these store owners, because it is technically This is making it dangerous in the places where it has been legalized since people know that there has to be a big safe in the store with all the money. This tempts people to want to rob the store at closing time. This article also outlines the benefits that the Department of Justice sees in the legalization of marijuana. This article also addressed that the federal government should put laws in place before other states start to legalize it, because then each state will have their own set of laws and not want to change them. This will help with my research question because it focuses solely on the federal government and how they should be regulating the legalization of marijuana. It outlines the laws already put into place and the financial benefits. This authors writes about finical effects of many laws and not just the legalization on marijuana. Underhill, Wendy. Ballot Bonanza: Voters Took On The Role Of Policymakers For A Slew Of Issues, From Capital Punishment To  State Legislatures 10 (2016): 14. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article is less not about tax benefits of marijuana, but it will still be helpful in my paper. This article discusses the states which have passed marijuana both medicinally and recreationally. It emphasizes that all the states which have passed these laws have been voted on Anderson 5 by the citizens. It shows that these laws are something that the people in America want. It also talks about the role that Donald Trump is about to play in deciding on the federal legalization issue. If it becomes federally legal then the federal government can also start benefitting from the taxes these states are collecting. It also talks about how he can charge all these states with possession of marijuana charges since it is still federally illegal (Underhill). This will help me answer my research question because it gives a baseline of which states have passed laws regarding marijuana. This comes from the most recent election, so it is the most up to date source on this topic. Also this information is released publicly after the election so it is easy to fact check. Vaida, Jeremy M. The Altered State Of American Drug  Tax Lawyer 4 (2015): 761. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article outlines how each state with recreational marijuana taxes their sales of marijuana. In Colorado and Washington, they tax their weed and weed related products up to 25%. In the first two years Colorado collected 45 million dollars in tax money. While in just the first half year on legalization in Washington they gained 15 million dollars. In Oregon and Alaska, they both have imposed a tax on the weight of the product. In Alaska each ounce of weed had a $50 tax. There is no retail tax in Alaska however they impose a graduated tax on net profits. With this type of tax they are predicting a seven million one hundred thousand dollars of tax income on just marijuana products. Oregon taxes their marijuana the same way as Alaska and with the net tax they are expected to collect 20 million dollars from the sales of marijuana (Vaida). Anderson 6 This article was written in 2015 by tax lawyer Jeremy Vaida. This author has also written many articles of drug tax in America. This article will be very beneficial to my research question because it clearly outlines the tax revenue if every state allows recreational marijuana.