Cornelius: 1 Aidan Cornelius Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 2/10/2017 Women In combat positions For a very long time through the wars that this country has been in, woman have always been denied access to join the military. Woman were sought of being not capable of performing the duties that men were asked to do. But after 1917 women were allowed into the ranks along with men. They were still thought of the same and most were put in supportive roles such as nursing or cooking. Some women were really dedicated to go onto the front lines and have even dressed as a male soldier to be accepted into combat jobs. In 1991 Congress allowed women to fly in combat missions. It till 1998 that women fighter pilots flew combat missions off aircraft carriers in Operation Desert Fox Iraq. But now the 21 st century and now all jobs are open to women even direct combat roles. There are a lot of arguments against women being in combat roles. Arguments include that women are not mentally or physically strong enough. Others believe women would be a distraction to men and focus too much on their looks then to get dirty and potentially save a fellow battle buddies life. All this revolves around the question, should women be allowed in combat roles even if they perform up to the task. Alfonso, Kristal L. M. Femme fatale: an examination of the role of women in combat and the policy implications for future American military operations. Maxwell AFB, Ala., Air University Press, 2009. Cornelius: 2 The whole Article talks on female fighters from as early as World War II to Operation Desert with the inclusion of the Authors conceptual ideas of the topic in the future. The Article even has a section that talks on the future for women in combat roles. In Chapter 5 under the realities of Current US Military Operations Alfonso speaks on American Women at war. In this section, Alfonso talks on the Acts of a few courageous women who have been put in supportive combat roles who excelled in their positions. The president at the time George W. Busch did not authorize women in direct combat roles so women were in supportive combat roles like combat medics, aviation pilots and aviation crew member. This section of the Article talks on the courageous acts of a few women who have risked their life or have been a huge contribution to the battle. As an Example, in Afghanistan a road side bomb exploded through a 4 vehicle convoy in which Specialist Brown who is the medic carried the wounded over 500 yards away to a location to where they could be treated before a helicopter could evacuate them. Specialist Brown was the second women since World War II to receive the Silver Star for her actions that day. This is a good representation of women excelling in combat roles. The Author even says proved capable of performing under combat situations and even excelled. Finally, the American public appeared to accept the realities of women dying in combat. During Desert This quote is part of the conclusion saying that women do indeed have proved capable in combat roles and the view of them from the American people are changing. Col. Laura J Richardson Commanded 5th Battalion, 101st Aviation Regiment during the first year of Iraqi freedom. In that time, she has gained the respect of her peers and subordinates. her final assessment, she (Richardson) believed her troops did not see her gender as a constraint to her abilities to lead the battalion into emphasized that the men and women in her battalion, along with their families, a good leader and a Cornelius: 3 master of their These quotes emphasize the respect that subordinates through her ability to excel at her job respected her and followed her leadership. The Author Lt Col Kristal L. M. Alfonso is a graduate from North Carolina State University. On the date this article was published she was an officer in the Air Force flying currently she is now a colonel and is a defense analyst at the Air Force Research Institute. Alvarez, Lizette. Jane Breaks the Combat The New York Times, The New York Times, 15 Aug. 2009, The article opens with an inspiring story of Specialist Veronica Alfaro rushing from her gun truck with a medical bag 50 yards to a stalled civilian vehicle. She pulled the badly wounded driver out of the vehicle to the ground and began to apply medical aid. The rest of the article goes on to talk about women in their duties during the Iraq war. The article states that after 2001 which were the events after 9/11 the numbers of high ranking females in charge of male units have gone up considerably. Most of the Article is an Analysis of women in Iraq and Afghanistan and their jobs or positions held. The Article mentions an Army warrior who says that women could physically handle infantry duties, citing the weight of the armor and the gear, the heat of Baghdad and the harshness of But now after witnessing women in combat and commanding them now says found out only could they handle it, but in the same way as males. I would go out on patrols every single day with my battalion. I was with them. I was next to them. I saw with my own eyes. I had full trust and confidence in their This quote proves to show that women can perform well in combat roles if they perform up to the task. Mr. Baumann who has combat experience have seen women carry the loadout of an infantry solider and has Cornelius: 4 seen women perform well in stressful situations such as firefights. He said that he have believed it if he had not witnessed it firsthand. The article states that some experts and military officers believe that women should be allowed to join and take part in all- male combat units so if they meet the requirements. The author Alvarez, Lizette was Chief for The New York Times in the Miami Bureau. Bohon, Dave. fighting force: the military Leadership Diversity commission recommended putting women into combat roles, ignoring an exhaustive study recommending the Feminizing fighting force, vol. 27, no. 4, 2011, Academic OneFile. While this article does include statistics of women being deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq with numbers also pertaining to those who have died compared to men, I will mostly be addressing the other aspects of the article that include women testimonies and ideas expressed in the article. Some of the ideas in the Article is how out of sync the policy makers are with what is going on overseas in the Combat zone. The Article even addresses counter arguments such as women hindering the cohesion of the unit. The Article is indeed relevant to the question at hand if women should be allowed to join combat roles if they perform up to the task. One of the aspects that are addressed in the article is how the policies that are in place excluding women from combat roles are not what is being reflected overseas. that the exclusion of women in combat roles is out of sync with the realities of present-day warfare, the commission noted that of the military women deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan have already been engaged in activities that would be considered combat-related, including being collocated with combat units and engaging in direct combat for That quotation from the article acknowledges the fact that women are Cornelius: 5 already doing combat duties overseas but are not in sync with the policies excluding them from such. With counter arguments about women hindering the cohesion of the group the article responds with has been little evidence that the integration of women into previously closed units or occupations has had a negative impact on important mission-related performance factors, like unit This quotation says that there is not enough evidence to conclude that women have a negative impact on the unit. I plan to use this article in future projects to use against counter arguments and to explain that women are already unofficially in combat roles. A quote from former Captain Anu Bhagwati who serves as executive director of the service women action network argued huge glass ceiling for servicewomen. It is archaic, it does not reflect the many sacrifices and contributions that women make in the military, and it ignores the reality of current warfighting This means that the fact that women are excluded from combat roles is very old and does not reflect the sacrifices and contributions that women do equally as much as men do. The author Bohon, Dave is a credited author off the website New American in which he has written many articles like Amendment Passes in and Judges Resign in N.C. Over Order to Perform Gay He has been writing articles to this site since 2010. Brower, J. Michael, and Elaine Donnelly. Examining the pros and cons of women in  The Officer 2005: 38. Academic OneFile. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. The article is a very good article in comparing women and men in combat. The articles go in depth with the Pros and cons of women in combat. Brower organizes this article by having alternating sections of pros and cons. For each Pro and Con section there are questions that are asked and then answered. The article is based on a question and answer basis. Some questions that are asked are common questions that the community have on women being in combat roles. Cornelius: 6 for instance, questions like not give female soldiers the opportunity to volunteer for combat This is a great article to my research question if women should be in combat roles. With the way that the article is organized it is straight forward to the pros and cons on women being in combat roles. This Article would be a great counter argument source as it does addresses the issues on both sides of women being in combat roles. The Article is on a question and answer format so it addresses most of the concerns with women being in combat roles. Brower j Michael is an author with several written articles on women warfighters. He also has published works about engineering salaries and tends to focus on the issues currently relevant in the country. Kharen, Kelly R, and Jameson T James. of Strength and Conditioning Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, vol. 30, no. 3, Mar. 2016, pp. doi:10.1519/JSC.0000000000001269. In this Article Kharen Kelly R and Jameson T James go into in depth analysis of the physical structure of women compared to men. The research is conducted by marine researchers with measurements on Body fat percentage, aerobic fitness, Upper body strength and primarily body strength. The research is physical test conducted by male and female patients and were recorded and compared. For most of the data that were taken men were the winners. But there were some women who out performed men. One of the women in the study did better than 82% of the men in control group 2. With the data on the research women are not going to be able to compete with men in physique. Women are biologically not as physically strong most of the time. A few women have Cornelius: 7 been able to overcome this challenge by obvious reasons of hard work. This article is related because it addresses some of the counter arguments against women being in combat roles. But a response to that would be that not all men are in the military just like all women are not either only the best is and those who put in the hard work. This means that only a few are serving and those that can perform up to the task should be in combat roles. Information about the author was found on Ovid, Wolters Kluwer, 2016, ovidsp.tx.ovid.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/sp- 3.23.1b/ovidweb.cgi and it says Division of Operational Readiness, Warfighter Performance Department, Naval Health Research Center, San Diego, California Address correspondence to Karen R. Kelly. Thompson, Mark. Sending Women to  Time. Time, Nov. & Dec. 2015. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. The Article talks about a story of an Armored vehicle patrolling in Baghdad in the Iraq war when a Bomb goes off severely crippling the vehicle. There were four soldiers who were trapped in the carnage of the vehicle as they begin to take small arms fire. An Army lab technician then pulls a 250 pound solider out of the 18 ton Stryker vehicle, while there were smoke and bullets flying around them. This person pulled out another solider that weighed just half of the weight that they were. This person was a female. After she pulled her battle buddies out of the vehicle she pointed her m-16 at the enemy and began to return fire. After hearing about the events her commanding officer that her actions have changed his opinion of women in combat roles. This Article is especially important to the question at hand. Should women be allowed in combat roles? changed my opinion about where women ought to be in the he said. the chips are down, a good soldier is a good That is a direct quotation from the Cornelius: 8 Article of the Female commander talking on her courageous actions. Other parts of the article announced that 3 women for the first time ever have successfully completed Ranger School which is a very grueling physically and mentally intense school that many men even complete. These are examples of women in combat roles performing well. The female solider at the beginning of the article who pulled her battle buddy out of the Stryker had demonstrated up to the task at as well as the 3 female solider to complete one of the hardest schools. From Thompson, Mark. http://time.com/author/mark-thompson/. TIME.com, 2017. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Mark Thompson is a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter who writes about national security and the military since 1979 and has been writing for time since 1994