Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs English 1101-S17 19 February 2017 Depression on the Population of University Music Students College is one of the essential turning points in an average life. It is the defining time where most take the plunge and transition into adult life and tackle responsibilities with a strong emphasis on independence. With such a sudden transition of lifestyles, a significant amount of college students fall under the tight grip of anxiety and depression. Depression is noticeably an ever-growing scourge that is plaguing students in every field of study on college campuses, with one seemingly unlikely field of study significantly depressing students without many people even noticing. The studies of Music Performance and Music Education are exclusive majors that require auditions only for acceptance, and a seemingly more limited number of students are accepted into this field compared to other majors. This exclusive group of students undergo one of the most work-induced and credit-heavy programs offered at most Universities. On top of taking regular classes as well as major specific classes music students are expected to take extra time of their lives to attend rehearsals, practice, and perform. It is no surprise that these students develop depression due to immense amounts of stress and anxiety. While the problem has been pinpointed and analyzed for over a decade, one question arises: What is progress is being made to help eliminate the mental illnesses of Music degree seeking students? Bernhard, H. Christian II. A Survey Of Burnout Among College Music  College Student Journal 41.2 (2007): 392-401. Education Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Student 2 This article explores beyond the topic of depression and looks at factors that contribute to the depression of music students. The main study of this article focuses on the aspect of burnout when it comes to college students. Burnout in this article is perceived and categorized into three components listed as emotional exhaustion, depersonalization, and reduced personal accomplishment. The study examines correlations between burnout, academic, and personal variable between multiple majors of music such as music performance and music education. Generally, one would assume that music education majors are the most burned out due to the high demand expectations from music education faculty, but it turns out that all music majors equally report the same levels of perceived burnout. One interesting find states that music students studying under the percussion instrument family reported the highest mean scores for emotional exhaustion as well as depersonalization, on top of having the lowest scores for personal accomplishment. Another interesting piece of data suggests that the mean amount of sleep hours reported by students show that music students get approximately 6.25 hours of sleep a day. They conclude that faculty time and resources should be spent more on instructing responsible sleep and relaxation skills to music majors during or outside of class time. Burnout appears to play a huge role in how students acquire depression. Many factors contribute to the causation of burnout such as sleep deprivation and workload. Authors are trying to search for clues that would point to better treatment for music students with depression, and analyzing factors such as burnout help do so. Author H. Christian Bernhard II (Ph.D) is a Professor of Music Education at the State University of New York at Fredonia. Bernhard has degrees in music education and performance from the Peabody Conservatory of music, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and University of North Caroline at Greensboro. He focuses on research dedicated to music education as well as alleviation of stress amount music Student 3 teachers and published peer-reviewed journals across multiple formats such as College Music Symposium and the Journal of Music Teacher Education to name a few. Kurara, Bannai, Takayoshi Kase, Shintaro Endo, Kazuo Oishi Relationships Among Performance Anxiety, Agari Experience, And Depressive Tendencies In Japanese Music  Medical Problems Of Performing Artists 31.4 (2016): 205-210. International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This study brings to light all the factors and issues that cause depression in college music students, while providing insight into another culture group that experiences the same plights as western culture. In the study, the author goes into detail about performance anxiety in Japanese culture defining physical and mental negative responses to excessive emotional tension felt in the presence of an audience as the term agari. The author proves in their study that performance anxiety is linked to depressive tendencies. When a student musician is performing under the pressures of performance anxiety and agari their overall performance is affected, and the outcome of their performance creates another factor to create depressive tendencies. This study was published by Kurara Bannai as well as three other authors Takayoshi Kase, Shintaro Endo, and Kazuo in December of 2016. All four authors were graduate students under different areas of study at Rikko University in Saitama Japan at the time of the publishing. This article brings the issue of depression in college music students to light by generating new studies and information that provide further insight into the multiple factors that contribute to the causes of depression. Powers, Keith. Young musicians face depression with silence: recent study suggests that most college music students suffering from depression and anxiety symptoms never seek  Teaching Music 2013: 24. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Student 4 This is a very concise article that brings up great points about music students and their connection to depression. It states that up to 15 percent of college students suffer from anxiety or depression, and that music majors make up a sizeable portion of them. The article finds that few music students seek treatment. While the article does say that only 12 percent of music students get depressed, those students make up a good percentage of the overall number of college students who get depressed, and music students cope differently to depression than other students. Another interesting point in the article states that performance anxiety does not contribute a lot to depression, but pervasive anxiety due to practicing and poor time management does. The article concludes by stating that mental conditions would less likely become pathological if students were taught more specifically on how to manage time, form better practice habits, and cope with stress. This article was published by Keith Powers on August 2013. Keith Powers has written over thirty articles for the journal called under the National Association for Music Education (NAfME) on subjects pertaining to music and music education. One of the most important points in the article related to the research question state that social stigmas associated with musicians and depression need to be broken down. There is still a stigma behind musicians seeking help for their mental health and that while there is a slow acknowledgement of how mental health shapes physical health there is still a long way to go in the music profession. Spahn, Claudia, Sandra Strukely, and Andreas Lehmann. Health Conditions, Attitudes Toward Study, And Attitudes Toward Health At The Beginning Of University Study: Music Students In Comparison With Other Student  Medical Problems Of Performing Artists 1 (2004): 26. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Student 5 This study analyzes three hypotheses in regards to the health attitudes of music, psychology, medical, and sports students. They conclude that music students start their field of study with specific problems and greater health impairment than students majoring in other subjects. The authors also finds that music students believe more strongly than students majoring in other subjects that they can influence their own state of health. Literature suggests that anxiety syndromes occur three times as often in music students compared to the general population. For implementation of preventative measures one must consider three subgroups of music students: students who have current symptoms limiting their performance, students who have had symptoms in the past, and students who have never had symptoms limiting their performance. The Trondelag Conservatory in Trondheim, Norway has made strides in preventative measures regarding depression in music students. The conservatory evaluates their students at preliminary examinations about health impairment and guided their students per various preventive measures. Preventative procedures should be oriented towards strong identification with performing music, and psychological themes such as anxiety and insecurity should be considered. Musicians should be encouraged to believe that they can influence their own state of health, and that preventative health consciousness should be part of the responsibility in becoming a good musician This article ties in to the research question when it observes the comparison of music students to other fields, and possibility for preventative measures. The author provides useful data that prove as a benchmark for how each major stack up to eachother when it comes to students suffering from depression. Author Dr. Claudia Spahn is director of the Freiburg institute for musician medicine in Germany. Student 6 Wang, Jun, and Pingping Zhao. A Comparative Study Of Perfectionism, Coping Style & Interpersonal Relationship Between Music Major And Non-Music Major College  Asian Social Science 9 (2009): 128. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This article studies the coping style of different majors including music when it comes to the topic of perfectionism. Perfectionism in the article refers to when a person cannot take the facts that they have not reached the high standard they have set themselves. Perfectionism is linked with eating disorders, nervousness, self-esteem, procrastination, depression, and suicidal tendencies. Coping in the article refers to the behavioral style when an individual faces setbacks and stress. Results of the study show that music majors have more problems coping with perfectionism than non-music majors. The article concludes by stating university or college educators carry out psychological health education, they should take corresponding measures according to their respective major and different existing problems, guide students to make use of positive aspects of perfectionism, strengthen training and cultivating the mature coping compatibility of music major students, improve their interpersonal ability, therefore improve their overall level of mental (Wang). This article brings out another aspect that contributes to depression and points out the difference between music students and non-music students. The article agrees with the sentiment that music students need to be educated on their mental health to prevent further problems. The article was written by Jun Wang and Pingping Zhao of Qufu Normal University in China who represent the Student Affairs Department and the Educational Science College respectively. Wristen, Brenda G. Depression And Anxiety In University Music  Update: Applications Of Research In Music Education 31.2 (2013): 20-27. RILM Abstracts of Music Literature (1967 to Present only). Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Student 7 This article eloquently covers all aspects of factors linked to music student depression. It cites a study that compares majors of premedical, psychology, and physical education to music; the study mentioned found that music were the least able to detach themselves from their course of study. Because music students personally identify with their work and are not easily able to separate themselves from it, it leads to a narrowing of other interests in life. The study cited also found that even though musicians suffer from depression, they are reported to have significantly lower rates of emotional and alcoholic problems compared to their non-music peers. The study found that 79% of musicians who reported psychological problems do not seek professional help at all. This article concludes with some excellent solutions to decrease the amount of depression in college music students. The article suggests that music educators should acknowledge mental health disorders such as depression and anxiety to their students the same level of concern given to physical injuries. Affecting musical participation might encourage students to seek treatment when (Wristen). Music educators should also provide their students with time management skills and strategies, which are invaluable skills that are neglected in formal education. This article directly helps answer the research question by suggestions a few possible solutions that bring about a way to prevent depression in future university music students. Findings in the studies cited in the article could be valuable to university music educators as well as pre-college music educators, whom of which are very influential in the lives of pre- college/university music students. Author Dr. Brenda G. Wristen is Associate Professor and Director of Piano Pedagogy at the University of Nebraska, whom of which teaches not only piano but also Occupational Health and Wellness for musicians. Wristen has received a multitude of grants for her scholarly activity in the field.