1 Emily Hickmon Alison Missler ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Kratom Expressed in Images The American Kratom Association is plays a vital role in the battle for Kratom legality in the US. Kratom is a natural supplement that is widely used in opioid withdrawal and drug abuse treatment. There are many ways they could use visual rhetoric to reinforce the positive effects of this herbal supplement whether the image takes a calming or more serious approach. Many of their visual ads focus on the natural side of the supplement, but some ads against drug abuse can also be used to fight towards Kratom remaining legal. With the use of strong visual rhetoric, the American Kratom Association can increase of Kratom use for benefits. Both images utilise a large amount of of ethos and pathos, which is an appeal to morality and emotions. The first image uses the color green as an appeal to morality since the color stands for safety, growth, and the environment. A large portion of the picture is composed of trees, which can be used to symbolize liberation from pain killers and drugs that Kratom can help people overcome. The first images also uses pathos by giving the viewer a more relaxing breath of hope with the serene landscape and river. The second image has a deep use of pathos as it shows the hand of someone who has just overdosed on drugs. On the top of the second image, it also describes the person who has just died, Thomas, a 21 year old that just injected heroin for 2 the last time. Although he likely felt young and invincible, life has come to an end. Abusing drugs often starts at a young age where it is socially acceptable as Twombly states third of teens believe there is with using prescription medications for nonmedical purposes (Twombly, 2008). If teens grow with the beliefs that abusing prescription drugs is normal, they will likely never feel as if they are doing anything wrong. But, there is a solution to such addictive behaviors, and the solution is Kratom. Ethos is also used in the second image as it proves that drug abuse is not only wrong, but a life or death situation. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness, logos is an appeal to logic, and they are both also used in the two images. In image one, you see a canoe structured of wood nearly out of the frame. While on the dock, there is a rusted metal boat still docked in a forest where it does not belong. The canoe represents Kratom as it is becoming increasingly illegal in the US and leaving thousands of people addicted to prescription drugs while it could be used by social workers to help them overcome it. (Kumpher, 1990). literature indicates that teens choose to misuse a prescription drug to obtain a specific pharmacological treat pain, to relax or to perform (Twombly, 2008) which are also benefits that one can experience through the use of Kratom This is an example of Kairos because there is a legislative push to ban Kratom, which would make it nearly impossible for Kratom to continue saving lives in the US. The second image uses logos by relating a life to a video game to a death. It is logical to appeal to youth through the end of a game to the end of a life so that it gives a more realistic call for change. In the bottom right corner they tie in the use of logos with the phrase play with drugs, you have a second since a common theme in video games is that you have three lives. Kairos is used in this image since the person that has died was only 21 years 3 old. More often than not, young people have a mindset that says would never happen to This, however, is not true, especially in situations where one is abusing drugs. If this person were to use Kratom rather than heroin and pills, they could still be alive today. While both images can be used to support Kratom, they both have very different feels. The first image is brighter, shows that there is still time for a change, while the second image is much darker and gives the message that people are running out of time. Ethos, Kairos Logos, and Pathos are all used in both of the images that have been presented that could increase the appeals of Kratom through visual rhetoric. The American Kratom Association can utilise such devices to increase public awareness of Kratom benefits. 4 Works Cited Twombly, Eric. and the Misuse of Prescription Drugs: Evidence-Based Recommendations to Curb a Growing Societal Problem (2008): n. pag. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Kumpfer, K. L., & Turner, C. W. (1990). The social ecology model of adolescent substance abuse: Implications for prevention. Journal of Addiction 25(S4) , Matsumoto, Kenjiro. Studies on 7-Hydroxymitragynine, Isolated from the Thai Herbal Medicine Mitragyna speciosa: Discovery of an Orally Active Opioid Analgesic . N.p.: n.p., n.d. 2006. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. 5