Ishaat Musrur Hussain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 sec 51 26 th February 2017 Death with Dignity As societal beings, we are granted access to various rights. However, one such right has faced quite the controversy in the United States of America and it is the right to die. The organization with Dignity National believes firmly that people should have the right to make their own end of life decisions and choose how they die (Death with Dignity). For the last two decades, this organization has strived to legalize the Death with Dignity act, which allows qualified people to choose physician assisted suicide as an end of life option when faced with a terminal illness. In addition to providing legislative support and supporting the Death with Dignity laws, they also provide information to patients, family members, professionals and media regarding the Death with Dignity laws. Through personal stories, news articles, statistics and graphical illustrations displayed on their website, this organization hopes to gain more support for the legalization of the Death with Dignity laws. The organization uses textual data, graphics, and color presentation in the form of a visual message to convey the importance of the legalization of the Death with Dignity Laws. The goal of Death with Dignity National Center is not only the legalization of Death with Dignity laws but also ensuring human rights. Their motto reads, greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our own desires and (Death with Dignity). This motto reflects their goal of ensuring equal and proper rights to everyone, even the right to die. The first image addresses prospective supporters of not the organization, but the Death with Dignity law itself. The law enables qualified residents who have been diagnosed terminally ill with a life expectancy of six months to avail medication to hasten their death (Death with Dignity). By displaying the sentence SUPPORT DEATH WITH in capitalized form, the image is trying to grab the attention of the reader. In addition to capitalized lettering, by using the word I, the image aims to deliver a call to action for prospective supporters. The statistical data in 10 displayed in the upper right corner of the image serves as a popular incentive. In addition, they also capitalize the words freedom and decisions to provide a greater sense of importance. These strategies aim to make support for the Death with Dignity law a logical decision. The text not only serves as a logical representation of data, but also serves as medium of urgency. By starting both of the sentence with I, and capitalizing the word they aim to raise awareness that it is the American duty to act upon this now. The second image has but one sentence, THE The aim of the second image is to connect to the emotions of the audience through the image of the old couple rather than more textual data like the previous image. Both the images employ distinct graphical representations to convey their messages. In the upper left corner of the first image, a row of ten human figures are shown. Seven of the figures are darker shade than the last three. This offers as visual catalyst to the statistic of most Americans supporting the law. In addition, there is also human figure in the of Support. This demonstrates that the organization wants readers to visualize themselves as part of the goal. In the bottom of the image, the logo serves as a source of credibility for the graphical illustration. In the second image the overwhelming graphic is the old couple. Statistical data reports that the average age of people who died of the Death with Dignity law in Oregon is 73 (Howard and Werth, Jr 503). This shows that, key demography in support of the Death with Dignity law are people of older age. Thus, the second image aims to use pathos to convey their message to the audience. By using an image of an aged couple, the image is also establishing credibility by connecting it to the reality of the situation to statistical data. In addition, to graphics, the images also employ the use of colors and textual organization to convey their messages. The overall color scheme of the entire Death with Dignity website is Orange which delivers a sense of warmth and comfort (Bourn Creative). By using this color scheme, the organization aims to deliver an inviting approach to gain support. In the first image, the logo is centered in a streak of orange. This not only connects the image with the organization as a form of credibility, but also delivers the message intended by the organization. As the first image employs the use of more textual data, the background is left dull so that the text is more readable. The capitalized sentence is centered so that it serves as the main attention grabber. The logo of the organization is in the form of two connected Ds. One D is for Death and the other is for Dignity. By connecting these two, in the logo the organization again aims to present their belief that death should happen with dignity. The second image uses capitalized lettering as well to incentivize audience to sign the petition. To make the sentence visible the text is white on a red background. Red serves as an eye-catching component. In order, that the red does not overwhelm the rest of the image, the text box is placed in the lower right corner of the image. The couple is centered in the image and the background is blurred out so that the couple is the main view point of the image. The lighting and shading on their skin, enhances their wrinkled age to represent their aging bodies. These presentation strategies, are aimed at gaining more support for the materialization of the Death with Dignity laws for benefitting people who need it. The main goal of the Death with Dignity National Center is to provide the right of choice through legal means to patients, and put the decision of using physician assisted suicide into their capable hands. The Death with Dignity Act has been operative in Oregon since late 1997 (Howard and Werth, Jr 501). Today, this act is in effect in Oregon, Washington, California and Vermont along with necessary safeguards (Death with Dignity). The Death with Dignity law, in no way forces a patient to die, but simply gives them the choice of dying in peace and on their terms. Results from an implementation attempt of the law in a cancer center showed that the most common reasons for participation in physician assisted suicide was loss of autonomy (97.2%), inability to engage in joy (88.9%) and loss of dignity (75.0 %). It is also important to note that out of 114 cancer patients, 40 patients received a prescription for legal dosage upon request of which 24 people died through ingestion of medication (Loggers et al. 1). This demonstrates that people consider all options before choosing physician assisted suicide. A hidden factor of physician assisted suicide is the right of choice. Death with Dignity National Center aims to provide this right to people through legalization of the Death with Dignity laws in all states of America. In addition to support, this organization aims to educate the public about the Death with Dignity laws. Their official website serves as an important portal of information about the organization and the law for the public. Through the various visual strategies, the organization not only strives to legalize the Death with Dignity law but also strives for ensuring the right of choice to patients. (1279 words) Work Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer, About Jennifer BournCreative Director Digital Strategist WordPress Evangelist Probably a Sith... Her Passion Brings Forth Intuitive Design Solutions. As Founder of Bourn Creative, Jennifer Is an Award-winning Designer Who Has Been Working in the Desig, and Brenda. Meaning of The Color Orange  Bourn Creative. Bourn Creative, 03 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. SUPPORT DEATH WITH 3.png?x43788 Loggers, Elizabeth Trice, Helene Starks, Moreen Shannon-Dudley, Anthony L. Back, Frederick R. Appelbaum, and F. Marc Stewart. Implementing a Death with Dignity Program at a Comprehensive Cancer  New England Journal of Medicine 368.15 (2013): 1417 424. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. THE Wineberg, Howard, and James L., Jr. Werth. Physician-Assisted Suicide In Oregon: What Are The Key  Death Studies 27.6 (2003): 501-518. AgeLine. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.