Riddley 1 Jacob Riddley Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 29 January, 2017 of Bullying at the Age of For years now, bullying has been known to be a world-wide catastrophe. Whether it be at an early age, early adulthood, or even has an elder, it has never been supported by society but always seems to be alright to those committing the acts. When review bullying, the one kind that has always be the most crucial and effective is bullying at the age of adolescences. Believe it or not, bullying can take a huge toll on a being, physically and mentally. It can cause emotional break downs and even serious self-inflected consequences. Now even though bullying affect everyone, it can come in all kinds of forms. After further review on the topic, a question that continuously arises is how bullying truly affects ones being. It is important to know that no matter the circumstances, bullying is never considered acceptable. With much research on the topic, it is proved that bullying can cause a decent amount of damage to emotions and action. It has even caused extreme consequences such as school shootings, suicide, etc. Annotations of these scholarly articles, can hopefully create a better understanding on the issue of bullying at the age of adolescences and answer the question, can adolescent bullying lead to further complications down the line, such as social isolation with in a work place or unhealthy behaviors like drug abuse/depression? Riddley 2 Source #1: Lyndal Bond, John B. Carlin, Lyndal Thomas, Kerryn Rubin, George Patton. bullying cause emotional problems? A prospective study of young BMJ (2001): n. pag. Web. 20 January 2017. bullying cause emotional problems? A prospective study of young In the article above, a study is conducted amongst students at 26 secondary schools. The study is used to find relevance of bullying to emotional health and wellbeing. Whether absent or not, a survey was completed by students at these schools. A student was viewed as a victim if yes was answered by the questions: have you been teased? Have rumors been spread about you? Have you been excluded from a certain crowd? Have you experienced physical threats/violence? (Bond, 2001). A mental health status was evaluated on whether there were of depression and anxiety. After further review of the article, it has shown an association between victimization and self-reported symptoms of anxiety and depression. With that being said, the adolescent age is a more vulnerable stage of a life. The study also viewed the status of the family on whether it was still together and strong, or if the parents have been divorced/separated. It is acknowledged in the article that females are more vulnerable to bullying than guys and has significant influence on the future of their emotional wellbeing of adolescent females (Bond, 2001). The article bullying cause emotional problems? A prospective study of young Has a decent amount of information valuable to the research question associated with the topic. Can adolescent bullying lead to further complications down the line, such as social isolation with in a work place or unhealthy behaviors like drug abuse/depression? With that being asked, it is found in the article that adolescent bullying can in fact lead to issues in the Riddley 3 future. The article is found to be a credible source due to the authors who constructed it. Multiple doctors and researchers helped for information that is relevant to the question at hand. Affiliated authors such as Lyndal Thomas (Ph.D Scholar) and Kerryn Rubin (Medical Student) devotes time in creating a successful study allowing for this source to be considered credible. Source #2: Robert Slonje. Another main type of Scandinavian Journal of Psychology 49.2 (2008): 147-154. Print. Another main type of As stated in the previous paragraphs, there are multiple forms of bullying, all of which has been known to impact humans emotionally, and physically. Recently, a form of bullying that seems to be becoming an issue is (Slonje, 147). In the article above, Cyberbullying is defined as harassment via cell phone, internet, etc. Two surveys were completed by 92 students from 14 different schools with ages ranging from 11 to 16 years old. The first study involved in the article focused on the relevance of cyberbullying to the internet, and the second study focused on how often cyberbullying was found within or outside of school. As a result, each study actually found that cyberbullying occurs less than the traditional kinds of bullying. With that being said, that mean cyberbullying is not occurring within school grounds but was reported outside of schools rather than inside. This also mean that it cannot be prevented. Preventions such as blocking and avoiding conflict on the internet have been recommended to all students surveyed. The second study also found that being a victim to cyberbullying has some correlations to the amount of internet use by the so-called (Slonje, 150). Riddley 4 The article, Another main type of composed studies useful to creating a well written Annotated Bibliography. Each author has conducted years of research on the subject of bullying, and hold in Psychology or Psychiatry. The article also connects information to the research question: adolescent bullying lead to further complications down the line, such as social isolation with in a work place or unhealthy behaviors like drug by conducting studies that show multiple amounts of cyberbullying committed at schools for students at the age 11-16. This author is considered a credible source because of who it was constructed by. Since the authors all hold doctorates degrees, this source is very valuable to this Annotated Bibliography. Source #3: Jing Wang, Ronald J. Iannottia, Tonja R. Nansel. Bullying Among Adolescents in the United States: Physical, Verbal, Relational, and Journal of Adolescent Health 45.4 (2009): 368-375. Print In the article above, data was collected to discover the bullying that affects and causes the most damage to humans of the adolescent age while in school. they decided that the best way to collect this data, was to create a questionnaire used to measure multiple forms of bullying such as physical, verbal, and even cyberbullying. Variables such as parental support and number of friends were included when determining how bullying can be affective to the adolescent mind. Now, it has been known for school bullying to be problematic amongst behavior in adolescents (Wang et al, 368). What is not known, is how often bullying occurs within the school zone. The article Bullying Among Adolescents in the United States: Physical, Verbal, Relational, and focuses most of its attention and questioning on kids attending middle school, for it Riddley 5 is when bullying behavior tends to peak (Wang et al, 368). After the surveys were completed, researchers found a multitude of information valuable to the question at hand. They found that boys are more than likely to commit the bullying, whereas girls were more than likely to be the victim of the bullying. They also found that with parental support, adolescents held less involvement across all forms of bullying surveyed within the article. When researchers chose to look into the number of friends and its involvement with bullying, they found that kids with more friends were associated more with bullying rather than victimization (Wang et al, 370). In the article above, studies were preformed to find information linking bullying with the emotion of the adolescent age. These studies produced information that is useful to forming a well-composed Annotated Bibliography. The article above was a joint effort from Doctors at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. Jing Wang, Ronald J. Iannotti, and Tonja R. Nansel all hold doctorates in their fields of work. With that being said, the information within the article is to be found absolutely credible. The article also does a great job connecting the information with my research question found in the Introduction: adolescent bullying lead to further complications down the line, such as social isolation with in a work place or unhealthy behaviors like drug Source #4: Patricia W. Agatston, Robin Kowalski, Susan Limber. Perspectives on Cyber Journal of Adolescent Health 41.6 (2007): S59-S60. Print. In the article above, a study was performed to gain a better understanding on the impact that cyber bullying has on students, and possible look toward better methods of prevention leading to schools being a safe zone for those held victim to In one public Riddley 6 school district, a total of 148 students from two middle schools and two high schools were placed in focus groups for about 45 minutes (Agatston et al, s59). In the focus groups, these students were interviewed and asked questions related to both gender and race. It was found that cyberbullying occurs more often outside of school grounds but could possibly be brought to school in various ways. Even though a decent amount of student per school were held victim to these forms of bullying, they were also able to give advice and strategies on how to avoid bullying at all costs. What they found difficult, was how to interact with a situation involving bullying held within the cyberspace. With a recent increase in technology as a whole, cyberbullying rates have increased tremendously. With the smart phones in use now, accesses to social media can be found with just the simple touch of your fingertips. With that being said, the potential for cyberbullying to increase during the school day (Agatston et al, s60). Methods such as newly enforced policies involving cyberbullying consequences and classroom lessons on how to react to cyberbullying as a peer can all be used to help prevent all forms of bullying, especially cyber. The Article, Perspectives on Cyber preformed a study involving teens ranging in age from 12-17 years old. This study produced information valuable to connecting the article with the research question proposed in the introduction. The authors who composed the article include, Patricia W. Agatston, Robin Kowalski, and Susan Limber. Each author stated in the previous sentence all hold doctorates degrees within their field of work. With that being said, any information composed by an author that holds a Ph. D. is considered credible. Since each author that is involved in this article has their doctorates degree, the information given is considered to be very valuable to this Annotated Bibliography. Riddley 7 Source #5: Jaana Juvonen, Sandra Graham, Mark A. Schuster. Among Young Adolescents: The Strong, the Weak, and the AAP News & Journals 112.6 (2003): 1231-1237. Web. 22 January 2017. The article above narrows its focus mainly on bullying among the youth. The article explains that Bullying and being victimized by a bully are both considered to be equally hazardous to the youth. includes a range of behaviors that result in an imbalance of power between the aggressor and the (Juvonen et al, 1231). According to The authors of the source, emotional bullying by peers is the biggest concern for the youth. A study was conduct on bullying among young adolescents. The sample for the study came from sixth grade students at 11 public middle schools. All of these schools were located in low-income communities with the greater metropolitan area of Los Angeles, California. The study incorporated multiple variables as well, that would have some kind of influence on the study. These variables included Bullies and Victims, Self-Reported Psychological Distress, Peer Reports of Adjustment, and Teacher Rated Adjustment. As a result, to the study, it was found that 56% of the sixth grade students were uninvolved. leaving the other 44% of the students to be involved, whether it be classifying a student as a bully or a victim. The types of involvement also varied by race/ethnicity; Blacks being the highest, and Asians being the lowest. For Psychological distress, Victims reported the highest in categories such as: depression, social anxiety, and loneliness (Juvonen et al, 1233). With all of the analysis created, it is safe to say that bullying can affect more than those who are involved. Bullying is a huge issue amongst the youth and is in desperate need for a solution. Riddley 8 After further review of the article, Among Young Adolescents: The Strong, the Weak, and the Is extremely useful to completing an Annotated Bibliography well enough to meet the required standards. To determine whether or not the source is considered credible, research was conducted among the three authors. It is found that all three authors (Jaana Juvonen, Sandra Graham, and Mark A. Schuster) hold doctorates degrees in fields relating to the topic at hand. Since all of the authors earned their doctorates, this source is to be considered credible/ useful in connecting the information to the research question in the introduction. Source #6: Jaana Juvonen. the School Grounds? Bullying Experiences in Journal of School Health 78.9 (2008): 496-505. Print. Due to a significant increase in electronic/social media use, bullying has expanded past the boundaries of school campuses. The article above places most of its focus on bullying among internet using adolescents, and states that bullying that creates emotional or physical intimidation is correlated with multiple mental health problems. This begs the questions, is bullying a major public health concern facing the youth? (Juvonen et al, 496). A Web-based survey is conducted, in which one thousand four hundred fifty-four students ranging in age from 12 to 17 are questioned anonymously. The sample consisted of 75% females, 66% of the sample being white. The survey measured variables such as online experience and communication tool use, bullying experiences, assumptions about cyberbullying, and reliance on prevention tactics. As a result to the conducted survey, it was found that 72% of respondents reported that been involved with online bullying (Juvonen et al, 496). It was discovered that the most frequent form of cyberbullying occurred through instant messaging. When it came to discussing health concerns, Riddley 9 social anxiety was mostly associated with both in-school and online bullying. Prevention tactics were also discussed with in the article. Tactics such as blocking a bully online had been used by almost 67% of the sample. The craziest part is that 90% of students even tell their parents, making it seem like the victim should have to deal with bullying alone. All of which is incorrect. Informing your parents about bullying can lead to preventing bullying from occurring, whether it be online or at school. The article, the School Grounds? Bullying Experiences in performed a study gathering a wide range of information correlating the internet use amongst students the of 12 to 17, and the bullying that is found online and not at school. The main author of the Article, Jaana Juvonen, also helped compose Jaana Juvonen also has a Ph. D. in Psychology at UCLA. Since Juvonen holds a doctorates degree, she is considered to be a credible source. The article also does a great job creating a connection between the information found and the research question, adolescent bullying lead to further complications down the line, such as social isolation with in a work place or unhealthy behaviors like drug Due to the article meeting the requirements, the source is considered to be useful and credible.