Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Education for NonEnglish Speaking Students Nowadays, more and more international students who are Non-English speakers choose to go abroad to study in English-speaking countries, like the United States, Canada, and Australia. However, the language barrier becomes one of the biggest problems for them when studying abroad. Some students choose to learn English in their own country and pass the language test, like Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and International English Language Testing System (IELTS), before study in the English speaking countries. Some students prefer to take the language class in the English-speaking University. As we all known, Non-English speakers will face a lot of difficulties when they are learning English. For example, Arabs have to be familiar with the writing order because they write Arabic from right to left. Thus, University and country provide a lot of different organizations and courses to help non- English speakers learning English and adapt to the culture. University will establish tutor and English teaching assistant to help Non-English speakers learning English and solving the cultural problems. However, is there any other support can be used to help Non-English speakers academically and socially. Finally, my research question is helps and support Non- English Speaker to adapt culture during learning language in English speaking countries? Cruickshank, Ken, Sandra Newell, and Stephanie2 Cole. Meeting English Language Needs In Teacher Education: A Flexible Support Model For Non-English Speaking Background Student 2  Asia-Pacific Journal Of Teacher Education 31.3 (2003): 239-247. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article explores the question of what constitutes effective English language support for students. During the Exploring, they investigated for a group of 110 overseas-trained teachers undertaking teacher education at University of Sydney between 1999 and 2001(Ken, Newell & Cole). The data from the article focus on interviewing the group of 110 teachers, their students and staff, checking student-learning journals as well. In order to help them explore the English language support for students, the writers propose an integrated and flexible model of English language support including content-based units, tutoring program and self- directed study, which were the foundation of supporting for the English language separately. Then they use it for different groups of English studying students, like English as a second language (ESL) student, to see how the unique English language support will help them in learning English. According to the article, it gives real and specific data of using the model of English language support, which helps me to research into the elements that influence non-English speakers learning English. The three Authors Affiliate with University of Sydney and American Association of Higher Education. The article is published by Asia-Pacific Journal of Teacher Education, which is a famous academic source as well. Rudy. English As A Second  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article introduces the history and the development of the English as a Second Language program (ESL). The English-language education for non-English speaker has developed since the early twentieth century. Since an increasing number of non-English- Student 3 speaking immigrants in the United States, and they do not have enough ability to help language- minority children to succeed in school that acquires the necessary English literacy skills. The early ESL program was born in the late to help change the English-language education problems. The ESL program support accommodating the various needs of immigrant and US- born second-language learners. And the ESL program has several new forms now. However, the original aim of ESL teaching program is to help students develop and consolidate four majors in speaking, reading, and writing. ESL program is an important part for non-English speakers to learning English. And this article explains the reason why the ESL produces and the development of it. The program even changes the culture and promotes the atmosphere of studying abroad as well. The ESL program gives the chance for more students studying abroad. The article is from the Salem Press Encyclopedia, which is a really famous academic journal. The Salem Press was founded in 1949 and has a long history. The products of Salem Press include traditional print products, e-books, and online databases designed for use at public, school, and college and university libraries. Thus Salem Press was used in lots of academic occasions. Fox Rodriguez, Janna, Liying Cheng, and Bruno D. Zumbo. Do They Make A Difference? The Impact Of English Language Programs On Second Language Students In Canadian  TESOL Quarterly 1 (2014): 57. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The main object of this article is investigating the impact of English language programs for second language students studying in Canadian universities. According to this article, it collected questionnaire responses of 641second language students studying in 36 English language programs in 26 Canadian universities. The researchers focus on investigating and Student 4 researching both the English as second language (ESL) and English for academic purpose (EAP). researchers used structural equation modeling procedures to examine the network of relationships between language program emphasis and background characteristics in influencing academic and social (Fox, Cheng & Zumbo). This study gives out and helps us understanding the positive impact of ESL and EAP programs on second language programs academic and social engagement. The most attractive part of this source is showing a large amount of data. In this article, the authors sort out and analyze the data for each part that they give the questionnaire. The data are clearly showed by tables in this article, which helps me to understand the research and do better on my paper. I also take the EAP programs before as well. Thus I will be more interested and pay more attention to reading the article. Furthermore, Social engagement is an important research part in this article, which relevant to my topic. This article is published by TESOL Quarterly, which is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of TESOL international Association. This association is the specialized institution for English language as a second dialect. It published lots of professional and academic articles as well. Yang, Wenhui, and Linhan Chen. Cultural Continuity In EFL Teaching In International Higher Education: From A Discourse Perspective Of Chinese  English Language Teaching 8.2 (2015): 196-205. ERIC. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This paper presents an ethnographic study of the application of cultural continuity in English as Foreign Language (EFL) teaching in International College, GDUFS China. The authors compare the native EFL teachers (NEFLTs) with Local Chinese EFL teachers (LEFLTs) Student 5 on how they discourse on cultural continuity to Chinese university learners. That means how they integrate Chinese culture into American culture. They also find the different preferences and patterns both are the essential feature of cooperative teaching for international higher education. adaptation to the local learning environment and application of foreign teaching modes may present an integrated mode which displays both cultural continuity and discontinuity of English and local learning culture at the same time. (Yang & Chen) The major objective of this article is to investigate how to adapt the cultural continuity in EFL. The comparison of NEFLTs and LEFLTs helps realize the different way of adapt culture while learning English. Moreover, the study occurred in China, where I am really familiar with it. Then I can understand more and know the cultural diversity immediately. This article uses 21 academic references and is copyrighted by Canadian Center of Science and Education (CCSE), which is a professional and regular association. CCSE is an organization, which published scholarly journals in wide range of academic fields, including the social sciences, the humanities, and the natural sciences as well. Zhao, Hongqin, and Steven Coombs. Intercultural Teaching And Learning Strategies For Global Citizens: A Chinese EFL  Teaching In Higher Education 17.3 (2012): 245-255. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. According to Zhao and Coombs, teaching English as Foreign Language (EFL) writing changes Chinese thinking way and helps them to better learning English. This article explores through teaching intercultural competence in the class with a group of homogeneous Chinese students. students involves a change of cultural perspectives by placing the concept of at the heart of their learning and writing in (Zhao &Coombs). Student 6 This cultural alternative thinking strategies in English demand Chinese students to change their critical thinking of traditional Chinese way. Otherwise, Chinese students can profit more when learning and writing in English. This article focuses on the specifically learning strategies of a Chinese EFL perspective. It gives a specific explore result in a Class, which can become a good example to help me research my topic about the English and culture. Otherwise, I think intercultural teaching and learning strategies is one of the most significant and novel ways for Non-English speakers learning English, especially the writing part. The author, Hongqin Zhao is affiliated with The School of International Studies of Zhejiang University, which is one of the most professional academic universities in China. He also belongs to Department for Continuing Professional Development of Bath Spa University in the United Kingdom Chao, Tzu-Chia. A Diary Study Of University EFL Intercultural Learning Through Foreign  Language, Culture & Curriculum 26.3 (2013): 247. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. With the widespread use of English, Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) professionals find that films can be used to help intercultural learning. The study in this article explored 52 university English as a foreign language (EFL) students in Taiwan who enrolled in a course about intercultural, which use the foreign film as their instructional tool. Since the films always show the different and special attitudes and behaviors of people from various cultural or linguistic backgrounds in the specific circumstances in the films, people who are the Non-English speakers can learn the motivation, attitudes, knowledge and awareness of different culture from films. Student 7 This article mentions the films as a special tool to help to learn English for Non-English speakers. This source helps me to stand in a different view of my topic. I not only can write the academic support offered by the University, but also pay attention to the socially support, like Facebook and films. Non-English speakers can adapt culture and learn English with using the social media and watching films as well. This article is published by Language, Culture & Curriculum that is a property of Taylor & Francis Ltd. Language, Culture & Curriculum published many academic journals about social, cultural, and cognitive, that are all relevant to the formulation and implementation of language curricula. (WC:1766)