Spikes 1 Tiana Spikes Professor Lay ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Gun-Control Gun violence has been prominent in the United States for over the past 3 decades. It seems to the public though, as time elapses that gun-control gets more lenient and incidents of shootings and mass shootings happen more frequently. The issue at hand is some American citizens believe there should be more restrictions placed on guns and gun access (Brady Campaign) while other citizens believe there is no need for gun control and that every American citizen has the right to own a concealed weapon (National Rifle Association). There is no right or wrong opinion on the issue, for every citizen is entitled to their opinions and views according to their rights. So, with that said, the appropriate approach to take is always to review the mission and goals of each side. With the information gathered from reviewing, one can map out what it is each stakeholder aims to accomplish in their efforts. It is not possible to give both positions exactly what they want in efforts to please both sides. Therefore, one must find common ground between stakeholders and propose a compromise that aims to satisfy and benefit both parties in their missions. Now, although it seems that the Brady campaign who is in favor of gun control and the NRA who is in opposition to gun control are at odds, there is surprisingly some common ground between the two. Both the Brady Campaign and the NRA believe gun safety should be taught to all citizens and that firearms are to be accessed only by those who are mentally and physically capable of using them in an appropriate and proper manner. With that said a Spikes 2 reasonable compromise amongst the two would be to conduct stricter and more in-depth background checks not just of criminal history but also screenings of mental health history, before granting access of concealed weapons. The mission statement of the Brady Campaign is to gun control in their association and perform efforts to make America by cutting firearm casualties down by fifty percent by year 2025 (Quinn 3). According to Jill recent journal the plans focus on weapons out of the wrong hands through three effect driven, extensively captivating efforts Number (1) a strategy center to Complete the  so that Brady personal investigations are connected to all firearm deals; (2) to stop Gun the 5 percent of firearm merchants that supply 90 percent of all wrongdoing weapons; and (3) to promote change in social standards around and in the home regarding firearms, to keep the crimes, suicides, and accidental shootings that happen each day at bare minimum. Built up in 1990, The National Rifle Association, is in full support of efforts that guard and cultivate the Second Amendment privileges of all decent Americans. According to the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be (Cornell University Law School). The NRA values this statement and their mission is to freedom by preserving the core of American values and traditions including the Second The The association is in opposition to Gun control because it contradicts the rights and freedom to bear arms. Board member William Church explains in NRA Fights for Gun Freedom that these exercises are intended to guns and chasing security, to upgrade marksmanship abilities of those taking an interest in the shooting activities, and to educate the overall population about (25). When considering the goals of both the Brady campaign and the National Rifle Spikes 3 Association obvious that their overall goals match, but when you take into consideration their values there is some common ground! Neither side supports the killing off of other American citizens nor are they for harming innocent people. So, it is safe to say that both parties are in favor of enforcing gun safety and protection of United States Citizens and in opposition to gun violence on innocent persons of the United States. It is very simple, a reasonable compromise for both organizations would be to enforce stricter and more in-depth background checks. The Brady campaign is fed up with gun violence and innocent killings and the NRA or the National Rifle Association in favor of these acts either. They all have family members and loved ones whom they cherish dearly so why would they want ? They Like every other US citizen, exercising their rights, both parties are. So, a reasonable compromise would be for both associations to continue what been doing, educating the public on gun violence and safety. Only now, they should work hand in hand in efforts to approve stricter background checks that include mental health screenings. A group of firearm related administrative recommendations have been according to Jerome P in his journal of law dating back to late (62). He explains in depth how they fall into two classes: (1) limitations or points of confinement on authorizing of specific firearms; (2) changes in detailing necessities for historical verifications, including the prohibitor criteria; and expanded emotional well-being screening and administrations. On 5/21/16, NCSC Government Relations Office staff met with agents of the DOJ Policy and Legislation Office and examined elected guns prohibitors, including metal wellbeing settlings. DOJ staff have been holding discussion sessions with a scope of partners. The discussion endeavors brought about a paper that analyzes current prohibitors to a citizen having the opportunity to carry a gun. Spikes 4 Stricter background checks that include health screenings would definitely work in favor of both organizations. With harder Analysis of citizens, it be as easy for them to access guns, it would be a harder process than what it is now. This method will put a lot of unauthorized gun dealers out of business (which is one of both organizations goals). Therefore, if a person who wanted a gun, for all the right reasons of course, they would have to go through the legal process of purchasing one. Most often when illegal activity is involved, shooters avoid this method being that purchasing the guns for wrongdoings. To conclude, yes, the NRA and the Brady campaign are two different stakeholders on an issue, but after analyzing them closely their values are quite similar. They value the same things; the people of their country and their rights. Above all, life is more important than anything. So, in considering the future, if both stakeholders could compromise with the presented suggestions in the end they both will be somewhat satisfied in their mission to create a safe America. Illegal gun dealings and dealers will be ceased, which will stop a lot of the drug and neighborhood violence in low income areas. Persons with previous mental curiosities will be analyzed closely, which will decrease mass shootings. Lastly, any person with a history of gun violence will lose their rights to bear arms. These checks would have a significant and positive impact on the gun violence that is prominent in America today, decreasing killings and casualties by the day. Spikes 5 Works Cited National Rifle Association. 19 Sept. 2016. https://home.nra.org/about-the-nra/. 22 Jan. 2017 for Gun National Rifle Association. 22 Aug. 2016. http://www.nrafff.com/. 22 Jan. 2017 Kassirer, Jerome P. Under Fire: The NRA And the Battle for Gun  The New Hampshire Journal of Law 5 (1994): 373. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Lawrence, Jill. Gun-Control Success Is in Sight for the Brady  National Journal 2013: Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Quinn, Kevin. Campaign to Prevent Gun Keep Crime Guns Off the Streets: Brady Campaign. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. Rostron, Allen. Cease Fire: A Strategy on Gun Policy for The Obama  Harvard Law & Policy Review 3.2 (2009): 347-367. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 2 Feb. 2017.