Thomas 1 Essence Thomas Alison Missler ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Fight For 15 is an organization that is fighting for a raise in minimum wages so that a more sustainable lifestyle can be achieved. The fight started with workers striking against their jobs in New York because of their underappreciated and unpaid work, and it has worked its way around the country and gotten the approval from several major cities. By using the four rhetorical pathos, logos, and organization can create images, signs, and banners to convey a message to anyone that views its media. The Fight for 15 goal in its media is the to get the public to support the movement and help to make the change that the group is aiming for. In the first photo, it shows a total of fourteen people of unknown genders all holding up signs and banners that read what the goal is. The biggest banner in the center of the photo states the movement title, which is Fight For 15. That and the fact that one of the signs uses a well-known major corporation such as appeals to this ethos. In appeal to pathos, some of the signs contain phrases such as Are Worth and Survive Off These phrases evoke the reader to feel concern and sympathy for the people of this fight. Also, some of the banners in this photo are written in Spanish, which can evoke the reader to feel even more concerned because this is showing that this issue does not affect just one Thomas 2 group of people. The colors used, and the scene in the background, give a sense of hope and victory that is wanted from Fight For 15 group members. When it comes to the appeal of logos in this photo, the claim A Living is posted. The colors used can also appeal to logos alongside pathos because the general public realizes that those are trademark colors. When it comes to kairos, the words and emphasize a call to action type of reaction. The second photo was unveiled at a Fight For 15 protest in Chicago It To The The appeal to ethos is the same as the first photo, the logo, but in hashtag form. The main rhetorical appeal in action, though, is pathos. The claim that these jobs us makes the reader confused and curious as to how he is being affected in this situation if the claim says so. The use of the globe in the background gives the viewer the impression that it does not us here in just the United States, but worldwide as well. Incorporating the famous prefix in front of jobs is for viewers to understand more that this movement stems from the company, which appeals to logos. Also using the company colors give more hint to how the company is part of the issue. In the appeal to kairos, the use of the exclamation point at the end gives the reader a sense of importance and urgency. Both of these images that have been analyzed have similar rhetorical appeals that presents a message or goal. Each appeals to ethos, by including the logo; pathos, by using phrases or key words that touch on emotions; logos, by providing the reader with certain claims; and kairos, by giving a sense of urgency or call to action. Thomas 3 Works Cited It To The Fox Valley Labor News, (2016). Rubin, Gabriel T. Ferguson and the Fight for Washington University Political Review. Apr 2015. Fight for 15. (2016) http://fightfor15.org/