Tsai 1 Sharon Tsai Alison Missler ENC1102 26 February 2017 The Strongest Supporter of Children- UNICEF UNICEF is an organization under UN which aims to defend rights including rescuing children under danger, providing aid and supplies to children, and ensuring children to receive quality education. Without a doubt, UNICEF is the representative of every child especially the most disadvantaged children and makes every effort to exercise its beliefs that all children have rights to survive, thrive, and fulfill their potential(UNICEF). To promote their organization and missions successfully, UNICEF not only use straightforward slogans but also use creative visual rhetoric. Therefore, they frequently combined the meaningful images and words to express their thoughts. In the first picture, UNICEF tries to advocate the diversity between every child and to embrace that difference. As for the second one, they want to encourage the audience to stop buying the products from unethical companies so as to decrease the number of child labors. UNICEF creatively use the rhetorical appeals like, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in both images. With the effective promotion on their missions, eventually UNICEF will successfully reach its goal that every child get the chance to exercise his rights. In the first picture, UNICEF uses several rhetorical appeals to disseminate the ideas that every child was born equally and children should unite to overcome the difference between them. There are a lot of elements of pathos in the picture which easily stimulate the emotion of audience. At first, there are four kids standing together hand in hand with big smiles on their faces which automatically gives the audience the sense of peace because of Tsai 2 their smiles and the usage of blue. The Color Psychology website states that blue is the color of the calm sea and the clear sky which represent calm and clarity respectively (Color Psychology). Blue has been proven that the different shades of it can concentration, stimulate thinking and provide mental (Color Psychology). Also, the stick in the left hand of the boy on the right is one of the key elements to motivate emotion. The stick is like the one that people use in the relay race which implies that someone should hold the stick and pass it on to others. The stick itself is the symbol of love so it indicates the idea that not only children but also the audience should love each other without reservation and it Moreover, the image seems to be painted by four different kids which suggests that even kids know the concept that everyone was born equally and people should love each other. Therefore, audience(adults) should already know the concept and apply it in their real lives. The ethos in this image is the logo of UNICEF which is at the corner since UNICEF is a well-known and credible organization who focuses on children. This organization is trustworthy because it is under the administration of UN and it has carried out a lot of projects which benefit children. In this image, pathos and ethos collaborate well and successfully move the hearts. In the same image, it is easy to find the clues of logos and kairos which strengthen the power of image and express the idea more completely. Initially, most people might think that there are two kids with disability and two kids by their sides to assist them. However, there are two interpretation on those two kids who are relatively advantaged. First, those kids represent people without disadvantages which reveals the thought that audience should love those with or without disadvantages and stand on their sides to help overcome any obstacle or challenges together. On the other hand, those kids could represent the people who have disabilities but their disabilities might not to be noticed right after seeing them like mental and internal disabilities. Those two kids encourage people to be more sensitive and Tsai 3 considerate to the one who surround them because they might have some invisible needs. Kairos in this image are not that obvious compared to other three rhetoric appeals but there are still some element of kairos in it. The image visualizes the beautiful future if people really take action to eliminate the inequality of disability, which gives the audience the incentive to make the movement immediately. The smiles of the kids also suggest that the action is necessary and worthy since no one wants kids to live in nor disappear or sorrow. Therefore, this image is perfectly applied every visual rhetoric and successfully propagates goals of diminishing the inequality of children and spreading out love. In the second picture, UNICEF uses different rhetoric appeals to educate audience not to buy the certain brands of shoes which contributes to child labors. There is a little boy sitting on the dusty ground with a chain and a check mark on his left ankle who reveals an astounding truth. Elements of pathos in this image are clear and effectively change the attitude of audience. The scar on the face and the chain symbolizes the suffering of child labors which easily evoke the sympathy. The scars represent the physical harm that child labors frequently get and the chains indicates the fact that child labors are under the control of employers without having any freedom. The highlight of pathos is the check mark which implies astonishing information. Most people would relate this check mark to the well-known sport brand so it clearly indicates the brand that audience should boycott. Additionally, the check mark substantializes the harm that child labors may receive during their works. The picture arouses the awareness of audience more directly than reports and statistics because audience might have children in the same age as the boy or they might happen to be in the same age of him. Thus, the pathos in the image are really powerful which moves audience smoothly. The ethos in the image is the logo of UNICEF which certificates the legitimacy of the concept. UNICEF is the authority in child issues so the source and information should be correct and credible. Hence, both pathos and ethos work brilliantly in Tsai 4 this picture which definitely would change the attitude toward the child labor. UNICEF also uses other rhetorical appeals like logos and kairos to make the image become more persuasive so that audience would apply the concept of not buying certain brands of shoes. There are several logos in this image including the check mark, the slogan, and the title of organization. The check mark plays an important role in this picture not only because of the brand logo. The check mark on the ankle is branded which is permanently unremovable so it is parable to the traumas that child labors received during their works are unforgettable and everlasting. In addition, brands are used to identify livestock, criminals, or slaves so it implies that child labors basically are treated like slaves without receiving appropriate treatment from the employers. The slogan DO is as powerful as the check mark. It is originated from the famous slogan DO which is filled with positive and gives people hope and confidence. It is sad and ironic that now it is used in boycotting the products from that company so actually the new slogan is even stronger than the original version. The kairos in the image are not as apparent as other rhetorical appeals but the image itself perfectly expresses the urgency and timeliness of the child labor issue. Therefore, UNICEF properly use the visual rhetoric to move the audience and make them take the action of not buying certain brand of shoes. In conclusion, UNICEF has a general goal which is to uphold rights and they fulfill the goals by promoting different ideas through visual rhetoric. The first image focuses on the inequality between advantaged and disadvantaged children and the second emphasizes on the child labor issue. Even though they seem like having no connections to each other, they share a common ground that both purposes are beneficial to children which is exactly what UNICEF stands for. With successfully propagating different specific goals, UNICEF can naturally achieve its ultimate goal in the near future. (Total:1363 words) Tsai 5 Works Cited Blue Meaning - Blue Color  Color Psychology, www.colorpsychology.org/blue/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. UNICEF. A Critique on Campaign Against Child Labor and  Photograph. Visual Literacy, 2012, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. UNICEF. Launch of State of the Children 2013: Children with  Photograph. G3ict: The Global Initiative for Inclusive ICTs, 2013, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.