1 Brooke Leistl Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 28 January 2017 Tommy John: The road to recovery is just a little bump in the road. You will be back in no That is a line that almost every athlete hears when they get injured. Not all recoveries are that quick and easy. The one that is most common is an injury called Tommy John. It is called Tommy John because it is named after the first pitcher, to have had the procedure done. Tommy John is primarily an injury in baseball pitchers caused by the motion of an overhand throw. It is also known as ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction (UCL). It is where they must replace the ligament in the elbow with a tendon from another part of your body. The chances of returning to throw a pitch after this surgery is 1 in 100. So, with all this said, what are the chances of a baseball player getting Tommy John and returning from rehab? Cole, Brian J., et al. Rate Of Return To Pitching And Performance After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball  The American Journal Of Sports Medicine 3 (2014): 536. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. It is about what causes Tommy John and the rate of recovering from it. It gives the readers inside stories on MLB players who have gotten the surgery. It quotes, total of 179 pitchers with UCL tears who underwent reconstruction met the inclusion criteria and were analyzed. Of these, 148 pitchers (83%) could RTP in the MLB, and 174 pitchers were able to RTP in the MLB and minor league combined (97.2%), while only 5 pitchers (2.8%) were never able to RTP in either the MLB or minor This information was based on a study from Leistl 2 2010-2013. This just shows that this is a risky surgery to have and the chances of making a full recovery is not 100%. It also runs the readers through the process of the surgery and how it affects different people. It also is published and sited, so it is safe to use. This article is going to help give the reader background information on what Tommy John is and how it happens. It uses life scenarios and stories to help get the message across and shows the different affects it has had on MLB players. This source was found on USF library so it is credible information to use. Liu, Joseph N., et al. Elbow: Outcomes In Revision Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball  Journal Of Shoulder And Elbow Surgery 25.(2016): 90-97. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The author, Joseph N. Liu, gives the reader key insights and statistics of players who had the surgery and how many come back and how many It also tells the reader that 1999, 235 MLB pitchers have undergone Tommy John surgeries; 31 pitchers (13.2%) underwent revision Liu also gives the reader information on average how many games they could pitch after the surgery. 26 MLB pitchers remained for return to play analysis. Seventeen pitchers (65.4%) returned to pitch at least 1 MLB It shows the reader a bar graph and a chart of the time it took for the recovery process. This bar graph shows the reader the exponential rise in Tommy John surgeries in major league baseball in the past 13 years. It is very moderate until 2012 it peaks. The reasoning it peaks is because surgery is more accessible to players now days. More players have access to surgery than before. The chart shows the author that Seventeen pitchers (65%) returned to pitch at least 1 major league game, but only 11 pitchers (42%) pitched more than 10 games in 1 season. This article is relevant to the topic because it Leistl 3 tells the reader the chances of being able to return to pitching a baseball after Tommy John surgery. It tells about the performance outcomes before and after revision story. That way we know how much a pitcher has changed. It tells the reader on average how long they are out for, which is 20 months. That is a long recovery time for being a starter in the MLB. Erickson, Brandon J., et al. Rate Of Return To Pitching And Performance After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 42.3 (2014): 536-543. SPORTDiscus. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article is very important and useful in this paper because it gives a lot of information on how many players got surgery and how many came back. The purpose of this article is to determine the rate of return to pitching in the MLB after UCL reconstruction, the RTP rate in either the MLB and minor league combined, performance after RTP, and the difference in the RTP rate and performance between pitchers who underwent UCL reconstruction and matched controls without UCL injuries. It states, these, 148 pitchers (83%) were able to RTP in the MLB, and 174 pitchers were able to RTP in the MLB and minor league combined (97.2%), while only 5 pitchers (2.8%) were never able to RTP in either the MLB or minor In this article, it is saying that performance declined before the surgery and increased after surgery. This means the surgery can be very successful. Before technology improved, this surgery went from being to performance increased. This article is safe to use because it is sited and found on the USF library under peer reviewed sources. This is going to help in the essay because it gives a lot of facts about Tommy John and it will help answer the research question. This will help answer any unanswered questions about what is Tommy John too. Leistl 4 Makhni, Eric C., et al. Performance, Return To Competition, And Reinjury After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball Pitchers: A Review Of 147  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 42.6 (2014): 1323-1332. SPORTDiscus. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article is counter arguing the article above because this one is saying that your performance declines after surgery. They say that because you cannot do everything that you could do before after getting the surgery. Players performance declines with the number of strikes thrown (51.9%-49.6%), ERA (4.23-4.63), average fastball velocity (91.2-90.8), etc. These numbers may not seem like a big difference but when it comes to baseball that is a difference between a win and a loss. The factor of this could also be age. It shows a chart of the return to active major league competition. Of the 147 pitchers included in this assessment, 118 (80%) could return to major league competition after surgery, while 20% did not return to major league play. MLB, Major League Baseball. This is a chance to take because odds are on your side. The frequency of elbow injury was higher in the players with TJ surgery compared to players with non-elbow injuries. With all these facts, it will be very important to put in the paper. These are reliable facts because they came from a study performed on MLB baseball players. This journal was found on USF peer reviewed library. Wymore, Lucas, et al. Performance And Injury Characteristics Of Pitchers Entering The Major League Baseball Draft After Ulnar Collateral Ligament  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 44.12 (2016): 3165-3170. SPORTDiscus. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Leistl 5 The author, Wymore, gives the reader important facts on the percentage of players who return after surgery. In the article it states, authors have investigated outcomes after reconstruction, with 80% to 90% return to This shows that there is a high percentage of coming back than not. A lot of athletes are getting the surgery done as amateurs, because it is easier to come back from it than when you are older. A study showed that after 1,281 over a 16-year period, 83% return to the same or a higher-level competition. Some factors that affect the way you come back are your height and weight. Your physical shape affects the outcome of rehab because of your strength from before surgery. amateurs, 5 of 346 collegiate pitchers (1.6%) advanced to major league play and 66 (19%) advanced to minor This shows the readers that it is possible to come back from Tommy John surgery. This article is safe to use because it was found on USF library and it is peer reviewed. It is going to help answer the research question on what are the chances of returning to play baseball after Tommy John surgery. The author, Wymore, gives the readers important facts and studies that shows results in athletes. Phillips, Benjamin Z., Christopher Stockburger, and Susan E. Mackinnon. Ulnar Nerve Transection During Tommy John Surgery: Novel Findings And Approach To  Hand 3 (2015): 555. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article is a good article to use in this paper because it states facts that help answer the question. The author, Phillips, states that ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) reconstruction with tendon graft (Tommy John surgery) is a safe and effective operative intervention in treating medial elbow instability in overhead throwing athletes and Leistl 6 complications are This is a statement that answers the question as it is a safe surgery and you can return from rehab. This article also tells a story of a 19-year-old right handed pitcher who went into surgery for UCL. It took the boy 2 post-surgery to return to throw his first pitch for his collegiate baseball team. There are some complications to this surgery that do require another surgery after. This is where the athletes must stop pitching again to get another surgery. The most common complication of medial UCL reconstruction (Tommy John surgery) is postoperative paresthesia, which occasionally requires a secondary surgical procedure. This article was to show that this surgery can cause complications. It is used to show the readers that with every surgery there is a possibility for complication which can interfere with rehab and returning to the sport. This article is reliable because it is on the USF library and it is peer reviewed. The author, Phillips, gives the readers important and knowledgeable information to take away about the after surgery affects.