Slater, 1 Connor Slater 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Finding Common Ground Cheerleading as a Sport For many years, boys and girls have been participating in an activity called cheerleading. Cheerleading is a combination of chants, dances, and acrobatics composed to lead a crowd at a sports event. In the present day, there are two main organizations that run the cheerleading world. One organization is the National Cheerleaders Association (NCA), which is older than the other organization, the Universal Cheerleading Association (UCA). Between the two organizations there are some discrepancies that make the two different, but when put together could help both organizations achieve a common goal. For many decades, cheerleaders have been trying to get cheerleading to be recognized as a sport, but all their efforts have failed. If the NCA and the UCA could overcome their differences in their teaching and cheering styles, they could come together and make cheerleading become a sport. The most original cheerleading (About NCA) was founded in 1948 by Lawrence Herkimer as the National Cheerleaders Association. He was given the nickname Herkie after a cheerleading jump was named after him, and he was named the grandfather of cheerleading (About NCA). Herkie was a former coed cheerleader at SMU before he founded this organization. The year after it was founded, NCA held its first summer camp, only having 52 girls attend, the next year 350 girls attended. Herkie said that his main goal with the NCA was instill in young people the values and habits that will enable them to compete, endure, and become successful in life: preparation, dedication, tenacity, perseverance, self- sacrifice, teamwork, and leadership to name but a (About NCA). He wrote a creed of 9 Slater, 2 different statements that he wished would be fulfilled by every NCA cheerleader. He stated that cheerleaders should come together as a family, that team victories are much better than individual victories, classroom excellence is most important, before cheer, along with other life lessons (About NCA). The NCA now hosts many summer camps and competitions year-round. Throughout its 69 years of existence, the NCA has shaped its own time of cheerleading. The main goal of NCA cheerleading is to put on a show. A routine is created with many different elements. The cheerleaders are to do stunts, tumbling, a cheer, dance, and jumps. All elements are judged differently throughout the routine by a panel of judges. NCA cheerleading is very popular throughout the nation, but another type of cheerleading exists and is very prominent in the nation as well. This other cheerleading organization was created in 1974 by Jeff Webb called the Universal Cheerleaders Association. Jeff started this company on college campuses around the country with educational training through summer camps and clinics (About UCA). He wanted to teach kids from NCA about cheerleading and their main jobs as cheerleaders. Jeff always said that his main focus was to instill leadership skills in the cheerleaders at his camps. This was a different idea for the cheerleaders, because they were always taught different skills through NCA cheerleading prior to the birth of the UCA. The UCA teaches kids that cheerleaders are supposed to athletic programs and lead the crowd before and during (About UCA). Jeff also said that he wanted to teach cheerleaders what school spirit is and how to spread that spirit around their school. A UCA and an NCA cheerleading routine are very different though. The routine preformed at a UCA competition does not incorporate a dance or jump section in their routine but they have a more strict judging policy on the cheer portion of the routine. The main Slater, 3 reasoning for that is because UCA is about leading a crowd and showing school spirit, while NCA cheerleading is about putting on a performance. Although there are many differences between UCA and NCA cheerleading, there is one common goal of both associations. Cheerleading has not been the most popular activity for all of its existence, it has been argued whether cheerleading is an actual sport or not. Both associations have been pushing for many years to legally make cheerleading a sport. A man named Lee Green, who is a lawyer and professor at Baker University teaches classes on sports law. He has the hobby of cheerleading brought up in an abundance of his classes, so he decided to do a small survey. He came to many little conclusions, but on main one was that many cheerleaders do not like getting criticized for just participating in an activity or hobby and not being treated as real athletes (Green). Cheerleaders spend countless hours a week in their gyms, training and getting better, and when they are told all they participate in is a hobby, it is very disrespectful. Not only do they spend countless hours in the gym, they also endure more injuries than most other athletes, according to two doctors named Brenda Shields and Gary Smith who did research into cheerleading injuries (Shields and Smith). Through their research they found out that cheerleaders are most apt to getting concussions than other athletes. They did a survey on 412 different cheer teams throughout the country in one year, and out of these teams 565 cheerleaders had an injury related to cheer. 467 of these 565 cheerleaders had gotten concussions at practice, that is 83% of the cheerleaders being surveyed (Shields and Smith). The cheerleaders also encountered other injuries, such as brakes or sprains, but concussions were the most prominent. Not only do cheerleaders felt underappreciated because they do not participate in a but the male cheerleaders also are thought of as less masculine. A sociology professor from UC Davis named Laura Grindstaff, and her colleague Emily West, another professor at UMass, Slater, 4 wrote an article called on Hips, Smiles on which is all about cheerleading as a sport. The two women said that idea that males are taking part in performance (Grindstaff and West) caused a controversy in making cheerleading a sport. Most male cheerleaders try to shy away from the feminine aspects of cheerleading, which plays into gender elasticity and its limits, causing athletic organizations to question the ability to consider cheerleading a sport (Grindstaff and West). The two women say that male cheerleaders are asked to preform feminine gestures/actions, which is said to make it more difficult to make cheerleading a sport. Another controversy then comes about when asking the question, is a People argue that there is no real objective to cheerleading and that is why it should not be considered a sport. Lee Green disagrees though, comparing springboard diving to cheerleading (Green). Green states that most sports are based on a point system and, in most cases, the person/team with the most points wins. This is the same for cheerleading, judges deduct points throughout a routine. As the skills are competed, the judges will notice any faults in the skills and take points off. This is enough criteria to make cheerleading a sport, but the different beliefs of cheerleaders between the UCA and the NCA need to come to a compromise. If both ideas were merge together to make one association, cheerleading may be able to become a sport much sooner than later. This would be very difficult thought because of the differences between the two organizations. For this to work, both values of UCA and NCA are to be instilled by the large organization. The cheerleaders will learn how to be successful people inside and outside the gym, like they are taught as NCA cheerleaders, but they must also learn their duties as cheerleaders and learn skills of leadership and be full of school spirit, as UCA cheerleaders learn. Moreover, camps and competitions must be run, so merging cheerleading styles must happen as well. All parts of both routines will be kept, but there will still be more emphasis on Slater, 5 the cheer portion. UCA cheerleaders will need to learn dances and jump sequences, and NCA cheerleaders will need to become more focused on the elements within their cheer and focus on their ability to lead the crowd. UCA cheerleaders will need to learn how to put on a show in all aspects of their routine, other than the cheer where the crowd leading focus will come from. Despite the differences between the NCA and the UCA, when it comes to their teaching and cheering styles, the two organizations need to come together, and rise over their differences, in an effort to recognize cheerleading as a sport. The differences between the two organizations are not large at all and could be combined to create a larger, overarching, organization. The ideas of teaching life lessons to NCA cheerleaders and the ideas of crowd leading and school spirit of UCA cheerleaders could be combined and taught together. When it comes to performing, the UCA cheerleaders could add more elements to their routine while the NCA cheerleaders focus on their cheer more and worry less about the other aspects. If the two organizations could come to terms with their common ground, they would be able to reach a goal they both have wanted for many decades, to make cheerleading officially a sport. Slater, 6 Works Cited About  Varsity Spirit. Varsity Brands Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  Varsity Spirit. Varsity Brands Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Green, Lee. Cheerleading and The  NFHS. Nfhs.org, 16 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Laura Grindstaff, Emily West; Cheerleading and the Gendered Politics of Sport. Soc Probl 2014; 53 (4): 500-518. doi: 10.1525/sp.2006.53.4.500 Shields, Brenda J.1, brenda.shields@nationwidechildrens.org, and Gary A.2 Smith. Cheerleading-Related Injuries In The United States: A Prospective Surveillance  Journal Of Athletic Training (National Athletic Association) 44.6 (2009): 567-577. Education Source. Web. 9 Feb. 2017.