Fennimore 1 Christopher Fennimore Alison Missler ENC1102 26 February 2017 Era of Marijuana Marijuana is the most commonly used illicit drug by Americans today. With alcohol and tobacco taking the lead, marijuana is the third most used drug for recreational purposes (NORML). According to government surveys, nearly 25 million of the United States have consumed this substance with 14 million of them admitting to making it a regular habit (NORML). The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws is the largest non- profit organization who fights for the benefits of marijuana. During the NORML first had success with decriminalizing cannabis in 11 states and helping lower the offense charges amongst the other states (NORML). They believe that there should be a responsible use for adults to consume this substance safely but at the same time affordable (NORML). Ever since, they try to convince the public to make a stance against the negative propaganda marijuana has received over the years to further legalization. By analyzing all the rhetorical appeals in these two images provided, one can understand how these campaigns work in the art of persuasion to influence future participants or sponsors to take into consideration of the benefits legalization of can provide. The rhetorical appeal of Ethos is shown through the symbol of Rosie the Riveter. Rosie the Riveter was a way of getting household mothers to help win WWII, by joining the work force to build war equipment and drive trucks while the men fought. This woman represented the first time females felt like they were contributing to their patriarchy for their country. As well as Fennimore 2 being a huge part of WWII, she is also a symbol of rights. the rights movement of the 1960s and 70s, new life breathed into Rosie as a symbol of the past, present and future (Frank 8). With the sign of Rosie the Riveter being a very successful way to help convince females to participate in the win of the war, one can see how this applies to Ethos. The symbol of this flexing woman is very recognizable and can conclude this source is credible through her past success. In the first image shown, the symbol displays pathos by Rosie the Riveter reaching out to all the women. Fighting in the war was seen as a predominantly male based activity. As women did the jobs typically the males did back home, they felt like they were contributing to the war (History.com) In a survey conducted of cannabis users, more than 1,400 respondents, 64% were male, and 36% (Hello M.D. 8) With this statement, we can see the lack of females in support for the fight for legalization of marijuana. As Rosie the Riveter being a popular symbol amongst females, we can how this feminine symbol is in recruit of the female based representatives for this argument. The rhetorical appeal of logos is used to appeal to reasoning and logic. In image one, going back to the past success the females have has in the war with helping. There is no doubt that the females cannot help win this battle of legalization. Women have supported and overcome to win many obstacles in their life. Rosie the Riveter shows the reasoning that if we get females to join the movement, the battle be won similar to WWII. According to Histroy.com, many of the men during World War II owe the war to the females. By evaluating how Rosie the Riveter demonstrated the help from women, we can see how logos and reasoning is used to back up the fact women are needed through their history of being strong. Fennimore 3 The last rhetorical appeal is Kairos and it deals with timeliness of the ad or photo. They want the reader or audience to act now before the time is over. In photo one, we know from past experience that World War II was a huge epidemic within the United States. The fight of the War would not have been won without the contribution of America as a whole. Rosie the Riveter is there to show that this is the new big epidemic. Marijuana is the new fight or battle that needs to be voiced. This show women that they need to be involved in the next big movement. It makes the audience feel as if they need to be a part of the next big breaking news. They reach out to the public letting them know this is current, and needs to be heard. The second image also demonstrates Ethos through putting the 2014 on the side of the image along with showing the states of Colorado and Washington. In 2014, Barrack Obama legalized the use of Marijuana and research of the drug in states that permit it (Huffington Post). By demonstrating these states that have already legalized marijuana we can trust within this organization that they are credible. As being already an advocator since the and being around for more than almost 50 year we can see that the national Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws has had past accomplishments. We can see that NORML has had helped this process, and we can expect to see an influence on the other states as well. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws uses colors to encourage their argument of legalization to connect on the emotional side of the reader using Pathos. The second image relies on the color scheme of green, blue, and white. all countries, blue, green, and white are strongly associated with and (Madden 97). Marijuana contains many soothing properties just as this color scheme does. Psychiatrist Tod Mikuriya, M.D, states that the power of cannabis has the strength to fight depression. They also imply the effect of marijuana relaxes the autonomic nervous system of the body. Marijuana helps Fennimore 4 relieve the stress many people experience with tasks. As one reviews, one can see how colors can convince the audience, NORML uses this color green, blue, and white to promote benefits to help legalization. In the second image, the color green is used through the whole image which demonstrates future profits in this industry. Marijuana has been project to be a billion-dollar industry in 2020 if legalization was in place (Huffington Post). Marijuana will provide tax money for the government especially with the growing number of Americans who consume marijuana regularly. found that if all 50 states and the federal government legalized cannabis, combined sales for both medical and retail marijuana could balloon to $35 billion a year by (Huffington Post). This money could be used to pay off the national debt and even help some welfare programs our country depends on. Using green to show the symbol of money, one can see how NORML uses rhetorical tactics to show the meaning of marijuana. In the second photo, NORML uses the rhetorical appeal of Kairos through the sprouting of the plant on the Earth. The symbol of the sprouting plant is seen as a new beginning. In biblical terms, the sprout of a plant is known as the beginning of Jesus Christ. God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees on the earth bearing fruit after their kind with seed in ; and it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit with seed in them, after their kind; and God saw that it was (Genesis 1:11-12). This refers back to the beginning of time where the Garden of Eden was made. As we relate the sprouting plant in the image to the quote from God, this symbolizes the connection of the beginning of something new within the legalization of marijuana. This states that this is just the start of the next big stance in America. Fennimore 5 The National Organization of the Reform for Marijuana Laws is an organization who is in favor of supporting the legalization of marijuana. This non-profit organization uses the four rhetorical appeals to help support their argument. These four appeals are Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos used through famous symbols and colors to portray moods to their audience. The more an image or ad uses these strategies to defend their opinion, the stronger the stance will. By evaluating all the different rhetorical appeals used I both images, we can conclude that these images are in favor for legalization the marijuana. Fennimore 6 Works Cited 46 Bible Verses About . Bible.knowing-jesus.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Cannabis Used For Stress Relief . medicalmarijuana.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Frank, Miriam, Marilyn Ziebarth, and Connie Field. Rosie The . Society 21.3 (1984): 75-78. Web. Madden, Thomas J., Kelly Hewett, and Martin S. Roth. Managing Images In Different Cultures: A Cross-National Study Of Color Meanings And . Journal of International Marketing 8.4 (2000): 90-107. Web. Marijuana Industry Would Be Worth A Fortune Under Full . The Huffington Post. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Medical Marijuana Patient Survey Results. San Francisco, CA: Hello MD, 2016. Print. NORML.Org - Working To Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.Org - Working To Reform Marijuana . Norml.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.Riveter, Ask. Rosie The Riveter - World War II - . HISTORY.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Fennimore 7