Alfred Nyanzu Alison Missler Enc 1102 February 27 th , 2017 Intermediate draft Audubon is the stakeholder organization that would be looked at in this project. Audubon is an NGO that work to conserve birds and restore natural ecosystem, other wildlife and their habitat for the benefit of humanity. The image one selected for this project has in it one of Audubon staff in an office, decorated with symbols of birds and books. The second image also portrays one of Audubon stakeholders at the first parrot in the United States, picking up parrot. Both images appeals to the credibility of the organization (ethos) and what Audubon stands for, that is working to conserve healthy birds for the benefit of humanity. The pictures are relevant and are examples of what the organization stands for (logos).The office background in the first images portrays how Audubon is working with credible staff through research to conserve birds at the right time. The second image indicates how the man was at the office at the right time to pick up parrot (kairos). Also, both images appeals to emotion and reflect what the Organization stands for. For instance, the office lay out including the vet nary doctor and decoration of symbol in image one, gives firsthand information to stakeholders and potential stakeholders (emotional appeal) about what Audubon stands for(work to make sure there are healthy birds for humanity). This paper will focus on how the images reflects the mission of Audubon (is to conserve and restore natural ecosystems, focusing on birds, other wildlife, and their habitats for the benefit of humanity) Audubon was established in 1896 due to an outrage slaughter of millions of water birds. Protecting waterbird population was one of the sole reasons why Harriet Hemenway and Mina hall founded Audubon in Massachusetts. By 1900; Audubon has spread to other states in the United States (National Audubon Society). According to Audubon, represents and reflect on human diversity in it communities so as to achieve their conservation (National Audubon Society). According to Audubon, for more than a century has protected birds and their habitat for the benefit of humanity as well as the biodiversity. Their legacy is built on science, education, advocacy, and on-the-ground conservation through unparalleled network. This combination of expertise and on-the-ground engagement makes Audubon a truly unique and trusted force for conservation. Audubon has used both images as rhetorical strategies to appeal to audience and also as message of purpose in relation to their goal and other significant issues. For instance, in image one, the symbol of image in the office may signify the mission of the organization. The bigger symbol of bird on the table in the office, may represent the and the numerous birds on top of the cabinet in the photo of the office may represent the branches of Audubon in the world working to attain the same goal(is to conserve and restore natural ecosystems, focusing on birds). The man in front of the table in the photo may represent the quality of workers (staff) that help through researches and other related ways to conserve healthy birds. This could be done through preservation, bird feeds and many more. The numerous books in the office cabinet also indicate how researches are conducted by the organization in relations to bird conservation since their legacy was built on science and education. The magazines on top of the table in the photo may represent how Audubon convey it information relating to their goals to the world. The other three smaller symbols of birds on the table in the photo may represent unhealthy birds that Audubon sometimes has to try to treat for the society to have healthy birds for domestic use as pets. The white Aprons hanged in the office may signify the credibility of Audubon as an organization that do not operates on the of the government and the society at large(transparency). The telephone in the office may signify how Audubon liaise or communicate with stakeholders and the world at large in matters relating to their course. The designed map photo in the office may represent the geographical boundaries or areas that Audubon is working to conserve healthy birds for humanity. The overall office represents the variety of activities Audubon embarks on, for the attainment of their goal. By relating this, one can say that, image one reflects what Audubon does and stands for (is to conserve and restore natural ecosystems, focusing on birds, other wildlife, and their habitats for the benefit of humanity). In the second image, the nest boxes represent how Audubon birds are conserve for humanity. The nest birds provide valuable homes for many species of birds and a wonderful opportunity for birdwatchers to enjoy the age-old process of breeding. Birds such as bluebirds, chickadees, woodpeckers, eastern screech and barred owls like roof over their head (www.massaaudubon.org). Also, the man in the photo who was at the office at the right time to pick up bird also represents the stakeholders or clients that Audubon works with to conserve and protect birds. The stick that the parrot is standing on may represent how the organization to or firm in its operation for many years. The healthy parrot represents the healthy birds the organization conserves for humanity. The white color of the parrot may also signify the credibility of Audubon as an organization in their deliberations. The green color in the photo may represent the natural ecosystem that Audubon is trying to restore for the benefit of humanity. Also, by relating this, one can say that, image two reflects what Audubon does and stands for (is to conserve and restore natural ecosystems, focusing on birds, other wildlife, and their habitats for the benefit of humanity). Through the demonstration of what the images represents, one can say, both images appeals or proves the credibility of the organization to its stakeholders. Also with the evidence and opinions stretched in both images, one can say that, the images appeals to logic. For instance, where it was narrated, bigger symbol of bird on the table in the office may represent the and the numerous birds on top of the cabinet in the photo of the office may represent the branches of Audubon in the world working to attain the same Both images appeal to emotions, looking at varieties of narrations in the images that allow audience to develop their own connection to the subject. The images were taken at a timely manner to appeal to audiences; one can say that it serving its purposes. In conclusion, one would say that, both images are conveying strong massages to all stakeholders, regarding the activities of Audubon and its mission (conservation of healthy birds for humanity). Both images are helping the organization to achieve its goal through emotional appeal, credibility, and logic within a timeframe. Image 1 Medical staff in Audubon office (www.audubon.org) Image 2 Website: www.audubon.org (The first parrot in the US photo: Mark Reis/the Gazette) Work Cited www.audubon.org on Feb.26 TH 2017 www.massaaudubon.org on Feb.26 TH 2017 Picture images retrieved from Audubon home page: www.audubon.org (the first parrot in the U.S photo: Mark Reis/The gazette)