White 1 Zaria White Sarah Basil ENC 1102 26 February 17 Dove: Instilling a Beauty in Everyone In society advertisements are displayed everywhere; billboards, magazines, television, etc. In these advertisements, they exhibit women who are deemed as perfect, size and beauty wise. However, these advertisements do not include many un-photoshopped naturally beautiful women who are of all shapes, sizes and races, causing many health and mental problems in women who live in this society. A stakeholder that disagrees with these societal beauty standards is Dove Real Beauty Campaign. Their mission is that believe beauty should be a source of confidence, and not anxiety. why are to help women everywhere develop a positive relationship with the way they look, helping them raise their self-esteem and realize their full Dove has been able to instill this sense of confidence in everyday women, through the use of real women in their advertisements on websites and in magazines; using images that appeal to ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, has made magazine companies and America realize beauty is not something that can be standardized. In the early 2000s, Dove had a group of researchers conduct a study in order to learn about priorities and interests and found that only two percent of women considered themselves as beautiful (Bahadur 2014). With this being the case Dove found this as an opportunity to start a conversation about beauty through the advertisements and products that they provide. The first advertisements that they came up with consisted of tick boxes on White 2 billboards with options like or or or etc. From these billboards people could log onto a website and mark their answer and the percentages would show next to the two options; showing Dove that they were on the right path in starting to shape a better beauty standard. After the tick boxes, Dove moved on to featuring many diverse and real women into their advertisements, and this has made Dove one of the only mainstream advertisers that want to talk about the issues of how society defines female beauty. Theses advertisements have a way of appealing to ethics, emotion, logic, and timeliness through the use of real women who are confident with themselves even though they do not fit into standards of beauty. Ethos represents the credibility or ethnical appeal which involves persuasion by the person or company involved. By using the rhetorical appeal ethos in these advertisements, it allows for the audience to gain trust within the company, Dove, and the campaign that it has created. By providing a website and logo on the advertisement, whether it be in the top corner or underneath the photo, gives the ads credibility and a way for the audience to go find out more information if they would like. In the first advertisement, the fact that it says that it used seven real models for the price of one, gives it some credibility because seven real, no photoshop and not super skinny models, are portrayed yet we do not know exactly what it cost. Pathos is persuasion through the use of emotions. Advertisements use pathos in order to provoke a certain emotion in a person, whether it be to feel sad, happy, vexed, resilient, etc. In the first image, it shows seven diverse women of different sizes and shapes who are smiling. This image gives the audience a sense of happiness, confidence, and possibly even hope, because these seven models are not stick thin and they are still beautiful. The text on the image states that they have gotten seven women for the price of one supermodel, this brings a sense of shock White 3 because if magazines used real models they would spend less money for more models, which could also help in the redefining of the beauty standard set by society. The second image, unlike the first, is sad and hits the audience harder than the first. Due to the image showing a little girl and the words that one in five girls would consider plastic surgery, it really makes the audience think what has our society come to. It is really sad that so many girls feel the need to go under the knife in order to feel beautiful or to look like the models and celebrities that are deemed as perfect by society. Logos is an appeal that is used to persuade the audience through the use of logic. Without the use of logos in the Dove advertisements, they would not be able to persuade the audience into buying their product of redefining beauty. In the first advertisement, hey use real women to help aid their mission of instilling confidence into everyday women around the world. This is logical because if they had used supermodels that are really thin, and seem perfect than they would just be going along with the beauty standards that our society already has set in place. In the second image the appeal to logic can be seen through the text, because they use a statistic it can help persuade the audience to believe that there needs to be a change that is made. Through the use of image or text both advertisements show effect ways of the use of logos in an advertisement. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness or a call to action. From the two advertisements that I have chosen, the first advertisement has no call to action but this is an issue that is currently happening and will probably continue to occur for some years. Though we are in a body positive revolution era society still believe that you have to be thin and fair skinned to be beautiful. This is why this advertisement is relevant and timely. In the second advertisement, there is a call to action, in the sense that we as a society need to redefine what is considered beautiful now because so many women and girls are affected by this. These advertisements do a great job of White 4 portraying what the issue at hand is. This issue has been a reoccurring and drawn out problem which needs to be given a solution. Without the use of kairos in these advertisements we would not know the issue you at hand or that there even is an issue. In the world we live in, there are always billboards, magazines, and commercials that portray beautiful as a woman who is thin, fair-skinned, with beautiful hair and bright eyes, yet not all women fit into that description and is therefore considered not as beautiful, by societal norms. However, Dove believe that all women are beautiful and should be confident in themselves. Advertisements provided by this company, through its Real Beauty Campaign, has helped boost the courage of many women and has aided in the start of the redefining of beauty in our society. Through the use of rhetorical appeals, in their advertisements, they are able to persuade the audience through ethics, emotion, logic, and timeliness, that this is a real issue and that we can redefine the beauty standards that have been set by society. At the end of the day beauty is not about looks, make up or clothes; true beauty comes from someone being who they are. Word Count: (1201) White 5 Works Cited Bahadur, Nina. Dove Campaign Turns 10: How A Brand Tried To Change The Conversation About Female  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 21 Jan. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/01/21/dove-real- Celebre, Angela, and Ashley Waggoner Denton. The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly of the Dove Campaign for Real  The Inquisitive Mind. Ed. Rosanna Guadagno & Reine Van Der Wal and Reine Van Der Wal. N.p., 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://www.in- mind.org/article/the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-of-the-dove-campaign-for-real- beauty?page=3>. Welcome to  Dove US. Unilever, 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://www.dove.com/us/en/home.html?akamai-feo=off>.