Vilardo !1 Christina Vilardo Alison Missler ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Seeing Kids Through Eyes Children are the most important resource that the world has to offer. It is important that they are being raised in a society that is accepting, loving, and educated. UNICEF, a nonprofit organization whose main focus is to better the lives of children around the world, deeply understands the importance of giving children a better life. main purpose is to, their basic needs and to expand their opportunities to reach their full Mission Statement). UNICEF realizes that for children to reach their full potential, gender stereotypes that limit their potential must be eliminated. Many of advertisements are very powerful and give the public good reason to donate. The ads seen depict appeals of credibility, emotion, logic, and timeliness which influences those viewing the advertisements to want to donate. The advertisements produced by UNICEF greatly impact the viewers to donate by using many different rhetorical appeals. UNICEF uses the rhetoric appeal of ethos in all of their advertisements. Ethos is the appeal to credibility which can be found in the form of using logos, listing important figures involved in the movement, etc. When asking for donations it is important to give the viewers a clue as to who is asking for the money and also where the money is going. In the first image, the UNICEF logo is at the bottom right corner of the advertisement right under the little girl. This clearly depicts that the money that is being collected through donations will be going directly Vilardo !2 through UNICEF to the children. In the second image, the UNICEF logo is directly under a baby doll. The second advertisement notes that saving a life is cheaper than buying batteries. This indicates that UNICEF will be taking the money donated and giving it to the children in need. It is important that their logo is on it so that viewers of the advertisement know exactly who and where there money is going to. Credibility is something that viewers take into consideration when viewing advertisements, and the proof of credibility in ads have a greater impact on those viewers. While credibility is an important appeal to viewers, pathos also plays a major role in appealing to the audience. Pathos is about provoking emotion in the viewers. Emotion have the power to make people do things without consciously thinking about it. advertisements mostly rely on pathos because it is such a powerful tool in marketing. In the first image, a little girl is shown looking directly at the camera with a half smile on her face. Her eyes sparkle with a glimmer of hope for better days. It has actually been found that expressing certain emotions in advertisements can make the viewers feel the same way, consumers are exposed to a smiling source expressive display, they will experience emotional contagion congruent with the facial expression and this feeling is (Kulczynski 11). Seeing the little girl smiling and looking hopeful makes the viewer feel the same way without consciously realizing it which will in turn make the viewer more likely to donate to UNICEF. Another play on emotions in the first image was the use of bright colors. Orange, teal, and royal blue are the most prominent colors in the advertisement. Bright colors generally make people feel bolder which could in turn make people more likely to donate their money because it has a stronger association with the viewers emotions. The bright colors could also symbolize the girl having a brighter Vilardo !3 future when donations are made to UNICEF. UNICEF will do whatever it takes for little girls to have an education and in turn have better lives and the emotion evoked in the first image help to convey that. The second image conveys a different set of emotions but ultimately results in the same effects on the viewers. The second image UNICEF made shows a baby doll facing away from the camera with its battery pack open and a muted gray-tone color scheme. The dull colors are ultimately one of the major appeals being used in the advertisement. Most people who view images with dark or cool-toned colors associate the images with things that are cold and sad, like nighttime or winter. There is a complete absence of color which makes the image very dull and sad. It has been found that sad images are the most powerful in marketing, and Strongman (2005) found appeals that use images portraying negative emotions generate significantly larger donations of time and money compared to other types of (Choi 417). When viewers feel sad, they are more likely to donate and contribute to the charity at hand than those that portray happiness. However, the image still has a bit of hopefulness being portrayed. There are many shadows and dull colors, as previously noted, but in the corner that the baby doll is facing it is very bright. This could also symbolize how donating to UNICEF will give children a brighter future. Emotions strongly impact viewers which is why pathos is such an integral part of rhetorical appeal. While emotion is important, it is also important for companies to appeal to logic and reasoning in their advertisements. If viewers cannot make sense of what they are seeing, they are less likely to donate or contribute to the cause at hand. For example, the text on the first image reads, transforms lives and entire Many girls in other countries do not get the opportunity to go to school as long as their male peers. Girls stay at home after a Vilardo !4 certain age to take care of the home and learn how to be a homemaker. UNICEF takes the money being donated and helps give girls an education which will not only improve the lives, but it will also eradicate the gender stereotypes and make their society better and more accepting. The text in the second image also appeals to logos, less than the price of a battery, you can give a real child a new It is an incredibly powerful statement for viewers because it serves as a reality check. In one way, it shows how logical donating is because batteries are relatively and consumers pay for those but they do not donate. They can take a small amount of money and donate to give children new lives. It also shows how materialistic viewers can be. Many people put a higher value on material possessions rather than they do on human lives. It has been found that, was linked to significantly lower well-being across all categories examined. Small to moderate negative correlations were observed between materialism and a diverse array of well-being (Dittmar 906). Those who place high values on possessions have a lower sense of well-being. Therefore, the statement calling out materialism in viewers makes them realize how important donating really is. Focusing on eradicating gender stereotypes is also found in the baby itself. The viewer cannot see any signs of gender. This could symbolize how donating to UNICEF will work to eliminate the gender norms and stereotypes that hurt lives. Logos is very powerful in appealing to viewers. Finally, timeliness in the appeal to kairos is also important. Both images deal with children which provokes a sense of urgency in the sense that children grow up fast. They need viewers to act now so that they have the best chance at life before they grow up and it is too late. Timeliness as a rhetorical appeal pushes viewers to donate quickly before it is too late. Vilardo !5 The rhetorical appeals found in images all work together to create a powerful response in viewers. Pathos is the most abundant rhetorical appeal, however, the other appeals of logos, kairos, and ethos all play important roles in provoking the viewer to donate to their cause. All four methods work together to convey a certain message that makes people want to donate and better the lives of children throughout the world. main goal is to help children globally and to do so they must generate the need to donate in people who view their advertisements. All four of the rhetorical appeals work together to impact viewers to donate to cause. Vilardo !6 Works Cited Choi, Jungsil (David), et al. Do Cold Images Cause Cold-Heartedness? The Impact of Visual Stimuli on the Effectiveness of Negative Emotional Charity  Journal of Advertising, vol. 45, no. 4, Oct. 2016, pp. 417-426. EBSCOhost. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Dittmar, Helga, et al. The Relationship between Materialism and Personal Well-Being: A Meta-  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, vol. 107, no. 5, Nov. 2014, pp. 879-924. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/a0037409. Accessed 26 Feb. 2015 Kulczynski, Alicia, et al. When Your Source Is Smiling, Consumers May Automatically Smile with You: Investigating the Source Expressive Display  Psychology & Marketing, vol. 33, no. 1, Jan. 2016, p. 5. EBSCOhost. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.