Taliyah Anderson Hannah Lay ENC 1102 Project 1 Final Draft National Help vs International Help In a world full of famine, war, and natural disaster, it is not surprising that many people are in need across the globe. In the United States, than 30 million children are growing up in In Syria after war has spread across the country, in three Syrians lives under the poverty As a citizen of one country but also a global citizen, where should your dollars go? Should you invest nationally to your own people? Or should you help people globally like Syria? Feeding America has the mission to hungry through a nationwide network of member food banks and engage our country in the fight to end Feeding Their organization is national and therefore only covers the United States. Unicef has the goal to better world for children This organization affects people worldwide. Although they are not directly related, they do differ on the opinion of who their organization should help. This is one reason why they may have not come to a resolution. Feeding America wants to help only those in the country, whereas Unicef wants to help the world. They do have the common ground of both organizations are funded by American dollars and that they help those in need through the vital commodity of food. A compromise that can be proposed is that they join forces to not only end hunger here, but to those also plagued with the struggle of not having something to eat. Feeding America began 38 years ago in 1979 and was created by John van Hengel in Phoenix, AZ What once was just one food bank, led to more and more being created because the need was so great. Van Hengel designed the organization after he found a mother going through the garbage for food. She suggested that the food that is wasted by being thrown away food could be stored for people to pick to the way store money for future The organization was founded with the intent to have food banks across America help those in need fueled by the food other discard. According to U.S. food wastage and opportunities for article in Food Security stated that of food produced for human consumption is lost, amounting to 1.3 billion tonnes Zhengxia, et Feeding America takes the food and brings it to their food banks across the nations and gives it to whoever needs it. To date, Feeding America has given 4 billion meals more than 46 million people including 12 million children and 7 million in 2016 alone Feeding This organization is fully dependent on American dollars. This means the money being donated by Americans are helping Americans. As previously stated, this is a domestic organization who only helps those in need of the United States. UNICEF is a global charity but for this paper, it will only include the chapter for the United States. This organization works a differently in comparison to Feeding America. Instead of only helping those in America who are struggling for food, they help those all around the globe with food, immunization, and education to name a few. In regards to food, UNICEF believes that nutrition is the bedrock of child survival and child and Food As an organization, they have developed a 1,000 day system for a child because it is the most critical time for chronic malnutrition to affect their lives forever. The system created in 1990, helped cut the number of children badly affected by stunting by nearly 100 and Food In places other than the United States like Syria, is working to provide urgent assistance to children affected by the violence in Syria, including the thousands threatened by intense conflict in UNICEF devotes their resources not only here, but to places of mass conflict like Syria. In an article entitled a little help from my friends: Global electioneering and World Bank it states that in recent years, aid has attracted substantial Erasmus K.). Like Feeding America, UNICEF United States Funds is driven by American dollars and is dependent on donations because it is a not-for-profit organization. Food is vital for survival. It is as simple as that. Not one person on this planet, in poverty or the top 1%, can survive without food. Feeding America and UNICEF believes in feeding those in need and because of this, a compromise of these two organizations joining forces to end world hunger through a different method. Feeding America can use areas already occupied by UNICEF to establish food banks. This means they will not only be helping those located in one country, but can also help those in need around the world. By UNICEF adopting the method of food banking from Feeding America, globally more people can be helped. Food banking is an efficient way for those who are not in the United States to be helped. Although many cities already participate, Daniel N. Warshawsky states urban areas operate in a relatively ad hoc manner whereby the development and implementation of food waste policies are devolved to non-state actors at community, household or individual Daniel N.). Without the process of food banking billions of tons of food are wasted while people in poverty are dying from starvation. Feeding America and UNICEF have the opportunity to achieve both of their goals while at the same time, stick to their core value of feeding those in need. The world cannot be fixed in a day, but problems are solved much faster when people join forces. To have the methodology of Feeding America and the reaching of UNICEF, millions of people who are usually helped will turn into billions. Feeding America has the mission to hungry through a nationwide network of member food banks and engage our country in the fight to end Feeding UNICEF better world for children Both goals can be achieved faster and more efficiently if resources from both sides helped one another to end world hunger, not just in one country but around the globe. An american citizen is need is no different than a Syrian refugee in need. Both deserve a guaranteed meal and a nutritious diet. Both organizations believe this, therefore a compromise is feasible and attainable. Feeding America ands UNICEF when together will be a force of good the world needs.