Dean 1 Daniel Dean Bob Botkins ENC1102 28 th , Feb 2017 Yes, Hydraulic Fracturing is Detrimental In a world increasingly concerned about the availability of natural resources, scientific innovations have opened the door to new methods of obtaining gases and oils.one of the most recent methods used to extract earth natural gases is hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing acts as a double edged sword because it permits energy companies to have the ability to obtain previously unreachable sources of natural energy, but poses as an environmental risk in the long term(Weinstein). Hydraulic fracturing is the process by which energy resource companies inject fracturing fluid (primarily water mixed with salt and other chemical) deep into the earths shale plates, in attempts to open veins within the earths shale plates to bring oil and natural gases to the surface of the earth to be extracted. Once the veins are open, the veins are kept open by the solutions in the fracturing fluid. Once the fracturing fluid is removed a decent flow of natural gases and crude oil rises to the surface of the earth to be stored and processed by these governments funded energy searching companies; such as: Chevron Corp, ExxonMobil Corp, Cabot Gas and Oil. The first hydraulic fracturing experiment was first publically attempted in the early 1940s in a small town of Oklahoma, but the hydraulic fracturing experiment publically proven successful until the early 1950s. Recent reports state that there have been over 2.5 million attempts of hydraulic fracturing in the U.S. alone. Because of the nature of the fracturing process it can on be applied in rural areas of America, helping North Dakota to become the second largest oil, producing state in the U.S. Due to the rise in demand in energy sources, the energy source companies are prompted to begin to attempt fracturing closer to civilizations, which can be very hazardous to the occupants of the nearby towns. The two photos that are to be discussed in this essay are those that portray the negative effects of the fracturing industry. Having arrived at the conclusion through research it is can be argued that the hydraulic fracturing process is more detrimental than helpful to the environment. Dean 2 Though it can be argued that it is a reliable energy source, the negative effects are far harsher than that of the benefits. The picture I am explaining is the one above. The first thing the picture says is this statement was used to tug on the logos side of thinking because it is simple and easy to associate with. In the picture the word water is blue with a bright red offset showing high alert that the water is in danger. And in between the two statement they list some of the fatal gases that is found in the ground water due to faults in the hydraulic fracturing process. The list of fatal gases is between the statement and the DRINK GAS OR MONEY as a way to transition to the fact that with theses chemicals in the water. That though hydraulic fracturing is profitable humans drink the profits. It is obviously targeting the fact that due to the faults in the fracking industry. And as a result the process of fracking contaminating the drinking water. So the obvious statement we drink money means that though the fracking industry is very profitable economic from, a human stand point it very profitable the photo also state that it is not worth the money to throw away an essential component to the health of the common man. Studies show that a human being can go about three weeks without food but water is a different story. Water makes up about 60 percent of your body so a normal human being cannot go three days without water or that human being will surely perish. The argument is that even if the hydraulic fracturing process is profitable. Is it really that important to continue to endanger the world just to make a quick profit. No because at the rate the contamination of the ground water due to the hydraulic fracturing process there will be none left on the earth to be able to enjoy the profit the hydraulic fracture process produce. notice in this photo the protester use of the bright red writings is a means by which the letters are to an attempt to convey to the viewers the urgency of the matter. This photo also lists the different chemicals that are highly fatal to a human being that is leaked into the groundwater due to the faulty wells of the fracturing process. In this photo it is obvious to appeal to the ethos side of rhetoric. Ethos represents the credibility or ethical appeal which usually involves persuasion by the character involved. This picture was able to capture a very famous actor (Mark Ruffalo). Mark Ruffalo stated that fracturing is an extreme form of oil and gases extraction that leads to water contamination, air pollution, earthquakes, illness, exacerbates climate change and turns community upside down (Ruffalo). Using Mark Ruffalo to forefront of this protest, makes the general public are more likely to takes the problem at hand, serious. Due to the platform that actors are set upon, Mark Ruffalo is able to use this platform to spread to word for more protests and use his platform to influence people who generally be interested in the subject Dean 3 matter. Because in the mind of the common man who is in pursuit of the lifestyle of these celebrities they associate everything endorsed by them to be something legit to look into or start caring about. Another noticeable feature in the picture is the dirty jug of water that Mark Ruffalo is holding. On the jug of dirty water there is a label. the label reads Dimock water is one of the alarming results of hydraulic fracturing. The term Dimock water comes from a small town in Pennsylvania. That the hydraulic fracturing has effected severely is as seen in the picture. The tap water of Dimock is a greenish color which is usually associated with gas. The greenish color comes from the high concentrates of methane gases that are leaked into the ground water. This was a result of a faulty hydraulic fracturing well that was owned by Cabot Gas and Oil. The highest profiled event surrounding the Dimock water case was when a local resident lost her home due to the explosion of her water well that was underneath her house. The water well explodes due the high concentrates of methane gases in the well water caused by a faulty hydraulic fracturing well, that leaked into her well water. The home resident filed a federal lawsuit as a result of the damage. Cabot gas and oil tried to deny their role in the explosion. But when further investigated the scientist working the cases was able to prove that the motorized well underneath the home turned on and flick a spark a caused a blast. that easily moved the concrete foundation of the house, that weighed several thousand pounds (Dimock). Luckily the resident home at the time or things been a whole lot worse. Further in the background of the picture is protest signs with FRACKING in big bold letters to capture the observers eye. And right next to the word BAN is a symbol of fire. Symbolizing that hydraulic fracturing causes the groundwater and the atmosphere and everything else effected flammable because of the methane component. Though it can be argued that hydraulic fracturing brings in profit and helps nearby economies, by bringing in jobs to help out the nearby communities. The fatalities outweigh the benefits, because even though hydraulic fracturing brings in revenue if the hydraulic fracturing kills and sickens the people of a community then there is no one to enjoy the revenue. And what good is money to dead people. And as seen above in the case of the Dimock Water, hydraulic fracturing is very harmful not limited to the climate but the resident towns that are nearby hydraulic fracturing wells. Hydraulic fracturing should be stopped because the only party that gains anything from hydraulic fracturing is the oil and gas companies. And they are not looking out for the common man but rather for the profit that comes with the sales of these energy resources. Hydraulic fracturing is a dangerous and short-sighted energy procedure and is only profitable to the oil companies(Mcrae). Hydraulic fracturing needs to be stopped before it is too late. Dean 4 Works cited page Water 10 Mar. 2016, https://stateimpact.npr.org/pennsylvania/tag/dimock/ Mcrae, Maria June 2014, http://earthjustice.org/climate-and-energy/oil-gas-drilling/fracking Ruffalo, Mark. The Guardian. 13 Feb. 2016 http://www.ecowatch.com/mark-ruffalo-theres-no-fracking-that-can-be-done-safely- 1882173665.html Weinstein, Mark. Wisconsin international law journal (2013): 881.document,