Catherine Wright English Composition 1102 Kevin Ip February 11, 2017 Common Core and The No Child Left Behind Act/Every Student Succeeds Act Common Core and The No Child Left Behind Act/Every Student Succeeds Act are both programs created to help American students to be able to perform to their maximum potential. Each program is very different and has different goals. Common Core puts the greatest focus on creating a similar learning experience across the country so that students will be able to stay on the same path. While The No Child Left Behind Act/ Every Student Succeeds Act have the greatest emphasis on teaching each student in a different way so that they will be able to all score proficiently in reading/language arts and mathematics. Common Core and The No Child Left Behind Act/Every Student Succeeds Act both have a common interest of educating our future generation, while they both go about it in different ways there are options where they can work together for the benefit of the kids. The No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) was created in 2001 under Former President administration. Child Left Behind ensures accountability and for all kids well as increased federal support for (A Guide to Education and No Child Left Behind, 12). The No Child Left Behind Act was created to build off the Brown V. Board decision to help create a more responsive, and learning environment (A Guide to Education and No Child Left Behind, 12). According to Ametepee, under this act, states were given the power to create and design their own plans for teaching the kids, give their own testing assignments, and hire their own qualified teachers (Ametepee, 113). In 2015 a new law was passed, known as the Every Student Succeeds Act, which was the replacement for the No Child Left Behind Act. This new law was created under former President Obamas administration and was the beginning of a new focus in education. When this law replaced the NCLB Act it recognized the areas where the kids needed additional support, but then shifted gears and on the clear goal of fully preparing all students for success in college and (Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA)). The Every Student Succeeds Act the role of federal government and provides for more state- and district-led accountability, particularly in regard to (Darrow). While there are differences in the two laws they have a main purpose that is the same, to hold the schools accountable for their performances and help the kids be prepared for their future. Common Core is the newest set of standards in English and Mathematics. According to the article students for the standards create a clear outline of what students should know and where they should be at the end of each grade level (Preparing students for success). Common Core was created to allow American students to be able to compete with students from across the globe and allow them to contribute to the global community as they advance on their individual paths. These standards were designed during Former President Obama Administration to create students who were and career (The Common  Standards Initiative: An Effective Reform Tool). The blueprints of these standards were designed by teachers and two companies, the NGA Center for Best Practices and the Council of Chief State School Officers. The same article students for says that currently, 42 states have officially adopted the full Common Core standards and one has adopted the English learning standards only (Preparing students for success). Unlike No Child Left Behind/Every Student Succeeds, Common Core must be accepted by the state and is not federally mandated. With the creation of this program there has also been backlash from parents and teachers. For example, Allison Nielsen wrote that the state of Florida adopted the standards in 2010 and by Florida gave Common Core a makeover, tweaking the standards slightly then rebranding them under a totally different (Nielsen). With the backlash that Common Core created there have also been many that agree with the new standards, each side comes with their own group of support and protest. Between Common Core and No Child Left Behind/Every Student Succeeds there are many differences. They go about their goals in different ways, with different support, and with different people in charge. While they are different, there are also many ways that these stakeholders share common ground. They share a very similar mission, to help, prepare, and educate the future generations. Both parties have given a lot of time, energy, and money into creating programs that will allow kids in the school system to be able to perform to their maximum potential. Even though they share similar values they do not work together nor have they attempted to. The reason that they have not come together to help the students is because they both have very different paths to get to their common ground. Common Core gives more power to the people in charge and allow the states and schools to have individualistic learning characteristics to create a similar learning experience for kids all across the nation. No Child Left Behind/Every Student Succeeds give power to the states to create their own path to help their students succeed by giving them a general overview of what needs to be covered. Though they are different they both have many issues that they have to deal with on a constant basis and if they were to work together to create a strong united program they would be able to alleviate many of their problems. Common Core and The No Child Left Behind Act/ Every Student Succeeds Act both have great qualities that have helped students all over the country succeed. Even with their success both have faced backlash from teachers, parents, and activist groups. One of the issues that the No Child Left Behind Act/ Every Student Succeeds Act have had to face is states are not meeting their own AYP that they create and to be able to keep funding they reduced their already low (Ametepee). Since they have the ability to create their own standards, it is easy to create ones that only benefit you and in the long run can hurt the students. Common Core has run into issues as well, one being that many teachers and states feel that they are unable to create their own classrooms and that they have lost their freedom in their teaching styles. If these two groups were to come together they would be able to alleviate these issues. I propose that they form and alliance and allow the states and local governments to choose how to teach all of their material and design their curriculum, but to have the federal level create the standardized tests for all of the country. This way teachers will still be able to teach in their classrooms, but they will know what needs to be taught so that our students will be able to compete with the global community. They also need to make sure that there just one curriculum, they need to understand the uniqueness of every child and cater to all of the students whether they are Special needs, in ESOL, or in higher level classes. If we are able to create a base program that will make standards that can help our students perform at their best by merging these two unique curriculums, then we should. These groups need to put aside their individual goals and recognize that coming together will benefit the American students in the most impactful way. In conclusion, if these two groups came together to create one program that served the minds of our future generation they would be able to create the best scenario for all the parties involved. Common Core and The No Child Left Behind Act/Every Student Succeeds Act both have a common interest of educating our future generation, while they both go about it in different ways there are options where they can work together for the benefit of the kids. Works Cited A Guide to Education and No Child Left Behind-- Pg  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ametepee, Lawrence K.1, Yonmon1 Tchinsala, and Anthony Odey1 Agbeh. The No Child Left Behind Act, The Common Core State Standards, And The School  Review Of Higher Education & Self-Learning 7.25 (2014): 111-119. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Darrow, Alice-Ann. The Every Student Succeeds Act  General Music Today 30.1 (2016): 41-44. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Every Student Succeeds Act  Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) U.S. Department of Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ed.gov/essa?src=rn>. Nielsen, Allison. Anti-Common Core Groups Plan to Abolish Florida Standards in English, Math During 2017 Legislative  Sunshine State News Florida Political News. N.p., 27 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.sunshinestatenews.com/story/anti- common-core-groups-plan-abolish-florida-standards-english-math-during-2017- legislative>. Preparing students for  Home Common Core State Standards Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.corestandards.org/>. The Common  Standards Initiative: An Effective Reform  National Education Policy Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://nepc.colorado.edu/publication/common-core-standards>.