Uzoegwu 1 Kelechi Uzoegwu Kevin Ip ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Betsy DeVos and Education in America Following his recent inauguration, President Donald J. Trump was quick to nominate Elizabeth Betsy DeVos, a philanthropist, to succeed Phil Rosenfelt as the Secretary of education of the United States. However, the presidents proposition stirred a lot of controversy regarding his credentials and her ability to successful manage the American system of education. According to research, the popular opinion amongst most liberal Americans is presented under the impression that Mrs. appointment is as a result of finely crafted nepotism (Coryton 1). There is a lot of controversy and the entire conversation can be completely summarized as follows DeVos lacks the perceived necessary skills and administrative experience required for the complete and successful rehabilitation of the United States public education The entire concept of Betsy DeVos as secretary of education strikes terror in the hearts of most liberal Americans much to the consternation of conservatives. It is believed that her appointment will lead to a slow and steady deterioration of the educational system beyond acceptable standards. Despite popular opinion, extensive research and consideration of the stakes has led to the conclusion that Betsy professional history and experience can positively impact the the educational system in America. In order to peacefully advance the educational system in the United States, Betsy DeVos will need to incorporate liberal concerns Uzoegwu 2 and amend her voucher program to protect secularized education and foster inclusion for special needs children. Betsy DeVos, who is primarily known for her philanthropy is the chairman of a private investment firm in Michigan known as The Windquest Group. It is stated on her website that she has about 35 years of political experience and has been elected four times as the chairman of the republican party (Betsydevos.com 2). The website also states that secretary DeVos has held other leadership positions within many political parties and foundations like the American Foundation for children, Artprize, the Philanthropy roundtable and the DeVos Institute for Arts Management at the University of Maryland (Betsydevos.com 2). The information presented on her website highlights that Secretary DeVos works primarily to eradicate internal and external barriers that delay ability to thrive in different environments (Betsydevos.com 2). Despite her present qualifications, there is still an outstanding conversation questioning her competence and ability to smoothly control the educational system. A majority of the population, and the board of education is majorly concerned with her plan to execute voucher programs that will subsequently lead to a reduction in the amount of funds received by public schools for the pristine education of children. The voucher program is designed to allow children in poor public schools switch to private schools while the government bears the cost of the transfer. Opponents of Mrs. DeVos speculate that this program is part of a larger plan to defund public education and de-secularize education. According to a research and statistics, about eighty percent of private schools are built on religious platforms (Hutchinson 1). In the event that this speculation is backed with evidence, the implementation of this program will go against first amendment which emphasizes the separation of church and state in legislation. Based on these ideas, Hutchinson concludes that opponents of the voucher program strongly believe that the government should Uzoegwu 3 invest in poorly performing public schools in order to increase their quality of education (3). Finally, recent back lash with the Michigan board of education after her huge investment into public charter schools adds to their contention. Despite the conflict that exist between Secretary DeVos and liberal Americans, the salient goal that exists between both parties is to develop a constitutional plan to provide quality education and conducive learning environments to students who go through public school education in the United States. At first glance it seems almost impossible to achieve a compromise between both stakeholders because of their political disagreements and individualistic opinions on the proper and correct way to fix the problem at stake. However, a closer analysis shows that it is in fact possible to achieve a feasible compromise. Liberals push for investments in public schools and are more hopeful about the resurrection of poorly performing schools whereas Secretary DeVos presents a plan to enroll students into a privately owned institutions. According to Hutchinson, her approach is also firmly contended because it threatens the secularity of the public education (1). A recent study conducted in the Edgewood school district showed that the implementation of a voucher program improved students academic performance as measured by the Texas standardized tests (Gray et. al, 344). A reasonable compromise would be to allow the implementation of the voucher program after it undergoes certain amendments. It is important to acknowledge that both parties will need to collaborate for the successful implementation of this program. In order to gain this cooperation DeVos will have to remove any bias that would cause students to be primarily placed in schools with religious foundations and respect parental consent. Poor public schools should also not be completely defunded, but continuous efforts should be made to enhance the stability and standards of the schools. Uzoegwu 4 This compromise seems like an easy fix, but it is the larger picture formed from a series of minute processes. The school voucher program will have to be revised in such a way that it caters to the concerns of liberals. Hutchinson argues that the voucher program primarily acts in favor of the wealthy and exclude benefits for special needs kids (2). An easier alternative will be to remodel the school voucher in a way that it will cater for every child and provide substantial funding to public schools. Unfortunately, this plan is not feasible. The feasible compromise would be to allow the implementation of the voucher program and meticulously monitor the program to prevent bias. According to Nathan, implementation of this program could eventually cause a secondary competition between private and public schools who will now compete for government funding by raising academic standards (341). This will fulfill the primary goal of ensuring higher education standards for students. The government however should not use this rhetoric as an excuse to neglect the needs of public schools. The need to pursue secular education will rest solely in the hands of the parents who will consent to enrollment of their children in private schools. In order to achieve a compromise, both parties will need to collaborate to ensure that the needs of students, which is the primary and common concern, is met. Secretary DeVos will implement the school voucher program and efforts will be made to control any biases regarding the exemption of lower class children and children with special needs. Voucher programs have been implemented in some parts of the United States and recent research conducted by Nathan in the past year shows that voucher programs have intrinsic long term benefits for communities where they are implemented (341). Public schools, although they might face a budget cut, will not be financial neglected as they push forth and compete with private schools for the greater Uzoegwu 5 amount of government funding. Secular education becomes a choice and the deciding factor that will eventually determine the ability to be placed in private schools. Uzoegwu 6 Works Cited Betsy DeVos. Betsy DeVos, 2017, http://www.betsydevos.com. Accessed 29 January. 2017. Big Worries About Betsy  The New York Times 2017: 20. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Coryton, Demitri. So Who On Earth Is Betsy  Education Journal 288 (2016): 13. Academic Search Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Gray, Nathan, John Merrifield, and Kerry Adzima. A Private Universal Voucher Effects On Traditional Public  Journal Of Economics & Finance 40.2 (2016): 319- 344. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hutchinson, Sikivu. Segregation Now And Forever: Betsy DeVos And The Looting Of Public  Humanist 77.1 (2017): 9-11. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.