McMahon 1 Jennifer McMahon Adam Phillips ENC1102.026 26 February 2017 Standing Up for the Garment Workers The fashion industry has taken a toll recently through the act of fast fashion, in which many retailers will use cheap materials and labor to imitate fashion runway styles (Bhardwaj 165). Once consumers get tired of the styles that change much more frequently compared to early fashion trends, they will throw it away. Fast fashion not only hinders the planet due to the landfills becoming polluted, but it also hurts the labor that goes into creating the cheap clothes. Garment workers from different countries are usually placed in poor conditions or get paid poorly, and Fashion Revolution wants everyone to be aware of this horrid truth. Fashion Revolution is a non-profit organization who is against fast fashion. Their mission statement is believe that fashion can be made in a safe, clean and beautiful way. Where creativity, quality, environment and people are valued The organization advertises through many campaigns to let people wonder made my One of the ways they campaign is through photographs. Members of their team have taken photos of not only garment workers from different parts of the world, but also other photos that hold strong messages that relate to Fashion goal. Both images shown use ethos, pathos, and logos to address the argument that garment workers should receive the respect and working conditions that they deserve. Everyone in the fashion industry, whether they are Indian garment workers or fashion models, should be valued equally. McMahon 2 As Fashion Revolution strives to achieve equality in the fashion industry, the majority of their large team is based in the United Kingdom. The organization is made up of three groups: The Global Coordination Team (GCT), the Global Advisory Committee (GAC), and the Country Coordinators (CC). GCT is the heart of the organization, which consists of nine members who are either the founders of the organization or key individuals that lead areas like policy, communications and branding, education, etc. (Fashion Revolution). Some of the roles they partake in are to plan the campaign, organize and manage the primary groups created, and more. The GAC is made up of key figures from the fashion industry that strengthen Fashion authority in respect to the information about fast fashion. Some of these team members are from the press, consultants, industry leaders, campaigners, representatives from charities and campaign organizations, etc. (Fashion Revolution). The last group, the CCs, are volunteers who reach out to people around the world with the opportunity to engage in this that the organization wants to promote (Fashion Revolution). There is one CC in every country, so that way Fashion Revolution is internationally known. The team is very large consisting of many roles in order to bring their argument to the surface. Fashion Revolution believes that consumers of fast fashion should be knowledgeable on how much it not only harms the planet, but the people in it as well. People, such as garment workers and models, are dominant in both photos to present ethos in order for Fashion Revolution to establish their credibility in terms of what they promote about fast fashion. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, ethos is method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). In this case, Fashion Revolution wants to show their audience how credible their research is through their photographs. In the first photo, they present two cotton McMahon 3 farmers in Kasrawad, Madhya Pradesh, India (Fashion Revolution). Both the workers and the sign itself show the credibility. They took a photo where a garment worker is holding a sign that is distinctly from them. One can tell that it is from their organization just by looking at the logo on the bottom right corner and also the font. Fashion Revolution uses the same font throughout most of their campaign. The first photo is also proof that Fashion Revolution has done thorough research in respect to the garment workers, including visiting one of the many places that hold big factories that creates a lot of the fast fashion clothing. The other image, although composed of different components, presents ethos in a similar way. The one model that switched her clothes for the words made my written on her body show authority towards the organization because it is the same type of style of font that is used in the previous photo. Not only that, but on the screen in the background of the photo has Fashion Revolutions logo. This indicates that they staged this photo specifically for their campaign. This shows the audience that the organization imitated a setting similar to a typical runway fashion show in contrast with the question made McMahon 4 my The contrast connects with the main argument that Fashion Revolution is trying to promote of garment workers not getting the credit that they deserve. Another appeal that both images use to encourage the idea that garment treatment should be improved is pathos. By using this rhetorical appeal, the intention is to to help an audience connect with the argument or (Rhetoric Really Matters 37). Furthermore, the first photo uses the garment workers as a way to lead the audience into connecting with the overall message. It presents an example of who could be making the clothes, which makes the audience feel sympathetic for the garment workers. Through sympathy, the viewers will realize that everyone is human alike and therefore should get as much respect as anyone else receives. The second photo works in a similar way. Although it does not use a garment worker for sympathy, it uses an instance where the audience could have gotten too involved with the materialism of fashion week. Typically, when one is watching a fashion show, she does not usually think about how much work it took to create the outfit that model is wearing. Therefore, the photographer used the setting of a classic fashion show and switched one of the clothes for words to present a contrast between what one usually sees to what one should actually see. Fashion goal is to show how the consumers of fast fashion are creating the fad of fast fashion bigger, which leads the garment workers not getting rewarded as much as they should. Simultaneously, both photos use logos to give the logic of the following issue to the audience which leads them into thinking of the unstated assumption that references the garment workers not receiving what they have worked hard for. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, logos applies enthymemes, which is a three-part device that is provided for the audience. The last part is known to be the unstated assumption, which holds the underlying value that the McMahon 5 photographer wants the audience to assume (34). For instance, the logic within the first photo is that one should wonder who made their clothes because it could possibly be these two garment workers. The photo, however, does not promote that all garment workers are not treated as well as they should be. This is the underlying meaning because that is the main argument that Fashion Revolution is campaigning for. The organization wants everyone to work on their own research by asking the retailers they shop for who made their clothes. Once they figure out who made their clothes, then they will know what country the garment workers of the following clothes are located and possibly what their living conditions are. Most garment workers who work for fast fashion retailers are placed in poor conditions, along with getting paid poorly. The second photo reads the same way as the first. The photographer makes the audience wonder who made their clothes, which leads them into asking the retailers they shop at and figures out that the garment workers who make their clothes are treated very poorly. Logos plays an important role in both of these photos because it forces the audience to understand the negative consequences that fast fashion brings to the people in the fashion industry, which is the opposite of what Fashion Revolution advocates. Overall, Fashion Revolution believes that equality, whether it is for the people working in the fashion industry or the environment, should be valued. The organization uses ethos, pathos, and logos to promote that the garment workers who put forth physical labor to make clothes are not getting the accreditation and working conditions that they deserve. Whether it is by showing an example of these workers or giving the audience an underlying realization of how horrid the fashion industry is, fast fashion is pushing the garment workers to live poorly compared to everyone else in the industry which should not be acceptable. McMahon 6 Works Cited Bhardwaj, Vertica, and Ann Fairhurst. Fashion: Response to Changes in the Fashion The International Review of Retail, Distribution and Consumer Research, vol. 20, no. 1, February 2010, pp. 165-173. Accessed 26 February 2017. 2016 Impact, Fashion Revolution, fashionrevolution.org/about/2016-impact/. Accessed 26 February 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Accessed 26 February 2017. Our Team, Fashion Revolution, fashionrevolution.org/about/our-team/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Made My Brands, Wholesalers, Retailers and Distributors, Fashion Revolution, fashionrevolution.org/get-involved/brands/. Accessed 26 February 2017.