H o w a r d 1 Savanna Howard Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 1 March 2017 Animals Rights Animals have been globally displayed for the enjoyment of humans for hundreds of years. Individuals can see this in zoos, circuses, and aquariums around the world. The sad truth is that 96% of a circus life is spent in chains or (DoSomething). The Humane Society of the United States or HSUS is a main stakeholder in the fight for animal rights. Based in Washington, D.C., the HSUS is an American nonprofit organization founded by journalist Fred Myers and Helen Jones, Larry Andrews, and Marcia Glaser in 1954. They decided to develop this new kind of animal organization to confront national cruelties beyond the reach of local societies and state federations. The idea of kindness to animals made significant inroads in American culture in the years following the Civil War. The development of sympathy for creatures in pain, the satisfaction of keeping them as pets, and the heightening awareness about the relationship between cruelty to animals and interpersonal violence strengthened the popular appeal. Today the HSUS is pushing transformational change in the U.S. and around the world by: large-scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife (HSUS). There are many ways animals can be abused, and sometimes it occurs without our knowledge. Many argue that zoos and circuses are the greatest perpetrators. It can be detrimental to the H o w a r d 2 animals to be living in small enclosures without mates. Other factors can have an effect on the psychological wellbeing of these animals, including: furniture, verticality, and variable feeding schedules, interactive technology, and social (Maple 65). They cannot learn to hunt for their own meals and are intern force fed processed food to make animals easier to train and show. There will, be debate over the optimal standards for elephants and other non-human (Maple 64). This is why groups like the HSUS strive for more awareness and help. The HSUS and other animal activist groups around the world work for this greater cause of the animals by spreading the word. Advertisements are everywhere, and how an organization utilizes this publicity can make a world of difference. In these two images the HSUS accomplishes their goal of obtaining animal rights, by using rhetorical appeals towards public awareness. When someone sees this large, ferocious and majestic creature in Image A, heart instantly feels the pathos tugging on the heart strings. The eye is drawn to the happy clown face that is obviously painted on this wild animal. First the torture of this animal having its face painted runs through mind, but as you look deeper you see the truly somber and despairing face of this lion. If that is not enough when focusing out further and seeing the bars running from side-to-side and up-and-down the entire frame one feels as if they too are in a cage. These bars are stopping this lion from any chance of freedom or happiness. This serves to educate by standers of how these animals live. Broadening the focus brings into view the deep dark abys of black behind him. This is letting everyone know where this lion is and where he is going. He is stuck in this cage, and stuck in time. Kairos is portrayed more as a non-existent form of time, as H o w a r d 3 the lion is repeating each day and act over- and He will not accomplish anything needed for his kind to stay alive and will make no progress in his own life. Kairos is exceedingly present in image B as the full frame is in fact a clock ticking away. As each second passes the minute and hour hand move closer together crushing the bear and crushing his species chance to live. The bear may be a figure but one can sense the immense fear in his eyes, the power of his helpless cries, and viewers can see the willingness to fight in his sharpened claws. This emotion that is welling up inside, is the melancholy presence of pathos. One can identify with these animals as a companion, a majestic creature or one in the same. If they are one of us should they not receive the same rights to live free? Each emotions are essentially the same as the emotions these animals feel. It is somber for all living beings for a species to die out. This clock is almost at the end and so is their time. The caption states that every sixty seconds a species dies out, which is greatly told by this image but the words help to truly wrap your head around this statistic. These species and others have been studied for millions of years. We have advanced so much as a world and we can share these specific details but we can also do something about this issue. These two images are strategically planned, shot, edited and chosen for the greater purpose of animal rights. Their main goal is to draw people in and get the message across to save animals lives. There is a strong connection to pathos, to pull on our hearts and make a difference. This is the best way to get people do donate or volunteer and the groups of animal activists utilize this to the best of their abilities. Kairos declares that this help and these changes are needed right now. The time is literally ticking away at the human race and these endangered species that we live with. People use logic every day to figure out little things but there is a lack H o w a r d 4 of logos used in these images. These could be enhanced with the addition of some subliminal messages. These images are very standard and straight forward. There much to figure out or debate the interpretation of a deeper meaning. Tis could allow people to connect on a whole other level pulling them in. making them want to help without their knowledge of exactly why. There is also not much appeal to ethos present in these images. This may be a result of the content and overall message. There are some facts and statistics given in each description to establish some credibility of the company. A greater fact stated in the case of these advertisements could allow them to make an even greater impact on the viewer. Animal rights in circuses, zoos, aquariums and more are being challenged every day. These animals are being held captive while some species are fighting to stay alive. This is a major issue and there are many activist groups fighting to stop this injustice. These groups create and publish images and advertisements to get the word out and get help. There are so many strategies that go into a good announcement and these images do a great job of presenting viewers with their message. H o w a r d 5 Works Cited About  The Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 11 Facts About Animals in Entertainment. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-animals-entertainment>. , Julija. 33 Powerful Animal Ad Campaigns That Tell The Uncomfortable  Boredpanda. Scholz & Friends, Berlin, Germany, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.boredpanda.com/powerful-animal-ads/>. Julija. 33 Powerful Animal Ad Campaigns That Tell The Uncomfortable  Boredpanda. Partners Lisboa, Portugal, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.boredpanda.com/powerful- animal-ads/>. H o w a r d 6 Image A: Image B: