Khlebnikov 1 Oleg Khlebnikov Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 27 February 2016 Eating Disorders Millions of people suffers from different types of eating disorders in the US. Following by the dream of a perfect body, weight and shapes, people damage their own well-being. It is a serious illness, and even though people think that it is their choice, consequences could be very deplorable. According to the founder and president of Disorder Hope & Addiction disturbances may include inadequate or excessive food intake which can ultimately damage an well-being. Anorexia can have damaging health effects, such as brain damage, multi-organ failure, bone loss, heart difficulties, and infertility. The risk of death is highest in individuals with this (Ekern). Researches show, that four out of ten people said that they either suffered or have known someone who has suffered from a different type of an eating disorder (NEDA). Even though it is an urgent problem, and many people are frightened and left feeling helpless, there is a lack of support and funding to fight eating disorders and their consequences. To combat the issue and to help the victims, organizations such as NEDA have been created. NEDA, National Eating Disorder Association, is a non-profit organization in the United States that defend and support people affected by eating disorders. goal is to support everyone affected by the issue, and provide help to people in need. NEDA sees a world without eating disorders. By doing researches and campaigns, they prevent eating disorders, improve access to quality treatment, and make sure that people aware of Khlebnikov 2 and understand the problems, such as anorexia or bulimia (Bell). NEDA as well develop programs and tools to help everyone who seeks assistance. To visualise the issue, NEDA created ads with scary words and pictures, showing the danger of eating disorders, and calling everyone to take actions to cure victims. The black color affects the mind and body by helping to create an inconspicuous feeling of emptiness, gloom, or sadness (Bourn). The main color of the first ad is black. NEDA wants the viewer to feel depressed after the first look at the image. Second thing that catch an attention is the image of a very thin woman in underwear, holding a dumbbell. She does not wear much clothes to show more of her body type. It aims to scary the viewer, because the arm is unnaturally thin. However, she still has a white underwear. Whereas white is the color of perfection, ad says that this woman tries to be perfect. It is her goal, and dumbbell symbolize hard trainings that she does to achieve this perfection. This supported by the text on the bottom: am exercise However, NEDA shows us that she suffers from eating disorder. It is obvious from the inscription in the middle of the ad. It is a quote from a sick person, probably from the same girl on the ad. Reading a statement from a person that is actually connected to the problem make people feel the credibility of the issue, so they understand that real and can happen to anyone. scale haunts me. I see it in my the person screams, that is why the ad uses a capital font. These words suppose to scary the viewer and to make him understand, that eating disorders are like a battle is never-ending. There is no it shows that people who suffers bulimia can not stop, and if you started, you became addicted, because eating disorder is an endless problem. To show the viewer what are the real health consequences of eating disorders, NEDA provide an inscription on the bottom, Khlebnikov 3 exercising can lead to anorexia, fatigue and physical It is important to show some real facts, so the viewer can understand, that the problem is not a fiction. Uniting all these techniques used in the first ad, NEDA tries to prevent the eating disorder issue by mostly scaring the viewer and offering help. The blue color represents meanings of trust and sincerity (Bourn). The main color of the second ad is blue. NEDA wants the viewer to believe them from the first look, to get their trust on a subconscious level. In the middle NEDA put silverware with a white toilet seat instead of a plate. It represents the diet that people with bulimia adheres to. To prevent the weight gain, people vomit or take laxatives (Berger). They change a plate with a white toilet sit, because it is the place where all the food immediately goes to, so the person can have a perfect body. White color of the seat represents perfection, that these people tries to achieve. To scary the viewer, NEDA says that people die on this diet. The phrase in middle of the ad is a wordplay, we lose on this the answer that first comes to mind is a excess weight, because that is what a purpose is. However, next sentence explains how fatal an eating disorder could be, of people every This phrase is very strong, because it is not only scary the viewer and show him a fact, but also explains that the problem repeats To convince the viewer that consequences of eating disorders are very serious, NEDA provides some facts what bulimia actually does with the body, such as arrhythmias, intestinal bleeding and rupturing of the However, they claim that they can help, and the problem could be treatable. goal is to attract attention around the eating disorder issue and to help its victims. Both ads work this way. They mostly use pathos to scary the viewer: the picture of an Khlebnikov 4 eating disorder victim, comparing the problem to the nightmare and showing that the issue could be deadly. White color, symbolizing perfection, appears in both ads, because the it is exactly what all victims of eating disorders follow, the dream of a perfect body. NEDA uses logos as well in both ads, by explaining the consequences of eating disorders. The organization clearly shows what exactly the problems a victim could suffer of. Ads are very similar this way, both uses bulimia as an example. To show that the issue has been going on for a long time, and it is not just a couple cases, NEDA uses kairos in both ads. It is a continuous problem, people die every year and can not stop, that is what both ads say. The image of a thin woman on the first ad is very strong, it is the most effective way to scary the viewer. Supported by the quote from this girl, it make this ad better than the first one, because toilet sit metaphor is not that convincing. Black color on the first ad is also work better than blue color, because main purpose is to terrify the viewer, and dark tones do this better than the bright colors. Even though these ads were made for the same purpose, first one works better, because it contains stronger ethos and pathos techniques. In conclusion, NEDA acts as an organization that attracts attention to victims of eating disorder and helps them providing programs and services to give families the support they need to find answers for these life-threatening illnesses (NEDA). In order to get an attention, National Eating Disorder Association creates different advertisements that show the real side of eating disorders. They warn the viewer about consequences, and urge the victims to get help they provide. Khlebnikov 5 Khlebnikov 6 Khlebnikov 7 Works Cited Berger, Fred K.  Medical Encyclopedia . N.p., 2 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer. Color Meaning: Meaning of The Color  Creative . N.p., 15 Dec. 2010. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Ekern, Jacquelyn. Eating Disorders: Causes, Symptoms, Signs & Treatment  Disorder Hope . N.p., 19 Apr. 2014. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Our  Eating Disorders Association . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.