Rodriguez 1 Genevieve Rodriguez Professor Aranda ENC 1102-033 1, March 2017 Animals do it Alone. This planet is meant to be shared by all of its inhabitants. human populations expand and wolf populations recover, there is a growing need to develop both a better understanding of how to prevent conflicts with wolves, as well as the tools for living harmoniously with (Cooke 1) There are many animals around the world who need space to survive and flourish. An organization that has promoted the correlation of human life and wildlife is the Defenders of Wildlife. The aim of Defenders of Wildlife is to be to the protection of all native animals and plants in their natural and vision) The Defenders of Wildlife have presented two ads that promote the protection of animals in America and throughout the world. They use many rhetoric appeals that attract an audience that will take action to help these animals. The Defenders use the help of lawmakers to take these ads to courtrooms and pass on to help these animals. In image A there is a thought provoking image of a morphing image of a chimpanzee and a human face. There is a black background and with white writing it says we ever let humans become (Image A) This is an example of the rhetorical appeal pathos as explained in the article found in Rhetoric Really Matters we were writing an essay about breast cancer and we quoted a cancer patient, that quotation would be an attempt to humanize the topic and appeal to the sympathy of our (Lane et al. 23). In image A it humanizes the topic of animal extinction. It calls to the hearts of humans to see these two images of a chimpanzee and a human morphed together. There is also ethos present in this image regarding the writing on the bottom of the image. It gives some facts and figures about chimpanzees and how they are threatened currently by the logging industry that is destroying their homes. The question presenting in Image A also has a thought provoking quote in the question. This Rodriguez 2 appeals to the rhetoric logos. Logos is an appeal to logic (Lane et al. 32). Specifically a claim for humans to think about how they are possibly effecting other life by changing the environment by the logging industry. With animal endangerment it always appeals to the rhetoric kairos because of the lack of time some of these animals have. Image A displays this with the black background of the image and the appearance that this chimpanzee is behind bars in the image. They are locked up like most chimpanzees are to be displayed in zoos or not safe environments for chimpanzees. Image B is another great representation of the need for animal protection made by Defenders of Wildlife. Defenders of Wildlife have recently been really promoting the safety of wolves. There was a bill passed recently to put these wolves on the potently endangered list. The image is on a lone wolf in a grassy field. There is a quote on the top of the image that reads Lands, Our Wildlife, Our This quote in Image B again as in image A is a rhetorical appeal to pathos. This humanizes the wolves and makes the audience of all of America want to second guess themselves to protecting the wolves. The lands of Idaho is home to this wolf and if the lands are all occupied by humans where do the wolves go? They have to live harmoniously with the changing environment. Which is what Image B is promoting through pathos. The background is also very peaceful with gives a calming effect to the whole image. Ethos is used again with a quote section at the bottom portion of the image. There is some information about the wolves in Idaho and how humans need to preserve the lands to protect the wildlife like the wolves, elk, and others. (Image B) As said in the previous paragraph Kairos is always used in images when regarding endangered animals. This advertisement is different from the first because of the main target being wolves and the space they need rather than in image A where it focuses on the protection of chimpanzees overall. Both of these images have the Defenders of Wildlife logo on it. It is the colorful medallion like icon in the bottom of both images. It is a howling wolf with a sunset colored background and of is encircling it. For these images the audience is mainly the viewers of the blogs that the Defenders of Wildlife run and any animal lover that is looking for ways to help. Rodriguez 3 Work Cited COOKE, MARC. We Can Coexist with Wolves without Resorting to Lethal  Missoulian.com. Missoulian, 02 Sept. 2011. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Mission and  Defenders of Wildlife. N.p., 27 Dec. 2016. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-44. E-text. Rodriguez 4 Image A http://www.laurendehrone.com/wildlifeawareness/4a7xottk2fx6thb1luogh5dtpij7qd Rodriguez 5 Image B http://www.defendersblog.org/2011/09/wolf-weekly-wrap-up-44/