Martin-Smith 1 Darius Martin-Smith Nusspickle Comp 1 1/25/17 Research Question: How does pollution in the ecosystem affect bees? For countless years, the planet Earth has been able to sustain a manageable living environment for all types of organisms. As of lately, the Earth has been plagued with problems that continue to slowly deteriorate the environment and the organisms that reside in it. Factors that contribute to the deterioration include: pollution, global warming, exhaust emissions, improperly disposed litter, etc. These factors affect the ecosystem in which bees thrive in, thus leading to the research question: how does pollution in the ecosystem affect bees? This article will analyze the effect of factors such as pollution on bees and how that in turn effects the earth. Evans, Jay D., and Marla Spivak. Socialized Medicine: Individual And Communal Disease Barriers In Honey  Journal Of Invertebrate Pathology 103.Supplement (2010): S62-S72. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article highlights the many pathogens and parasites that harm honey bees, as well as describing the defense system of the bodily systems and how they are changed by these pathogens and parasites. Behavioral tendencies by bees to prevent certain damage is highlighted also. The main purpose is to discuss the anatomy of the bee and the natural Martin-Smith 2 tendencies that they display daily. Also, featured in the discussion is, how these tendencies are affected by parasites and pathogens that harm the bees. The defense mechanisms for these natural occurring attackers are stated but the long term and short term effects of human-made pollutants are stated as well. The twist to the discussion is that it claims that human-made solutions to pollution could possibly be effecting bees in a negative way. Jay D. Evans is aa scientist who studies honey bees, pollination, and social insects and has been cited countless times in biology articles. Klein, Simon, et al. Review: Why Bees Are So Vulnerable To Environmental  Trends In Ecology & Evolution (2017): ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Due to many factors such as pollution and pesticides the number of bees has been declining recently. The article describes and analyzes the many factors that are contributing to the death of bees as well as describing how the mental capacity and functioning of bees is also affected. It seeks to find an understanding of these environmental stressors to decrease loss in the bee population which ties it to the question of how pollution in the ecosystem affects bees by analyzing how these environmental stressors are killing off bees in areas that are heavily affected. Simon Klein is affiliated with the Research Center on Animal Cognition, the Department of Biological Sciences at Macquarie University, as well as many other biological research centers. What connects this source to the research question is the fact that it clearly states many factors that contribute to the death of bees which ultimately answers the question. Martin-Smith 3 The article also talks about how the death of bees affects the ecosystem which offers a cause and affect view for the audience. Lusebrink, Inka, et al. The Effects Of Diesel Exhaust Pollution On Floral Volatiles And The Consequences For Honey Bee  Journal Of Chemical Ecology 10 (2015): 904. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article analyzes the decline of pollinators due to factors such as habitat loss, insecticides, and pollution. It specifically focuses on diesel emission from exhausts in North America and Europe. Diesel exhaust diminishes flower volatiles which are needed for bees to identify flowers and with these flowers being undetectable by bees, pollination is decreased and the bee population decreases as well. This article relates to the research question because it talks about pollutants that affect the ecosystem and in turn explains how one of the many pollutants (Diesel exhaust fumes) specifically affects bees and the flowers that they help to pollinate. Dr. Inka Lusebrink holds a diploma in biology and zoology from the university of Hohenheim, Germany, as well as a doctorate in chemical ecology and entomology from the university of Bayreuth, Germany. She also has post-doctoral research experience. Dawid, et al. Survival, Reproduction And Population Growth Of The Bee Pollinator, Osmia Rufa (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae), Along Gradients Of Heavy Metal  Insect Conservation And Diversity 2 (2014): AGRIS. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The effect of pollution on bees is not only occurring in America but in other regions such as Europe. Heavy metal pollution is another type of pollution that affects bees, and per the article, it is prevalent and affecting bee reproduction and Martin-Smith 4 survival. The heavy metal pollution changes the bees genetically and alters certain cells within the bodies of female bees as well as their offspring. The precise calculations of the effect of metal pollution on the bee community is properly explained and highly detailed throughout the reading. To collect the data, scientists used two different groups of bees, one in the United Kingdom and the other in Poland. They were both exposed to different levels of metal pollution and were evaluated. Per the data, Pollution in the ecosystem affects bees negatively and destroys necessary elements in their outer protective bodies that are used prevent attacks from pathogens. Dawid is currently a postdoctoral funded by Piotr Tryjanowsk of the Institute of Zoology and also is faculty of animal breeding at the Poznan University of Life Sciences. His research is focused on colony organization of social insects as well as conservation of bee communities. Strachecka, Aneta Joanna, Magdalena Maria and Magdalena Krauze. Influence Of Environmental Pollution On The Protective Proteolytic Barrier Of The Honey Bee Apis Mellifera  Polish Journal Of Environmental Studies 19.4 (2010): 855-859. GreenFILE. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Bees bodies contain proteases and protease enzymes that help in protecting the body of the bee against pathogens. Damage to these elements of the body can lead to a decrease in death. Environmental pollution contributes to the damage of these elements of the body. In the study, two different groups of bees were collected and observed. Martin-Smith 5 One group resided in a clean environment and the other group resided in a polluted environment. The results show that bees in the clean environment had high concentrations of both proteases as well as protease enzymes. This again goes back to how pollution of all kinds affects the lives of bees and in return it affects the environment, ultimately making the environment less inhabitable for biological life forms of all kinds. Aneta Stracheka is currently researching at the University of Life Sciences in Lublin, out of the Department of Biological Basis of Animal Production she also received her doctorate in biology and her masters in biology and chemistry for the same university. Wilson-Rich, Noah, Stephanie T. Dres, and Philip T. Starks. The Ontogeny Of Immunity: Development Of Innate Immune Strength In The Honey Bee (Apis  Journal Of Insect Physiology 54.(2008): 1392-1399. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article discusses the overall importance of bees to the environment to begin with, and begins to delve into the life of the honey bee. It proceeds to talk about the immunity of pathogens at different age levels of bees. Younger bees tend to stay in the hive, opposed to older bees who are outside of the colony pollinating, which leads to exposure to higher level pathogens. Scientists researched the immunity levels of bees across different ages and the results were quite obvious as older bees had a stronger immunity to pathogens that they are exposed to. On the other hand, if nurse bees who stayed inside the hive switched jobs with forager bees they would be more susceptible to disease thus meaning that pathogens in the ecosystem would eventually kill off bees, directly affecting the ecosystem in a negative way. Martin-Smith 6 Noah Wilson-Rich is the founder and chief scientist officer at The Best Bees Company, a research affiliate at MIT Media Lab, was an adjunct professor at Simmons College, Northeastern University, and Tufts University, as well as a biology instructor and Tufts University. This makes Noah Wilson-Rich a credible source for information because he is well educated in the topic of biology with a focus on bees. This provides the insight of a professional that helps the audience understand the information provided.