Xinyu 1 Xinyu Kang Mark J Nusspickel Composition 1 January 29, 2017 Oil Pollution Brought Bad Influence to Ocean Environment If you can choose, you will want to live in the past or present? With the development of science and technology, our living and marine environment have become increasingly worse. Nowadays, we have to face a serious problem: oil pollution. When oil leaks and emissions, it can float in the sea and can rapidly spread to form oil film. gills can be attached the kind of oil which will lead to fishes suffocation. This oil can also inhibit waterfowl spawning and hatching, So it causes a great destruction of the marine plankton growth, marine ecological balance and coastal landscape. According to one article, the author propose a question the BP Oil Spill Affect Our It said that the worst environmental disaster America has ever faced because of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill (McCauley 54-56). Therefore, we can get a information that the destructiveness of oil spill is unimaginable. In another article, Farrington introduces some reasons that lead to oil spills and pollution(3-13). With this said, the guiding question as it pertains to this issue is: What are the reasons of oil pollution and the influence? Farrington, John W. Oil Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil Environment, vol. 56, no. 4, 2013, pp. 3-13 This article Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil mainly talks about oil pollution in the marine environment. It is divided into three parts to discuss the problem. The first part introduces that oil forms a number of complex chemicals. There chemical are harmful to humans and the ocean. The second part focus on some oil spill Xinyu 2 events and bad influence on the marine. The main reason is that chemical factors and biological processes lead to the leakage of oil. The last one focus on the fates and effects of chronic inputs of oil, which are both natural seeps and human inputs. This source is related to my research question because it said the impact of marine life and marine systems. This pollution will be poured into some of the toxic substances leading to the extinction of marine life and the destruction of the marine system. It also touches briefly on the obvious security and human health. The oil leak will cause a huge explosion led to the death of the marine staff and injuries. This resource is reliable because the name is John W. Farrington who worked in Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. He became a Dean so that we can believe that he was knowledgeable. Kauble, Christena Ann. Spill Science Activities. Vol. 48, no.1, 2011, pp. 9-12. This article mainly introduces some experiments - how students use some methods to carry out the oil clean-up in the ocean. They measure and test the composition of the oil to evaluate their cleanliness. Finally, they put forward some methods to predict the impact of some methods on the environment. This test allows students to understand complexity and difficulty of oil spill, so it can help them to thinking and begin to scientific research. This article connects my topic because it was discussing a way for oil spill. Oil leaks are a very serious event, so students should know how to carry out some clean-up methods. Let them through experiments to explore effective ways. This name is Kauble, Christena Ann. She used a source from Taylor & Francis which is international academic publisher in UK, USA and so many countries. Therefore, the source is credible. McCauley, Linda A. and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our Health Xinyu 3 American Journal Of Nursing, vol.110, no.9, 2010, pp. 54-56 This article and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our Health focuses on the hazards and impacts of an oil spill on human society and the environment. This event became one of the most devastating environmental disasters in American history. Eleven workers were killed in this event. The government determine the extent of the economic impact on the Gulf Coast, and the impact of its ecosystems and wildlife. In addition, the author also mentions the major effects of several oil spills on human health. The article is relevant to my topic because it briefly introduces some big influences of oil spill for human society and the environment which relates to oil spill. Then, it summarizes several of the major effects for human health. This article listed physical effects. It refers to people will encounter respiratory diseases, headaches and skin irritation. Another one is mental health effects. Because a large number of people rely on the fishing business, the oil spill led to their inability to make a living. The name is Linda A. McCauley who worked in Emory Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing. She is dean and professor in this school so that she was knowledgeable. Therefore, this resource is credible. Mercer, K. Trevors, J. of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine Environmentalist. Vol. 31, no. 3, 2011, pp. 338-347. This article of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine highlights the importance of oil as a vital source of energy. Then, the author talked about the impact of oil spills on marine ecosystems, some examples of oil spills to compared and biological remediation method reduce the destruction of oil spills. Finally, the authors analyzed the ingredient of the oil to define which is the most destructive. Xinyu 4 This source is related to my topic because it said oil spill polluted ocean coastlines and some ways can help ocean to recover. The authors used a lot of oil spills for research and comparison, such as A coastal oil spill on April 27, 1986 occurred along the opening of the Panama Canal in the . And the author propose a way which is Bioremediation. When people put this microorganism to marine, it could deal with toxic and hazardous waste. This data makes the reader more convinced. This source comes from the University of South Florida library database, its author are K. Mercer and J.T.Trevors. They worked in Laboratory of Microbiology, School of Environmental Sciences and University of Guelph, therefore I believe that they are knowledgeable. Wiens, John A. Crist, Thomas O. Day, Robert H. Murphy, Stephen M. Hayward, Gregory D. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine Ecological Applications, Vol. 11, no. 3, 2001, pp.828-839. This article Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine was a research paper. It mainly discussed whether marine birds were seriously affected and evaluated whether the impact of oil spills can be restored. They used the most primitive information to analyze and examine the impact of marine birds. According to these information, marine birds were the most affected by the oil spill. As the oil spill occurred, it resulted the death of thousands of marine birds. And according to these analysis, people wanted to find a way for the ocean can return to the initial state which was very difficult. The article is relevant to my research question because it focused on the impact of marine birds and marine environment. This resource used a rigorous analysis and research for oil spills, they found that these marine birds can reveal the characteristics of the impact of oil spills and the recovery of the region. They did some researches through birds, and included some birds. So the Xinyu 5 answer is more obvious. This resource is reliable because these authors name are John A. Wiens,Thomas O. Crist, Robert H. Day, Stephen M.Murphy and Gregory D. Hayward. They worked in Ecological Society of America so I believe the source was knowledgeable. Welch, Craig. Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still news, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2015/04/150414-deepwater-oil-spill-birds-gulf-ma ondo-louisiana/. This article Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still focuses on the destruction of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill in the environment whether is still a great impact until now. The author used a few examples to illustrate the destruction of this event until now. The first one is, a large number of flies and cricket spiders were found in a salt marshes of the Gulf because of oil spills, and more than before the uncontaminated. The second one is, declining in the number of seaside sparrows, and it is difficult to continue breeding in this contaminated salt marshes. Finally, there are many species of death, like, dolphins, tuna and pelicans continued to die because of this event. This source is related to my research question because it continues to introduce the oil harm for the marine environment and marine life. A large number of bacteria breeds and infinite reproduct of some harmful insects. As well as the gradual death of many rare marine life. These all about my problem. The name is Craig Welch, who is an environment writer at National Geographic. He received many honors, including the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, and Institute of Medicine and others. So, I can affirm this source is credible.