Mendez 1 Fresa Mendez Nusspickel English 1101 5 February 2017 Ending Death Penalty The death penalty, a form of execution, is a capital crime punishment that criminals receive. It has been illegalized in some states of the United States, but it is sadly still legal in most states. Lethal injections, electrocutions, gas chambers, firing squads, and hangings are the five different ways the death penalty can be put to use according to the Death Penalty Information Center (DPIC). Now a days, it is is easy to assume that since people choose what form of execution they will choose it is not as horrible of a crime, but nothing can make this sane. Everything about the death penalty is inhumane, and it is unbelievable to think that at this modern age, something as cruel as the death penalty is still enforced in more than half of the states in the United States. It is true that there have been crimes that deserve the most horrible punishment, and this could be a reason as in why people are for the penalty, but there should not be any doubts in why the death penalty should be completely abolished. The death penalty is the most cruel punishment and it is time for everyone to realize that it is not making our society any better and that there is always another option. Should the death penalty be completely abolished? Mendez 2 Annotated Bibliography Gerber, Rudolph J., and John M. Johnson. Top Ten Death Penalty Myths : The Politics Of Crime Control . Westport, Conn: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2007. Collection (EBSCOhost) . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This book explains how the government claims how the death penalty is painless and also a quick process, when it is the opposite of this. There are ten different myths that this book includes about the penalty, which are then proven to be wrong. There are myths about the death penalty and equal justice that make it seem like whites, hispanics, and blacks all equally receive the penalty. African Americans are most likely to be executed than any other race, which is rare since racism is supposedly dead. There are also myths about the death penalty of it having effective crime control as in criminals supposedly behaving better in states that the death penalty is. The book covers the most controversial arguments there are when it comes to this topic and proves every there could possibly be wrong. This source is relatable to the research question because it explains many myths about the death penalty that make people believe it is not wrong. The book addresses all ten of those issues and explains why they are not true and also speaks up about the lies the government tells people to not realize how evil the death penalty truly is. The authors of this book are Rudolph Gerber, who attended the Columbia University and John Johnson who is a professor in the School of Justice and Social Inquiry at Arizona State University, according to the foreword of the book written by Sister Helen Prejean. Gerber served as a prosecutor, trial judge, appellate judge, and member of a major Phoenix law 13). Both of the authors have first hand Mendez 3 experience with the death penalty since they have been in trials speaking against it and also maintain communication with people that are currently in the death row. Paul, Ron. defined: 50 essential issues that affect our freedom . New York: Grand Central Pub., 2010. Print. Paul Ron, the author of this book, used to be for the death penalty before he truly knew everything that comes with it. He speaks of how many errors it has and how unfair it truly is. On the death row, people when guilty are rarely found guilty and sentenced to death...innocent people without enough money are more likely to get the death penalty while the guilty rich people with good lawyers get 33). This is just an example of how corrupted the death penalty is, and it is shown how what really matters is the person sentenced for it rather than the crime committed. The government has taken it to the their own hands to kill people and it is a power that they should not be permitted to have. If they have this much power, then it can do just about anything. The government also plays a big role in every state depending if the penalty is allowed or not. more authoritarian a government becomes, the greater number of as opposed to a civilized society in which the death penalty is less likely to be occurring(Paul 34). This source relates to the research question because it explains how the death penalty is one of the many issues that affect the freedom every American should have. The author explains how corrupted the death penalty is and why it is a punishment that should not be permissible. Ron Paul wrote about fifty different controversial issues that the United States is facing. He formerly was U.S. representative. He has many insider information as he worked for congress so he knows what is rigged and what is right. Even though the book is about his point Mendez 4 of view of things, he has numerous different facts to back up his input. As a former congressmen, he knows the lies congress says and even says that government should not be trusted. Capital Punishment Civil Liberties Union . ACLU, 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This source explains that death penalties are wrongly chosen and unfairly given to random people sometimes. There have been so many times were the wrong people have been given this penalty and been unfairly killed. Not only that, but there are many people with disabilities that are on the death row. It has been proven that lethal injections are in fact painful even when it is said to be otherwise. There is truly not one safe way to kill someone, so humans should not take it upon themselves to try and keep reinforcing this punishment. Lastly, it has been stated that the race of the victim is taken into consideration and it is more likely to have a black person in death row than a white one, which is in fact unfair in a country where racism is supposed to be dead. The ACLU, American Civil Liberties Union, is an organization that stands to defend rights that the Constitution gives every individual. This organization stands by the Constitution and speaks up for things that do not follow it, the death penalty. This correlates to the research question because it explains all the faults the penalty has and makes it obvious that nothing good comes out of it. Facts: 13 Reasons to Oppose the Death For Alternatives To The Death Penalty. OADP, 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This source states different reasons on why the death penalty should be the answer to any crime and why it should definitely be abolished. The death penalty is not only unfair, but it is no Mendez 5 job to kill someone. There are so many other punishments to give than taking away right to live. This punishment also has many faults; for example, it is not uncommon that people are wrongly accused of a crime and end up on the death row for many years. The death penalty is also extremely expensive and costs millions of dollars a year according to the OADP. The death penalty is also randomly chosen and it also goes against every religion, so there truly is no good side to this punishment. The OADP, Oregonians for Alternative to the Death Penalty, criminal justice activists joined in a concerted effort to increase the effectiveness of response to violent interpersonal crime. Our members include survivors, attorneys, religious leaders, teachers and other concerned citizens It is a big variety of people so there are many different ways of thinking, but one common reason for the group. There is an alternative to everything and the death penalty is not an exception. The article relates to the research question because as all of the other sources, it also makes a point of how inhumane the death penalty is and thinks that it should be abolished.