Bradley Ramon Professor Phillips ENC1102.026 2/26/2017 Rhetorical Appeals: Abortion Ads The National Right to Live (NRLC) is the largest pro life organization in America. They have been fighting through many different mediums over the years and have put a lot of time and money into educating America about sex and their consequences, as well as lobbying congress. The NRLC uses a lot of promotional ads when they campaign, their ads mainly contain the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos and a little bit of These rhetorical appeals are the foundation of their campaigns. (Image 1) (Image 2) Ethos is a valuable tool that when trying to get a point across, gives your argument some credibility. There are several ways to provide credibility for an argument such as brand placement, credible sources, etc. In the case of both image one and two, they have the logo stamped in the lower left hand corner to establish that both images belong to the NRLC, which has the credibility of being one of the oldest pro life organizations in America. Compared to image two, image one plays more on the statistical level and provides further credibility for the readers by stating the number of lives lost since the v. Wade supreme court case was put into effect, allowing for women to have the right to have an abortion should they so desire. They say that in the 40 years the law has been in effect, 55 million lives have been lost due to abortion. A small argument can also be made for image two in regards to the fact that the image is saying the embryo has brainwaves, which can only be detected at a respectable institute with proper equipment. Pathos, which will be the biggest player in both images, is how these images are reaching out and appealing to our emotions. According to a researcher by the name of Andrew J. Elliot, literature on color and psychological functioning is at a nascent stage of development, and by recommending patience and prudence regarding conclusions about theory, findings, and real-world (Page 1). This means that it is not definite that one color means one thing, however there is common believe that colors do draw out certain emotions. For instance in image one there is only three colors of grey, black and red. According to Raetta Parker, red is a very emotional color, which can be indicative of in this case it would be referencing the blood that has been spilled over the 55 million embryos that have been aborted in the 40 years since the v. Wade court ruling. According to Parker the use grayscale usage could mean a lot of things. Black can simply be used to help make the red stand out more, emphasising the lives lost. It can also bring about an added sense of grief or a sort of shadow being cast over the embryos. While image one is more used to make people feel kind of remorseful for having abortions, it has the added impact due to the strong contrast of the very bright red and the dark black, and gray colors. The coloring in image two is completely different than image one. They did not use sonograms or ultrasounds, but instead used extremely high quality, highly colorful images. These those that the embryo is full of life and it is almost happy to get out to meet its family. The two different pictures of Rose in image two describe her as both happy and hopeful in an attempt to garner pity or admiration from people who gaze at them. They also take full use of the colors to show that the embryo is very healthy and has radiance to it. It can be seen as a contrasting use of colors whereas image one relied on making the negative statistic stand out and make the reader feel depressed and sorry, image two makes the reader feel kind of hopeful, and happy for the young embryo. Latsly we have the rhetorical appeal of Kairos. Kairos refers to the timeliness of a topic or a certain call to action. In both the case of image one and two, since they both have to do with the topic of abortion, they can be talked about in a similar sense of timeliness. The topic of abortion has been a topic that has been talked about since the 1800s. While it is not at the top of things most discussed, it is definitely a topic that is being fought over to this day. If we are to talk about the call to action or the general reference to time that both images use, they take different approaches. In image one we have the phrase in the center of the image, which is indicative of the amount of time that has passed since the v. Wade case ruling was passed, and when this ad was created. It creates a very dramatic timeline which indicates a massive loss of potential lives over those 40 years. In Image 2, in the lower right hand corner the ad tells us how old Rose is. Telling us that Rose is only 8 weeks old and is already this vibrant and happy, and that you would be wrong to kill such a happy being. The use of Rhetorical appeals is very powerful when subtly trying to get a point across. The use of ethos, pathos, and kairos were very prominent in the images provided. When looking at these kind of images or listening to speakers, it is always important to try to keep in mind the underlying message that they are trying to get across. Work Cited Parker, Raetta.  Meaning of Colors . N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Elliot, Andrew J. Color and psychological functioning: a review of theoretical and empirical  Frontiers in Psychology 6 (2015): n. pag. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Image 1 : Image 2: https://www.pinterest.com/pin/72620612711383055/