Peoples 1 Corynn Peoples Professor Theodosiou ENC1102-075 27 January 2017 Resolve for the Conservation of Animals in Zoos The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) and the Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) have different perspectives on the intentions of zoos, which has led to a deepening dispute between the two organizations. Representing more than 200 institutions, the AZA is an organization that strives for the highest standards in animal care. Through zoos, their goals are to provide an entertaining and educational experience for families and contribute to scientific research and conservation (AZA). Formed in 1957, the CAPS are an organization that is concerned with the welfare of captive zoo animals. Their goal is to return captive animals back to their natural habitats and end the use of animals for human entertainment (CAPS). Despite these similar interest in zoo animal care, their disagreement starts with the approach of conservation. AZA believes that zoos are vital to the conservation of wildlife animals, whereas CAPS believes that zoos are damaging conservation efforts through animal captivity. Having a well-developed compromise such as reserving zoos for the strict use of conserving endangered animals would satisfy both stakeholders and would resolve this conflict. As stated previously, the AZA is a thriving organization that is in full support of the existence of zoos under high standards. They are dedicated to the advancement of zoos and aquariums in the areas of conservation, education, science, and recreation (AZA). Over a thousand endangered and threatened species are in the care of AZA. Regarding conservation, zoos that are regulated under the AZA are being introduced to programs that enhance the Peoples 2 protection of endangered wildlife species. These programs are a part of the Species Survival Plan Program that includes field conservation, reintroduction programs, captive breeding, and public education This organization values education and through zoos, aims to provide the public a deep understanding of wildlife and how they are threatened by society (Bemused Backpacker). The AZA argues that zoos are vital to conservation efforts because they provide homes for animals that are rescued from the wild (Bemused Backpacker). On the other hand, the CAPS organization is determined to phase out zoos and return captive animals back to their natural habitats. With this mission in mind, CAPS works to educate the public about the treatment and exploitation of captive animals. Their primary focuses are on the welfare of zoo animals and properly conserving endangered species to prevent them from going extinct. In terms of conservation, CAPS maintains the belief that zoos have inadequate amounts of space and resources that would provide an endangered animal the fundamentals of their natural habitat. Although zoos contribute to conservation, CAPS argue that they are far behind in obtaining a resolution. According to David Hancocks, a zoo director, is a commonly held misconception that zoos are not only saving wild animals from extinction but also reintroducing them to their wild habitats. In reality, most zoos have had no contact of any kind with any reintroduction (CAPS). Even though zoos attempt to recreate the natural environment for each of its animals, this organization believes the most effective way for wildlife to be saved is by protecting their own natural wild habitats so that they do not have to live in captivity (Prideaux). Despite these differences in perspectives between the AZA and CAPS, these two organizations do share common objectives. They both have the ambition to increase conservation efforts for threatened and endangered species, improve animal welfare, and the ambition to Peoples 3 educate the public about those species and their natural habitats. This demonstrates that there is a lot of potential for a compromise to happen between them. Since there are set responsibilities to captive animals and the conservation of species and habitats in the wild, these two organizations must deal with finding methods that preserve these species within the confines of a zoo as well as within the natural environment. To satisfy both stakeholders, the proposed compromise would have to be attentive to both of their goals. One way they can go about an agreement is if zoos became sanctuaries made entirely for species that are threatened or endangered. This method of conserving animals has shown to be successful in endeavor to protect and conserve giant pandas. Giant pandas face dangers such as poaching, illegal logging, and isolation. The sanctuaries that were created are intended to protect the giant habitat but they also provide the opportunity for research on the behavior, mating, and breeding of Giant Pandas (Pandas International). Along with the protection of giant pandas, these sanctuaries also hundreds of species of mammals, at least 200 birds, dozens of reptiles, and over half of the plants known to exist in (CAPS). Zoos can begin rescuing and caring for not just one, but multiple species of animals that need to be conserved. With this, they can focus their attention on the animals that are leading towards extinction rather than animals that strive in their natural habitat and that bring in large crowds of visitors for entertainment purposes. However, it is important that there is an agreement on species selection and on providing carrying capacity for vanishing species (Conway 5). The mission to educate will still be fulfilled as visitors will learn about the endangered animals and what they can do to help with conservation efforts. CAPS would support this because it would divert the zoos intentions of filling their exhibits for the sole purposes of providing entertainment and gaining profits towards a sincere method of conserving threatened Peoples 4 wildlife animals. The AZA would be in favor of this because they are committed to conserving species and the compromise does not call for a complete shutdown of zoos but for a reconstruction of their conservation methods. This solution is feasible because it tends to the urgency of conserving endangered wildlife animals and can innovate the future of zoos. According to William Conway, could become the development of specialized species plans and of zoo operating models exhibiting fewer kinds of (5). However, this solution would prompt the AZA to give up having zoos with a full capacity of animals in each exhibit. With a decrease in the number of animals and a change in the type of animals in zoos, the AZA would see a monumental decline in profits as there would be less visitors at the zoo. To make up for the decrease in zoo profits, the CAPS could establish a way to get zoos positive media attention on their new efforts and methods to conserve endangered animals. This could happen through the news or through advertisements, which would cost a little bit of money for them, but if zoos are able to profit from that, more money can go toward sustaining the endangered animals and improving conservation. The AZA would also have to invest money in reconstructing exhibits so that they mirror the habitats in the wild. This would improve living conditions for the animals and diminish concern for animal welfare. CAPS would also have to aid the AZA in this financial investment. This whole process would be expensive, time-consuming, and include a lot of revising on zoo exhibition policies (Conway 3). To conclude, the dispute between AZA and CAPS involving the conservation of animals in zoos has been an ongoing event for a while. Their different perspectives on zoos has called for a consideration of a compromise that would benefit both organizations. Reserving zoos for the sole use of conserving and providing shelter for endangered animals would lead to a positive Peoples 5 future for those species and biodiversity. This solution would resolve the conflict because the AZA would receive more support from those who are against animal captivity and CAPS would be successful in introducing zoos to better conservation applications. Peoples 6 Works Cited Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. The Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) is an organization that is dedicated to ending the use of animals in entertainment, particularly in circuses, zoos and the exotic pet trade. CAPS believe that wild animals in zoos suffer physically and mentally because their needs are not satisfied in unnatural environments. They also believe that zoos are not effective in the conservation of animals. Using CAPS as a stakeholder in the topic of zoos and conservation of animals will provide insight on why zoos may not be effective in conservation. CAPS would be willing to compromise with the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) if animal welfare is improved. Believe in A Better Future for All Living Association of Zoos & Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. The Association of Zoos & Aquariums (AZA) is an organization that is dedicated to the advancement of zoos and aquariums in the areas of conservation, education, science, and recreation. AZA believes that zoos are effective and vital in the conservation of animals and educating audiences. Using AZA as a stakeholder in the topic of zoos and conservation of animals will provide insight on why zoos may be effective in their purpose to conserve, educate, and provide entertainment. AZA would be willing to compromise with Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) if they can continue their conservation efforts, even if it is improved, and still educate the public. Prideaux, Margi. Are the Problem, Not the Solution to Animal Open Democracy. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. Peoples 7 The author of Are the Problem, Not the Solution to Animal is Dr. Margi Prideaux, an international wildlife policy writer, negotiator, and academic scholar. She has worked within the conservation movement for twenty-five years. Prideaux received a PhD for International Relations that is focused on wildlife policy and law. The information she provides supports the goals and beliefs that the Captive Protection Society (CAPS) believes in, such as zoos focusing on entertainment and profits rather than true conservation efforts. This article can aid in elaborating on position as a stakeholder on the topic of zoos and the conservation of animals. Jennifer. Role of Zoos in Endangered Species About Education. N.p., 24 Nov. 2014. Web. The author of Role of Zoos in Endangered Species is Jennifer a former field biologist and longtime contributor to the National Wildlife family publications. She is the Endangered Species specialist on About.com. The information she provides supports the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) goals and beliefs that zoos are vital to the conservation of wild animals and are essential to educating the public about the endangerment of species. This article can aid in elaborating on position as a stakeholder on the topic of zoos and the conservation of animals. Conway, William G. Time for Wild Animals with Zoo Biology 30.1 (2010): 1-8. The author of Time for Wild Animals with William Conway, is a Senior Conservationist within a Wildlife Conservation Society in New York. He has written several articles on zoology and animals in captivity. This journal article can help in explaining the proposed compromise and how it effects both stakeholders. It will provide Peoples 8 information on the process and importance of zoos only being sanctuaries for endangered animals. Huxley, Michael. Zoos Are an Important Part of Responsible Wildlife Bemused Backpacker. N.P., 14 Feb. 2016. Web. & Pandas International. N.p., n.d. Web.