Hudson !1 Tim Hudson Hannah Lay ENC1102 30 January 2017 Gene Modification Six thousand children a year are born with syndrome in the United States according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and they even go as far to say syndrome continues to be the most common chromosomal disorder Disorders such as Syndrome are caused by genetic complications that arise during the fertilization of a gamete. Within the past decade recent advances in technology have proven that making alterations to the genes causing these disorders is no longer out of the scope of scientific capabilities. Along with altering and modifying the DNA of a human embryo to display traits such as hair color, eye color, gender, and IQ capabilities, scientists can now alter the gene sequence in an embryo that has a high potential of developing syndrome resulting in a reduced likelihood of developing such disorders. The parents whose DNA sequence sets them up for these high chances of giving birth to a child with syndrome may opt for the genetic modification of their embryo, aiming to increase the likelihood of giving birth to a child without disorders, disabilities, or diseases claiming their child and their choice. On the other hand there are activist groups such as Friends of the Earth, Planned Parenthood, and Choice USA, to name a few, as well as the scientific organization The Center for Genetics and Society, that strongly oppose the concept of genetically modifying human embryos. They Hudson !2 claim modifying the human DNA sequence could have serious consequences and irreversible effects on the DNA of the human genome. What if a decision could be made to appease both sides that potentially compromise the genome of an entire species? If there could be a middle ground - a compromise - on this controversial subject could both parties be satisfied? There are a few methods that have shown a high likelihood of decreasing the odds of syndrome without the modification of human DNA. Of these methods there is one in particular that could lead to a possible compromise to diffuse the tension on the matter, and that compromise is In Vitro Fertilization. To begin lets take a look at both parties in the matter to clarify how In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) can be the best compromise made to appease each other, starting with the couples looking to start a family. With the advances in technology that have come with end of 2016 IVF is one that has recently given new light since its debut in 1978 (Zhu). Within the past year scientists have successfully discovered and tested gene modification on human embryos with the hopes of out genetic mutations. Couples who are starting a family and want to run the risk of giving birth to a child with syndrome may opt to undergo genetic screening to determine the likelihood of their offspring developing syndrome. The parents-to-be can then decide if they want to the gene in their gametes to significantly decrease the chances of their offspring being born with syndrome. They may claim their choice and their right, or that doing the world a favor, but according to the opposing side at what cost? The opposing parties such as those afore mentioned would argue quite the opposite. There are so called activist groups such as Planned Parenthood Friends of the Earth, and Choice USA, that strongly advocate against genetically modifying Hudson !3 human embryos. The scientific organization The Center for Genetics and Society, collaborated with Friends of the Earth in a report presented at the International Summit on Human Gene Editing in Washington DC where they argued the genes we pass on to our children and future generations would be highly risky, medically unnecessary, and socially (Darnovsky). Organizations including those mentioned above, push for tighter control, regulations, and laws to avoid a potentially dangerous slippery slope. Pete Shanks, a consulting researcher with The Center for Genetics and Society, voiced the fears of this slippery slope in the report stating the process begins, there will be no going back. This is a line we must not So what can In Vitro Fertilization offer both parties to quell the rising tension on this heated issue? For starters, scientists and doctors have started urging couples to start family planning before the age of thirty to improve the chances of a normal birth. However, for many couples, starting a family before their thirties may not be an option due to a multitude of factors. Thats where IVF takes the stage. IVF is the optimal compromise because while there are other options available, IVF offers the highest chances of decreasing the risk for syndrome without the alteration of human genetics. Pre-implantation genetic screening (which is performed prior to the IVF procedure) is frequently used in couples that are infertile and is recently being used as a pre-screening for syndrome. IVF uses the gametes of both the male and the female and inseminates the egg in a laboratory setting. Once fertilization has occurred the egg is then placed inside the uterus for implantation. The National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) has stated technique of PGD [Pre-implantation Genetic can be applied in order to achieve a normal pregnancy with the couples own (Cuckle). Meaning there is a Hudson !4 possibility of using the DNA of a couple who carry the genetic risks of syndrome as opposed to using one gamete of the couple and another from a donor. Though the procedure is complex, it is possible. Even in a worse case scenario the couple can still perform the Pre- implantation genetic screening, determine which side of the family the genetic trait for syndrome lies, and go through with In Vitro Fertilization but with a donor gamete to replace the parents gamete. This is how this case works best for a compromise, both sides of this issue on genetic modification are appeased because the family has the highest likelihood of producing normal offspring with zero modification to the genetics. All while the fears of the unknown and medical risk are put aside, and the couples are given the highest chance for offspring free from disorders. So when it comes down to the ethics or morality of the genetic modification of human DNA to reduce the likelihood of syndrome, humanity can take a deep breath and relax for now because there are plenty of other viable options to diminish the chances of diseases, disabilities, and disorders without modifying an genes and without dangerously meddling in the human genome. If couples plan ahead and conceive before the age of thirty and stay on top of folic acid and Folate intake even before conception their chances of giving birth to a child with syndrome and even autism drop significantly. And even for those who are past this thirty-year-old marker there are still very good chances of normal birth through the miracles of In Vitro Fertilization. Alison and Andrew Allen are just one couple of the thousands who have undergone IVF and be happier to give birth to a set of normal, healthy twins. all this has taught me anything at all, that family is so important. Now I have a little family of my own and every day just keeps getting better and - Alison Allen. Hudson !5 WORKS CITED Data &  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 11 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cuckle, Howard S. Primary prevention of  International Journal of Medical Sciences. Ivyspring International Publisher, 1 July 2005. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. A Joy - Alison & IVF Success  Origin Fertility Care. N.p., 13 Feb. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Darnovsky, Marcy, PhD. CGS : Center for Genetics and Society releases open letter and report calling for prohibitions on human germline  CGS : Center for Genetics and Society releases open letter and report calling for prohibitions on human germline engineering. N.p., 29 Nov. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Zhu, Tian. The Embryo Project  In Vitro Fertilization The Embryo Project Encyclopedia. N.p., 22 July 2009. Web. 08 Feb. 2017.