Harb !1 Karem Harb ENC 1102 Professor Aranda 5 March 2017 Project 2 First Draft Students for Fair Admissions is a non-profit organization that fights racial preference in the university admissions process. Certain universities have quotas to admit students of different races to keep the student body diverse. This creates a problem in which two students with equal merit but one is Asian and is Black, the Black student would be chosen. Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA) provides legal action students that face this issue. This organization combats organizations such as the NAACP who support affirmative action policies such as racial quotas for universities. They believe that such policies give students of certain races advantages that equal qualified students do not have. The SFFA have litigated major cases with regard to the issue of racial preference in the university admissions process such as Two images from SFFA are featured below. The goals of the SFFA are only partially represented by the images since their goal is the end all racial preference and the effectiveness of the images is apparent with careful examination. The goals of SFFA as stated on the website are: support and participate in litigation that will restore the original principles of our civil rights movement: A race and ethnicity should not be factors that either harm or help that student to gain admission to a competitive (SFFA.org). In the two images, both Harb !2 students are Asian-American, which is a major focus of the organization, however their goal, as previously stated, is to end the preference in the admissions process of certain students because of their race. Their goal is not only to defend Asian-American students when denied admission to a certain university due to race, but students of any race. The effectiveness of the images through the use of rhetorical devices is seen even though only part of the goals are represented by the images. The audience that the images appeal to are students that were denied admission to a university due to preference of a student of a different race. The images appeal especially to Asian-American students since the students in the images are Asian-American. The audience is The image about Harvard University shows a young Asian-American female clutching onto a book and with a troubled look of her face. This is an appeal to pathos, which is an appeal to the emotions. The look of concern shows that students like her feel wronged due to the unfair denial of admission to the university they worked so hard to be admitted to. The clutching of the book symbolizes the seriousness that many hard- working students take towards to being a part of the Harvard University student body. In the second image, and Asian-American male student is shown also with concerned look. He looks forward with uncertainty, which also appeals to the emotions of the viewer. This allows the viewer to feels the concern in their expressions and relate to the concern shown in the faces of the students in the images. That would cause a student going though a similar situation to take action and ask the SFAA for help or to at the very least, donate the organization. Harb !3 Harb !4 Works Cited Blum, Edward. Annual Report for  (n.d.): n. pag. http://samv91khoyt2i553a2t1s05i- wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/2016-08-16-2016-Year-End- Review.pdf. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. Students for Fair  Students for Fair Admissions. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. https://studentsforfairadmissions.org/about/ http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters#page=20&zoom=auto,-203,654