Lyn 1 Mellissa Lyn Lecturer: Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Free Speech Online or Taming of the Internet? The history of the internet travels back through time with the development of the computers in the 1950s. This establishment led to the interconnectivity of all the computers on a network. This advanced progression continued throughout the years with the increasing of data storage and transmittance speed. The internet became one of best work. It revolutionized and complimented the works of the computer and the world of communication like never before. The efforts of this invention took flight connecting computing networks to link devices worldwide. The internet however influences free speech. It creates a public forum for all to be free and fully express themselves and is available to a world-wide audience. For some viewers, this type of outpour can be extremely overwhelming, irrelevant, unenthusiastic and negatively impactful, while others may just crave more. Enough is Enough (EIE) is an organization that advocates on behalf of the families and loved ones of children with the mission of making the internet safer for them to use. Their efforts are to provoke and get rid of or limit the offensive materials. The EIE organization, above all else, strives to achieve the awareness of internet safety. The images presented by the EIE organization appeals to the visual rhetoric of ethos, pathos, and logos to help connect society with their mission of protecting the young children from potential internet dangers. Lyn 2 Enough is Enough promotes their mission to the audience through the images. These images declared the type of stance the organization is aiming for, which is that they are for internet censorship. In image A, the apparent evidence of ethos in not found in the image itself but in the writings in the image. Ethos is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority 25). In the image, the EIE organization promotes their stance by including their website, logo and even a hashtag. The presence of the hash tag helps to build their social media brand. In an article written by John Rampton from the Forbes magazine, he expresses that visual marketing is an integral part of reaching out to customers and hash tags adds to the online ranking, uniqueness and a feasible topic for online users to talk about. A website adds to credibility as it brings people to the forefront of their establishment, vision and mission. Although the logo is stationery, it is the face of the organization. The logo shows two persons hugging shaped in the form of a heart. This trademark mimics the functionality of a family or even a loving parent protecting his/her child. In its own uniqueness, the logo allows people to recognize who they are and what they stand also associating it with its brand and advertisements. In image B, the presence of ethos is also apparent in the writing and not the actual image. In addition, in image B there is another hash tag that says According the website, the symbol is available to any business providing public wi-fi, who are committed to supporting the need for safeguarding online content. Wherever this symbol is displayed on site or online, parents and young people can be assured that the displaying the symbol have the correct filters in place and their public wi-fi service is safe to use (enough.org). The literary uses in the images contribute to its ethos Lyn 3 and essence of declaring who they are and what they stand for. In both images, they have presented that and have made it clear. EIE has been an organization dedicated to raising public awareness about the dangers of internet pornography, sexual predators and cyberbullying among other dangers. They do this to protect the innocence of the children, for a healthy sexuality and to build a society free from the sexual exploitation (enough.org). The rhetoric appeal of pathos is appeal towards emotion, connecting with an audience in an argument 35). This type of influence on the audience is what the speaker uses to infiltrate the minds of the audience and cause a favorable action as a result. In both images, pathos portrays the mission of EIE and then relay these emotions onto the viewer. With the contributing factors of the colors, location, context and lighting helps to reveal the overall message for the image. In image A, the pictorial effects are to make the audience feel happy, light and to have a sense of accomplishment. The message for image A speaks on the kind of altitude one should take his/her life. Within the context of internet safety, this means the EIE organization is setting an example for families to follow with their children. The use of the green grass, the bright yellow sun, the clear blue sky and even the clear road shows that there is a clear path in trying to achieve what they wish to achieve. Also, in accomplishing this the children will be safe from the potentially online dangers and free from the online corruption. Additionally, the image depicts the future in which the society can have being freed from all the internet indecencies. Image B expresses a different kind of emotion. This image solely looks at one of the online dangers, cyberbullying. Cyberbullying affects a person psychologically, causes stress and emotional depression. The image is dark in color and captions, is with an image of a broken heart. In the image the child in front of a computer and based on her posture, she seems very distressed. Cyberbullying often leads to Lyn 4 suicide, low self-esteem and depression. The broken heart signifies that the persons involved in this act is heartless and essentially does not know the implications of their actions. Furthermore, through the image, EIE wants the audience to feel what the child is feeling, empathize with her and as a result try to prevent others from doing this. EIE have been calling forth the help of the public, the state, law enforcement and the technological industry to be a part of the society they are trying to build. In this society they are trying to build comes from understanding the reason and logic behind what the organization stands for and why they do what they do. The appeal of logos is the appeal to logic. It is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons 30). In image A, the text says, the golden rule, and take the high The golden rule is universally known as a saying that says, to others as you want them to do to It is also known as the law of reciprocity; striking a balance between humanity and morality. In the context of mission, the text implies that society should offer consideration and compassion to the young children by eliminating the potential online threats, because consequently their children may be posed with the same kind of threat(s). An article published by Mark S. Putnam, says that the strength of the golden rule lies within the mental and emotional capacity of an individual. In this way, their level of sincerity would be high enough to influence and change their actions. So furthermore, analyzing the situation and putting oneself in another shoe would create that notion of morality. Following the golden rule and taking the high road signifies that it may be challenging due to immortal conduct but the use of the golden rule somewhat makes it easier to follow the influence. The law enforcement can follow the influence of the state, the people can follow the influence of law enforcement and the technological industry can follow the influence of the people. Lyn 5 The images presented by the EIE organization has effectively portrayed their mission. The pictorial evidence shows what they are battling against and what they are fighting for. The appeals used, ethos, pathos and logos, helped to bring across the message even more effectively and served their purpose of aligning the audience with the concerns and need for the safer internet environment for the children. Lyn 6 Image A Image B Lyn 7 Works Cited Rampton, John. Image Tagging Can Help Your Brands Social Media Forbes Magazine, 6 Jun. 2015, https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnrampton/2015/06/06/how-image-tagging-can-help- your-brands-social-media-marketing/#5f63dba46d00 Friendly WiFi Media Center, Enough is Enough, http://enough.org/friendlymemes Putnam, Mark S. on the Golden Global Ethics Magazine, http://www.globalethicsuniversity.com/articles/thegoldenrule.htm McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 25-29. E-text. Gayle Lee, Kendra, McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 35-38. E-text. Lane, Emily, McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 30-34. E-text. Lyn 8