Caroline Jeczalik Professor Aranda ENC1102 March 4, 2017 Immigration in the United States Immigration has become a popular topic for years. The National Council of La Raza is an organization that helps immigrants adjust easily into the United States, providing individuals with classes and programs to help them transfer easier with less problems as possible. The two images that show a relationship to the National Council of La Raza have a many similarities as well as differences. The two images provide rhetorical appeals which include ethos, logos and pathos. The rhetorical appeals they use show how the stakeholders and the visual images have a relationship to one another. When you analyze the two images you notice the goals both of the images are corresponding to the organization. The National Council of La Raza uses ethos, logos and pathos in the images to show the goal of the organization in a visual way. The two images presented are both from the National Council of La Raza. Image A is picture of past president Barack Obama at the podium giving a speech with the NCLR poster in the back round. This organizations main focus is to help not only hispanic individuals but everyone adjust comfterabley into the United States. The stakeholders use ethos in this photograph by using an authority figure who is giving a speech in front of the organizations sign. According to Literary Devices, is a way of appealing to an audience by showing credibility and ethical (Literary Devices). By incorporating a president into an image you increase the authority of the organization and the value. President Obama has worked very hard in his years in office to regulate immigration and is encouraging organizations like NCLR to provide many benefits to immigrants. He is an authority figure that would be logical for this image. According to Literary Devices, logos is an appeal to logic (Literary Devices). It would be logical to incorporate a president who worked very hard in his administration to work for immigration. The stakeholders what the audience to understand that this organization is working very hard for positive result and accomplishment. To have Obama give them a speech is a very large and exiting accomplishment for this organization. This image is showing accomplishment and progress. As an immigrant coming to the United States you look up to the president who leads the country. Having an authority figure represent an organization for immigrants is a very large accomplishment. Aside from image A, image B targets slightly different rhetorical appeals. Image B shows a young boy looking into the camera looking lightly unhappy with words across him that say our children become (nclr). When you look at this image you look straight at the young large brown eyes. After you look at the young child you read the quote that states our children become tomorrows (nclr) This image is appealing to pathos. According to Literary Devices, pathos is appeal to the emotions of an audience. (Literary Readers are looking at this photo wanting to help this child become successful enough to potentially become a leader. NCLR believes that everyone has the opportunity to become successful and to become anyone they want to be. However, not many people have that opportunity. When you look at the young child in this image you become sad when know he cannot become anything he wants to be because he is an or an This image is showing you an emotional appeal because of the young child. They use a younger kid in this photo to target you better. If there was an image of an older individual you feel bad for them as much if it was a smaller child. The quote on this image is half in white and half in red. The reason why they are in these colors is because this is the organizations colors. This image also targets logic because it would be logical to put a small hispanic child for an image that targets an emotional appeal for immigration. This stakeholder wants the audience to know that the younger children will be the leaders one day. In order to have successful leaders in our future we need to focus on the younger generation wether they be Americans or immigrants. Everyone should be treated as equal and should be given the same opportunities. Why you help a younger child achieve there dreams? Both of the images presented support the same organization in a different way using rhetorical appeals. Image A rhetorical appeals to logos and ethos while image B uses pathos and logos. The images both use logos to show the audience that the images use logic to grab the readers attention and to present their images logically. The goal for both images is for the audience to understand that the organization works hard for immigrants to come into the United States and become successful having equal opportunities like everyone else. They want the audience to understand that everyone has the opportunity to become someone successful no matter where you come from. Image A shows how the previous president of the United States gave a speech for an organization that is built around immigrants and hispanics. Having the opportunity to have Barack Obama give a speech for this organization shows how positive the direction is going for this organization. Image B shows that helping the younger generation become future leaders of this country is very important. Like in image A, image B places a figure. However, this figure is a smaller child that targets your emotions. These images both use rhetorical appeals to persuade and inform the reader about this organization. Both of the images are sponsored by the Nation Council of La Raza. Image A and image B both use rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos and ethos to demonstrate what both images are displaying to the audience. Analyzing the images show how the stakeholders uses certain rhetorical appeals to persuade and inform their readers the goal about this organization. The relationship between the images and the stakeholders are very similar because they both are centralized around one goal. That goal is to help immigrants become successful in the United States. In order to become successful you have to put effort into something to get positive results. Images A shows the success and achievement while image B shows you have to help somehow to get to a level of achievement. Image B is showing how we have to help the younger kids lead our future. Both images are tied together to share the goal of the organization. The relation ship shows the beginning and the achievement of this organization. By using logos, pathos and this to analyze these images we found the relationship of the images and organization. Work Cited Page Pathos Examples and  Literary Devices. N.p., 30 Oct. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.literarydevices.com/pathos/>. Logos Examples and  Literary Devices. N.p., 30 Oct. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.literarydevices.com/logos/>. Ethos Examples and  Literary Devices. N.p., 30 Oct. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.literarydevices.com/ethos/>. Shoichet, Catherine E. Obama: need a dance on immigration  CNN. Cable News Network, 25 July 2011. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2011/POLITICS/07/25/ obama.la.raza/>. Nclr. Do you believe we should help our children become leaders? Sign if you Agree -->http://t.co/9SsT5LrG7r pic.twitter.com/  Twitter. Twitter, 18 July 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://twitter.com/NCLR/status/490249373175906304>.