Shackleford 1 Schea Shackleford Dr. K. Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 SeaWorld of Hurt Cares Whales are animals that are meant to be swimming feeling in the open ocean. They are not to be confined by tanks and be subjected to do shows and tricks for visitors of the park. The organization SeaWorld of Hurt stands for this motion. SeaWorld of Hurt speaks on the fact that SeaWorld keeps their animals to tiny cages and tanks, and [that are forced to perform tricks for tourists in exchange for They believe in the protection of these creatures. They are also a part of the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), a famous organization that fights for the rights of animals all over the world. The two images selected for this project evoke the exact feelings of SeaWorld of Hurt. The first goal is to compare the breeding of whales in aquariums to mothers having a baby in prison, which evokes the feeling of captivity. The second goal is to explain how inhumane it is to transport a whale from aquarium to aquarium for breeding. The rhetorical appeal that is used heavily in both images is pathos. The first image has a stronger presence of ethos comparing to the second image. The second image has a stronger presence of logos compared to the first image. Kairos is not strongly used by the two. These images show that animals are meant to be free and comfortable in their natural habitat. They are not designed to be confined. The images on the website help to convey their message of whales being kept in captivity. The first image is of mothers with signs protesting that a whale at Shackleford 2 SeaWorld, named Takara, that is breeding, is technically breeding in prison. This is because the whales are confined to small tanks which does not give them enough room to breed comfortably and have healthy babies. Instead they constantly have calves that die right after they get taken away. This is comparable to mother having their children in prison where these children suffer the consequences of not having a motherly love to nurture them. In the first image, ethos is present because the protestors are using signs from the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). This is a well-known organization that protests against inhumane treatment of animals around the world. With the presence of this logo on the on their signs, it makes their appeal more effective and credible. In this image, pathos plays a big role where these people are pretending to be pregnant mothers. This makes the audience sympathize with the whales because it relates to the feelings of a mother having her child in prison and having that child being taken away, which is the worst feeling in the world. The appeal of logic is not present in this photograph because it does not give any new information to audience in the form of statistics or a new aspect of the issue of breeding whales in captivity. In this image, Kairos is not heavily used as it is not urging the audience to do something in regards to the whales. It is more demonstrating that whales should not be living or breeding in captivity. The second image speaks about another whale at SeaWorld that is used for breeding, however, he is transported amongst different aquariums using inhumane techniques. It gives information on how SeaWorld breeds their animals across the United States. This image speaks on one whale in particular named Nanuq, who was moved from aquarium to aquarium to breed other beluga whales. He was placed in a small tank that was barely bigger than him. This was a stressful process which resulted in his death. The appeal of ethos is not strong in regards to this photograph however, at the bottom Shackleford 3 right of it has the name of the organization that made the picture. The image has several aspects that appeals to pathos. The first aspect is the picture at the top left hand corner of a whale that looks distressed and sad. This evokes how the whale feels about being moved around to different aquariums. The second aspect is the picture of the tank that is used to transport the whale that is not much bigger than Nanuq. The last aspect is that the whale has to be sedated in order to be transported. These are inhumane practices for the treatment of the whales. The appeal of logos is present where the image tells you how often Nanuq has been moved from aquarium to aquarium for breeding. It also gives information that Nanuq has been sedated five (5) times before he died after his last trip. It gives the audience an understanding that this constant removal from home to another had taken a toll on him causing him to die from an infection. This image does not appeal much to Kairos because it does not urge the audience to do something. It gives information on how many times that Nanuq has been moved around in the United States for breeding. In conclusion, SeaWorld of Hurt used images to evoke how they feel as an organization about how the animals at SeaWorld are treated and how they being taken care of. They used the rhetorical appeals such as Kairos, logos, ethos and pathos to persuade their audiences about how they feel. This is a good way to persuade them because each rhetorical appeal has its own effect on different people. Both images have a strong presence of pathos and are weak in the Kairos area. Shackleford 4 Image 1 Shackleford 5 Image 2 Shackleford 6 Works Cited mothers protest against SeaWorld. Digital image. Protesters Demand Mother Freedom. SeaWorld of Hurt, 07 Feb. 2007. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Campaign Against SeaWorld of Hurt. 29 Jan. 2017. N.d. seaworldofhurt.com/about When Fly. Digital image. Beluga Trapped at SeaWorld Has Lost All Five of Her Calves. N.p., 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.