Rodriguez !1 Michelle Rodriguez Ms. Aranda Composition II 2 March, 2017 Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) The United States has always been a country made up of immigrants and has brought people of many different cultures together unified under one nation. In spite of this, the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) believes that in order to sustain the way of life here in America, the number of immigrants entering the country needs to be lowered. FAIR understands the value that immigrants bring to United States yet, it has come to a point where there cannot be exponential growth in a limited space (fairus.org). The images selected for this project depict some of the areas where the large growth in immigration is causing problems for Americans and government funded programs. Although the two images I selected are quite different and one does not fully represent the goal it stands for, each does a good job of portraying message through the images. Image A shows an elephant in a classroom which comes from the metaphorical idiom elephant in the This saying is used in common day language and means that there is a major problem that is obvious to everyone involved yet, no one want to addresses it. The major problem in this case would be how immigration is affecting the public school system and the education of children. Image most powerful rhetoric appeal is pathos. is an appeal to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or 37). This rhetoric appeal is the most significant in this Rodriguez !2 image because it talking about the education of children and how mass immigration is affecting schools. It draws on the emotions of parents and others by making them want to stand up for the betterment of their education so that they may prosper in the future. Another rhetorical appeal that is prevalent in this image is ethos. Image A contains the logo of the stakeholders organization in the bottom right corner and the photo looks like it has been been edited by a professional. The logo establishes ethos because not only does the organization have credibility of over 35 years, but it also supports the photo (fairus.org). In addition, the image looks like it took hard work to produced because realistically speaking, there is no physical way to get an elephant in a room therefore, it would take a professional to know how to make the picture look realistic. These elements relate to goals because ultimately they want immigrants and their organization to prosper here in the United States. This will not occur if the United States is not the same in years to come due to mass immigration. The goal is to lower legal immigration so that schools do not become over populated and children can get the best education possible and become successful and the future leaders of our country. Through Image rhetorical appeals FAIR directly targets its audience of parents, taxpayers, and the government. Parents are the first ones that are targeted because it is their children that are being affected negatively by mass immigration on the public schools system. Parents are also taxpayers in certain situations therefore they are also affected by this issue. Lastly, the government is the audience as well because they directly determine immigration policies and determine who is ultimately allowed into the United States. In Image A it can be assumed that schools are supposed to be a safe place for children to learn in yet with an elephant in the classroom, there is no way this goal can be accomplished. By using this type of imagery, it Rodriguez !3 makes it quite clear that allowing mass immigration to continue will result in the classroom no longer being a good learning environment for children. Knowing who the audience is and how they are affected is one of the most crucial parts to creating an effective add. Image B is unique because it has three pictures in one image which allows the audience to see different perspectives of the same issue and they all involve illegal immigration. This image shows how illegal immigration affects Americans in many different ways including their prisons, jobs, and their government funded programs. Pathos is very evident in Image B due to the emotions that are evoked with all three images. In first picture of the man in handcuffs, it is intended to make the audience feel sad and have a sense of fear because the person is being arrested. Image B also has the rhetorical appeal of kairos by the text written on the image. is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing 41). Through this use of words the audience is intended to feel a sense of urgency and empowerment to take action. FAIR wants to send the message that illegal immigration has gone on for far too long and it is affecting Americans, therefore it is time to put a stop to it. These elements relate back to goals because they want the audience to understand that immigration is a good thing but in moderation. If the United States is not conscious of the amount of people entering the country, the resources that are provided by the government will not last for future generation. Not only will illegal immigration cause problems in the future, but these problems will immediately impact schools systems and jobs and have adverse effects. The directed audience for Image B is American workers, taxpayers, and the government. American jobs are at stake when it comes to illegal immigration because they can Rodriguez !4 easily take the job of an American. Due to the fact that the government is constantly trying to increase the number of jobs here in the United States, it is key that the people who hold those positions be legal immigrants. Image B is also targeting taxpayers because due to the fact that illegal immigrants enter without authorization, there are bound to be an increase in the people who commit crimes here in the country. Not every illegal immigrant who enters the country will commit a crime, but without screening and control of immigrants the chances are that there is likely to be an increase in the number of crimes. In addition, if immigrants commit crimes serious enough to cause them to be imprisoned, taxpayers will be paying to keep undocumented immigrants in U.S. jails. Lastly the government is part of the intended audience because they are the only ones who can enforce the law and implement a more effective way to reduce illegal immigration. In Image B it can be assumed that so many different types of work are affected by illegal immigration and that it is not only men but women as well. Even though these images are clearly different and address different issues about immigration, they both represent goals as an organization. Image A talks about mass immigration while Image B is more focused on illegal immigration yet they both clearly stand for goal of reducing legal and illegal immigration. Image A specifically talks about mass immigration and how it is affecting our public schools. Image B did a better job of talking about overall goal which is to reduce illegal immigration entirely. Both of these images help convey message of the importance of reducing immigration without abandoning those very immigrants that have been critical to the establishment and prosperity of this nation. Rodriguez !5 Image A: Image B: Rodriguez !6 Works Cited About FAIR Federation for American Immigration  About FAIR Federation for American Immigration Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Appeals to Authority and Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Really Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed. Jason Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2017. 1-253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, Jessica McKee, and Kendra Gayle Lee. Appeals to Rhetoric Really Maters: Language and Argument in Context. By Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2017. 1-283. Print. Sawchyan, Alysia and Allyson Hoffman. Appeals to Rhetoric Really Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2017. 1-253. Print.