Palta 1 Rudy Palta Maria A. Theodisiou ENC 1102 - 003 21 January 2016 Genetically Modified Organisms: Solution or Threat? During the 21st century the conflict of the resourcefulness of genetically modified organisms also known as GMOs has always been questioned. Constantly there has been issues coming to terms between the firm Monsanto, the largest producer of genetically modified organism with the Non-GMO Project. Genetically modified organisms have the capability to help resolve major global issues such as starvation as well as the economy. It is capable of making crops resistant to pests as well as more capable of surviving natural disasters. Through manipulation of genetic material we are able to grow crops and food at a fast pace which could possibly sustain the population of the earth(Who). Research is constantly being done on the capabilities of the GMOs and what other potential benefits they could have for society. Technology is constantly being improved in order to help society live at high standard of living while leaving resources for the long run and GMOs has a potential of doing so. Both of these organizations share different views of GMOs and need to reach an agreement such as creating a new pesticide that is less harmful or educating the public in order for everyone to know of an alternative to what they eat as well as make use of this method of feeding the public. As the population of the world increases at an exponential rate, GMOs are becoming more of a potential solution in order to decrease the amount of starvation throughout the world. By manipulating the genetic material of organisms, animals are capable of producing more Palta 2 resources needed faster or can be made to grow a larger size in order to be eaten; an example of this would be the salmon. Some people see this and understand it however they feel like GMOs are not the solution to many of these issues. Many environmentalists think the manipulation of organisms could be dangerous for the environment due to the manipulation of the food chain; a new organism such as an invasive species has the potential of causing extinction of other animals or resulting in overpopulation(onegreenplanet). Other people feel like there is not a enough research on the effects of GMOs and that there might be risk of potential health effects. This leads to the question: are GMOs an effective form of food/resource production? The Non-Gmos projects main concern is to inform the public of the effects of GMOs in order for everyone to know there are other alternatives besides genetically modified organisms. To give the project the rigorous scientific foundation and world-class technical support necessary for this endeavor, the organization began working with the Global ID Group, the world leaders in non-GMO testing, certification, and consulting. (Non-Gmo Project) While Monsanto is the largest producer of GMOs, their mission is to help farmers with their agriculture as well a promote a sustainable food source in order to sustain society. GMOs can have a multitude of different characteristics in order to meet a certain demand. More than 80% of all GMOs grown worldwide are engineered for herbicide tolerance. (Duke) However this modification of organisms have the capability of putting many fishermen and people out of business. Firms who use GMOs will have a much larger supply of crops compared to others who since there is less loss due to pest and natural disasters. Also if these GMOs were to migrate or be blown to another a farm, that farmer would have to pay for those GMOs; this is where the issue of abuse from Monopolies such as Monsanto come into play because they have the capability of Palta 3 manipulating prices with no effects from the market.(Huffingtonpost) This would cause a decrease in the income of farmers as well as lack of consumer diversity, since they would be forced to only buy genetically modified organisms over time. Moreover there is also a health issue that must be dealt with the use of GMOs for food production. According to the institute for responsible technology, several animal studies have indicated health risk with the consumption of genetically modified food. The FDA, or the Food and Drug Administration, had later lawsuits that were made public would provide evidence that there was corruption in the system. An FDA official known as Michael Taylor, who created the policy for GMOs was also the former attorney for Monsanto, one of the largest firm for the production of Genetically modified food (Responsible technology). Scientist believe that GM food could have many possible side effects such as potentially cause , liver problems due to possible toxins, as well as technology) Both of these stakeholders share a common ground where their main goal is to promote a food source in order to sustain society, these stakeholders merely just have different methods of doing so. The Non-GMO Project has been known for its success when promoting fundraisers, with such a large amount of volunteers this organization could have a huge impact on the community by providing its time and labor. Monsanto being known for its large production of GMOs has been trying to come to terms with the community by resolving some of the environmental issues. Monsanto is currently promoting a pesticide that do harm to bees since they have become endangered, bees are a necessary part of our ecosystem.(Monsanto) These stakeholders could work together to create an organization that would save the bees by promoting less insecticides that may harm the bees since they help pollinate our plants resulting Palta 4 in the production of our food. This would help with this environmental issue where there are very little bees, allowing for more growth in crops therefore more food being produced. The money could be used for further research on pesticides in order to create a pesticide that isnt harmful to the bees. This would promote business for farmers which is target audiences, creating more income for the firm and creating good publicity for genetically modified products. Labeling could also be another solution since the FDA had approved of GMOs due to the corruption of a supporter of Monsanto, labeling would not be an issue however this may result in possible fall of sales for genetically modified goods since people could now know if genetically modified. This would promote positive publicity for the company however since they are following their mission statement of integrity and to be trustworthy to its customers by giving them consumer diversity. Other methods of compromise that may not have much harm on the production is education, the Non-GMO project is well known for their success with fundraisers. Monsanto could create a fundraiser for further research on genetically modified organisms with this organization in order to spread knowledge of genetically modified organisms, in order to have more of an understanding of the effects of these modified products as well as to inform the public on the subject of GMOs. One of the main issues with genetically modified organisms is that not many people know of them therefore providing programs in schools or in the community would teach citizens that they do have a choice between goods and that GMOs should not be feared. In conclusion, genetically modified organisms do have the capability of helping starving nations by making animals produce more resources need or to grow more. Less people dying means their is a much larger labour force which could promote the growth of a nation both in the Palta 5 case of a standard of living as well as its economy. However there are consequences if these genetically modified organisms were not contained properly. With further study in the effects of GMOs, this method of food production has the capability of being an effective solution for this problem both short term and long term. Palta 6 Work Cited APPDMZklsaue.  History . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This sources provides crucial information on the facts of the Monsanto corporation. This source states the latest innovations of the firm and some of the changes they attempted to make in order to resolve moral issues. This is a credible source, the firm is ran by a large group of degreed associates in the field of biomedical engineering. This source provides me with most of the information from my stakeholder therefore its an important source of information for this subject matter. Duke, S.O., & Powles, S.B. (2009). crops and weeds: Now and in the , 12(3&4), 346-357. Provides information on the biological management as well as some of the economic effects of the GMOs. Publishes journals, articles, and other information in order to inform the public of future study of this biotechnology.  NonGMO Project . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. The NonGmo Project site provides important information of my stakeholder such as the mission statement and goals. This site describes an organization that feels like important for the public to know of their alternatives for food. This sources speaks of the history of the organization and some of the accomplishments they achieved. Palta 7 This will benefit my paper by speaking of some of the compromises that could be achieved with monsanto. Also, the sources provides information on GMOs that were quite useful as well as statistics. The leaders of the organization all have credible degrees and have made huge changes to the NON -GMO community. Health  for Responsible Technology . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. The institute for responsible technology basic purpose is to educate policy makers and the public of the news going on around the subject of genetically modified goods and products. This institute investigates and reports any impacts or risks to health that GMOs may have. Founded in 2003 by international bestselling author and GMO expert this institute was a primary source for any information relating to GMOs. His expertise on the subject of GMOs supports the credibility of the source. This source is used to discuss the health impacts of genetically modified organism. work comes from a dedicated team of subject experts, consultants and staff who generously donate their time and experience. In addition, IRT employs media experts, social network campaigners, writers, graphic designers, communications specialists, fundraisers, outreach professionals and support staff, who operate both at our headquarters in Iowa, and from virtual offices in the US. Leader, Jessica. Wins Lawsuit Filed By U.S. Organic Farmers Worried About Seed Huffington Post . TheHuffingtonPost.com, 10 June 2013. Palta 8 This article speaks of the unfair monopolistic methods the monsanto corporation is using. Providing information on the effects economically of GMOs and what they can do to the society, creating the loss of jobs, and also less consumer diversity. Displays the corruption and manipulation this firm does to get an advantage over its competitors. The writer has 25 years of experience, specializing in genetically modified organisms and pesticide development. This article provides information needed in order to reach a compromise, discussing some major concerns that need to be addressed. Mortensen DA, Egan JF, Maxwell BD, Ryan MR, Smith RG. a critical juncture for sustainable weed . 2012;62(1):75-84. Provides information on genetically modified organisms, such as the health effects and what are the major issues with this subject matter. Main goal of the organization is to make a healthier future for the world. Contains many offices throughout 150 countries, very credible organization that has been trying to improve the standard of living in many nations.