Melanie TeMaat PETA is famous for its flashy and sometimes vulgar propaganda to promote their strong advocacy for animal rights and against all animal abuse. More specifically, they attest for veganism, and against animal testing, animals for entertainment, and against animals for clothing purposes. Image 1 shows a chicken and says, can live without chicken wings. I Try Similarly, says, let your child smoke. Like smoking, eating meat increase the risk of heart disease and while showing a small child smoking a cigar. Both images promote veganism, as PETA stands for the rights of animals and against all types of animals abuse and mistreatment. The images depict logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), is a nonprofit organization to establishing and defending the rights of all (PETA). PETA promotes ethical treatment of animals and believe that animals, much like humans, have rights to lead their own lives, free from harm. This group focuses on four main areas of animal cruelty: factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade, and the entertainment industry. Factory farms, often using animals for various reasons, keep animals in dark, cramped cages, hindering them from ever being out in the sun of breathing fresh air. Mainly, these large corporations that use these animals seek to output while minimizing at the (PETA). In addition, animals used for experimentation are often subjected to immense suffering. Being forced to live outside of their natural habitat while also taking part in painful procedures hinders the rights of these animals. Similarly, the clothing trade causes not only suffering, but death. Fur farmers often use different ways to kill the animals, sometimes even skinning them alive. Lastly, animals in the entertainment industry to perform silly, confusing tricks under the threat of physical (PETA). Thus, PETA acknowledges that these injustices exist, and fight to end animal cruelty. Pathos refers to of a text to refer to how well an author appeals to an (Sproat, Ethan, et al.). Both visual representations have some sort of strong emotional appeal that it is trying to convey to its viewers. Image 1, for example, creates a great feeling of empathy. The image says, can live without chicken wings. I Try and shows the picture of a chicken. Almost immediately, the viewer is forced to understand what it must be like to have to compromise your appendages for the eating enjoyment of others. This creates a feeling of empathy from the viewer and allows us to feel bad for eating chicken wings and other animal products. In addition, this image also portrays the strategy, which is an advertising strategy used express the benefit of your product or (Wang). The product or strategy in this case would be going vegan. Thus, by going vegan, you save chickens by not eating chicken wings and other animal products. The pathos in Image 2, however, creates a feeling of sympathy. Image 2 says, let your child smoke. Like smoking, eating meat increase the risk of heart disease and and shows a child smoking what seems to be a cigar. As a viewer, this image makes us feel bad for possibly neglecting our health by allowing them eat meat. In addition, seeing a child with a cigar makes the reader feel uncomfortable and draws attention to the subject of the advertisement: that meat eating is harmful to health. This causes the viewer to question nt only their eating habits, but also their own, which is the main intention of the advertisement. Ethos is defined as well the authors portray or or (Sproat, Ethan, et al.). Both images equally share the same amount of ethos. Because the logo can be clearly seen in both images, viewers are likely to understand that the information presented will be both credible and trustworthy. In both images, the authors message of going vegan is clear to the viewer and easily understood. Logos is defined as how strong the logic or reasoning of the text Ethan, et al.) Image 1 includes many logical statements that make it more likely for the viewer to take its advice. For example, the statement on the poster that a chicken cannot live without its wings is a completely logical statement that cannot be argued. Works Cited for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA , www.peta.org/. Accessed 14 Jan. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, et al. to the Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical Situation , owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wang, Ray. Types of Ad Strategies Every Copywriter Should 2 Community , 4 Nov. 2014, www.business2community.com/content-marketing/7-types-ad-strategies-every-copywrite r-know-01057899#mY2avYMb3jBWgKr1.97. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.