Mara 1 Axhens Mara Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 15 February 2017 Gun control vs Gun ownership Gun ownership has been a very controversial issue due to its support by the Second Amendment and the violent cases of gun abuse posing threats to communities. Therefore, there are different organizations supporting both sides of the debate. One of them is The Violence Policy Center which viciously fights for the total prohibition of guns stressing on its consequences. Meanwhile, an association named The National Association for Gun Rights advocates that gun ownership should not be restricted. Although Violence Policy Center and The National Association for Gun Rights seem far away from compromise, more opportunities for gun control education and more extensive background checks would provide this delicate balance between gun violence and self-protection. Founded back in 1988, the Violence Policy Center has been working relentlessly on the issue of gun violence. Their mission is to stop gun violence and decrease the number of deaths caused by gun related accidents such as suicides, homicides, and unintentional shooting. According to their studies, 33,000 Americans die from gun violence every year (EverytownResearch.org). Ironically, most of the weapons used in such crimes are issued to citizens for self- protection, therefore to provide safety. Statistics also show that the rate of gun crimes is seriously increasing throughout the years. In fact, according to David Frum, contributor at Daily Beast and CNN, total number of Americans killed and wounded by gun Mara 2 accidents exceeds the total number killed or injured in (Frum, Dailybeast.com). He goes on by adding that better product design, when it comes to handguns, would result in less incidents, yet handguns are designed specifically to increase sales by making them look more dangerous. Therefore, the Violence Policy Center thinks that answer to reducing gun violence lies in applying the decades-long lessons of public health injury prevention and consumer product safety regulation to the gun industry and its (Vpc.org). Saying that, they refer to proper education and increased awareness as the answer to the problem. Despite numerous organizations protesting gun ownership laws, there are also a lot of organizations supporting this trend, because of marketing and financial interests. As stated above organizations are also designing and manufacturing weapons of increased lethality to offer to the public, therefore leading to higher profit from such industry, regardless of the consequences. The Violence Policy Center has been contributing for decades increasing public awareness. Such contributions are based on research, education, advocacy and collaboration leading to great achievements such as changes in federal policy resulting to a reduction of gun dealers from 245,628 to 56,577 over the last decades (Vpc.org). This is done by continuously publishing articles based on research showing how bad the situation is and proposing changes that would lead to a reduction of gun violence problems. In final words, the VPC is really confident that through the right educational methods, they will impact gun violence by decreasing it and providing a safer environment for the citizens. The National Association for Gun Rights is a non-profit organization with the only purpose of defending the rights of civilians to defend themselves by owning a gun, as issued by the 2 nd Amendment. With partners on more than 20 states and an increasing number of activists, counting 4.5 million grassroots members, the National Association for Gun Rights has been Mara 3 fighting for years on the battle against gun control. Contrary to what other organizations support believing that gun ownership leads to an increase in gun related accidents, the National Association for Gun Rights states that the cases where such lives has been saved due to self- protection outnumbers the cases when a gun is used to take lives. According to the U.S Department of Justice, of felons state they would not mess with an armed ( Armed Criminal in 27). Also, because of concealed carry the possibilities of assaults in public are lower (National Safety Council). NAGR strongly believes that self-defense is a right issued to everybody and such requirement by the government is marking people as possible criminals just because of owning a gun. Some of National Association for Gun Rights achievements include proposing Constitutional Carry Legalization in several states and played an important role in passing Constitutional Carry in Kansas in 2015 (Nationalgunrights.org). According to study conducted from the National Safety Council, year, guns are used 80 times more often to protect a life than to take (National Safety Council). Based on such rates, the right to own a gun has been saving lives more than risking them. Therefore, the National Association for Gun Rights is determined on its mission to protect that right, this way, providing more safety to the citizens. Although both stakeholders seem to be at great opposition to each other, their main mission is public safety. What is different is the way they want it to be provided. Many cases of people being killed without being able to protect themselves prove that gun control is not viable. However, handing out guns to everyone would, most probably, result in chaos among the people, and therefore is not an effective solution. What could be effective and safe is to educate the public about the use of guns, their importance, and hazards. High schools, colleges should have courses that specifically teach how to safely use a gun. A reporter for RedState.com, Mara 4 Susan Clouse writes was afraid of guns for most of my adult life because I knew nothing about them. I was afraid I would accidentally hurt myself or someone else. Hunting for me either. The culture of America seemed to echo and confirm my (Clouse, RedState.com). If people want safety, people should know how to make themselves safe. American culture indeed correlated the gun ownership with violence and murder, and this should change to against violence and However, this solution is not about being pro-gun, it is much more complicated than this. Gun ownership should only be the privilege of people who have passed the course with a satisfactory grade and who have been identified as clear in the intensive background check. Intensive background checks would be conducted every year in case of recent situations that might lead to the owner of the gun cause any accident using a gun. There is already an increasing number of organizations which provide quality course on gun usage and offer certificates, issuing the right to own a gun. What is crucially needed is to control the certificate system of these independent organizations, and make it stricter. People should not only be taught how to use a gun properly. Instead, they should be tested in different situation where different stressors are present. This way, it can be determined if the individual can cope with dangerous situations or shocking scenes where thinking abilities are highly affected by the environment. In case they cannot think straight under such circumstances, they be allowed to own a gun, since similar stressful situations like irritated arguments or fights in family may turn to tragic accidents. Therefore, through such methods, accidents caused by impulsive people will be minimized since such individuals will be spotted on that phase. Another method that would seriously reduce the number of mass shouting would be psych testing, since most of those kind of assaults happen because of psychological disorders. This method would prevent such individuals from being issued the right to own a gun, leading to less chances of a gun- Mara 5 related accident to be caused by them. In addition, an increased number of routine checks in dangerous areas would result in more illegal weapons confiscated, reducing gun violence in those areas even more. All in all, if all these methods are implemented, a lower rate of gun related death is expected to follow, leading to a safer environment which is what both of the above parties work to achieve. In the end, people who want self-protection will be able to get not only certificates, but actual education about the use of guns. Public safety is a critical issue for everyone living in this country, and as witnessed there exist different ways of providing this safety to people. Both Violence Policy Center and the National Association for Gun Rights have some valid points and concerns, and that is the reason they have acquired massive number of followers. However, as the best solution would be educating the public about the significance and as well as dangers of gun control from a young age. If a self-protection is needed, only people with understanding of gun use would be able to obtain the guns. In general, education is always the best solution against violence no matter what are the circumstances. Mara 6 Works Cited About the  Violence Policy Center. N.p., 01 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Violence Policy Center is an organization founded in 1988. Its mission is to reduce gun-related accidents by using educational methods and raising public awareness for this issue. Its founder, Josh Sugarmann is the author of two books Firepower and and Handgun is Aimed at He also used to be the communications director of Coalition to Ban This organization holds plays an important role in this issue and provides very helpful information regarding my topic, making it a great stakeholder. As the Founders  About NAGR. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The National Association for Gun Rights is a non-profit, citizens organization founded back in 2000. It is one of the few organizations regarding gun rights and has more than 4.5 million members. NAGR has contributed a lot in this case and still continues to contribute by protecting the right to own a gun. It has a great amount of information which helps a lot providing evidence for my paper, also it holds a fixed stand regarding this issue, making it a great stakeholder as well. Clouse, Susan. Gun Education over Gun  RedState. Red State, 8 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mara 7 Susan Clouse is a reporter at RedState.com, with most of her articles concentrated on the rights of Americans, providing specific , deep analyses regarding such topics. Frum, David. Are Gun Accidents  The Daily Beast. The Daily Beast Company, 20 Feb. 2013. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. David Frum is a political commentator graduated from Yale University and Harvard. He is currently a contributor at The Daily Beast and CNN, also serving as a vice-chairman and associate fellow of the R Street Institute. He has also contributed on a n anti-drug policy group and is currently on the board ond directors at the Republican Jewish Coalition. His article has a grat impact on my paper providing specific and analyzed information regarding the topic, giving the argument more credibility. Gun Violence by the  EverytownResearch.org. N.p., 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. EverytownResearch is an independent organization dedicated to reducing the number of gun-related accidents in America by conducting researches and providing statistics regarding gun rights and gun ownership. It provides helpful statistics directly related to my topic Injury Facts. 2015 ed. Itasca, IL: National Safety Council, 2015. Library of Congress, 2015. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. The National Safety Council is a non-governmental, not-for-profit organization dedicated to prevent death, through research, leadership and education. This source provides specific information regarding my topic, giving it more credibility when it comes to evidences. Mara 8 The Armed Criminal in America: A Survey of Incarcerated  U.S., Department of Justice, National Institute of Justice, Research Report (July 1985): 27. This is a research conducted by the U.S Department of justice, regarding armed criminals in America. It consists of surveys completed by convicted criminals regarding gun accidents. It is a great source of information for my topic , giving credibility to my evidence.