Alnajdi 1 Sayed Alnajdi Ms. Collins ENC 1102 February 13, 2017 Standardized Testing Shaping Careers Standardized testing has become a common standard for university admissions, jobs and for building careers. This process has become mandatory for everyone regardless of gender, age or nationality when undergoing life-changing decisions. Certain stakeholders, such as FairTest, have stated that the current flawed education system is a replication of poor teaching methods, which focus more on student achievement rather than student nurturing or development. Although some stakeholders have decided to pin the so-called failure of the educational system on standardized testing, other stakeholders like College Board, believes and reiterates that standardized testing helps measures student level of understanding. College Board prioritizes expanding higher education through standardized testing, while offering programs that revolve around them to help prepare students for a smooth transition into colleges or universities. However, The National Center for Fair and Open Testing debates that standardized testing is a waste of time for both teachers and students. Fair objective is to end the misuse of testing practices that rely heavily on general testing. While some organizations and researchers believe that standardized tests are being misused and are unnecessary, other organizations believe that standardized testing is an effective means of measurement of student achievement, as well as progression. This paper will aim to distinguish and explain the differences, common grounds and propose a compromise to satisfy the two opposing stakeholders. Alnajdi 2 Standardized testing is based on determining student level of understanding and to observe the general understanding, comprehension and knowledge of each individual student, (College Board). College Board is an organization that advocates for standardized testing and offers various resources helping students grasp the information effectively, as well as providing the adequate support needed to succeed in standardized tests. The organization also aids students wishing to apply to colleges and universities to pursue careers based on their favored standardized testing score. They are also known for the design and implementation of standardized tests across the United States. According to The Leading Source for Pros and Cons of Controversial issues, 93% of studies on student testing, including the use of large-scale and high-stakes standardized tests, found a positive  on student achievement (ProCon 1). Standardized tests definitely generate several benefits for students, teachers and parents. As for students, standardized testing scores provide the students a general trend in their performances on each specific standardized test. They also provide parents a general idea of their general academic level. Conclusively, standardized tests provide teachers with an overall portrayal of the class level based on the standardized test scores. Fair Test, the opposing stakeholder, considers standardized testing as an ineffective and shallow way to accurately measure a knowledge and grasp on any related subject. than nine hundred four year colleges and universities do not use the SAT or ACT to admit substantial numbers of applicants (Fair Test 1). The former President of the United States Barack Obama also supports the idea that standardized tests do not determine a full academic potential. In the article Child is not a Test drafted by Monty Neill, Barack Obama states should not be forced to spend the academic year preparing students to fill in bubbles on standardized (Neill 1). Also, in the article Alnajdi 3 Testing, Learning, And Harvey Gilmore states that in a study made, they have proven that certain questions in tests such as the SAT, contain segments of questions only certain students have access to (Gilmore 10). He also states that organizers regularly discard test questions that favor minority (Gilmore 11). There are several consequences stemming from standardized tests that affect both students and teachers. An immense number of students choose not to enroll in college or university because of a standardized testing score which prohibits them from pursuing a career in a field that they are extremely passionate about. focus of our education system should not be based on tests, but on the individual needs of (Neill 30). This means that standardized testing organizations are focusing more on how to create tests rather than focusing on helping and nurturing the students. Thus, the main focus should be on aiding the students, what benefits will the students have if organizations keep concentrating on developing tests instead of caring about the students? Both stakeholders have substantial differences, but that does not stop them from achieving a common ground, which is in the end, student success and preparation for real-life scenarios. College Board supports standardized testing and believes that these tests offer students the success they deserve. In the article Students the author states, well designed standardized test provides an assessment of an mastery of a domain of knowledge or (Gawthorp 1). On the other hand, Fair Test suggests teaching students and preparing them for a higher level of education is a more effective way to educate students rather than teaching them curriculums of how to pass a general standardized test. The common ground between the two stakeholders is that both stakeholders strive to offer students the best and most adequate education possible. However, the main problem that stems from this common ground is Alnajdi 4 that the stakeholders are not coming to a compromise that satisfies them both, which has led them to preserve their original methods to help students succeed. There are no research papers on standardized tests. If the primary objective is to boost test scores, teachers will not take time out to teach needed research and writing skills (Neill 31). This idea that standardized testing does not have the required academic college level in their tests such as research papers, history and art subjects is why some stakeholders refuse to accept standardized testing. Students who wish to continue their careers in arts or history will be treated unfairly and eventually are cast aside, since standardized testing agencies do not provide these specific of testing. Stakeholders such as Fair Test also believe that one of the main causes of students failing the standardized tests is due to stress. The compromise that needs to be placed between the two stakeholders first, is to make the test with general questions and not only STEM-related (science, technology, engineering, math) and literature, but include history, arts and general knowledge. By this method standardized testing will help examine level of knowledge. Secondly, to make the tests a matter of testing students ability and knowledge, but not mandatory for college admission. Certain IQ tests have proven that students with high level differ from students with low level. Both low and high have the same standard level of thinking. This implies that standardized testing cannot measure or determine students level. Thirdly, is to eliminate the questions that only a small percent of students can answer on the standardized test and make them broader to neutrally provide an equal chance to all. In order to get an accurate average result, test designers want to have test items that spread out the total test scores (Gawthrop 19). This means that test makers eliminate test questions that anybody can answer. Removing this rule and making standardized tests more general would be a great common ground between the Alnajdi 5 two stakeholders. Furthermore, teachers need to teach students topics in detail so that students can have a better understanding and grasp of knowledge when taking standardized tests. In conclusion, applying these specific compromises will help achieve a common ground between the two stakeholders. By making standardized tests include subjects such as arts, history and general knowledge, this might eventually lead both stakeholders to a compromise. Finally, standardized tests must be set at a certain level of difficulty that suits students level in order for them to maintain a good score. Standardized testing is a very beneficial to measure students level of understanding, applying the compromises will set a satisfaction between the two stakeholders, if used in the correct manner. Alnajdi 6 Works Cited Fair Test. Test Scores Do Not Equal Merit. 2016. 09 September 2016 <http://www.fairtest.org/test-scores-do-not-equal-merit-executive-summary>. Gilmore, Harvey1. Standardized Testing, Learning, And Meritocracy: A Reply To Professor Dan  Touro Law Review 32.2 (2016): 367-405. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Gawthrop, Jeremiah. Measuring Students Achievement: A Study of Standardized Testing & Its Effect on Student  N.p., 29 Apr. 2014. Web. Neill, Monty. A Child is not a Test Score: Assessment as a Civil Right  Root & Branch 11.2 (2009): 28-35. Standardized Testing Pros and Cons: Latest Research Analyzed on New ProCon.org  Economics Week 2011: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The Collegeboard  The College Board - College Admissions - SAT - University & College Search Tool. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.