Jude Pierre Professor Aranda ENC 1102 03/05/2017 Be a Friend and Save a Species Imagine a world without animals seen everyday such as birds, squirrels or dogs. In mother nature, it is inevitable for animals to pass away due to a variety of reasons, such as the circle of life, but it becomes a problem if an entire species is wiped off the face of the planet. The center for Biological diversity is an organization that tracks the natural phenomenon of extinction. This company stated that could be a scary future indeed, with as many as 30 to 50 percent of all species possibly heading toward extinction by It is significant to not allow this because every animal is part of its own ecosystem and the extinction of a species can disrupt this. Also, animals are essential to research and the beauty of the Earth. Although some organizations do not care about the well being and stability of a species population, organizations like Bunds Friends of the Earth do. Officially founded in 1975, Bunds missions is to campaigns that advocate the transition towards renewable energy, public transport and waste waste prevention, training on nature and environmental In other words this stakeholder organization protects and raises awareness to all things that involve nature and the environment. Bunds gets their messages across in a variety of ways, whether it is through campaigning, organizing ecological fairs or in this case create advertisement through pictures to spread their cause and ideas. The two images Bunds uses to spread awareness to multiple audiences and people from all around the world are similar in many ways. What is unique about both these pictures is that although they are the same in many ways and almost identical, when looked at closer they are also different in many ways as well. In image 1 there are plenty of ways the artist or designer is trying to reach the viewer on a obvious and a deeper level as well. For example, in this image it is easy to see a bear trapped between two hands of a clock. The bear appears to be roaring to either get help or roaring out of pure agony and distress which forces the viewer to look deeper into it. For example, dark colors are used throughout the image, depicting and radiating a dark, gloomy feeling. It is possible to look even deeper into this message believe it or not.In addition, regarding the hands on the clock, they will continue to tick clockwise with the bear in between, which will harm or even worse kill the bear. The hands on the clock also are one tick away from reaching twelve which symbolizes the end of the part of a day (morning or nighttime). Although in this case it will be the end of a life. This ties heavily into the rhetorical appeal logos which is literary device that can be defined as a statement, sentence or used to convince or persuade the targeted by employing reason or (literarydevices.net). Logically, to help the bear in this situation the hands on the clock must go backwards or in other words the bear must be given more time. This is the message Bunds Friend of the Earth is trying to project to the viewer. The message that these species just need more time to until they can be officially saved. With this image also comes the use of the rhetorical appeal kairos. is rhetorical device that means appropriate time for an Also kairos refers to timelessness of a situation to get a certain meaning or message across to an audience. Obviously the use of a clock in the correlates to timelessness, but when looking deeper one can understand that the hand son the clock being only one tick away from harming the poor animal gives the viewer the urge to act now and quickly, which is what Bunds needs. This can all be associated with the message at the top of the image which is Every 60 Seconds a Species Dies LEtting it be known in images and now words that all it takes is a kminte for a type of animal to disappear forever. In image 2 it is important to notice the duplicate themes in image 2 and image 1. For example these themes include the dark colors used throughout the picture in image 2 to depict and give off a gloomy, sad mode to the viewer and the theme of an animal in need is used again as well. Of course the animal is trapped between the hands of a clock while crying out for help. This is done on purpose to embed in the heart and soul that these animals are in trouble. Hence why the slogan 60 seconds a species dies once again repeated on the same place on both images. The use of Logos and Kairos can be seen in both images in similar ways and both images are the same in many ways, but the difference between image 1 and image 2 is what the animal is holding image 2 and not in image 1. Those are babies. This is extremely important because it not only shows that multiple generations are at stake, but also it appeals to the emotions. This is the use of pathos or the the targeting of emotion in order project a message into the mind. Both images display the element of pathos because animals are mostly viewed as cute and defenseless. Similar to the reason why in movies when a human dies there is a feeling of sadness, but when a dog dies people are overcome with sadness and grief all of a sudden. However, image 2 with the gorilla takes it to a new level because of the addition of baby gorillas being added to the image. Anything with babies or infants automatically intensifies the appeal for emotion to the viewer. His is screaming at the viewer that not only will this animal be wiped out but it is poor, defenseless beautiful children will be wiped out too. Tieing into what the Bunds Friends for the Earth stakeholder organization. Which is educate people on the significance and urgency of the situation and have people do whatever they can to help them help endangered species. It is evident that the stakeholder organization Bunds Friends for the Earth supports the protection of the environment and the species that inhabit it. However, although this is clear, it is important to know how this organization gets the message across. This is done by the use of specific color schemes, slogans and several rhetorical appeals.Color schemes such as dark bold colors, slogans such as 60 seconds a species dies and rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos and kairos. This can be seen in the first picture of the bear, where dark colors are used, the rhetorical appeals of logos and kairos and a slogan that ties them all together like a bow on a present to reel the audience into maybe learning more about Bunds and their mission. Same can be said for the second picture except an appeal to an emotion was more in effect as a way to bring out feelings of pity and sympathy to hopefully convince the observer to learning more about the mission of Bunds Friends of The Earth. Furthermore, Bunds can make as many advertisements as they want but it is up to action to make a difference. All of this is done to encourage the viewer to look deeper into their message and work to save endangered species. Works Cited The Extinction Crisis. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Foeeurope. Bund Umwelt und Naturschutz  Friends of the Earth Europe. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017 Image 1 Image 2