Thompson 1 Khalani Thompson Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 2/27/17 Play and Rhetoric in Images Charitable organizations are the source of much good in world. They enrich several lives and in many cases are responsible for saving them. play is charity that contributes to this paradigm. To achieve their goals they must convince others there is a problem, and that they themselves are a capable enough organization to handle it. One they accomplish this is to make an argument using two images. By observing their background and motivations, these two images published by play argue that they care about children and that they are qualified and organized enough to handle their responsibilities using the rhetorical appeals of kairos, ethos and pathos. Play is a charitable organization that was founded in 2003. Their mission is improve the lives of children in hospitals and domestic violence shelters through the generosity and kindness of the video game industry through the power of Play was founded by two web-comic artists in opposition to the negative stigma that gamers and games had in many lives. Since then they have raised of forty million dollars in the name of their cause. Play accomplishes this by organizing different charity events, like Ping Pong tournaments, charity auctions or gaming streams. The primary way that play supports Thompson 2 children is organizing with hospitals to send children or families in need either money or video games to help ease their hospital stay. One rhetorical appeal applied by Play is ethos, the appeal to credibility. In image 1 a ping pong event hosted by Play is depicted. play is using this image to argue that they can unify and bring people together; and that they are qualified to do so. One way that they utilize ethos In this image is their inclusion of one of the sponsors. The sponsor on display is Bungie, a prolific figure in the gaming industry. One of their franchises, Halo, has made over 3 billion dollars in revenue (Taven). Another one of their franchises Destiny has had over 30 million registered users since its release in 2013 (Briers). Much of audience are gamers that would recognize a company like banner immediately. Seeing that Bungie is involved provides much credibility to the operations of Play to their audience, as opposed to a company fewer would know about such as a smaller game independent studio. Using Bungie as well provides more with respect to convincing their audience than using a group from a less related field such as Publix, a grocery market chain. Another example of ethos incorporated in this image is Play banner displayed form the ceiling, this communicates that they are responsible for the event to viewers of the photograph. The elements of ethos in this photograph help to reinforce the argument that Play is capable and qualified to take on the moral responsibility of their mission statement by displaying their ability to acquire a prime sponsor and to have that sponsor displayed under their own banner. One rhetorical appeal Play uses is kairos. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness, or relevance in this case. In both images Play utilizes this rhetorical element. They use Kairos to make the argument that they are both modern and with their audience. In image 1 presence is utilized again. Bungie on top of being a very credible and prolific Thompson 3 company is very relevant. With an upcoming sequel in Destiny 2 on the horizon, their inclusion has much more impact to their audience than that of a defunct or less relevant company such as THQ games. In image 2 kairos is also employed. In the image a girl is holding a basket full of games sent to her by Play. In the basket are games like Super Mario Bros for the Nintendo Wii and Nintendo DS platforms. But in addition to those, there are many games based on movies included, titles include movies such as Toy Story 3, Tangled and Ice Age. All of these movies are ones published within 2 years of the publication of this photo in 2012. In addition to being relatively new titles, they are ones that would be most relevant to a preteen child. By showing this selection of games it indicates to viewers and their audience that know how to connect with children, the subject of their charitable efforts. If the child was holding copies of The Godfather: The Video Game and Rambo, the smile on their face would not be as large. If play had included those games they run the risk of coming across as uninvolved or out of touch with their audience. Another example of kairos would be in the platforms. The games all perform on what would be modern gaming platforms at the time, as opposed to an Atari console from the Image 2 also incorporates another rhetorical appeal. It utilizes pathos, the appeal to emotions. Play utilizes pathos in this image in order to argue that they are providing a morally ethical and good service to others. They also hope to inspire their audience to participate by contributing to their cause. In the image a girl is sitting in a wheel chair with bandages tubes on her arm. These elements indicate that she is in a hospital receiving medical care. It is natural to feel innate sympathy towards others in less fortunate circumstances. In an article by C. Taylor published in The Journal of Ethics entitle Taylor claims sympathy is essential element of a moral The emotion of sympathy is what Play attempts to illicit from Thompson 4 its audience viewing this image. To see a child, those that are considered the most innocent of all peoples in this circumstance can be vexing. Taylor also communicates that sympathy is not just an emotion but more of a motivation that compels one to act (Taylor 77). Play hopes that from this feeling its audience will feel compelled to act and contribute to their cause. Image 2 also utilizes Pathos in another way, the girl in the expression contrasts what one might think of when they think of a patient under hospital care. Her expression is happy, accompanied by a With the game basket on her lap, her happiness is meant to communicate that play is responsible for her happiness despite her situation. This image utilizes pathos to illicit a response from their audience and to be seen as a force of good. When viewers see this image they have feel both sympathy towards the patient and gratitude towards Play for alleviating her discomfort. From this information it is evident Play is very dedicated to its cause. They want to appear a capable and attractive charity to its audience in order to gain more support for its cause of helping and improving the lives of children in less fortunate circumstances. Using rhetorical appeals is one way to connect others to a cause using images. Play has been a force for good and will continue to be in the future. Thompson 5 Works Cited Briers, Michael. Destiny Sales Closing in on 30 Million Registered Players as Activision Posts Better Than   PlayStation LifeStyle.  Play. Web Taylor, C. The Journal of Ethics, vol. 3, no. 1, 1999, pp. Taven, Miles. Halo: A Sales  VGChartz. VGCHartz, 01 July 2011.