Bond 1 Jazz Bond ENC 1102 Professor Van Winkle 24 February 2017 Anorexia Nervosa At least 30 million people of all ages and genders suffer from an eating disorder in the U.S and every 62 minutes at least one person dies as a result (Eating Disorder Statistics). Anorexia Nervosa is a dangerous disorder that typically starts during puberty of young girls who strive to have the body image. People who suffer from this disorder restrict themselves from eating food because they believe they are over weight. The National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders, also known as ANAD, is a non-profit organization that provides help for patients and their family that struggle with an eating disorder. ANAD is one of the oldest organizations for fighting eating disorders. Anorexia Nervosa is a very powerful disorder that can be reduced by the amount of people suffering from it if society takes a stand to help prevent it. ANAD was started in the 1970s by Vivian Hanson Meehan, who was a nurse at a hospital in Illinois Meehan first came in contact with anorexia when a family member was diagnosed, but did not know any information on how to help treat it. After several months of research Meehan figured that she should help families and patients by opening a helpline for anyone going through a disorder, such as anorexia. There are several videos and blogs on the ANAD website to help encourage and strengthen those who are going through this disorder. Bond 1 Even though many people suffer from this disorder there can be many outlets to help prevent the start of this for individuals. Social media has been one of the biggest components for brain washing individuals into wear certain clothing or looking a certain way. Our increased obsession with the thin-ideal and industry promotion of a body may contribute to unrealistic body ideals in people with and without eating disorders In the first image it shows a character of a young woman who is looking at her computer trying to match her body with a It also shows a magazine with celebrities who have lost weight, but still saying how one of them has flabby thighs. This picture gives the audience a vivid tone of ambivalent, showing that the girl is having mixed feelings about her body and is very uncertain if her body image is good looking like the celebrities. In addition to the image, pathos has been used strongly to make the audience see how emotional this topic is. Pathos is a quality of life or art that causes feelings of sadness or sympathy Looking at the image can make you feel sorry for the young girl because she wants to look like other celebrities instead of being her own kind of unique and different. This is one of the top reasons how anorexia nervosa starts in young women. Anorexia Nervosa not only affects your physical appearance but it affects you mentally, emotionally, and harms your health. The second picture shows a character of a young girl who is suffering from anorexia and how it is affecting her body. It gives us examples of how it affects her brain, blood, kidneys, and even how it can interfere with her future. The targeted audience for this image is for anyone going through this disorder and for those to see what they go through. It gives us a look at what these individuals are Bond 1 going through and sets a serious tone to make us realize that we can help anyone that is affected by this disorder. This is another picture that shows pathos being an appeal to the audience due to the unbelievable amount of symptoms that come with anorexia nervosa. It makes the audience feel sorry for the individual by showing how it can affect the body and their future. Logos also comes into play within this picture by persuading the audience with facts on how anorexia nervosa can damage the body indefinitely. It makes the audience want to take a stand to figure out how to reduce the amount of anorexic patients. Being able to show how media or even society sees the in an image helps an organization such as ANAD bring notice to this disorder and how it can be help. By showing how the body is affected in the second image it brings more notice to the disorder and how it can severely damage an individual with this disorder. Most people do not take the time to stop and think about how someone feels about their body so this helps ANAD by allowing more people to take a stand and help out those who are struggling with anorexia. In conclusion, anorexia nervosa has taken a toll on millions of lives but can be prevented by people and organizations such as ANAD. Having an organization like ANAD to help patients and their families while going through a rough time is a very positive step to making anorexia nervosa deaths decrease. If more people in society come together to make the body come to an end they could save life. Bond 1 Works Cited Education & Awareness National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated  National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Logo Definition in the Cambridge English  Logo Definition in the Cambridge English Dictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. What Causes an Eating  The Center for Eating Disorders. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Understanding Anorexia -- the  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bond 1 Media and celebrity culture - Dove Self-Esteem  Doveselfesteem. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  Anorexia nervosa fact sheet. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bond 1