Chowdhary 1 Nikhil Chowdhary Kristen Collins ENC 1102 Section 0018 13 February 2017 The Aesthetic Addiction: Anabolic Steroid Use Among Teens The youth of today is obsessed with aesthetics, which makes them indulge in shortcuts. These quick and easy routes may help them achieve their goals and aspirations, but sometimes lead to a lot of harmful post effects which our youth foresees. Use of anabolic steroids amongst youth is a very common problem parents face these days, with the evolution of internet, everything which was once out of reach is not within reach. There are some pharmaceuticals who manufacture these complex compounds and sell them freely in the market online without any background check, prescription or asking for any such paperwork. This brings them to dispute with organizations who advocate the use of anabolic steroids amongst youth One such organization is Taylor Hooton Foundation, this organization values integrity, ethics, leadership and making right choices with respect to health and family. The aim of the Hooton Foundation is to stop steroid abuse among teens and young adults. On the other hand, we have a pharmaceutical company based in India known as Kalpa Pharmaceuticals. This organization believes in Providing quality drugs which satisfy the client by helping him reach his goals without compromising with health. Despite its promising aims, this pharmaceutical company provides anabolic steroids to any person without any prescription check or documentation, which brings both, The Taylor Hooton Foundation and Kalpa Pharmaceuticals to be at odds with each other. These organizations both aspire to help people achieve their goals without compromising with their health. Considering these stakeholders possess a common Chowdhary 2 ground, they are suitable for a compromise which will benefit both. The Taylor Hooton Foundation and Kalpa Pharmaceuticals need to create an agency that will help both organizations research these products on side effects, adequate dosage etc. and develop a mechanism that will provide medical supervision online in order to do business in the US. The Taylor Hooton Foundation is governed by a big team led by Don Hooton, President of the foundation. This foundation is a very crucial stakeholder working against steroid abuse amongst teens and young adults. The Taylor Hooton Foundation (THF) was formed in memory of Taylor E. Hooton, a 17-year old high school athlete from Plano, TX. Taylor took his own life on July 15, 2003, after using anabolic steroids. parents, family and friends founded the organization after learning of the growing number of middle school, high school and college students illegally using and abusing anabolic steroids, HGH (Human Growth Hormone), unregulated dietary supplements, and other appearance and performance enhancing drugs (APEDs) n.p.). This organization regularly holds numerous talks on various national and international TV, radio and print media. Don Hooton and his team has close connections with Federal Government officials, and has met with several governors, and spoken to multiple state legislatures n.p.). The Hooton Foundation aspires to educate teenage kids about the potential health risks of anabolic steroids and promote a healthy lifestyle. Kalpa Pharmaceuticals is managed by a team of pharmacists led by Zahra Sohoni. They have group of scientists manufacturing and researching various drugs. Kalpa Pharmaceuticals LTD was established in 1994, in India. Kalpa Pharmaceuticals started its activity from manufacturing herbal-based medicines. Eventually, the company was expanding its activity and exploring new domains of the industry. With the help of foreign investors, Kalpa Pharmaceuticals LTD has been restructured and changed its main activity to pharmaceutical Chowdhary 3 chemistry research and medicines production. Kalpa Pharmaceuticals LTD activity is authorized and controlled by level 3 GMP standards, which involve the latest technologies for sterilization, sanitary norms, quality control, etc. Kalpa Pharmaceuticals LTD main office is located in India, with three branches based in Europe n.p.). This organization meets with all the regulations with international standards, using latest technologies and equipment. Their goal is to provide access to quality, effective and affordable pharmaceuticals while maintaining personal and professional integrity in all aspects of their work n.p). In alliance with an online distributor 1 Steroids Ltd. and a few other websites, Kalpa foundation sells various pharmaceuticals online to anyone around the world. In their website they specify that by using their website and products agree to hold yourself ultimately responsible for your health and actions. Kalpa Pharmaceuticals is not responsible for anyone who has misused any healthcare product described on this website n.p.). They also say that all the information they provide is not backed up by proper research and is for informational purposes only, thereby they recommend anyone to buy products with medical expert supervision. The alliance of Kalpa Pharmaceuticals with 1 Steroids Ltd. and other organizations acts as a loophole for teenage kids and adolescents to buy these extensive drugs without any medical supervision which results in various health risks and even death in some cases. These kids aspire hard to build aesthetic muscular bodies or succeed in their sport which takes a lot of hard work and practice, Anabolic Steroids on the other hand give quick and visible results, which lure this generation, but the risks of their use is foreseen. The Taylor Hooton Foundation aims to educate this naive generation with the potential risks and causalities with the use of such products, in order for them to meet their goal they need to get rid of these loopholes created by Kalpa Pharmaceuticals in alliance with 1 Steroids Ltd.. According to the DEA (Drug Enforcement Chowdhary 4 Administration), anabolic steroids cannot be sold in the united states through any means without proper prescription and documentation. Also, the companies selling these drugs need proper certifications from the DEA and other national organizations. With the above evidences through Kalpa Pharmaceuticals Website, it is clearly seen that both the regulations set by the DEA are not met by this company. In order to function and conduct business with the United States, Kalpa Foundation needs to meet the rules and regulations set by the DEA. Here both, The Taylor Hooton Foundation and Kalpa Pharmaceuticals should join hands and work together towards providing masses, especially teens and young adults with expert guidance and educate them about the potential risks by abusing these drugs. Both these organizations should build a team that will further research these medical compounds and develop some kind of mechanism to check for documents and provide medical supervision online. All these compromises need to be met or else, Kalpa Pharmaceuticals would not be to function in the United States of America as it is violating major rules set by prominent government agencies. By abiding to this compromise lives of many American teens and young adolescents would be out of this risk and they will be able to live a healthy life, this will not only benefit them, but also the people around them. Teens are future of our country and should be guided the right path, to enhance the future of the country. Thereby, in order to do business in the US, Kalpa Pharmaceuticals has to work with the Hooton Foundation and try developing a mechanism that will provide medical supervision online. The Taylor Hooton Foundation and Kalpa Pharmaceuticals should come together and cooperate with each other and work on creating an agency that will help both organizations research these products on side effects, adequate dosage etc. Chowdhary 5 Works Cited - Beamish, Rob. Steroids : A New Look At Performance-Enhancing Drugs. n.p.: Santa Barbara, Calif. : Praeger, c 2011., 2011. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Lenehan, Pat. Anabolic Steroids. [Electronic : And Other Performance- Enhancing Drugs. n.p.: London ; New York : Taylor & Francis, 2003., 2003. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Stephens, Mitch. DEA agent educates CIF on  San Francisco Chronicle 2005: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Inc., Tucows. Taylor Hooton Foundation. 04 January 2017. Web. 25 January 2017 <http://www.taylorhooton.org>. GMBH, Key-SYSTEMS. Kalpa Pharmaceuticals. 22 December 2016. Web. 25 January 2017 <http://www.kalpapharmaceuticals.com>.