Cruz !1 Zac Cruz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Efforts Towards Ending Teen Smoking In 2015, there was approximately 4.7 million middle/high school students that were tobacco users. And since then tobacco use has substantially decreased but there is still a huge portion of high school students that smoke or use tobacco related products. (The Office) According to (#Finishit) black neighborhoods tend to have more tobacco ads than other neighborhoods. It seems that these companies are trying to profit and sustain the tobacco/and illegal substance use in low income neighborhoods that also tend to be black neighborhoods because of the institutional racism in America. This problem could lead to more problems in the future if it continues. The tobacco industry in general is a bad business and if teenagers have such easy access to tobacco that can cause an entire future generation to smoke. It will also cause a lot of deaths to happen because tobacco is linked to 90 percent of all cases of lung cancer. (The Office) It should be hard for teenagers to get tobacco because there are laws in place so that teenagers cannot buy it. But somehow they get it from either using fake ids, getting other people to buy it, or stealing them from parents who could also be smokers.TheTruth.com is a site and organization devoted to ending teen smoking/smoking in general. Their goal is to advertise and educate the youth on use to end it. This organization works toward ending teen smoking using tv and other types of media ads that would appeal to teenagers. Cruz !2 Image 1 is a very emotional and scary ad that is very in-your-face. It is one of older ads but now their ads tend be more appealing towards teenagers. The picture is of a old man or lady turning into smoke with the caption will suffer with It has the color orange on the face of the old person, the reason the ad probably has orange in it is because the color orange commands the focus of the viewer without being too overpowering as colors like red or neon colors. (Chapman) Most of the ad itself is an appeal to pathos. You have the sad face of the old person and the fact their turning into smoke tugs your heart strings if a smoker. Also the words will suffer with is very strong and bold statement but it is also true. Also the color black of the background makes you feel the death imminent for smokers. Also overall its a very powerful ad that makes not want to smoke. There also seems to be some kairos in the ad. The old woman turning into smoke kinda shows that time is running out with your family because someone is choosing not to quit or quit at all. Everything was done right in this ad because of the purpose of having the visual rhetoric is because the ad needed to be a scare tactic ad to persuade teenagers to quit smoking or not to smoke at all. Image 2 is an ad that has a very demanding tone to it. This is also one of the older ads of This picture is of a corpse laying in a morgue with the tag on the foot. The black background in the back represents death and isolation. But the color red on the Smoking kills. tag brings your attention to the message of the picture. (Champman) Red is a very vibrant demanding color that guides the eye well. The white color of the sheets makes the viewer think of the peacefulness of the corpse and in relation to the black background. At the top Cruz !3 of the ad there isa caption that says 440,000 Americans die each year from diseases related to smoking.. 90% of them started as teen is in appeal to logos. The statistics brings credibility to the viewer and shows them that this is the truth about tobacco that this organization is trying to display to the viewers. Which is why the name of their organization is called the truth. The tag that says is an appeal to pathos. It shows that if you are smoking or if you are thinking about doing so, this is what can happen to you if you do. Also the fact that the corpse is young is in relation to kairos. It could mean that time is almost running out. Lastly the logo in the bottom right hand corner is in relation to ethos. It gives them credibility that they are the organization that created this ad and If you want to learn more about the topic or issue to go on their website. They did this ad very well and it had a lot of visual rhetoric in it that made the entire ad whole. Overall both of these pictures can be used as scare tactics or persuasive ads to get teenagers not to start smoking or to stop smoking altogether before its too late. Color was also a big art of the ads and gave the viewer something for their attention to be guided to. Both of the ads had a lot of visual and rhetorical appeal that made the ads have a lot of meaning to them. It gets the reader interested in the ad and makes them interpret it to understand its meaning, which in turn makes the reader become persuaded and feel a certain type of way. The ads not only could be used to persuade teenagers to stop smoking but it can persuade even adults to quit being it really have a target audience for these ads. But on thetruth.com their networking and social media campaigning seems to mostly target the young generation which are mostly teenagers.The organization as a whole pursues our current generation to smoking for Cruz !4 (#Finishit). This main goal is to crack down on big tobaccoo and use ads, events, and networking to end smoking. Cruz !5 Work Cited:  Truth. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Office of Adolescent Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human  Office of Adolescent Health. N.p., 27 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cruz !6 Image 1 Cruz !7 Image 2