Caskey 1 Cayla Caskey Ms. Theo ENC1102 February 12, 2017 Standardized Testing Standardized testing has been split into two sides, one being people or organizations that are striving to get rid of standardized testing, and the other side which is fighting to keep standardized testing. Time Out from Testing is an organization that is trying to have standardized testing stopped because of the high impact that it has on children, along with their abilities to get a good education. State Collaborative on Reforming Education (SCORE) is an organization that fights to keep standardized testing stating that purpose of testing kids is to see what they (Aycock). A great amount of effort and thought has been put into standardized testing and how it should be handled in the United States, there are two different courses of action, but there must be similarities, like having the same end goal. Both of these organizations are trying to find the greatest success of students, the organizations could work together and alter the test to appease both sides. Time Out from Testing is an organization that is in the fight to get rid of the high stake standardized testing. Their mission statement is; call for a comprehensive review of the Regents exams and state-initiated standardized tests and the impact they have had on our children, our schools, and our (Time Out from Testing). This organization was founded in 1996 by Richard Mills an Education Commissioner. They have put a large amount of pressure on the New York public schools to change the methods used in standardized testing. Teachers tend to brush past the reality that there are multiple factors that go into a Caskey 2 success on these high staked tests. Many teachers go along with the common myth that past teachers have not prepared their students well enough to continue onto the next grade, course, and so on. have indicated there is little time for creative and experimental teaching methods, and significant pressure to not teach information that on the (Dishke- Hondzel 5). A ability to learn information for these assessments may not be the issue but the test itself. Studies show that high stake testing is the cause of decreasing the number of students who move on from one grade to the next, and even declines the graduation rates (Time Out from Testing). In 2006 only 64% of students in New York State graduated due to the fact that they did not score well on the high stake, standardized tests (Time Out from Testing). There are many other people who agree that these standardized tests need to be reviewed, altered, or completely gotten rid of. Though this organization and many others want to get rid of the standardized testing, many agree that some form of testing needs to be down to record a academic success and achievement. The other side of this argument are the organizations and people that are in support of standardized testing. One of these organizations being SCORE which has three main goals listed on their website, those are: continues to be among the fastest-improving states in the country and ranks in the top half of all states in student achievement as measured by the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) by 2020. Tennessee closes all student achievement gaps at every grade level and subject area by income, race, geographic location, and student need. These gaps should be narrowing on both state and national assessments by 2020. Every Tennessee student graduates from high school prepared for postsecondary education and the (tnscore). Caskey 3 This organization works to improve student success, have high expectations of students, and expect them to perform well on this testing style. This organization actually goes out into the world and works hand in hand with students to help them find the best way to succeed on these tests. SCORE suggests the idea that all tests are this is why they believe that teachers themselves should not be able to make their own tests. Another argument that they make in favor of standardized testing is that it takes away discrimination because every test is the same. There is much debate that if a person can just change their mindset of standardized testing it will help improve the way standardized testing is looked at, and will be seen in a more positive way (Magee 79). Common complaint brought up in a classroom is that the teacher has to alter their teaching style and material. Teaching to a test that is multiple choice is setting the success of students too low, that the test needs to be changed to set the bar higher for the students, also that the teachers maybe are not preparing their students enough to be able to achieve what they need to for these tests (tnscore). Though these sides are very different in their beliefs of how the situation of student success should be handled they agree to the same end goal. Both sides want the greatest success of students, and increased graduation rates. Standardized testing is the primary source of testing a intelligence and knowledge, like a ability to graduate high school or to get into their college of choice. A student could have a good GPA and be a poor test taker, where does that leave them? In a sticky situation, both organizations want to find a solution to this problem. Standardized testing has been used in the United States since the 1930s (McMahon). The testing system is flawed and both sides agree on this consensus and agree change needs to be made but so not know the best course of action. Caskey 4 A compromise on this issue could be creating a new test that is based off of recent psychological research in respect to education. Standardized testing is based off of seventh- century European psychology research (McMahon). Current research has shown that students perform better in a familiar environment. This could be achieved by creating a test that allows all students to take the same test, but is separated among the classes that they are taught in. For example, when a high school student takes an ACT of SAT they must travel to a unfamiliar place or classroom with a teacher or proctor that they do not know, this causes anxiety and distress. Another solution could be decreasing the number of standardized tests to increase the success of a student (Bell 11). Finland students take up to only three standardized tests throughout their entire career as a student (Bell 12). This could be very beneficial to the United States in the way that we deal with Standardized Testing. This would take time to achieve by slowly cutting down the number of tests this benefits both sides of the argument, but also the two sides do not exactly get their way completely. This would help the two organizations to ensure the success of students. Time Out from Testing would benefit by cutting away at the number of tests required of students, and this also benefits SCORE because standardized testing would still have a place, there just would not be as many of the tests. This also gives teachers more range for teaching, allowing them to teach their students what they think is necessary knowledge while allowing more time and gained knowledge before the test is taken. Also this decreases the blame factor on one teacher being responsible for a failure or success. Each organization has different views on high- stake standardized testing, one side does not want high- staked standardized testing and even fights it, whereas the other side fights to keep standardized testing and its fairness. Both sides believe in an end goal of growth of success in students in their journey through their education. Neither side truly agrees that our system is Caskey 5 perfect and in that case a compromise could be made. The most reasonable and feasible compromise would be to decrease the number of standardized tests given to a student. In other places in the world such as Finland students are given up to three test their entire school career, and their education is ranked much higher than the United States. This also is based off of recent research done in the United States, so why not follow the research found in this country. This helps the situation by appeasing both sides to an extent, they both get their way. (wc1399) Caskey 6 Work Cited Aycock, James. Teacher Voice: In Defense of Standardized  SCORE. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. This is a nonprofit organization that is out of Tennessee that works to collaborate in policy and ensure the success of their students. They are independent and were founded in 2009 by Senator Bill First, MD, a former U.S. Senate Majority Leader. This organization works with students K-12 and measures their success by the academic growth. Bell, Julie Davis. A World  State Legislatures (2016): 8-13. Education . Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Julie Davis Bell is the Education Program Director for the National Conference of State Legislatures. She has been with NCSL for 25 years and has directed the Education Program for 22 years. In that capacity she oversees the 12 person Education Program staff and is responsible for setting Program priorities, responding to constituent needs and requests, developing new education projects, and interfacing with other national education policy organizations. She also serves as the program policy specialist for higher education issues. She speaks and writes regularly about education and legislative issues. Julie received her Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of California at Davis in 1986. Prior to joining NCSL she was a policy associate with the Center for Policy Research in Denver and taught political science courses at the University of Colorado. Dishke-Hondzel, Catharine. Accountable to  Critical Education 5.3 (2014): 1-16. Web. 8 Feb. 2017 Caskey 7 Catharine Dishke-Hondzel has a Ph.D in Educational Psychology from Western University. She is currently employed at Western University. She has multiple publications, has many awards and certificates. She received her M.A. from the University of Windsor, and her B.A. from University College at Western. This article looks into the views of standardized testing, and shows that the majority of teachers are against standardized testing, which supports the stakeholder Time out From views. Magee, Robert G., and Brett D. Jones. An instrument to assess beliefs about standardized testing: Measuring the influence of epistemology on the endorsement of standardized testing  Australian Journal of Educational & Developmental Psychology. 12 (2012): 71-82. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. Robert Magee is the head of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Virginia Tech. Brett D. Jones, Ph.D., is a full Professor in the Educational Psychology program within the School of Education at Virginia Tech. He received his B.A.E. (1992) in Architectural Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University and his M.A. and Ph.D. (1999) in Educational Psychology from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has held faculty positions as an educational psychologist at Duke University, the University of South Florida St. Petersburg (USFSP), and Virginia Tech, and has taught courses as an adjunct professor at the University of the Virgin Islands and North Carolina Central University. He has taught 24 different types of courses related to motivation, cognition, and teaching strategies, and has conducted workshops and invited presentations at several universities. His teaching awards include the Teaching Excellence Award for the College of Education at USFSP (2003), the university-wide Undergraduate Teaching Award at Caskey 8 USFSP (2003-2004), and the Favorite Faculty award (2007) and the Teacher of the Week award (2013) at Virginia Tech. This source is in support of standardized testing, so therefore supports the same or similar views of SCORE. McMahon, Issit, and Micah L. Maureen. Standardized  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): n. pag. Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Shepherd, Jessica. Headteachers vote to boycott Sats  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 16 Apr. 2010. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Time Out From  Time Out From Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. This is an organization out of New York State in spring of 1996 but Education Commander, Richard Mills. Their website leads to multiple secondary sources that lead to different articles about standardized testing and the alterations that they would like to see being done to the test. They provide recent data on the scores of the standardized testing, along with data about graduation rates and so on.