Ananya Williams Adam Phillips ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Rhetorical appeals by the NRDC Rhetorical appeals are the use of persuasion through images to convey ideas that inspire action. Throughout their website, the NRDC uses photos along with articles to appeal to audiences. The National Resource Defense Council (NRDC) is an organization founded with the primary goal of protecting and preserving natural resources, and inhabitants. Founded in 1970, the Natural Resource Defense Council has aimed to influence government resulting efforts to increase the sustainability of the earth. After analyzing research, they make it their duty to advocate in best interest. They have made it their goal to combat the use of fossil fuels and dirty energy in hopes of later replacing these systems with new initiatives in the support of reconstruction. The promotion of clean energy sources, like solar power, is only one of the very many initiatives to be set in place, the foundation has launched other more structured in protecting small groups of environments. The two photos presented within this paper by the NRDC are images that are used to advocate for reform. Both of the images presented, play key roles in appealing to a specific audience to invoke action. By using visual rhetoric, audiences feel more compelled to put action behind whatever emotion overcomes them. use of these images reflect the main goal of preserving the Earth as well as its inhabitants, the depictions relay both urgency and sympathy to readers. rhetorical appeals present within the photos presented are ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Image 1 is logo of the NRDC, this logo is simply portrayed as a very defined polar bear with a star above the head. The colors used are minimal and confined to light and dark blue with white filling most of the voids, yet still adding to the depth of the photo. The simplicity of the image still clearly allows the message to get across, and ultimately portrays the main goal of the council. The use of the polar does not confine the NRDC to the protection of that one animal, however the polar bear represents endangered species due to the effect of consumption of natural resources. Rhetorical appeals used in this image are ethos, pathos, and kairos. Ethos the appeal to credibility or morality, is present in the letters NRDC at the top of the photo. The name at the header represent its support behind the photo and makes the photo seem more credible to a reader due to the fact the name is so bold and visible. Pathos, the appeal to emotion, is present in the fact that the bear is the center; animals tend to be a soft spot for some audiences. By portraying the bear in the center of the logo, people that love animals may feel a bit of obligation to side with any reforms. Underconsideration, a graphic design firm, launched Brand New (the division of the site that analyzes corporate brands). Their opinion on the transformation between the old and new logos are as follows, new logo shifts the focus to more of a climate change concern. The blue color palette and North Star emphasize this. The new bear drawing is really good; abstract yet still very well defined. The mid-stride pose suggests action and it even looks curious as if to say, you fuckers doing to my This statement on the logo goes to show how the audience views the image, and also analyzes the portrayal of the animal a bit further. Kairos is defined as the appeal to timeliness, although it plainly stated to put forth action it is implied. By using a polar bear, a recently endangered species audiences can conclude that action needs to be taken quickly because the fate of a species, or multiple species relies their actions. Image 2 is a depiction of the extraction of fossil fuels in natural environments. In the photo you can see melting glaciers in the back surrounded by open water, this photo is also paired with the a boat, oil drill and a helicopter. The portrayal of the modern technology shows how the unbalance of the environment. It is clear to readers that these elements do not necessarily belong in this natural place. When we think of polar regions it is often a place that is untouched, and natural in many forms. The arctic is a place where very few people live or reside and in that nature it has a sense of sacredness. However, this photo shows the importance of how the extraction of fossil fuels impacts nature more than in direct forms. Of course directly, we see the these devices do not belong in this environment but in other ways by looking at the melting glaciers we can see the less immediate dangers they pose. The first appeal that seems most evident is kairos, the appeal to timeliness is very evident in this photo. We can see the effects of human consumption in the surrounding area, and there is the urge to remove hands out of this environment. Logos, appeal to logic, was seen in the simple fact that these two very different elements do not belong together. The article titled Reduce Fossil Fuels explains the effects of extracting fossil fuels . Their article states, these fuels out of the ground turns backyards and treasured wild places into industrial zones, and burning them causes climate change as well as contributes to asthma, heart disease, and This quote strenghthens the effects of pathos, readers gain more knowledge after hearing the effects of oil extraction. By looking at the photo there is some obligation do something, emotion is evoked by see ing the lack of nature in this environment. saddening to see the effects that we have on the outside world. Ethos really present in this photo, the NRDC can strengthen this appeal by including a fact or statistic on the picture allowing people to feel that it is credible. The purpose of this photo is to evoke thought, and later the effect of action. In conclusion, The attempts to appeal to the audience was executed well. The fact that the main logo holds some much content in a simple form it compells audiences to take action. In reference to the first image you see representing the council you immediately know the goal of the organization and understand that they want help animals in some way. The goal of the council is portrayed in more forms than one and by looking at the image 1 that is easily relayed. While image 2, extends a more realistic view to readers allowing them to gain visual behind the reason the NRDC advocates for change. The unbalance presented in the photo allows readers to see that something is not right within the photo. It is clear, certain elements are effecting that environment and causes the reader to take initiative. The rhetorical appeals present in these images have successfully grabbed the audiences and have showed the mission of the National Resource Defense Council. The application of the photos help strenghthen the arguments that the organization poses and the audience inevitably feel obligated to help. Works Cited Bruggink, Ross. New Logo for NRDC: Bear Goes on the  New , 6 Feb. 2015. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text Reduce Fossil  Resource Defense Council , NRDC. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017