Knight 1 Mateo Knight Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 27 February 2017 Food Waste Crisis Of the many things being discussed in media, environmental policy is a brewing topic. Energy consumption, air pollution, and deforestation are just a few controversial topics that major organizations, as well as environmentalists, believe are majorly impacting the planet. These environmental issues are directly linked to the theory that is of higher order concern to leaders worldwide. A cause of the rapid temperature increases that is not as commonly discussed is the proper disposal of waste. 2009 report, Opportunities to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions through Materials and Land Management Practices, shows that approximately 42 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions are associated with the energy used to produce, process, transport, and dispose of the food we eat and the goods we use. The Environmental protection Agency (EPA) is a federal organization that promotes proper waste disposal. The EPA releases images advocating for the proper disposal of food waste. The two images use the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, and pathos to accurately represent the goals of the EPA. The Environmental Protection mission statement is to protect human health and the environment To accomplish this goal, the EPA develop and enforce regulations, Knight 2 give grants, study environmental issues, and educate people about the environment. This agency also represents the United States when discussing environmental policies with other nations Thus, the EPA has a large audience in media as well as credibility, which is why it plays a large role of informing the public of environmental issues. The use of ethos as a rhetorical appeal is to use credibility to appeal to the audience. Image 1 uses the method of ethos by having the abbreviation for the Environmental Protection Agency in the bottom left corner of the image in bold, with the logo next to it. The picture is environmentally friendly and trying to inform people on an environmental issue, and the EPA is a credible organization when it comes to that topic. Image two uses ethos by placing the letters and logo in bold in the top right corner. Logos is the rhetorical appeal in which the author uses logic to appeal to an audience. The use of logos in image one is present in the sentence provided on the right side of the picture. This statement uses logic by simply stating that by wasting less excess food, it is good for the environment. The in the bottom right corner is also the use of logic, by simply saying there should be no wasted food. Image 2 uses logos by providing a statistic in the middle of the picture. By stating of American waste is the audience gets a concrete number of the amount of food that is being wasted, which appeals to logic. Knight 3 The rhetorical appeal, pathos can be seen heavily in both images. The use of pathos is used to persuade an audience by connecting to their emotions. Image one is majority green in color which is meant to convey the image as or The image also uses the leaf on the left of the image to symbolize the planet, by placing an outline of the continents inside the leaf. This is used to make the connection between the message of the picture, and a healthy planet. Image 2 uses the method of pathos in many ways. For example, the image has a mountain of garbage, or a landfill, which covers up the majority of the picture. Also, to try to further appeal to the emotions, the mountain of trash has seagulls on top. Because seagulls are found by the ocean, the image is inferring that the trash that we produced is piled up on a beach or in the water. The statement feed people-not is also a use of the rhetorical appeal pathos, in that it is implying that humans are basically feeding landfills while there are millions of people that could be fed instead. The use of the rhetorical appeals in the images are meant to be effective in portraying the message of the image. In image 1, the use of ethos, logos, and pathos are present. The images use of ethos is effective, in that the image is trying to inform the audience of an environmental issue, and the EPA is a credible source for that message. The use of logos in the image is effective in conveying the message of the image because it provides a statement that is common knowledge. Pathos in image one could have been more effective in representing the message of the picture, considering the topic is food waste. Image 2 provides examples of ethos, logos, and pathos as well. The use of pathos is most effective in this image, in that it connects to emotions by having a large mountain of trash on beaches. Knight 4 Works Cited EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 26 Jan. 2017, www.epa.gov/aboutepa Change and EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 27 Feb 2017, https://www.epa.gov/climatechange/climate-change-and-wasteb Image 1 taken from EPA twitter Image 2 taken from EPA twitter