Edwards1 Krystal Edwards Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 February 26th, 2017 The Start to An End of Cardiovascular Disease The rates for obesity, cardiovascular disease, and other chronic illnesses have been on the rise ever since the Although this climb has been rising steadily, majority of the public has not been committed to change. Since 1961, the British Heart Foundation has been putting forward tremendous efforts to try to get people to be aware of their health and what they consume. The British Heart Foundation deems themselves as heart charity and the largest independent funder of cardiovascular Their mission is win the fight against cardiovascular and their vision is to have world in which people do not die prematurely or suffer from cardiovascular (British Heart Foundation). By putting out advertisements, the British Heart Foundation is trying to get the public to be aware of the fact that they should be cautious of what they put in their body. Since then, they have put forward many advertisements that have been aimed specifically towards eating habits and cardiovascular disease. This organization works towards raising awareness towards poor eating habits and to end the vicious cycle of cardiovascular disease that seems to be taking over this generation through alarming and unsettling ads. In image 1 the British Heart Foundation partnered up with the Brazilian Pediatric Society of Rio Grande (SPRS) and created and sponsored a powerful image in relations to cardiovascular Edwards2 disease. In this image, a woman is breastfeeding her child, however on the breast is a painted on hamburger that is dripping of cheese and oil. This is made to seem like the child is eating a hamburger instead of sucking on their breast. This image touches on all four rhetorical appeals to their audience. The SPRS logo located at the bottom left corner and on the right breast under the text establishes ethos which is an appeal to credibility or morality (Rhetoric Really Matters). This is to show that there is credible company that is standing behind this ad. The statement child is what you establishes both elements of logos and kairos. Logos because of the fact that the statement is logical; when a woman is pregnant they are not only feeding themselves when they eat but they are providing food for their baby as well. Even when the child is born, if a mother chooses to breastfeed, what they eat still has a huge impact on their child. Kairos is also existent here because the statement appeals to timeliness to pregnant or breastfeeding mothers, especially ones who may not have such a healthy diet. The other statement below the first that says, habits in the first thousand days of gestation can prevent your child from developing serious is also logos because it appeals to logic and reason. When women read that message they could possibly look more into the issue which could then lead to a change. The hamburger in this image definitely establishes pathos which is an appeal to the emotions (Rhetoric Really Matters) because of the fact that at first glance the audience might be confused or they might laugh or they might find it unsettling because babies supposed to be eating food like that. Many things could be going through a mind with their first encounter with this photo especially since their eyes are drawn to the hamburger first. The colors of yellow and purple really gets the attention of the person looking at the image because the brightest colors in the whole photo (Color Theory for Designers). This was done specifically so that a focal point can be made on the image so a eyes naturally go there Edwards3 first. Overall, this image relates more to the audience of women and specifically women that are pregnant or planning on becoming pregnant. One rhetorical fallacy with this image however, is that for the second statement that appeals to logos stating the fact about gestation, this text should be a bit bigger so that their audience can be clear on reading it. It is very informative and perhaps many women do not know that specific fact so it should be bolder to be easier to read. In image 2 the British Heart Foundation created this ad by themselves this time in appealing to the same topic of cardiovascular disease. In this image, a woman is chugging a 3- liter bottle of cooking oil however, the oil is all over her mouth and running down her neck and onto her shirt. This image also touches on all four rhetorical appeals to their audience. The British Heart Foundation logo and also their website establishes credibility and morality (ethos), showing that this organization is behind this ad and also show that they can go to the website provided on the ad to get more information on the ad. The statements goes into crisps goes into and crisps contain 33% cooking both establish appeal to logic and reason because both of those statements are facts. Due to these two statements the audience looking at this image could be more aware of this specific snack and try to limit themselves on it. The oil coming down the neck and the amount of oil that in the bottle definitely appeals to timeliness (kairos) because it shows that the woman has been drinking the oil for a while and its clearly too much for her which is where a sense of urgency comes in where she needs to stop. The appeal to emotions (pathos) plays a huge part in this image because alarming and disturbing to see a woman drink cooking oil. Most people might even feel a bit disgusted by this because what she is doing is so unnatural but after reading the caption they might come to a realization that they essentially do the same thing every day. The black background in this image really makes the colors of red and yellow pop out in this picture (Color Edwards4 Theory for Designers). The red shirt is definitely the focal point of this image because it grasps the eyes first and then it moves onto the yellow oil where the message is supposed to come in. Unlike the first image, this audience is broader focusing on people who eat crisps or just foods that contain much oil in general. Both image 1 and image 2 convey very strong messages to the public and makes their audience feel a bit unsettled when looking at them. The British Heart Foundation put out two powerful ads that they thought would change the eyes about consuming certain foods and the effect it can even have on their children. Most people love junk food or may feel like they should treat themselves every once in a while but taking the risk may not be worth it. Staying away from foods that has a high content of cooking can be beneficial for health no matter the age. With the help of the SPRS the BHF was also able to focus on babies to keep them healthy to secure the future. Their health depends on their mothers so targeting pregnant women could definitely help to end the spread of diseases such as cardiovascular disease. All in all what made the two advertisements so powerful was that they touched on all four rhetorical appeals which made the British Heart Foundations message even stronger. Edwards5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2017. E-text Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Smashing Magazine. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers- part-1-the-meaning-of-color/>  British Heart Foundation Fighting for every heartbeat. British Heart Foundation, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.bhf.org.uk/>. Edwards6 Image 1 Image 2