Shah 1 Akash Shah Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 025 13 February 2017 Mandatory Vaccinations in the United States With the up rise of diseases among the public, in times of flu season, people are urged to get vaccinated. Suggesting that parents vaccinate their children is all organizations like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) can do to prevent outbreaks of diseases. However, some fail to vaccinate their children and some are completely opposed to the idea. This engenders the controversial idea of whether or not the government should make vaccinations mandatory for everyone in the United States. One organization in favor of this idea is the CDC. The CDC aims to protect the health of American citizen by accosting any disease prevalent in America. This organization detects and responds to health threats, does research, works on advanced technology, and educates the public by providing reliable information for the public(CDC). On the other hand, there are those who adamantly oppose to this sort of action by the government. The stakeholder on opposition would be the Vaccine Resistance Movement (VRM). The VRM is an organization that is at conflict with the vaccine industry. They believe that making vaccinations mandatory is a violation of basic human rights. In addition, they plan to bring about a worldwide awakening to the public and expose the heath industry of their nefarious initiatives. Thus, they loathe organization like the CDC for their support and dedication to fighting diseases the way they do. With these both sides of the vaccination war contrast greatly. The proponents of vaccinations want to make vaccinations mandatory and educate the public on the matter. Meanwhile, the opponents of vaccinations want to them to be a choice because Shah 2 mandatory vaccinations are a violation of human rights and because they are potentially harmful to children. A solution to the vaccination war is to make every couple that has a child to take a vaccination course made by the CDC. Then they can decide for themselves whether or they want to vaccinate their child. This way everyone is properly educated on the matter and is capable of deciding whether or not vaccines are safe for their children. In addition, no one is infringing on human rights by being forced to do anything. The CDC takes the stance on the advocate side of the mandatory vaccination war. Their mission is to work 24/7 to protect the American people against health, safety and security threats both internationally and domestic. They pledge to the American people to be trusted with funds bequeathed to the agency, give an environment for personal and intellectual growth, base their public health decisions only on the most reliable scientific data that is derived openly and objectively, put the well-being of society above their institution, and treat everyone with dignity, honesty, and respect. Their mission, ultimately to protect the health of the American people, drives them to lean towards the United States mandating that parent vaccinate their children based on parents failing to do so in the past. They feel that parents are incapable of deciding for themselves and wish to ensure the safety of American families by legislative action and education (Mission, Role, and Pledge). The CDC believes that all children should be vaccinated. Their goal is to prevent epidemics like the measles epidemic of 1980. They believe that there are too many misinformed parents on the matter so they should not be left to decide what is best for their child. When Wakefield had leaked his work to the media they spread false information on vaccinations. For many parents, their primary source of information was some form media that displayed false information. The greatest mistrust is with the MMR vaccine (Knopf). After another measles Shah 3 outbreak began in 2014, a pew poll was conducted showed that some areas have immunization rates as low as 50 percent. The outbreak was caused by a visitor in California which led to 141 incidents in over seven states including Canada and Mexico (Katz, Dawn). Ergo, the number of unvaccinated people is significantly underestimated. This attests to the argument that parents should not be allowed to choose whether or not they should vaccinate their children. If immunization rates go as low as 50 percent in some areas then that makes some areas of a population highly susceptible to the outbreak which leads to epidemics; before you know it the pathogen would have infected half the nation. Evidently, the US government cannot let this happen therefore the CDC urges that they take precautions to protect their people. Meanwhile, the stakeholder in opposition, Vaccine Resistance Movement, is strongly opposed to such ideas. The VRM is an organization completely opposed to vaccinations overall and is actively fighting against mandatory vaccinations. Their mission statement stems from four goals: awaken people worldwide of their self-inherent power and self-determination of their body, exposing the health industry and government of vaccine fraud, preparation of multiple Class Action Lawsuits against health agencies worldwide, and identifying the real causes of autism. Therefore, they believe that by spreading their knowledge of vaccinations they can form a large enough coalition against the vaccine and drug industry and declare individual rights. In addition, they aim to reveal facts about vaccinations that are generally suppressed by organizations like the CDC and reclaim basic human rights (Lord). Although the government wants to protect the nation from nationwide epidemics, they should not be able to force the parent to vaccinate their children. Opponents of mandatory vaccinations believe that such a policy would impede on their personal rights. The goal of the VRM is to ensure that everyone is protected by their right and warned that vaccinations are not Shah 4 completely safe. They believe that if the government can force unwilling citizens to be injected with biological substances, then there is no parameter to which individual rights the government can take away. According to US congressman Ron Paul, he believes that mandated smallpox vaccinations policies, not smallpox vaccinations themselves, should not implement. single person, including the President of the United States, should ever be given the power to make a medical decision for potentially millions of (Government Vaccines Bad Policy, Bad Medicine). Even some members of congress believe that making medical decisions for millions of Americans is invasive of their personal rights, especially when there is potential for harm to health. In addition to impeding one personal rights, the VRM argues that vaccinations can also be deleterious to infants and they should be forced to take them at a young age. Many vaccines contain dangerous substances like aluminum, egg protein, antibiotics, and thimerosal (a mercury- containing preservative). Although the disorder rarely occurs, thimerosal, found in some vaccines, is linked to autism. Aluminum is harmless when ingested because the body does not absorb it when it is consumed. When it is put into vaccines and injected it is meant to increase the effects of the vaccine. However, when aluminum is injected into the body while kidney function is impaired or a baby is premature it can accumulate in their bones and brain and become toxic. If the child is given above the recommended dose then this could be fatal and cause permanent brain damage (Megan). Ergo, if all parents were forced to give their children vaccinations without any precautions taken for children many health would be at risk. When the both stakeholders, for and against vaccinations, are juxtaposed each side is in contrast with the other. One difference is that the proponents for mandatory vaccinations say that Shah 5 it is necessary because parents are incapable of deciding for themselves due to the propaganda of misleading information; meanwhile, the opposition claims that by doing so the government is impeding of rights. Another difference is that the proponents believe that if everyone is vaccinated, then epidemics that have happened in the past can be prevented in the future. On the other hand, the demurral claims that if everyone is immunized then-then many health could be at risk. One aspect they have in common is that both sides are concerned for the overall well-being of the children getting vaccinated. To reconcile both sides of the mandatory vaccination conflict each side must receive compensation for their perspective on how to keep the children safe. The settlement between both sides is to make every couple that has a child to take a vaccination course made by the CDC. Then they can decide for themselves whether or they want to vaccinate their child. The proponents get to educate the people on the matter because although vaccines can make a negative impact on the subject, the opposition can often exaggerate and misinforms the public. The VRM gets to protect the individual rights. Now that the public would have been educated on the matter, they can decide for themselves. To prove that this compromise is plausible the National Vaccine Information Center says that there is no federal law mandating that parents vaccinate their children; thus parents are not forced by the federal government to vaccinate their children (Vaccine Law Information NVIC). The partnership of the CDC with hospitals in the US is not a stretch. An ongoing nationwide program that they currently run is Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Heath (REACH). This program aims to end health barriers that are caused by socioeconomic factors. REACH is partnered with local health departments, universities, and community-based organizations across the nation (Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health). Thus, they have the connections to make this Shah 6 compromise a reality. Finally, the VRM gets to keep rights and the CDC gets to educate the people on the matter. Ergo, both stakeholders have received fair compensation. In conclusion, both stakeholders were at odd on the matter of mandatory vaccination. The advocates felt that many people were misinformed on the issue and should not be able to choose for themselves. The opposition claimed that forcing people to get vaccinated was impeding on a individual rights. In addition, they claimed that they can potentially be harmful. Ultimately, they came to the settlement that the advocates would get to educate the parents on the matter and the opposition gets to protect individual rights. Shah 7 Works Cited Government Vaccines - Bad Policy, Bad  International Medical Council on Vaccination. N.p., 10 Dec. 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mission, Role and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 14 Apr. 2014. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Vaccine Law Information -  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). National Vaccine Information Center, n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. and Ethnic Approaches to Community  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 27 Oct. 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Katz, Samuel L., Dawn Richardson. Issue: Should vaccinations be CQ Researchers 2000: Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Oct. 2016. Knopf, Alison. MMR vs. Autism: A False  The Brown University Child and Adolescent Behavior Letter 31. (2005): 1-2. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. Lord, Joel. Vaccine Resistance  Vaccine Resistance Movement RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Megan. Vaccine Ingredients A Comprehensive  VaxTruth.org. N.p., 11 Aug. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.