Matos 1 Andrew Matos-Pagan Ms. Kristen Collins Composition II 29 January 2017 America and Whiteness White privilege. The term has gained increased attention in political debates and in racial campaigns in America. White privilege is used to characterize the perceived advantages the white population has in the United States juxtaposed to the disadvantages the nonwhite population has in the U.S. On one side, Liberals also represented through an organization called ground work believe white privilege is evident and must be dealt with to maintain equality and freedom. One of the goals of the organization is works with white people to dismantle white supremacy and all systems of oppression and inequity within our circles of (Groundwork). While conservatives represented by the conservative review goal to provide best-in-class analysis and commentary on conservative political speech, votes, (conservative review). Which essentially means they are a platform for conservatives who instead are opposed to white privilege and rather argue it does not even exist. Regarding education and employment, Liberals on the opposing side of the discourse believe there is an enduring system of white supremacy throughout system regarding education, employment, and the judicial system. By alluding to history in the center of their argument is the fact that white ancestors subjugated minorities and exploited what today are minorities. This reference to history is accurate. Anne bonds and Joshua Inwood discuss this in great lengths demonstrating that supremacy is a central organizing logic of western modernity, legitimating both European colonization and settler projects (Beyond White Matos 2 Privilege) thus white supremacy and white privilege are only possible because of colonization.To Liberals the government should balance out the disadvantages brought onto minorities from established historic oppression and exploitation from the advantages whites obtained. With more government intervention in the daily lives of Americans and the economy to liberals is the best way to combat perceived advantages white Americans have. White Americans first acceptance of their privilege is the first initial step to create a balance between minorities and whites. Once the government applies race considerate policies combating white privilege the lives of all Americans will improve. Conservatives believe that individuals are the ones who dictate their advantages and it is within grasp to be successful in any area of life. Throughout history they support less government. With the belief that less government intervention will guarantee every freedom to pursue their goals. The concept of a personal responsibility is the essence in conservatism. To an extent these concepts and theories can be interpreted as truth or possibly fact. Examples are seen when conservatives approach policies that engage education, and employment. For education conservatives, do not believe it is fair for race to factor into an acceptance into a college rather their ability to perform at higher rates academically should have more importance. This idea is held true to employment as well. Clarifying from the belief racism does not exist in America but, wholly believe racism does exist America but specify rather that it is individuals who are racist. To them if someone blames America as a society for the actions of a few individuals is illogical. Reverse racism to them is not the answer to the differences between wage gaps, and education gaps both of which are confirmed to be true to both parties. Instead conservatives believe at its core conservatism maintain belief in essential base and irrational (Dr. Jim L. Riley). At its core liberalism has Matos 3 in and support of human rational (Dr. Jim L. Riley). Their views align in these two beliefs because a human being can only have rational potential if human being is irrational. Such as if a human being is irrational by nature then set human can recognize his/her own rational potential to achieve anything. For example, a person who believes they cannot get accepted into college does not believe that they lack the potential to get accepted rather by maintaining a level of irrationality do they convince themselves otherwise. To continue, if a human believes that whites have it can be interpreted as irrational and yet still seen as achieving their rational potential of acknowledging white Both parties strive to improve the lives of Americans. Liberals want opportunity and equality for and conservatives want the greatest opportunity and the highest standard of living for (student news). It can be agreed that there is moderate privilege in certain white Americans not that Americas racist but possibly that there is racism in America which may be more prevalent than previously interpreted. Reiterating the sentence before in plainer terms for compromise both parties must agree that yes certain white Americans have privilege not all. Yes, there may more racism in America than we may be able to perceive but this cannot determine that America as a whole is racist. To prevent this spread of possible racism and combat white privilege, we can implement local governments to begin to teach in school. Companies will be encouraged to do so as well be giving tax cuts to companies who implement courses in which they discuss how to accurately spot racism and report it. However even though this education will highlight how certain whites may be privileged it must also simultaneously educate the population that individuals should be held accountable for their actions. Instead of focusing on the disadvantages or advantages between minorities and whites, the advantages Matos 4 between the rich and poor could be highlighted. This solution proposed is characterized by teaching the population that economic status has a greater impact on an advantages than race and the optimum way to combat this is to strive for higher levels of education. Liberals use statistics such as drug arrests were 4.8 times greater in 2007 than in 1980; white arrests were 3.2 times (Decades of Disparity) to prove that white privilege is prevalent in America. Which to most would give liberals a valid reason in believing why America as a whole is racist and white privilege is a real thing. However, Ben Shapiro a Jewish conservative claims statistical disparity does not always mean a  from one of his speeches attempting to debunk white privilege since the statistics are not the same and yet they are relatively close. For example, the use of statistics to argue that white Americans make more money than African Americans is inherently biased because the white population is double if not triple the size of African Americans. So, when dissecting the reasons why both parties have valid points and yet still not being able to comprise, one must first understand that both sides make sense. Both sides simply have different ways of approaching their goal of improving every Americans life. Therefore, my compromise is feasible. Not only does it give both parties the sense that both of their views have been meet between completely believing in white privilege in every white American but more towards white rich Americans. A balance between more government and less government intervention because it will be local governments who implement the policies not for say the federal government. Conservatives believe capitalism is the solution so we give companies and incentive to satisfaction to teach about which produces tax cuts in turn promoting capitalism. By harnessing a piece of both policies, it further strengthens my proposed policy because public policy tends to be effective when liberals are consistent with liberal core values. Similarly, conservative public Matos 5 policy tends to be effective when conservatives are consistent with conservative core (Miles, Matthew R) thus further asserting my proposed compromise is valid and feasible. Since the proposed compromise has both liberal and conservative core values within one policy it insures that it will be effective in improving the lives of all Americans. 1297 word count Matos 6 Works Cited conservative review. Ed. Mark Levin. 2016. website. 28 January 2016. <2016 CRTV LLC, All Rights Reserved>. Groundwork. 2016. website. 28 January 2017. <https://groundworkmadison.com/>. Bonds, Anne, and Joshua Inwood. Beyond White  Progress In Human Geography 40.6 (2016): 715-733. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Riley, Jim. Moderate Political  Liberalism & Conservatism. Regis University, 1990. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Fuller, Laurie1, Ls-Fuller@neiu.edu. Feel White Privilege? It Might Be  Radical Pedagogy 13.1 (2016): 39-53. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Croll, Paul R. A New Look at Racial Attitudes in America: Incorporating Whiteness by Examining White Privilege, University of Minnesota, Ann Arbor, 2008. Ethnic NewsWatch; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses A&I; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global; ProQuest Social Sciences Premium Collection, https://search.proquest.com/docview/304531613?accountid=14745. Rainer, Jackson P. Understanding And Challenging White Privilege In Higher Education As A Means Of Combatting And Neutralizing  Multicultural Learning And Teaching 2 (2015): 149. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Editors. Conservative vs. Liberal  Student News Daily. Student News Daily, 2005. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Matos 7 Miles, Matthew R. Process Over Outcome: How Perceptions Of Procedural Fairness Influence Conservative Support For Redistributive  The Social Science Journal 51.(2014): 615-626. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Ben shapiro. shapiro Destroys the concept of white Youtube, uploaded by Jason Allan. Nov 28, 2015