Zakhary 1 George Zakhary Ms. Bianca Hernandez ENC1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Enroll America, is an organization that is committed to maximizing, educating, protecting, and ensuring the population of the United States. Countries like Sweden, Germany, and Japan have constructed healthcare plans that covers all its citizens while providing them with very low monthly premiums. Enroll America strives to maximize the number of Americans who retain and enroll in any type of health coverage under the Affordable Care Act. Enroll America believes that everyone deserves healthcare that can cover them and is affordable for all socioeconomic classes. The main goal of the images is to persuade viewers to enroll in some sort of healthcare coverage. Enroll America uses household pets to attract the audience and to portray the message that they should enroll in healthcare. Enroll America is using all its effort to appeal to people living in the United States who do not have healthcare. The use of visual advertisement assist in helping the stakeholder in working towards their goal in enrolling citizens of the United States in healthcare because they believe everyone should afford to take care of their health. Ethos is defined as the characteristic spirit of a culture, era, or community as manifested in its beliefs and aspirations. Ethos appeals to ethics and is visible in the following images. Ethos is represented through the Enroll America Logos and the basic common theme of household pets. Both images have the same basic message of wanting people to get health insurance. Pathos is defined as a quality that evokes pity or sadness. Pathos appeals to the emotion and is Zakhary 2 very effective in both images. Pathos in the first image is obviously the puppy looking directly at the viewer and in the second image is the bird holding the bandage and looking at the viewer. The image portrays the puppy and bird as happy and caring about its by stating phrases like that bring emotion to viewers. Logos is an appeal to logic, and is a way of persuading an audience by using reason. The logos in the images are not very visible. Both image share the same logical statement care as in people should care for themselves and enroll in health insurance. The company logos at the bottom show some sort of logical planning. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness, appropriateness, decorum, symmetry, and balance. Kairos s prevalent in both images. In the first image, it gives the viewer that sense of timeliness through the puppy that look as if it is waiting for you to In the second image the phrase yourself health insurance also emphasizes that themes of timeliness by making the viewer think that they should get health insurance that very moment. Enroll America works under the Affordable Care Act to provide healthcare for all socioeconomic classes. Many health coverage plans today are extremely expensive especially for low-income households. Enroll America works with a multitude of organizations to ensure that more people have healthcare. Enroll America believes that everyone deserves healthcare that can cover them and is affordable for all socioeconomic classes. Zakhary 3 Zakhary 4 Works Cited Our  Enroll America Our Mission Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Maps &  Enroll America Maps Data Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Proven  Enroll America Proven Impact Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.