Pavly Sharoupim Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 27 February 2017 Restore the Fourth: The Intermediate Draft Since Edward revelations about mass surveillance programs, a lot of people and organizations sounded their disapproval about these programs, demanding that the programs be shut down immediately. One notable organization in opposing these programs is Restore the Fourth. Since disclosure about these documents, their goal was to stop the National Security Agency from getting further with their surveillance programs. To help get their mission and cause, they started organizing protests and releasing posters, as the three posters in this paper, that target the audience using different rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, and pathos to help deliver their message. The photos they post on their websites affirms and supports their cause. In June 2013, Edward Snowden, a former contractor for the United States government, revealed his data about the mass surveillance programs targeting the people of the United States (Elliot, Rupar). Following this news, protesters all around Washington D.C. sounded their disapproval about the surveillance programs Image 2 Image 1 (Kelly). During this protest, Restore the Fourth claimed that such as Prism violate the Fourth Amendment of the constitution, which protests against unreasonable searches and seizures without (Kelly) Their mission is restore the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and ending unconstitutional mass government surveillance. the Fourth) The first rhetorical appeal they use in their photos is ethos. Ethos is credibility of a speaker or (StoryBoardThat). In other words, ethos is the factor that makes the audience believe the claims due to their expertise in this specific field. It is present in image two, where the deliverer points out the specific situation that needs to be addressed, which in this case is the changes done to Rule 41. Since Restore the Fourth is consisted of a group of experts in that field, they know exactly which rule that, when in a specific way, may affect their mission. The second rhetorical appeal they use is logos. Logos is logic, reasoning, evidence, and facts that support an (StoryBoardThat). In other words, logos are the studies, statistics, and facts used in order to prove a point. In image three, Restore the Fourth states a fact that Muhammad Ali was monitored by the NSA due to his opposing views concerning the Vietnam War. Restore uses this fact to prove that surveillance exists and if the NSA can spy on a person, they can spy on a whole country. Stating this fact, Restore points out to the audience that surveillance programs myths or rumors; they can be put into action whenever the need comes. Image 3 The third and last rhetorical appeal used in these posters is pathos. Pathos is means to persuade an audience by appealing to their (StoryBoardThat). In other words, pathos targets the biases and beliefs and strikes them in order to appeal to their emotions. In image one, the author exchanges stars with headphones and white and red stripes with digital voice signals in order to point out how all the states that make up America are being surveilled. In image two, Restore strikes with a statement in order to worry its audience about their privacies and personal information, implying that their computers could be hacked by the government if they choose to not help the organization with their cause. It includes a wide-open eye in order to convey the sense of being watched by someone. It also enlarges the font of the statement the changes to Rule in order to draw more attention to it. Finally, in image three, Restore points out that it can happen to one American, it can happen to all of in order to put fear into the hearts, hence calling them to take an action against the surveillance programs. Restore the messages concerning the surveillance programs are very clear in each of their posters. When looking to image one, the microphones and the digital sound waves explain how, in their opinion, American citizens have become wiretapped due to the surveillance programs. This situation is exactly what Restore the Fourth is trying to fight against. When looking at image two, the wide-open eye, the call to action, and the possible consequence of not taking the desired action deliver the message and the cause Restore the Fourth is trying to deliver. In the third image, it states an incident where a famous public figure, Muhammad Ali, was the person surveilled by the NSA in order to prove that the surveillance programs a hoax and that anybody could be in his place. Restore, using this image, makes a statement that if a public figure like Muhammad Ali could be surveilled, then any of the audience or the citizens could be surveilled too. Following Edward disclosure about the surveillance program, Restore the Fourth was established in order to restore the Fourth commandment and raise awareness about how the programs could affect an privacy. It started organizing protests, as the one done in Washington D.C. (Kelly), and posting posters in order to inform people and help take what the organization thinks is the right action. Referring to the three images posted by them, they target the audience using three rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, and pathos. Using ethos, they prove to their audience that they, as an organization made of experts, have sufficient information to prove that the programs violate the Fourth Amendment. Using logos, they inform the people about the desired behavior to support their position and the consequences should they choose to not follow those directions. Finally, using pathos, they show their audience the unfavorable future the United States might come to: wiretapped states that stream the American conversations to the NSA and the lack of privacy. Using these photos, Restore the Fourth shows their audience their mission, guidelines, how the audience could help with mission, and the possible consequences of not helping them execute their missions. Works Cited Heather Kelly. Against the NSA Spring Up Across CNN. 5 July 2015. http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/04/tech/web/restore-nsa-protests/. (Last Accessed: 27 February 2017) Katherine Docimo, Kristy Littlehale. Rhetorical Triangle: Ethos, Pathos, StoryBoardThat. http://www.storyboardthat.com/articles/e/ethos-pathos-logos. (Date Accessed: 27 February 2017) Kennedy Elliot, Terri Rupar. Months of The Washington Post. 23 December 2013. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/national/nsa-timeline/. (Last Accessed: 27 February 2017) Restore the 4 th . Governments Crave Surveillance ... 28 April 2016. Twitter. (Date Accessed: 27 February 2017) Restore the 4 th . In the etc. 4 June 2016. Twitter. (Date Accessed: 27 February 2017) Restore the 4 th . Stop the Changes to Rule 41. 22 June 2016. Twitter. (Date Accessed: 27 February 2017) We Restore the Fourth. * December 2015. https://restorethe4th.com/who-we-are/. (Last Accessed: 27 February 2017)