Phillipson 1 Ashley Phillipson Ms. Collins ENC 1102.017 13 Febuary 2017 Reforestation for Deforestation Deforestation is a prevalent issue in environmental policy. However, nobody seems to understand how to alter the inevitable path of the environment. More likely than not, it seems that there are mutual interests invested in the forests: environmental agencies, infrastructure companies, logging companies, local farmers, traders, and much more. Forests once thrived with flora and fauna around each corner; yet recently, they have crumbled into desolate lands covered in tree shards and ashes, where animals are nowhere in sight. If the forest were to return to the condition that it once was or even close to it, many people that have mutual interests in the forests would benefit. Since there are many perspectives towards the issue of deforestation, analyzing the perspectives between an environmental agency and a logging company can demonstrate a push-pull concept towards seemingly opposed points of views towards the forest. The first of two stakeholders invested in the deforestation issue is Greenpeace, an environmental agency devoted to tackling environmental problems such as deforestation, climate change, toxic pollution, ecological farming, and nuclear energy (Rahmawati). The latter of the two is the logging company of Sierra Pacific Industries which is the second largest lumber producer in the United States. As opposed to other logging companies, Sierra Pacific Industries has taken steps in their backyard of California to reforest their trees (Sierra Pacific Industries). Establishing a compromise between environmental groups and logging companies is a necessary step that needs to be done to mend the prevalent environmental problem of deforestation. To do this, Phillipson 2 Greenpeace and Sierra Pacific Industries must establish ways to preserve forests by promoting sustainable forest management, encouraging wood alternatives, or increasing the area of forests. By implementing these methods, the condition of the forests may be reversible and preserved for generations to come while other environmental agencies and logging companies will potentially join them to help the forests around the world. Greenpeace, the first stakeholder, is an environmental agency dedicated to protecting the environments and combating the different environmental issues that arise. It is a nongovernmental agency founded in Vancouver, Canada in 1971, but located in Amsterdam, Netherlands (Rahmawati). Although the headquarters is located in the Netherlands, Greenpeace permeates itself and their values into over forty countries by establishing offices in select locations (Rahmawati). As mentioned previously, Greenpeace is an environmental organization that apprises citizens around the world of issues pertaining to the environment by publishing many articles that vary from environmental policies enacted to the future of wildlife in the environment. Greenpeace seems to be at the forefront of every major environmental issue. The second stakeholder plays a part in the environmental issue is the logging company of Sierra Pacific Industries. Sierra Pacific is a private company located in Anderson, California and Washington (Sierra Pacific). Although the family-owned company has taken steps to reduce their footprint on the environment. Their overall goal lies in the manufacture of logs and timber. Initially, to fix the problem of deforestation, the concept, origins, factors, and repercussions of deforestation must be analyzed. By doing so, the entire purview of deforestation will be covered and the issue can be better assessed. According to Tomas Munita, the definition of deforestation is the act of harvesting the trees, plants, and other forestry on a massive scale to use later for commercial consumption (Munita). Nevertheless, stating the definition of Phillipson 3 deforestation does not come close to highlighting the massive impacts that it creates economically, politically, and socially. The roots of deforestation can be traced to the Agricultural era where farmers would clear the surrounding land to plant crops and allow their livestock to graze (Lindsey). This practice is one of the many factors that has destroyed the forestry, primarily in the Amazon rainforest. Farmers in surrounding villages use the forest for agriculture means by using ancient techniques of slash and burn agriculture to grow and harvest food in the bundled, cut forested land, and burn vegetation to make way for a new line of vegetation (Powell). The process of repetitive cutting, burning, and using the soil of the land causes the fertile soil lose its nutrients within a few years. This process is one of the main causes of deforestation because families in surrounding villages receive sustenance from the forests and trade around in villages for other necessities, when the soil is exhausted, the villagers migrate to another side of the rainforest. To combat the problem of deforestation, environmental groups who desire to preserve the rainforest for generations to come and logging companies who want to use the resources both have a common ground to establish a compromise that will benefit each other and will indirectly help the farming villages in the surrounding areas. As mentioned previously, Greenpeace wants to maintain or improve the condition of the rainforest which can allow the biodiversity in the rainforest to thrive, while logging companies such as, Sierra Pacific Industries desire to make a profit by harvesting timber, but they need to conserve resources for future profit. In other words, the absence of trees yields no profit. Therefore, establishing a compromise to preserve the rainforest can reduce the negative repercussions of deforestation. By joining forces and creating a plan to save the rainforest, Greenpeace and Sierra Pacific Industries can both benefit. The steps to reach success and optimize their benefits include Phillipson 4 promoting sustainable management of the forests, encouraging wood alternatives, and increasing the area of the rainforests. One of the many methods that the conglomerate organization can take to reverse the effect of deforestation is to increase the area of rainforests in general. By increasing the area of the rainforest on the outskirts by planting more trees and plants can allow for a gradual increase in biodiversity. After time has passed, the agency and infrastructure developers can designate the area deemed for commercial use and long-term timber production where the developers are able to make a steady perpetual profit (Chakravarty 16). Furthermore, environmental agencies can also designate land for preservation without the interference of commercialization of timber. These protected areas can be open for the public to gain tourism and stimulate the economy, which can also allow foreign travelers and domestic denizens to appreciate the beauty of the forest and realize why the conservation of the forest is vital. Along with increasing the area of the forests, this organization can also market the use of wood alternatives to protect the trees that do not need to be harvested for commercialism. Although many enjoy the appearance and texture of mahogany, hickory, maple, or bamboo, there have been recent products that can replace the use of woods such as wood composites that consist of 50 % plastic and the other 50% organic wood material (Product Comparison). Advancements in technology has yielded many products that can replace wood such as Mineral- Added HDPE Plastic Lumber or Polyvinyl Chloride (Product Comparison). To continue, as technology advances more wood alternatives will be created to reduce the harvesting of trees in the Amazon rainforest. This is one of the many steps that can be taken to lessen to the consequences of deforestation. Furthermore, the following and most progressive reason to combat deforestation can alter the concept of deforestation is reforestation. Phillipson 5 Deforestation is considered as cutting down the trees, but through the process of replanting trees the concept of sustainable forest management can be promoted. This method is the most hands on and can provide the best results. Greenpeace and Sierra Pacific Industries alike will be able to see a gradual change by planting more trees and diversifying the array of trees. Several factors must be controlled just as one would for a science experiment. For example, elements such as biodiversity, soil erosion, soil fertility, water quality need to be sustained (Chakravarty 18-19). An official plan of action to control each factor will need to be created because all of these facets contribute to the condition the forests. Ultimately, forests such as the Amazon rainforest need to be preserved for generations to come. If Greenpeace and Sierra Pacific Industries can come together and provide an example for other companies by reducing the deforestation in the Amazon, the benefits will go to both parties and others, indirectly. Through methods of increasing the area of the forest, endorsing wood alternatives, and promoting a sustainable wood management plan, the goal of reversing the impact of deforestation throughout the forests in the world. Phillipson 6 Works Cited Azevedo-Ramos, C. development and challenging deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon: the good, the bad, and the FAO Corporate Document Repository, http://www.fao.org/docrep/011/i0440e/i0440e03.htm. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Chakravarty, Sumit. Causes, Effects and Control 2012. http://cdn.intechopen.com/pdfs/36125.pdf. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. DeLuca, Giacomo. Development and Deforestation: a 2007. http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTKNOWLEDGEFORCHANGE/Resources/491519 Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Lindsey, Rebecca. Tropical deforestation: Feature articles. NASA Earth Observatory, 30 Mar. 2007. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Munita, Tomas. and Its Effect on the National Geographic. National Geographic, 9 Oct. 2009. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Powell, Devyn. and burn EcoLogic Development Fund. 25 June 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Product  Sustainable plastic wood alternatives made from recycled high-density polyethylene. EPS Solutions, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://epsplasticsolutions.com/the- plastic-advntage/epss-product-comparison.html>. Rahmawati, Annisa.  Greenpeace International. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Sierra Pacific Industries Site  Sierra Pacific Industries - Our Business. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.