Hill 1 Hunter Hill Professor Karen Hanson ENC-1102 February 26, 2017 The argument over the necessity of nuclear weapons has been around since the creation of the weapons in World War Two. Almost everyone has an opinion on the matter ranging from radically for, radically against and everything in between. Of the two major sides stand one in support and one in opposition. The negative side attempts to show how the weapons do not deter war and prevent future conflicts. One organization the International Campaign Against Nuclear Weapons, or ICANW, has taken the stance of anti nuclear weapon existence, arguing that the weapons even when properly taken care of cannot actually be safe and used for security . Through persuasive imagers they have attempted to sway the public towards their opinion. Their images contain ethos, pathos and logos attempting to appeal to the wants of every viewer as to have a bigger impact. Of the two images the first is effective while the second is not. The successfully uses two images to show their viewpoint of how nuclear weapons cannot be safe. The ICANW argues the safety and security of nuclear weapons in both production, and storage is impossible through use of two images exemplifying their destructive nature. An example of this is Image A, which displays a group of individuals surrounding real parts of uranium and transferring them over to a safe container. The image shows the professionals handling the situation well however every member of the team is extremely tense. The image effectively appeals to logic with showing how the scientist are covered and being extremely Hill 2 careful in fear of messing up the situation. When looking at the process of Uranium it is extremely hard to extract and use uranium(world-nuclear). Through this research it is evident that someone looking at the picture with knowledge in the field would be able to tell the danger each individual is in. This information would logically appeal to people to not support weapons that could harm them or others. The only reason for care not to be present would to be ethically immoral (Santa-Clara). Furthermore, Image B continues the argument through the display of the testing of nuclear weapons(ICANW). The image depicts the use of nuclear weapons and their destructive nature. The image relies on pathos first through its unique look to the individual. Most individuals being exposed to this image for the first time have most likely not seen weapons of any large sort in use. This image is emotionally impactful because of how it exemplifies the destructive nature and how these weapons kill people. The second use is through logos and the drive they hope to bring individuals. This drive they aim to bring is followed up on their website through links and other research. After showing the reader the impact of the weapons and give them an emotional investment that will lead to research. One of the main links displayed leads to an article by Dr. David Krieger a nuclear weapon expert (waging-peace). They bring up the logical argument that the weapons are meant to be destructive and used for war which can be easily found from further research. After looking at both images the last thing to do is to look at if ICANW successfully through the images made their points evident and have successfully displayed what they wanted to. Both images aim to successfully exhibit that nuclear weapons are destructive and unsafe. Image A aims first to show this through the protective gear and cautious nature of the scientist extracting and processing the uranium. This is overall successful because of their supporting Hill 3 information and the support the image drives. When looking at supporting information it is evident that the weapons are inherently dangerous to be made. The image has many parts showing gear, tools and different parts that would require safety. On top of that the image when viewed by professionals in the field it conveys to them how dangerous it is and can easily be noticed by any expert in the field. Overall the argument is effective in displaying how logically these weapons safe to make. Image B continues the trend of trying to show how these weapons are not safe through an emphasis on their destructive nature. The image is a picture of a nuclear weapon being tested and the area around it that it destroyed. The image is effective in its use because of what it leads individuals to thinking. When looking at it the true destructive nature of the weapons are shown and leads individuals into both a logos and pathos appeal. When looking at the image logos is evident because of the emphasis on the portion of the testing. The ICANW aims to show that in the end they are nuclear weapons and were made to destroy different things and fight wars. They created in WWII to be used for a parlay they were meant to be weapons used in wars. For the fact that they are literally weapons ICANW effectively argues that the weapons safe. The second appeal is displayed through the logical thinking the person makes about the weapons. When they reach the conclusion of the fact the weapons are dangerous and used in wars they will now make the emotional connection as well. The emotional connection make is the fact that people are dying. The image invokes upon the reader that the weapons killed individuals in the past and the only point they are still around is for killing. With the fact that the reader will eventually realize how the weapons kill if they are ethically moral as said before they will not approve of any sort of weapon. Overall the argument is Hill 4 effective because of the fact that the weapons are shown as dangerous and in the end kill people invoking some sort of reaction from the reader. The ICANW stands for the complete disarmament of nuclear weapons. They wholly stand against any sort of argument that nuclear weapons are safe or promote the safety and security of individuals. Through this the ICANW launched campaigns in opposition to the arguments that pro nuclear weapons stakeholders brought forth. Through visual rhetoric the ICANW argues directly against any sort of nuclear weapons being in existence. Through effective use of the visuals they were able to prove that in no way are nuclear weapons safe or provide security to the world inhabitants. Hill 5 Works Cited International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons. (2012, September 05). US nuclear weapons test at Bikini in 1946. Retrieved February 15, 2017, from https://www.flickr.com/photos/30835738@N03/7936491790/in/album-72157631419023720/ List of Pros and Cons of Nuclear Weapons. (2015, April 14). Retrieved February 15, 2017, from http://occupytheory.org/list-of-pros-and-cons-of-nuclear-weapons/ Nuclear Weapons Do Not Keep Us Safe. (2014, July 07). Retrieved February 18, 2017, from https://www.wagingpeace.org/nuclear-weapons-do-not-keep-us-safe/ University, S. C. (n.d.). What is Ethics? Retrieved February 18, 2017, from https://www.scu.edu/ethics/ethics-resources/ethical-decision-making/what-is-ethics/ Uranium Enrichment. (n.d.). Retrieved February 18, 2017, from http://www.world- nuclear.org/information-library/nuclear-fuel-cycle/conversion-enrichment-and- fabrication/uranium-enrichment.aspx