Negron 1 Isaiah Negron Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft There comes a day when almost every one of us becomes a contributor to the upcoming generation when we have our children. As a parent you would only want the best for your kids and for them to be exposed to good and positive things while avoiding any negative influences as much as possible. Sadly, there are far too many things that can corrupt a young innocence, pureness, or conscious. Something that many parents find to be a major factor in why children become violent or make poor decisions, especially today in the modern era, is video games. Not all video games are found to be bad, however the violent ones in particular are the targeted offenders. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) is one of the handful of organizations that are against video game violence. MAVAV began its mission in December of 2002 and their main purpose is to educate all parents on what the possible outcomes of allowing their kids to be exposed to the violence on the video games can lead to. The MAVAV organization applies images that display dramatically negative details such as loneliness, darkness, and danger to depict negative consequences like kids thinking they can restart reality like a video game which may come about from video game violence and addiction. They have chosen many distinct images to convey messages directly to any parents viewing through rhetorical appeals, most heavily in the pathos and logos categories. Whenever MAVAV releases an article they create images either from the video games themselves or they Negron 2 use a dramatic depiction of what could happen if parents stop their kids from playing these video games. Based on the first image, viewers are witnessing a horrible car crash scene from a racing video game called Burnout. There is a car in mid-air that appears to be totaled, another car that is practically upside-down, also in midair, that is completely destroyed, and finally there is a massive truck that is on fire with all the glass shattered. Above one of the cars the word appears, which is where the money is really at when the author of this article decided on this image for their article. This image represents pathos, appeal to (Lee 37), well because it is making parents feel like they are promoting danger and violence when it comes to real things such as handling automobile recklessly. That would not only be costly, but also life-threatening. A parent that really cares about their well-being would recognize that and not want to expose them to looking at those situations as fun and entertaining. The word reset presents strong logos rhetoric, or the appeal to logic (Lane 32), because it is meant to make parents mindful that their kids could look at situations that are meant to be taken seriously as just a game that they can reset whenever things going right. Logically, parents would see that and immediately refrain from allowing their kids to play video games that allow them to simply restart awful scenarios and get another chance to do it right again at no cost with no realistic consequences. Without any hesitation when thinking about who the target audience is, we know it is directly to parents. From top to bottom this image has parents questioning their conscious because of what it is depicting. There is just an overall dangerous vibe that can be picked up on from first impression and as a parents viewing the image you just feel guilty knowing that Negron 3 allowing your kids to think life is so sweet that you can just restart when you make a huge mistake. Besides, we know the target audience is for the parents because in the overall mission of the MAVAV organization they clearly state they are trying to educate parents. Furthermore, MAVAV profoundly appeals to pathos and logos again with another image that they display in a different article on their site. The second image has a strong pathos representation from the jump just by all the dark details included. There is a person who is bunched up in the corner of a dark and poorly-maintained room. They appear to be wearing some sort of electronic goggles that may show a virtual-reality within. There is an extreme emotion of loneliness depicted from the image that can easily change a view on how they see video games if they really think about it and the long-term effects it might have. As for the logos appeal, there need to be much analysis to interpret how parents would find it logical to not buy violent video games for their kids anymore after they see the image. As soon as you see the image there is a sense of sorrow where any parent that loves their child would never want them to feel. Seeing this image would change the mind of any parent considering to buy their kids a video game that may contain violence unless played the game before and know for themselves that there is no negative real-life effect. The intended audience could either go for parents or for children. This could be targeted towards children as a way to scare them from getting too into video games. It could be viewed as a warning to either gamers or to parents saying to not let yourself get carried away or even put yourself in that position in the first place by purchasing the video game. As a gamer, even if you are addicted already, an image like that can be a reality check to some and make the realize that they are digging themselves into a deeper and deeper hole the longer they stay addicted. Negron 4 As a parent when viewing the image there is once again an immediate sense of urgency to stop their kids from getting carried away with the digital universe. Ultimately, MAVAV has effectively conveyed a message of urgency to all parents from the images that they selected on their informative and persuasive articles. The images display dramatically negative details like darkness and danger to depict negative consequences that could come about like kids thinking they can restart mistakes in real-life scenarios. MAVAV has created a mission that parents all over the world can relate to when it comes to their well-being and protection. Negron 5 Work Cited About Us. MAVAV. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, n.d. Web. 26. Feb. 2016. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeal to Emotion. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, Megan McIntyre, Jessica McKee. Logos: Appeal to Logic. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Negron 6