Shah 1 Riya Shah Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Council On Bioethics The creation of a genetically identical copy of a human being is known as human cloning. The creation of a completely identical human by cloning raised many debates and controversies due to which the United States President George W Bush appointed a group of individuals known as Council on (PCBE), to counsel his administration on bioethics. The Council was directed to advise the President on bioethical issues that may emerge as a consequence of advances in biomedical science and  (Charo 307). These images are the cover of two books written by the Council on Bioethics. Dr. Pellegrino, who served as the chairman of the PCBE said that the main aim of the council was advance good and avoid harm by using biotechnology within ethical The council, after several discussions, unanimously agreed to continue cloning for biomedical research but did not agree to continue cloning to actually produce humans. These images are the covers of books written by the Council on Bioethics. These books give a complete report and analysis on human cloning and why it should be banned for the good of mankind. Through these books, the council tries to give its take on human cloning and convinces the audience, that is, the people of the United States of America, how mankind would suffer if cloning were to be encouraged. By scrutinizing these images of the cover of books written by the Shah 2 council, it is seen that there are some rhetorical appeals used to convince as well as make the public aware of the perils of human cloning. The first image is the cover of the book named, Dignity and which includes essays, which are conveyed by the Council on Bioethics itself. The image portrays a sick man lying on a bed with dressings and bandages. This image appeals to the viewer emotionally and this form of rhetorical appeal is known as pathos. The image captures the attention immediately to show the perils of human cloning. Also, the abdomen of the man is kind of deformed which shows how harmful human cloning could be, if humans are involved in this practice. Therefore, humans must not be involved in this procedure. Also, the image uses dark colors like black and brown in the background which conveys that human cloning could lead the mankind to darkness instead of actually helping humans. The eyes of the sick man are watery which also uses pathos to convey the message of the pain and suffering that the man must be going through. Through these emotional appeals, the image makes the viewer want to read the book in order to know about the menaces that human cloning could cause. Relative to pathos, the image also shows evidence of ethos. At the bottom of the image, it shows the phrase Commissioned by the Council on Here in, it uses the rhetoric device known as ethos where in writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee and McIntyre 28). It makes the audience feel smart and intellectual to read this book as the material in the book is sanctioned by the Council on Bioethics itself. As the President appoints the individuals that would be included in the council himself, it somehow gives a strong credibility to convince the audience as the President if the person of strong influence and the audience would want to know Shah 3 his take on human cloning. The intended audience are the people of the United States of America as the book indirectly portrays the take on human cloning. It tries to convey that how human cloning could affect humans adversely instead of improving the lives of humans. The image uses strong elements of pathos and ethos to convince the people to take a stand against human cloning. In this way, it does fulfill the goal of spreading awareness to the people and protecting them from the risks of human cloning by warning them through their analysis of human cloning. The second image is also a cover of a book called which is a report by the Council on Bioethics. In this image, there are various pictures overlapping each other. This image also uses real depth if analyzed in an appropriate way. There is a picture of a baby, a man jogging, the athletic body of a well-built man as well as syringes and medicines. The image uses a pathos to emotionally involve the audience by depicting an image of a small baby. This would appeal to the audience to read the inside material of the book as the image of a cute baby always attracts people. The image has a strong reference to logos. The image shows that the picture of the baby and the picture of the well-built athletic body are prominent over the pictures of a man exercising, the medicines and syringe. The actual reason behind this is to convey the message that human cloning should be supported just because of the desire of physical attributes such as having a well-built attractive body and having to choose the sex of the baby one desires rather than the genuine reasons as to why human cloning must be continued. The image reveals that human cloning is considered to be practiced just for the wants and not for the needs; such as advancements in medicine or keeping a person healthy. As the book mentions, every Shah 4 week brings news of novel methods for screening genes and testing embryos, choosing the sex and modifying the behavior of children, enhancing athletic performance, slowing aging, blunting painful memories, brightening mood, and altering basic grasping the limits of our new powers, we can savor the fruits of the age of biotechnology without succumbing to its most dangerous (Kass). The sub-title of the book on the image also uses logos. The sub-title reads, and the Pursuit of which means that techniques such as human cloning is applauded just for the interest of contentment for people and not because of the scientific reasons. If human cloning is to be continued to make the other best versions of the people they already are, it would bring joy for a short period of time but in the long run, it would just cause harm and the authenticity of being human would be lost forever. Therefore, through pathos and logos, the image targets the audience by spreading awareness as to why the practice of human cloning should not be permitted, hence accomplishing its goal. The image targets the whole of mankind in general as it makes references as to the needs and voracity of what a normal human would think of. The image tries to convey to the public that human cloning should be practiced just because of the unnecessary needs that would give some pleasure in the present, but harm the future. Hence, the Council on Bioethics is successful in its mission to alert the public and benefit the mankind through the image. Hence, these two images illustrate how the Council on Bioethics is able to commendably convey their stance on human cloning by alerting the general public. The primary goal of the council is to keep the humans safe from the perils of biotechnology, that includes human cloning. Consequently, through the rhetorical appeals of mainly pathos, ethos and logos, Shah 5 these images help the Council on Bioethics to encourage the people to read their books and learn the jeopardies of human cloning. Shah 6 Image 1 Shah 7 Image 2 Shah 8 Works Cited Charo, R. Alta. Passing on the Right: Conservative Bioethics Is Closer Than It  Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 32, 01 July 2004, p. 307. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed slex&AN=edslex9A870462&site=eds-live. Kass, Leon R. Beyond Therapy: Biotechnology and the Pursuit of Happiness. 1st ed. New York: ReganBooks, 2004. Print. McKee, Jessica and Megan Mclntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text.