Shoukry 1 Aly Shoukry Mark Nusspickel ENC1101.901517 January 29th 2017 Annotated Bibliography The Arab Spring is a series of uprisings that occurred in the Middle East at the beginning of 2011. While it started in Tunisia late December of 2012, The Arab Spring did not take much time in becoming a phenomenon that swept Arab countries in a near concurrent fashion. The Uprisings were caused by many factors, most notably, unjust distribution of wealth and bla- tant oppression. All the Arab countries were affected by the protests, but certainly not to the same extent. The severity and Nature of the protests depended highly on the reaction they were met with. Violence against protestors proved to be futile in terms of quelling the protest as it only galvanized the people at home to take part in the move against the regimen present in each country. The Arab Spring was a revolt against tyrants and oppressive regimes who caused social segregation among the people, and made most people suffer from unbearable living conditions. Of the many questions to be asked when analyzing the Arab Spring, one seems to be the most comprehensive; What are the causes of the Arab Spring phenomenon and how did it impact the countries involved? Shoukry 2 Campante, Filipe R. and Davin Chor. 2012. Why Was the Arab World Poised for Revolution? Schooling, Economic Opportunities, and the Arab  Jour- nal of Economic Perspectives, 26(2): 167-88. One of the most overlooked causes of the Arab Spring is the rapid increase in the level of education and lack of job opportunities to accommodate that increase. This Article aptly il- lustrates and evinces the causality between the weakness of the labor market and the inclination to participate in protests. Education contributed to the Arab Spring by encourag- ing people to be more active politically, for it has been proven that a correlation exists be- tween high levels of education and political activeness. A good explanation is that as the in- crease in schooling is met with a decrease in employment, the opportunity cost for participat- ing in labor intensive political activity significantly decreases. Statistics also debunk the youth , which states that an increase in the number of people aged 15-24 was of big significance in the Middle Eastern uprisings, and instead show that an increased number of people aged 25-39 was indeed correlated with higher levels of opposition of the regimen. The article addresses the cause of the Arab Spring from a very unique angle, providing valu- able insight on the issue that could help unravel many facts about the Arab Spring. The arti- cle was written by Filipe R. Campante and Davin Chor, Campante is an associate professor of political economy at Harvard, and his work has appeared in leading academic journals such as the American Economic Review and the Quarterly Journal of Economics, While Shoukry 3 Davin is a Harvard graduate and an associate professor at the National University of Singa- pore. ElAkawy, Zaki S. The Geostrategic Consequences of the Arab  (2014): n. pag. OpenDemocracy. Nov.-Dec. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. The Arab Spring affected the Middle East in many ways, most notably by causing shifts in powers and changing the geopolitical structure within the region. The uprisings during the Arab spring symbolized the demand for freedom, dignity, and social justice, thus causing a shift in power from the hands of monarchial regimens to the hands of the people. Transitions in power took over many forms, each one with a different effect on geopolitical stability. In countries like Egypt, the transition marked the beginning of internal geopolitical tension by freeing organizations like the muslim brotherhood and the salafi movement, which where oppressed and locked away during the reign of the previous president Hosni Mubarak. In countries like Libya And Syria, the Transitions had more acute effects, causing a civil war between the people, who gained weapons through massive arms trafficking initia- tives from other powers in the region, and the regimen. The newly found geopolitical tension is especially alarming not because of the Aforementioned countries, but because of the non Arab powers in the region who would gain a lot from the opportunity to cause distress and expand their reach. Shoukry 4 The article very aptly illustrate the effects of the Arab Spring on the whole Middle east, clari- fying the underlying ambitions of each country in terms of geopolitical interest. The article was written by Zaki Samy Mohamed Elakawi, a Lecturer on Security and International Rela- tions in the Middle East at Complutense University of Madrid; He is the Coordinator of In- ternational Observatory of Arab and Muslim World (OIMAM). His research focuses on se- curity, conflict and international relations in the Middle East, national security and strategic issues. Goldstein, Eric. Before the Arab Spring, the Unseen  (n.d.): n. pag. Jan. 2012. Web. almost unanimous that the Arab spring was inaccurately predicted on every level. This article discusses the events leading up to the Arab spring and the main cause of the seem- ingly spontaneous revolts. The blatant failure in predicting the Arab spring can be attributed to the underestimation of the willingness to protest for basic human rights and the overestimation of the sovereignty of each authoritarian regimen. Tunisian Mohamed Bouaz- self immolation after a humiliating interaction with the police is undoubtably the spark that lit the flame, galvanizing those who have been stripped of the most basic human rights, and releasing years upon years of human rights violations and oppression upon the dictators who enforced them. The missing factor in predicting the Arab spring was dignity, for the people finally demanded that their rights be handed to them and stood obstinately in the face of the oppressor. Shoukry 5 This article directly ties to the research question by assessing the cause of the Arab spring and the events leading up to the revolts. The article is a credible source as author is the deputy director of Human Rights Middle East and North Africa division, and is an expert on Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and Western Sahara. He has conducted research mis- sions to these and other regions of the Middle East since the 1980s, writing numerous reports for Human Rights Watch and publishing articles in news media and academic journals. He holds a degree from Harvard University and a in international affairs from Columbia University. Idris, I. Analysis of the Arab Spring (GSDRC Helpdesk Research Report 1350). Gov- ernance and Social Development Resource Centre, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK (2016) 14 pp. The Arab spring was caused by issues in multiple societal realms: These issues vary from structural issues that accumulated hatred over time to more acute issues that triggered many uproars. A faulty and outdated infrastructure led to the demise of most Arab regimes, for those regimes depended highly on the willingness to show obedience and compli- ance in return for services, subsidies, and increased employment opportunities. An increased utilization of social media and electronic forms of communication contributed substantially Shoukry 6 to the uproars; depicting protests and riots from countries like Tunisia, Libya, And Egypt and in turn encouraging others to do the same. The between the government and the people created a gap between the High and low classes, creating a very large middle class in most Arab countries. With the quick rise in population and the inability to keep providing jobs and services, The Middle class saw a rapid decline in quality of life, gal- vanizing them to take action in 2011. This Report is relevant in that delves deep into the causes of the Arab Spring, answering one of the most important questions about the issue. The report was prepared for the UK govern- department of international development, and was reviewed by experts in the field of Middle Eastern studies who add to the credibility of this source. Makara, Michael. Rethinking Military Behavior During The Arab  Defense & Security Analysis 32.3 (2016): 209. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Assessing the monumental role played by the armed forces in the Arab spring, this article takes into consideration both the different military responses in each country and the impact of the armed forces on the outcome of the Arab spring. While some military forces decide to stay loyal to the regimen and forcefully quell any attempt at an uprising, Others decided to join the people and overthrow the government. The difference in military response can be at- tributed to two factors, and institutionalization. which can be divided into several factors like ethnic stacking, communal stacking, and the formation of Shoukry 7 a protection pact, proved integral to resisting or eliminating a military coup. Institutionaliza- tion on the other hand means that the military force acts as an independent entity, with no ties to the government, And it proved quite deleterious to many regimens, including that of Egypt, Libya, And Tunisia. As uncovering military motives during the Arab Spring is integral to grasping the way each country was affected, this article is of very substantial relevance to my Topic. The author of this article is an Assistant Professor of Comparative Politics and International Relations at the University of Central Missouri, and his research focuses on politics in authoritarian re- gimes and civil-military relations, with a regional focus on the Middle East, which makes his peer reviewed material a credible source for this issue. Wagner, Daniel. The Arab Impact on Cross-Border Trade and  N.p. Oct.-Nov. 2011. Web. This article discusses the economic implications of the Arab spring, one of the most im- portant aspects to consider when analyzing the effects of the Arab spring on the Middle East. There are many factors to consider in terms of the economic implications of the Arab spring Arab in the Middle East. The first factor is the effect on the GDP, Which took a big hit in countries across the board, like Libya, Tunisia, and Egypt, some witnessing drops as big as 29 percent in total GDP. The second main factor is the effect of the Islamic political systems of the post Arab spring regimens. With Islamist regimes seizing power in countries like Shoukry 8 Egypt, Libya, and Tunisia, foreign trade plummeted significantly in these countries in antici- pation of the coming system, which is based on a more capitalistic economy rather than a free market economy. The third factor is the role of the military, which is the middle East is certain to directly affect the economy due to the heavy invested nature of the military in the economy. The militaries of Middle Eastern countries are sure to prioritize their personal in- terest, in turn handing the economy over to the Islamist leaders in return for their share of the economy, which would cause very bad economic conditions due to the drop in GDP coupled with incorrect asset distribution. The author of this article is Managing Director of Risk Solutions at Risk Cooperative, a spe- cialty strategy, risk and capital management firm. Further adding to the credibility The author was previously CEO of Country Risk cross-border risk advisory firm he founded and has published more than 500 articles on risk management and current affairs and is a regular contributor to the Huffington Post, South China Morning Post, and The National Interest, among many others.