Moretti 1 Raquel Moretti Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 1/29/17 Adolescent Homelessness In 2009, it was estimated that at least 1.7 million adolescents were without shelter. Since then, this number has only increased. Luckily, there are programs like Salvation Army that will put a homeless youth in a hotel room for a night; there are also some churches who offer free food and drinks on certain days of the week. While these opportunities are generous, they still correct the issue at hand. Young people end up homeless for a variety of reasons like, dangerous living conditions at home, or in some heartbreaking situations youth are for being a part of the LGBTQ community. Although not every situation is the same, adolescent homelessness is unnecessary and should be prevented. Becoming homeless at a young age can entirely create the path for their future. With unstable living conditions, these youths are often unable to hold a steady job or finish high school, both are imperative if they expect to be successful and get themselves on the right track. Without a high school diploma, there many higher paying jobs that will hire you, no matter the situation. Homeless teens need help, without it they may never get themselves back into a stable way of life. Therefore, the question is how does adolescent homelessness have an impact on an future? Moretti 2 Pamela J. Burke, and Oliveira, Joanne Lost In The Shuffle: Culture Of Homeless  Pediatric Nursing 35.3 (2009): 154-161. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. In this article, and Burke discuss the reasons why and how adolescents end up homeless. They also overview their ethnographic study on the culture of these homeless adolescents. An ethnographic study will focus attention on the culture of a population. This study is about 19 homeless youths in the United States, that are interviewed for eighteen months continuously. They discovered that some youth chose to be homeless because a and rational (Burke p.1) to the cruel or dangerous situation they may be encountering at home. Each adolescent is in a different position and should be taken care of in a way that is unique to that position. It is easy for a homeless youth to get in the meaning they are no longer acquiring the attention they need. Unfortunately, if this does occur the chance of them ever getting back on their feet lowers slightly. Slipping off the tracks at an earlier age makes it extremely difficult to catch back up and be prosperous. This article was written in 2009 by a professor from Harvard Medical School. In addition, it was co-authored by a researcher who is very well versed in this topic as they completed a study for a year and a half about the culture of these homeless adolescents. Murphy, Joseph F.1, joseph.f.murphy@vanderbilt.edu, and Kerri2 Tobin. Addressing The Problems Of Homeless  Journal Of School Leadership 22.3 (2012): 633- 663. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Moretti 3 Homeless youth are just a small percent of the entire percentage of homeless people, but these youths are the ones who need the most help. This article explains why homeless adolescents should be recognized by their instructors/ leaders and why they need the most help in the classroom. Education is one of the biggest keys to a successful life and needs to be pushed the most among homeless adolescents. This article will explain the proper way to address this issue and gives a better understanding of this ongoing reality. Living conditions for homeless youth can be extremely contaminated, increasing the risk for sickness and disease. All of the factors combine equal to a child who is likely emotionally unstable and unable to find a sense of trust in others. This article relates to the research question, because it reviews the ways adolescent homelessness needs to be addressed. Addressing the issue is the first step to helping the teen recover which is necessary for a positive future. This article comes from the academic journal of School so it can be considered a trusted source. Murphy is the Frank W. Mayborn Chair of Education and Associate Dean at Peabody College of Education of Vanderbilt per his biography on the Vanderbilt Peabody College website. And according to the Marywood University website Kerri Tobin is the Assistant Professor of Education there, the areas she has expertise on include and Education; Homeless Children; Education Policy; Nutrition and Academic Scott E. Hadland, and Marshall, Brandon D. L.. The Immediate And Lasting Effects Of Adolescent Homelessness On Suicidal Ideation And  Journal Of Adolescent Health 51.5 (2012): 407-408. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Although suicide is only a small percentage of all deaths, suicide is much more common in the homeless community. This study focuses on a group of young adults living in England, Moretti 4 that are homeless or ran away from home. This representative sample was studied, and the researchers found that although these teens had some adverse experiences, these experiences did not share a direct relationship with running away from home and ending life. This study specifically focuses on the experiences leading up to and during teen homelessness and how that has a relationship with suicidal ideation and behavior. This directly connects to the research question as we are trying to discover what some of the effects of being homeless does to a future. This study is out of an academic journal, written by Brandon D. L. Marshall who has a Ph.D. and is a part of the public health program at Brown University. Scott E Hadland is a medical doctor who is a part of a few different health related programs at the Boston University School of Medicine. Schwartz, Marci, et al. Exploring The Relationship Between Homelessness And Delinquency: A Snapshot Of A Group Of Homeless Youth In San Jose,  Child & Adolescent Social Work Journal 25.4 (2008): 255-269. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study observes the relationship between adolescent homelessness and delinquency in 42 homeless adolescents in San Jose, California. Research was collected through interviews, during these interviews the adolescents were exposed to two different criminal scenarios and gave their responses. The results were a shock to the researchers, it was discovered that the rate of delinquency has increased since any of the previous studies. Researchers also found out that even though the majority of these adolescents were delinquents they still have good morals and values. Moretti 5 This paper connects to the overall research question, because it observes the relationship between being homeless as an adolescent and delinquency while the research questions focus is on how being homeless at such a young age can impact a future. This paper was written by Marci Schwartz a professional at Lucile Packard Hospital at Stanford University (a center for adolescent health). Yoder, Kevin A., et al. A Dimensional Model Of Psychopathology Among Homeless Adolescents: Suicidality, Internalizing, And Externalizing  Journal Of Abnormal Child Psychology 36.1 (2008): 95-104. Education Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The study in this academic journal analyzes specifically the associations between adolescent homelessness and suicide and psychopathology. This study involves 428 homeless youths who are examined about internalizing disorders, and externalizing (title). The results are clear that since 2006 the relationship between adolescent homelessness and suicidality and the relationship between adolescent homelessness and psychopathology has increased. These numbers are based off of the number of suicide attempts and other psychological disorders that some of these youths are experiencing. The author of this article, Kevin A. Yoder has a Ph.D. in clinical psychology, therefore he can be considered a reliable expert on this topic. Yoder has completed a few similar papers about the relationship between adolescent homelessness and mental health. This article relates to the research question at hand (how does adolescent homelessness have an impact on an future), this study interprets the impact of homelessness on the mental health of adolescents such as, their risk rate for suicide and other mental disorders. Moretti 6 Roy, et al. Predictors Of Residential Stability Among Homeless Young Adults: A Cohort  BMC Public Health 16.(2016): 1-8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. For a large percentage of homeless youth, it is difficult to encounter a steady residence. To reach this potential, the youths must put forth a great deal of effort. They must help themselves to progress and overcome their situation. multivariate analysis, youth who had a high school degree, had a formal sector activity, and those who had sought psychological help were more likely to reach residential (Roy p. 3) while on the other hand youth who were injecting substances, and having an informal sector activity were associated with a decreased probability to reach residential (Roy p.3) In this study, during a three-month period 359 homeless youth were interviewed concerning their current residential situation, they were also asked questions to determine what risk factors each youth had that could increase their risk for homelessness. Per the de website in Roy a professor in the Department of Addiction Services, Department of Community Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, She has also been a medical consultant for the Public Health Department of Montreal for over 20 This article pertains to the research question directly, the likeliness of homeless youths having a steady residence will increase if they help themselves. who had sought psychological assistance, who had earned a high school diploma and who were working during follow-up were 40 to 50 % more likely to achieve stability than the other (Roy p. 4) Moretti 7