Rehman 1 Tauseef Ur Rehman Mark J Nusspickel Composition 1 February 5, 2017 Alcohol vs. Marijuana: Which is worse for your health? People have been consuming substances to lift their spirit for ages. They are most likely to begin drug usage with substances like tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana, but this habit might evolve to misusage of more substantial and prohibited drugs. Alcohol vs. Marijuana is the hot debate in the world and folks want to know which is more harmful to your health? According to New Scientist article by John Pickrell, almost 70 percent of high school students have taken an illegal drug, nearly 40 percent have smoked a cigarette, and more than 20 percent have used a prescription drug for a non-medical purpose. Marijuana is the most common illegal drug smoked by millions of people in the U.S. and around the globe. Whereas alcohol is legal, but there is a limit on underage drinking. In the US, some states have legalized the medical and recreational use of Marijuana to control the illegal selling of pot; some research studies confirm that marijuana is not harmful compared to alcohol. The question of which is worse for the health, alcohol or marijuana is being debated once again. Former US President Barak Obama in a recent interview with The New Yorker magazine said: think marijuana is more dangerous than Joe But how appropriate is the comparison among these matters? Although both are intoxicants and used recreationally, their forms of use and long-term outcomes on the body make two drugs challenging to compare. The question is which one is deadlier? Rehman 2 Annotated bibliography Brownstein. Joe. vs. Alcohol: Which is worse for your Live science.com. Jan 14, 2014. Web. Jan 29, 2017. Joe Brownstein, who is a freelance science writer based in New York City, compares the harmfulness of alcohol and marijuana keeping the fact in view that both drugs are usually used interchangeably. The author says that apparently and logically, deaths by use of marijuana are insignificant while alcohol causes some 88,000 deaths per year worldwide. However, this is the bigger reality that research on marijuana is yet in its infancy stages. While discussing the short- term impacts of both drugs, the writer states that drinking excessive alcohol can kill a person immediately. It shuts down the brain areas those are mainly involved in heartbeat and respiration. In contrast, marijuana affects cardiovascular system increasing blood pressure and pulse, but cannot prove fatal by overdose as alcohol does. Constant use of alcohol leads to liver disease leading to fibrosis of liver and ultimately results in liver cancer in the long term. Although marijuana has mild short-term effects in long term, constant use of marijuana results in Bronchitis, coughing and chronic inflammation of air passes. A writer discovers that in the past, marijuana was also associated with lung cancer, however latest researches have denied the assumption by stating that not marijuana but the cigarette is leading cause of lung cancer. In a nuts shell, marijuana is doubtlessly harmful to health, but it is mild as compared to the harmfulness of alcohol. Current research gives a broader overview of short term and long term effects of both drugs and verifies alcohol as more dangerous as compared to marijuana. Rehman 3 Christensen Jen & Wilson Jacque. marijuana as safe as--or safer than CNN. Jan 22, 2014. Web. Jan 29, 2017. The writer Jen Christen and Jacque Wilson from CNN channel emphasis on the many different aspects of alcohol and marijuana-related harms that everyone should know, for example how the consumption of these substances affects people in daily life. This article explains a wide variety of possessions of cannabis and liquor both in comparison to addiction, driving under the influence, long-term health risks and deaths with proper statistics. This article is published on the website of world largest media network The article is interconnected to the topic and research question, and it has a proper explanation of both marijuana and alcohol, how it damages your body and brain with facts and details. This source looks more authentic and reliable as it has the piece of the paragraph that interviewed former US President Barack Obama on the same question on alcohol vs. marijuana: which is worse for your health. However, this source will help me to create proper research, and I can use reliable information in my paper. Mick, J. (2010). Alcohol is Deadliest Drug, more Dangerous than Heroin. Daily Tech. November 1, 2010. Web. January 31, 2017 Jason Mick, who is a regular blog and article writer at Daily Tech, has very efficiently categorized all drugs according to their comparative harmfulness to the individuals and societies. The study examined 20 mostly used drugs by the adults, both legal and illegal. As for as, Rehman 4 harmfulness to health is concerned, heroin and cocaine are more dangerous. But incorporating societal effects, crimes, social decay and family problems, alcohol came out as the most harmful drug, which is, unfortunately, legal in most parts of the world. Tobacco follows these drugs at the fourth position, which is again legalized. Marijuana, whose popularity among adults, is increasing rapidly and being demanded to be authorized by the public of UK and other European countries, fall at 8th position. Club and magic mushrooms are the least harmful drugs among all. The writer states that both individual and societal impacts of marijuana are less harmful as compared to alcohol and heroin yet its harmfulness is ranked in grade B, which means it is not free of harms. Legalizing the drug will be dangerous because harmfulness of any drug increases with its availability and legal status. People become free to use which intensifies the individuals and societal adversities altogether. Wenk, G. L. (2010). Alcohol vs. Marijuana in the Brain. Psychology Today. Dec 13, 2010. Web. January 31, 2017 The researcher Gary L. Wenk writes about the relative impacts of the use of alcohol and marijuana on the brain of adults. He states that with the passage of time, usage of alcohol among adults is increasing rapidly despite the fact that it has horrible effects on human body. Being a professor of psychology, neuroscience and molecular virology, immunology and medical genetics at the Ohio State University and Medical Center, writer narrates about his findings that alcohol has its major effect on the part of the brain, called hippocampus. This section of the brain is associated with learning and memory functions while also involved in generating new brain cells, called neurons. This process is called neurogenesis. An brain is more vulnerable to Rehman 5 the malfunctioning of hippocampus due to chemical insults. Alcohol adversely affects the hippocampus and results in dysfunction of the process of neurogenesis, which results in decreasing brain capacity. Science has discovered that use of alcohol for eleven months reduces the neurogenesis by more than 50%. In contrast, marijuana, which is also a form of the drug, works quite the opposite to the alcohol. The researcher states that science has found marijuana having healing effects to neurogenesis and hippocampus recovery, which has been damaged by the use of alcohol, both in humans and animals. Research in his laboratory found that stimulating the marijuana receptors restores neurogenesis. Hence, alcohol is worse for the brain as compared to marijuana. Reiman, A. (2009). Cannabis as a Substitute for Alcohol and other Drugs. Harm Reduction Journal. December 3, 2009. Web. February 8, 2017 The writer, Amanda Reiman, who is a manager of marijuana law and policy at the Drug Policy Alliance California, has conducted research on the level of the harmfulness of different drugs including alcohol and marijuana. She has investigated the inclination of switching from one drug to another among the young adults and states that primary reasons behind shifting drugs among adults are perceived safety of the drug, level of addiction potential, access and level of acceptance and effectiveness in relieving symptoms. Writer discovered that marijuana is most popular drug to be shifted upon among all other drugs as it has a low level of addiction as compared to alcohol. It is easy to use and manage while having the good relieving effect. Findings state that 40% people use cannabis as a substitute, 26% as an illicit drug while 66% use as a replacement for prescribed drugs. Rehman 6 Researcher says that addictive alcohol patients are also likely to use marijuana in the western countries. Primary reasons for shifting to patients to cannabis are fewer side effects and withdrawal potential and better symptom management. She states that although cannabis or marijuana is far less harmful than alcohol and other illicit drugs, however, it is still harmful to be shifted upon for medical purposes. Short, M. (2015). 7 Facts that Prove Alcohol is Way more dangerous than Marijuana. Salon. July 8, 2015. Web. February 8, 2017 The author, M. Short, who is a yoga teacher and part-time worker at AlterNet as editor, writes about the seven facts that prove that alcohol is anyway more dangerous than marijuana, both in the case of mental as well as physical health. He claims that no significant case of marijuana users linked to traffic accidents, domestic violence or cancer are reported, yet it is illegal. And alcohol is legal while bearing all physical, mental and social ills. While comparing both drugs, the writer describes that 37,000 annual deaths reported in America are caused by alcohol, while marijuana is not fatal. Secondly, overdosing alcohol is even more fatal, but excessive use of marijuana does not result in a death as it is the mild and manageable drug. Thirdly, the health-related cost of alcohol is $165 per users as compared to $20 per user of marijuana in America. Fourthly, alcohol is more dangerous for the brain as it blocks its thinking and memory part. Marijuana does not harm the brain physically. Fifthly, it is also medically proved fact that alcohol causes cancer of stomach, liver, pancreas and lungs. In this case, excessive use of marijuana sometimes causes bronchitis and cough, but it does not result in cancer. Lastly, alcohol is more addictive, and 36% of reported hospitalized Rehman 7 assaults and injuries are associated with alcohol. Marijuana is neither addictive nor overcomes the users to commit any assault or injury. Hence, discussion proves that alcohol is all the way more dangerous than marijuana.