Leon 1 Carlos Leon Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 018 January 29, 2017 Reconsidering the Drinking Age That oh nefarious drink which charms all into stupidity; that same drink which never fails to fuel fun times ad infinitum - alcohol. Here in the United States of America, due to the Minimum Drinking Age Act prohibit persons under 21 years of age from purchasing or publicly possessing alcoholic beverages as a condition of receiving State highway (APIS, 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act). As highway funding is needed for expanding and maintaining highways, both very costly activities, no state refused to pass laws raising the drinking age thereby creating the modern status quo. These circumstances then gave rise to Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD)- a nonprofit, well known organization that pushed strongly for the minimum drinking age of 21 and maintains that stance to this day. On other hand, we have The National Youth Rights Association (NYRA). They formed as a counter to the new strict laws placed around young adult drinking, and since then have argued for a lower minimum drinking age. However, simply lowering the legal drinking age does nothing to curb the drinking related accidents like the fatal alcohol powered car accidents that started the MADD campaigns, all things considered, a lower drinking age would cause an immediate increase in drinking related accidents. Yet, manipulating the drinking age is not the only way create safer roads; instead, raising minimum sentencing laws and fines for drunk driving, and providing Leon 2 police officers with a monetary bonus for each driver caught could create even safer roads then currently exist and allow for a lower minimum drinking age of 18. The NYRA is group committed to first-class citizenship to its young (NYRA, Our Mission). They are grassroots movement who seeks to setup chapters and work with politicians to persuade the public to lower the voting age, the drinking age, and remove curfew laws. They are mostly concerned with youth rights in general: aiming to empower and instruct young people to protect and know their rights. They also work to get and presidents and chancellors to sign off on the Amethyst Initiative- an initiative to the drinking (Amethyst Initiative, Welcome to the Amethyst Initiative). The NYRA argues that an adult- a person aged 18 and above- who can fight and die for their country as well as vote to change it should be allowed to drink. An adult- a person determined to be fully responsible for their actions- should be allowed to drink. Furthermore, not allowing someone to drink otherwise is unjustly taking rights away from the youth. On the other hand, MADD quite simply aims to drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes, and prevent underage (MADD, our mission). In the past led by founder Candy Lighter- an impassioned victim of drunk driving herself- they successfully raised of the dangers of driving while that effected the drop-in fatalities since the (Abolish Drunk Driving Laws, Radley Balko). MADD is primarily concerned with the health of youths and adults. They find 18 to be too young an age for youths to drink. Moreover, they advocate that than 25,000 lives have been saved in the U.S. thanks to the 21-minimum legal drinking (MADD, Addressing underage Drinking). MADD currently works to further educate youths about the dangers of drinking, and criminalize drunk driving and underage drinking further. They argue alcohol consumption for Leon 3 youths is dangerous for their developing brains, and, when they get into a car, dangerous to everyone else. History shows that during pre-prohibition most states simply did not have any laws prohibiting alcohol sale or use by minors. In fact, Wisconsin, Washington, South Carolina, New York, New Jersey, and Arkansas are the only confirmed states to have had any laws regarding alcohol. Post-prohibition most states had laws effectively limiting the drinking age to 21 while does who did not had it at set to 18 or 19 usually specifying the alcohol type or content for that age. After the 26 th amendment, most states felt that a person who could fight and die for his country and vote to change it should also be able to drink alcohol. In total 12 states maintained 21 as a minimum, 9 states restricted only liquor for 21 and above, while the rest lowered their minimum drinking age to 18 and 19. Then came the Minimum Drinking Age act in 1984 which maintains its effect to date (OMICS International, U.S history of alcohol minimum purchase age by state). Further consider that post the Minimum Drinking Age Act that drinking decrease overall in ages from 18 to 25 and vehicle crashes decreased overall. From a modern standpoint, both groups can find the roots of their arguments in emotions created during these times. The NYRA feels that they had rights taken away because rights were taken away, and MADD feels that they were justified in doing so because underage drinking was a problem and the number agree. Both groups cite Europe as a prime example. The Prevention Research Center explains that European teens spend more time intoxicated than Americans (Bettina Frieze and Joel W. Grube, Youth Drinking Rates and Problems: A Comparison of European Countries and the United States). However, being drunk is not the same as driving drunk. A study by the World Health Organization confirmed that Americans do drink less than Europeans, but die more from Leon 4 alcohol-related causes (WHO, Global status report on alcohol and health). While MADD claims that statements such as have fewer underage drinking is a myth, the data does not support this viewpoint. On the other hand, the NYRA observes that the clear majority of countries in the world, not just Europe, have a legal drinking age of 18. The implied argument asserts that the U.S. is being unnecessarily strict when compared to the rest of the world. While the data shows that Europeans dies less from alcohol related causes it makes no prediction of the harshness of American laws, and no statements determining if Europe is different because of the Minimum Drinking Age. The NYRA viewpoint is not supported by the data either. Of course, neither the NYRA nor MADD makes any concessions in their argument. Both groups remain fixated, the NYRA maintains that a responsible adult at 18 should drink at 18. An argument MADD offers no counter to. However, the NYRA is just as guilty of ignoring the other side. They make no mention of the fact that the brains logic center (frontal- lobes) to mature well into the (Sara B. Johnson, Adolescent Maturity and the Brain: The promise and Pitfalls of Neuroscience Research in Adolescent Health Policy). Moreover, the NYRA does not try to appeal to the fact that lowering the drinking age could have great negative implications such as a spike in alcohol related deaths. However, a legal drinking age set above the legal adulthood age- the age at which one is responsible for their own actions- is an infringement on personal liberty even if it is set was set with the best intentions. The clear majority of drunk driving accidents are caused by people who can legally drink (NHTSA, Alcohol-Impaired Driving 2014 data, page 4). Thus, if MADD aims to make the roads a safer place they should be not be looking at underage drinkers nor should they be hung on the idea that taking the right to drink from 18-year is necessary to making roads safer. In the same manner, the NYRA should realize they cannot just lower the drinking age as it would cause spike Leon 5 in drinking related incidents; they need to do more. By increasing police presence, making stiffer fines, and reworking minimum sentence laws we can both make the roads safer and give back 18-year their legal right to drink as adults. Specifically speaking, drunk driving should remain illegal regardless of who is driving. The fines placed on drunk drivers should be made harsher. The system should change into a zero tolerance one were the first DUI guarantees a minimum prison sentence with a steep fine, and the second one a prison sentence up to 5 years with an even steeper fine. For people who commit accidents while driving, the sentence and fine will be multiplied exponentially and be forced to pay for all damages- health and mental as well- to the other party regardless insurance or not. Police can be offered a monetary reward to encourage them to net let anyone off easy. This new system will create even safer roads- along with achieving MADD and the goal. Leon 6 Works Cited Madd. MADD - Why  MADD - Why 21. MADD, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Drinking  National Youth Rights Association. NYRA, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Friese, Bettina, and Joel W. Grube. Youth Drinking Rates and Problems: A Comparison of European Countries and the United States. N.p.: Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, n.d. PDF. Alcohol-Impaired  National Institutes of Traffic Safety Administration. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Sara B., Robert W. Blum, and Jay N. Giedd. Adolescent Maturity and the Brain: The Promise and Pitfalls of Neuroscience Research in Adolescent Health  The Journal of adolescent health : official publication of the Society for Adolescent Medicine. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Sept. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S. History of Alcohol Minimum Purchase Age by  U.S. History of Alcohol Minimum Purchase Age by State Open Access Articles Open Access Journals Conference Proceedings Editors Authors Reviewers Scientific Events. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Initiative, Amethyst. Amethyst  Amethyst Initiative Welcome to the Amethyst Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Global Status Report on Alcohol and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization, 2011. Www.who.com. World Health Organization. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.