Leon 1 Carlos Leon Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 018 February 26, 2017 Madd: Drink then Die Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) are well known and respected non-profit organization. Founded in the by Candace Lighter a victim of a DUI hit-and-run that killed her daughter, they have fought tooth and nail to sway public opinion in their favor- to great effect. Since their inception, they claim to have successfully reduced the toll by more than (Madd- History of Drunk Driving). An impressive feat no doubt, but a highly suspicious feat as well. A habitual and mental change in the entire United States Population of more than 50 percent accomplished by raising awareness points to some sort of perfect marketing strategy- fear. MADD uses advertainments to incite fear in people about the danger of drunk driving. MADD has been around for 37 years now. At this point their credibility, their ethos, comes from themselves. MADD make use of the respect people have for them in order to make them to implicitly believe what they say. Consider the first image (image1). When the reader read it takes a family of four to stop a drunk and then see the front half of a car in tatters the reader assume things. The reader recognizes and thus trust MADD. The reader assume that car came from an actual drunk driver smashing into a car carrying a family of four. When the reality is that, no one know. That car could have just as easily come from a junkyard or a sober accident. Moreover, even though the car is buckled over there is no Leon 2 evidence showing there having been any sort of person inside. Image1 also tells nothing of the current health of the supposed people inside; they could have been just fine after all. Yet, a reader, or -since this is a highway side billboard -a driver, will believe the assumption. When the driver sees boldly printed in the lower right hand corner as though it is approving the message, they trust. That is because it is from MADD. They know MADD, they trust MADD not to lie to them. After all, MADD fights for safer roads which benefits everyone- why would they lie? The driver does realize that this is an oxymoron; people lie because they will be believed. And because they believe, they take the crashed car at face value and fear for their car and their family. The use of themselves as their own ethos can be seen in the second image (image2) as well. Image2 shows a girl drinking from a glass bottle while holding her keys in the same hand with the shadow having a gun in placed in her mouth. Readers will once again trust what they see due to printed in the lower right corner approving the message. However, here MADD goes one step further. Image1 included a in their statement, no such thing can be found here. The reader sees the glass bottle and assumes beer bottle, assumed the keys mean she will drive, and assumes the gun means suicide. The logic taken at face value by a trusting reader means they will believe that drinking and driving is always the same as committing suicide. This logic is simply black and white fallacy. The girl can drink and drive and get home just fine. Drinking and Driving does not automatically mean suicide- there is a whole spectrum of possible cases. Moreover, all people who drink and hold their keys do not drive. Assuming so is a hasty generalization. Yet, the drive trusts in MADD and takes the logic in as is. Leon 3 All people have felt fear at some point in their lives. However, people do not relate to fear directly; instead they relate to the things that cause fear. This is appeal to pathos. Image1 makes two appeals to pathos. The first is the of part of the statement. Here a driver is reminded of their own family, their children, their parents, those people who have strong ties with the driver. The fear of losing a precious family member kicks in, and the driver worries for his family; after all, most drivers do not want their family to be the family which stops the drunk driver. If the car contains more than one person, then the driver become more conscious about them. He does not want to be the family that stops the drunk driver either so worries for himself. On the other hand, drivers who have driven drunk feel guilt, shame, and fear upon seeing that statement. The statement makes them recognize that they could be the drunk driver to top the of Even though this is an appeal to pity because it relies on the fear produced by the images it does nothing to weaken the persuasive power of the pictures. The second appeal lies is the tattered car itself. Since drivers will likely be the ones who see the advertainment, it can be safe to say that they are in a car. And most drivers do not want their car to end up like the tattered car. Even though this is a sweeping generalization fallacy- his supposed crashed car might be just get a ding or a small bump instead. They fear for their own car when they recognize that there are cars all around them and one of them could be driven by a drunk driver. The fear for loosing someone precious, the fear of dying, and the fear of losing car makes appeal to emotions very powerful. The pathos in image2 is directed towards a specific audience- parents. Image2 implies that drinking and driving is the same as committing suicide. And it is adults who worry the most about teen suicide. The parents of young children worry about the future they will have. Parents worry about how, where, why, and with whom their children will drink. Patents worry about Leon 4 what would happen if they hit someone while drunk or, worse, if they are hit by a drunk driver. By making parents fear for their future they become motivated to cause change. Similarly, the parents of teenage children become worry about what their children are doing, whether they drink, and how do they so. Parents do not want their children to commit suicide, thus they become motivated to hate alcohol, hate drunk drivers, and ultimately this is the change that MADD wants. This is perhaps the most slippery slope, where drinking and driving will yield suicide, but the arguments persuasiveness is strong. The appeal to logos is not the highlight of either image, but it does exist. Image1 explains that your car end in tatters if it was hit by a drunk driver. Any reasonably intelligent adult can tell you actions have consequences. And while a specific car might not end up specifically like image1 portrays, it does not change the fact that it could. Moreover, on the highway a driver has no way to tell if the driver beside them or behind them is drunk. Therefore, image1 explains that there is an inherent uncertainty when driving regarding the state of other drivers. This uncertainty is the basis for fear MADD wants to instill inside the driver. Image2 appeals to the same age old saying have If every action has a consequence, then drinking and driving must have one as well. While logically speaking suicide is an extreme conclusion it is still a probable conclusion. It is therefore not wrong to assume that the path to suicide can be laid out in a drunk driving. Both are weak arguments that draw on hasty generalizations about a specific case regarding the car in image1 and the girl in image2 but are not altogether removed from reality. The appeal to Kairos in both images is the same- immediate change. Image1 is likely to be seen from the highway where upon being seen the driver will immediately question their boldly state and the state of those around him. If the driver is not drunk, then they will become Leon 5 more aware of those around them; perhaps they will move to the middle lane and watch the traffic around them more carefully. On the other hand, if the drive is drunk they will fear for the possibilities. They have been called upon to not commit a tragedy, and they are if they agree, then they must leave the highway and get out of the car. Either way the call is for immediate action. Image2 is the same. A parent has been called upon to avoid a tragedy. If the parent agrees, then they must locate their teenage children and make sure they are sober. If the parent has no teenage children, then they must now consider how to properly raise their child. In either case if the change is not immediate then the worst-case scenario becomes more likely. MADD raises awareness. Using fear, they persuade people to restrict alcohol usage, minimum age drinking laws, and now want every DUI offender to have an ignition interlock on their car (About drunk driving). With public opinion in their favor they can become their own source of credibility to the effect of persuading emotions over their logic to push them to act now. To do this they implant a seed of fear inside people using carefully constructed advertainment. Leon 6 Image1 Image2 Leon 7 Works Cited MADD - About Drunk  MADD: No more Victims. MADD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Community-Coalition on Drug  Coalition - MADD. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. MADD Ad Campaign  9 Lives Design. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. MADD- History If Drunk  MADD: No More Victims. MADD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.