Mohammad 1 Esmaeel Mohammad Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Banning Cigarettes or Just Specific Places People want a world free from tobacco and cigarettes, they want fresh air free from pollution but it is easier said than done. That is why banning cigarettes in a country is really hard, so some people are coming up with solutions to ban it in specific places. Just like University of South Florida, they made the campus a smoke free and much more universities did the same thing. It is to keep the people safe from second hand smoke, and it helps the people who smoke quit cigarettes. But for some this is not enough, they believe it should be banned because of the diseases that it contains and from the people who had died from it. That is why organizations have been made to help the world become smoke free, but this solution would be a long-term it would take years for the world to become smoke free. Action on Smoking and Health is an organization that wants to ban the cigarettes worldwide. British American Tobacco is a company that sells cigarettes more than 200 brands in over 200 markets. Millions of people are addicted to cigarettes so banning it a solution, but banning the cigarettes in specific places such as indoors is a solution. Action on Smoking and Health is an organization that wants to ban cigarettes, they want an end to tobacco because of the diseases that it contains; it has been killing thousands/millions of people each year. They want to educate the public and track tobacco industry, to make the world a smoke free. Since 2017 is the 50 th year for their Mohammad 2 organization, their goal is to set their sight to a tobacco free world. The organization are not the only people who believe that cigarettes should be banned. The author Tony Newman who wrote Commentary: why not prohibit also believes that cigarettes should be banned. Newman mentions in his paper that cigarettes kill more than illegal drugs each years, such as cocaine and heroin. He also stakes that people have been fired from their jobs because they could not quit cigarettes. have seen parents denied adoption rights if they from what he said, some cities are taking cigarettes very seriously as if it is an illegal drug. In 2006 the drug policy alliance made a poll whether cigarettes should be banned in 10 years, 45% voted yes, but it is know 2017 and cigarettes are still not banned. But we saw some improvements, universities, bars and restaurants made it smoke free. For example in the country Kuwait, few years back in the malls people could smoke everywhere, then the malls made a designated smoking area. And in 2015 it is illegal to smoke in the mall and if some people do they would be finned 50 Kuwaiti dinars, which is approximately $165 US dollars. Authors Maja Lykke, Charlotta Pisinger and Charlotte Glumer wrote Ready for a goodbye to the article talks about Denmark and how they have raised the taxes for tobacco, to help a ban for cigarettes. This is another solution to help people quit cigarettes, by raising the taxes, and in the future less people would smoke and it may lead to a ban. They asked people if they supported the increased tax on cigarettes and more than 50% of the people supported it, but not a lot of people agreed on banning cigarettes only 30% of the people agreed the rest did not. Authors Douglas Luke, Kurt Ribisl, Caron Smith and Amy Sorg wrote Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control in this article they talked about how the tobacco industry faced FDA rules that they could Mohammad 3 not put advertisements near schools and they might face a ban on their advertisements near urban areas. Which is a good thing, so the kids and teenagers see these advertisements every day when going to school, if they do it might lead to numbers of students to try cigarettes, and little do they know, they would be addicted to it. This rule was faced in Missouri and New York, since these places have mix of urban and rural areas. British American Tobacco is a company that helps to sell cigarettes in over 55 countries 55 countries they are founded in 1902. In 2015 British American Tobacco have sold 663 billion cigarettes, they help selling tobacco brands such as Dunhill, Kent, Lucky strike and much more. They also employ 50 thousand people worldwide, they work with over 90 thousand farmers to help them get tobacco since they sell fine cut, which is your own Even though they are a company that helps selling cigarettes they are trying to reduce smoking related diseases and help the smokers. Banning cigarettes may cause a lot of issue, smoker feel that they have the right to smoke. That is why there are other solutions for cigarettes, but banning it is not a solution. It is a step by step; just how Denmark raised the taxes on cigarettes other countries should do the same thing. And then they could ban their commercials, so they do not let teenagers and kids watch it since they might get influenced by it, and in 20 years we would probably see a world were there is only few people who smoke. But say that cigarette gets banned in 6 months, what will happen. The would probably rise, because they are smoking cigarettes and it is illegal. Prison would be over populated because some people could not quit this bad habit. People would hide in public or in their homes just to smoke one cigarette. We would see that people would sell Mohammad 4 cigarette in black market and it would be very expensive, smokers who have never thought that one day they will be in dark web (black market websites), would go on it just to buy a pack of cigarettes. United States would probably build more prisons since there will be more criminals which will cost them millions of dollars. United States are getting millions of dollars from cigarette taxes, if cigarettes were to be banned the economy of the United States would decrease drastically. Also banning cigarettes could lead to protests that could be violent and cause chaos. But if it does get banned, there will not be any pollution, people would be much more healthier weather they used to smoke or not. Cancer and much more diseases would reduce world wide and probably even deaths. Even though lots of people believe that cigarettes should be banned, but as mentioned in the last paragraph that banning cigarettes may cause a huge problem in United States. But there are other solution for non smokers and solutions for people to quit cigarettes, also by doing these solution the future kids will be less likely to start smoking cigarettes. In Northern states the cigarettes prices are higher which influences the people there to consider alternatives to smoking or quitting all at once, if all the states do the same thing we would see most of the people start smoking less since they wont be able to offered it especially high school and college students. Mohammad 5 Work Cited Luke, Douglas A., et al. Family Smoking Prevention And Tobacco Control Act: Banning Outdoor Tobacco Advertising Near Schools And  American Journal Of Preventive Medicine 40.3 (2011): 295- 302. PsycINFO. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Lykke, Maja, Charlotta Pisinger, and Charlotte Glumer. Ready For A Goodbye To Tobacco? -- Assessment Of Support For Endgame Strategies On Smoking Among Adults In A Danish Regional Health  Preventive Medicine (2016): 5. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Newman, Tony. Why not prohibit CNN (2009): Web. 24 Jan. 2017. ASH > Action on Smoking &  ASH Action on Smoking Health. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. UK bat.com 2014 - British American  British American Tobacco. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.