Echeverry 1 Alejandro V. Echeverry Professor Philips Comp. ii 28 January 2016 Message to the World Since 1851 Dole has been in business in the famous chain of islands, Hawaii, growing pineapples on the islands (Dole). A pair of Boston men founded this company when they set up a trade network in Hawaii. From these two men this multibillion dollar company has flourished and now has many roots in many places. This company has grown to become one of the largest fruit producing companies (Dole). For a company to get this large it must have a persona that appeals to as many people as possible, without turning away or offending others. This has caused Dole to really have a very specific message it want to send to people, this message is evident in these two images used by Dole to advertise. In both these images Dole wants the audience feel good and an aura of positivity and health behind both images. In the first image they relay this through the use of all the bright color appealing looking food along with the idealistic picnic with a perfect looking family. Within the second image there is an appeal again to pathos were you see a what is implied to be a mother and daughter having a light hearted conversation, this can relay images of positivity and warmth, touching on family appeals and positive environment. Echeverry 2 Generally speaking advertisements are used to send a message the company wants people to associate with the company. Dole is no different in this first image Dole really appeals to pathos with the picture perfect picnic with what seems to be the picture perfect family. Dole wants to send a message that makes the audience happy to see and retrieves positive familiar family based memories (Heath 4). This is done exceeding well with the use of a newborn child and two young happy parents, the image really uses this concept to make the audience which are all prospective buyers want to choose Dole over other companies because of the emotions people will feel and associate with Dole through these ads. Both of the parents are also gazing at the child, this could also convey a very deep message where Dole attempts to use this technique to associate the pinnacle of happiness such as a child to two brand new parents with the Dole brand. On top of the family scene set up there is also the background which as a photographer is easy to understand why Dole chose this background (Sobieszek 17). The background has a myriad of vibrant colors which may not seem like much but subconsciously the audience sees bright green pastures and a beautiful blue sky and this really combines itself well with the foreground to convey Dole real message which is positivity and health. As a company Dole wants to really make itself as appealing to buyer as it can so if its advertising can make the audience associate positivity and a healthy lifestyle with the brand name Dole their goal will be reached (Sobieszek 9). Given these points, the second images has its own features which really do send the same message as well as adding a factor appealing specifically to the family values between a mother and daughter. Taking a look into the composition of the image you can see both of Echeverry 3 the subjects in the image enjoying themselves and laughing. Something the audience can relate with memories of their families and the enjoyable times spent with our family members. The images background is also blurred out but it also consists of a nice environment in the city. They cope this with the foreground and their wardrobe chosen very carefully to tell a story that most people can relate too (Sobieszek 32). In the image the subjects are both wearing jackets as if chilly outside and drinking what seems to be warm beverage of some kind, this really set the audience up for a specific mood to follow the subjects through. It leads the audience to the idea that they went out for walk and now have delved into a lighthearted enjoyable conversation with her mother that really is something a lot of people can relate to. Having a genuine conversation with their mother about something enjoyable has a multitude of positive emotions associated with it (Heath 16). Comparatively both images really work on the concept of associating heavy family based pathos in their advertising photos so that the audience associates family, health, and positive feelings with the name Dole, this can be seen in many ways in both the images. The first image does this through the use of the happy family and the lush green background mixed with the happy expressions and vibrant (Sobieszek 13). The second image does this by using hints and features specifically handpicked by the photographer to tell this story, from the wardrobe to the setting, to the props used by both individuals and their facial expressions. Both images are very generic as well as to be able to apply to everyone and not leave any groups left out. Leaving very distinct generic setting that everyone can relate to allowing for their message to affect the largest possible pool of people in their images. Both appeal to an family and the warmth and familiarity that are associated with them (Sobieszek 7). Essentially high jacking the audiences already established memories and associations and throwing in the Dole Company in Echeverry 4 with those feelings and associations. By doing this it is a direct attack on the subconscious mind of the audience members essentially trying to indoctrinate the Dole brand into our category for warmth, comfort, familiarity and family. This is extremely effective for Dole because now the audience will always prefer Dole to other food producers because of this advertising technique allowing Dole mission and goal as a company to be reached. Their goal, essentially is being the dominate food producer and maximizing sales and expanding globally as much as possible (Heath 7). Which is done extremely well with generic scene which anyone from around the world can relate to and ideas of family that everyone around the world no matter what culture they partake in can really still associate with subconsciously. All things considered, Dole advertising team did a spectacular job in the composition of these images. Dole main goal is to appeal to as many people as possible. Dole approached this situation by appealing to the pathos through their family connections and symbolism. The family connection allows for everyone to associate Dole with memories of their family which are familiar and warm, something people are comfortable with. The symbolism behind the colors in the first image allow for the mood to be set with vibrant healthy colors. The second images relies more on props and the foregrounds composition to tell a story that the audience subconsciously develops. These both achieve the same goal and try to make Dole, which is the multibillion dollar company, seem almost relatable to. The facial expressions in both images also are always positive and convey happiness. Both images are trying to make Dole seem familiar appealing and warm. This allows Dole to use these two images to up sales and seem like the superior food producer to the rest. Echeverry 5 Work Cited  Dole. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Heath, Robert. Seducing the subconscious: The psychology of emotional influence in advertising. John Wiley & Sons, 2012. Sobieszek, Robert A. The art of persuasion: a history of advertising photography. Harry N Abrams Inc, 1988.