Foster 1 Wesley Foster Bob Botkin ENC 1102 28 February 2017 Should Collegiate Athletes Be Paid? Even though there is the argument that student athletes should be paid to play, there is a more intelligent reason as to why they should not be. For example, only the main sports like Football and Basketball turn any sort of profit year after year while the University is having to fund less popular sports that are not as exciting to watch. The ultimate goals for the stakeholder in favor of not paying NCAA athletes is to have them be students first and athletes second. College universities, especially at the Division I, II, or III level are all very competitive and give out scholarships which is the main reason why the student attends the university in the first place. These lucky few that are able to go to college completely paid for have no worries pertaining to how they will be eating or sleeping because all that is covered when they signed their national letter of intent to whatever university scouted them out of high school. Another bonus that these student athletes take for granted is that they will not have any student loans to pay off after college. This is truly amazing being that almost all these student athletes have thought about going pro at some point after earning a diploma. The two images clearly represent the opposing viewpoints between the stakeholders of the NCAA vs College athletes. It goes without saying that if student athletes were to start being paid to play tens of thousands of dollars annually, then they will become complacent in their studies which would affect their more severe than any injury. Foster 2 The NCAA or the National Collegiate Athletic Association is a non-profit organization which manages athletes of over 1,100 colleges and universities at the Division I, II, and III level. Their main goal is to have student athlete success on the field, in the classroom and for the rest of these lives. The success of this program goes without saying to be involved in all collegiate sports not pertaining to a particular sport. than $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships are distributed each year along with access to medical care, academic support services and first-class training (NCAA). It truly is surprising to think about how much money and commitment is put into these athletes and yet they still are not satisfied. These student athletes are not professional athletes no matter how good they think they are or how good their stats are every season. Professional athletes are paid a salary because organizations like the NFL, NBA, and MLB to name a few are the finest and most elite athletes in the world. They have gone up the ladder from little league, to high school, to college, and are now doing what they love and are even getting paid to compete in professional sports. It is every dream to be able to make money playing sports one day due to the fact that you do not even consider it as work. The benefits are unlike any other. From annual salaries of millions of dollars, to driving around in the fanciest cars with the most beautiful women by their side, and finally having die-hard fans spend their own money purchasing memorabilia with your name and number on it. The image of the basketball player graduating from college with his books thrown off to the side and money stacked on top of it shows the end result as to what would occur if student athletes earned an annual salary. On the other hand, student athletes may still not agree with the NCAA since they feel they put in hours of hard word on a daily basis and for what? These student athletes must be unaware of all the benefits they already receive from the moment they step foot onto a college Foster 3 campus. To reiterate, the room and board, the tuition, the meal plans, and the equipment is all funded by the school athletics, so these athletes already have it better than regular every day students on campus when it comes to financials. This debate on whether or not college athletes should be paid to play has been more frequent in recent years. There are enough stakeholders for each side and there is more than enough reliable information and articles that describe the feelings towards these student athletes being paid to play or not. The second image shows the side that student athletes are all work and no pay. Again a basketball player is pictured wearing a jersey titled with a NCAA representative on his shoulders. This representative from the NCAA is on the big side holding a trophy labeled profits with cash pouring out screaming all in this The look on the face of the student athlete shows pathos (appeal to emotion) because it looks to the audience as in his hard work on the court everyday goes to nothing because he is not being paid for his time. This is the wrong way to think about this image due to the fact that all the benefits like previously stated put these student athletes on a pedestal against other students on campus. Only the best move on to the next level and compete every day and earn a salary off of it. Student athletes should worry less about not getting paid while they are in college and use that as momentum and drive in order to one-day sign that million-dollar contract. To conclude, the argument as to whether or not college athletes should be paid to play is still discussed every upcoming basketball and football season. Students are able attend high major universities because they are associated and skilled at a certain sport. If that student athlete was not involved or a part of a sports team, they would just be considered regular students and they would not be at such an inclined university. Paying student athletes would come with a major cost to universities because there just is not enough money to fund every single sport and Foster 4 still be able recruit kids and give them scholarships. Also, it be fair to the sports that are less popular or for female teams so there would be a huge dilemma within the sports world at the collegiate level. Students are not professional athletes who are paid salaries and incentives for a career in sports. They are students receiving access to a college education through their participation in sports, for which they earn scholarships to pay tuition, fees, room and board, and other allowable expenses. Collegiate sports are not a career or (Mitchell). These student athletes chose to participate in sports while they are in college but that also means that they need to balance both. If you slip up and do not pass a class, then you go on academic probation which means you are not allowed to play for the next upcoming semester. It truly is a hard life being a college athlete even though the ceiling is so high for them and all the benefits make them seem above everyone else on campus. People need to understand that if student athletes started getting paid to play, the consequences would be detrimental to all universities across the nation and the NCAA and programs that fund collegiate sports would be destroyed. Foster 5 Works Cited Academy, U.S. Sports. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  The Sport Journal. N.p., 31 Jan. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. McCauley, Kieran. College Athletes Be  Daily Local News. Daily Local News, 28 Apr. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Mitchell, Horace. Students Are Not Professional  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 06 Jan. 2014. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.