Santos 1 Arturo Santos ENC 1102-093 2/26/17 Kristen Rouisse War Between Mosquitos: Oxitec and Their Genetically Modified Mosquitos Earth, the community hosting a multitude of organisms including ourselves, bears more than just beauty. The most worthwhile dangers of the outside world are silent and inconspicuous. The mosquito is regarded as the deadliest organism in the world. The mosquito transmits several diseases, many of which can kill, including malaria. Just malaria alone in just one region in Africa can kill millions per year (Snow et al., 624). Oxitec, a British biotechnology company, plans to lower and possibly even eliminate the population of the mosquitos that transmit deadly diseases (Oxitec). Oxitec employs many images and their rhetorical appeals to win as much public support as possible for their experiments. Two of these images appeal to logic (logos), ethics (ethos), emotion (pathos), and timeliness (kairos) as a way to advertise their experiment. The first image uses logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos to convince the audience that their genetic experiments should be implemented, and therefore increase public support. The second uses ethos and pathos to achieve the same goal. website contains many images, with the majority including facts and statistics about the methods they plan to use. specific method is to add a gene to male mosquitos that cause their offspring to die in the adult stage. Many insects use pheromones to attract mates; usually the female emits the pheromone while the male searches. Oxitec plans to Santos 2 take advantage of the female-seeking behavior by modifying males to have the gene and releasing them to go find mates (Oxitec). intention to release them in the Florida Keys sparked controversy. Petitions were made expressing concern of the unintended effects of these GM mosquitos. images try to convince the audience that the methods will save many lives, and perhaps even eliminate mosquito-borne diseases entirely (Oxitec). The first image outlines the statistics, history, spread, and the consequences of the mosquito-borne Zika virus. This main mode of rhetorical appeal is logos, or the appeal to logic. The harboring of numerous facts and statistics exemplify this rational part of the rhetoric. The most notable example is the use of a timeline to indicate the Zika progression, along with several statistics. The timeline indicates the infection and spread of the Zika virus and the public response to that spread in an interval of time. For instance, the image denotes April 2014, 66% of the general population was (Oxitec). The appeal to logic gives the audience a sense of how effective and important methods are, and they may side with Oxitec and support them. The image also uses the rhetorical appeal kairos, or the appeal to timeliness. The appeal to timeliness would encourage the audience to act quickly with hopes of adopting or supporting the host policies. The kairos appeal this image employs is derived from one of the sections in the timeline labeled that explain what the Zika virus could do in the future. Oxitec claims that key factors in several cities may combine to produce a Zika outbreak (Oxitec). This may provoke people to sense the urgency of the Zika virus and immediately welcome methods of eliminating its vector, the mosquito. Ethos, or the appeal to ethics or credibility of the source, is also utilized by the image. The advertisement directly states that approach of controlling the mosquito population Santos 3 is supported by the international agency World Health Organization (WHO) and the CDC (Oxitec). This enhances credibility, as the WHO and CDC are well-reputable health- related agencies and their audience may take their side if the WHO and CDC are on their side as well. Pathos, or the appeal to emotion, is applied as well. The image contains a brief summary of the circumstances involving and supporting methods, writing that a tiny bite from an infected female Aedes aegypti mosquito can transmit Zika, for which there is no (Dyer, 2015). The emotion this statement commissions is enlightenment or awareness of the mosquito danger. Citizens may feel scared and concerned for themselves and other people. This rhetoric is effective because the audience may once again welcome methods to eliminate this fear. In fact, the whole advertisement is effective, upholding all the appeals: logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos to support goal to execute their experiment with as much public agreement as possible (Oxitec). The second image is different from the first, using less rhetorical appeals than the first. It uses mainly ethos and pathos, or the appeal to ethics/credibility and the appeal to emotion to obtain trust from the audience. Ethos is a large contributor to the goal of advertisement. The scientist holds up a container with the mosquitos in it, while wearing a lab coat that says on it. The lab coat, laboratory setting, and the scientist all attempt to persuade the audience that Oxitec has performed careful scientific experimentation to ensure their technology works. The image makes the scientist seem credible, and actually appear like a scientist. A person may generalize the credibility to the whole company and support the procedures, contributing to goals. Pathos is a secondary contributor to the rhetoric. The scientist featured in the image is wearing a lab coat, the containers are Santos 4 organized rather nicely in the room, and the scientist looks engaged in what he is doing. The audience may feel secure since the scientist seems to be doing a good job at performing his duties and ensuring the safety of procedures. The feeling of security will naturally draw the audience to goals. The rhetorical appeals this image provides may convince the public that their experiments will result in more favorable conditions for living, and intent to increase public support will be successful. As of November 2016, Oxitec has achieved their goal, and the GM mosquitos were released in the Florida Keys (Walker). Most of the counties voted for the release, except for two. The vote also functions at the city level. If one city voted against the experiments but the country voted yes, then Oxitec considers working with the FDA to find a release site away from the disagreeing city. Oxitec seems to have been quite successful in using rhetorical appeals in their favor. Evidently, the logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos harnessed by the two images contributed to goal of increasing public support for their experiments. Santos 5 Works Cited Dyer, Owen. Zika virus spreads across Americas as concerns mount over birth  BMJ (2015): h6983. Oxitec. Oxitec Ltd, 2002. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Snow, Robert W., et al. Estimating mortality, morbidity and disability due to malaria among non-pregnant  Bulletin of the World Health Organization 77.8 (1999): 624. Walker, Marley. Florida Votes to Release Millions of Zika-Fighting  Wired. Conde Nast, 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.