Bay Schook Kristen Rouisse Project 2 Intermediate Draft 2/20/17 Death With Dignity Act Over the last couple decades, the issue of physician-assisted suicide (PAS) has become one of the most controversial issues in the United States. It can be described as the act of a physician knowingly committing the act of suicide by providing medication to a patient. In 1997, a nonprofit organization called the Death With Dignity Act was created and gave people the right to die freely by PAS. The main proponents of assisted-suicide is that physicians have an obligation to relieve any pain that the patient is feeling, promote the dignity of dying patients, and have respect for the decisions patients choose towards their life (Lurie N,p). Patients usually choose to go forward with PAS mainly because of their intended future plans. The main stakeholder for assisted-suicide, Death With Dignity, represents both images below. The main goal for the organization is to allow certain qualified individuals to legally choose to end their life by a physician through the use of medication. This process is done in a slow and peaceful manner according to the organization (Death With Dignity N,p). The first image shown presents the type of people who do choose to go forward with PAS. The second image is one of Death With own photos and gives off an empowering message. Between both images, the main goal of Death With Dignity is to promote why PAS is not just considered a that dying with dignity is considered empowering when patients are terminally ill. Image 1 mainly shows the statistics of people who chose assisted suicide. It represents high percentages referring to the type of individuals who supported PAS. It also shows the logistics behind who and why people support PAS. The majority of people who chose this were 65 and older, white and well-educated, and also terminally ill with cancer. What this shows is that PAS is not for everyone, and there have to be certain requirements for it to be done. This image also is credible since it is coming from the Oregon Public Health Division where Death With Dignity is also a part of. Death With Dignity is authorized in not only in Oregon but also Washington, Vermont, California, and Colorado. Along with PAS being legal in only five states, there are other certain requirements that are needed for a patient to go through with assisted suicide. The person has to be an adult resident in any one of those states, mentally competent to make life-changing decisions, and terminally ill (Death With Dignity N,p). According to Guy Micco M.D., strict guidelines do prevent some patients from PAS (Jaret N,p). The logistics behind this image are evident; PAS may be legal in five states in America and people are given the option to die freely, but not everyone can ask for this procedure to be done. There have to be certain requirements for PAS. Physicians make this quite clear to a patient that approaches them with this request. The color of the image overall and the structure are quite simple, but are bright and stand out. The main focus of the image is the statistical information which then appeals to logic and reason. Although, it also focuses on timeliness in the sense that PAS is mostly directed towards specific individuals. PAS cannot be for everyone when requested, but it is offered in the states where it is legalized. The second image focuses on the empowering message located on the arm: me liberty in my This is one of the main statements a Death With Dignity advocate would support. The main idea behind Death With Dignity is that patients should be able to die by their own choice, under the circumstances. The clenching of the fist across the EKG line is a strong message but also suggests that patients should be given the option to choose death on their own terms. The hand across the red line shows strength and the ability to freely end life as it says on the wrist in the photo. It also represents that any strong-willed person may choose how they want to end their life. The large image of the hand and the EKG line stand out the most compared to the white background of the image. This photo also explains the argument towards PAS. The main reason why assisted suicide is such a controversial issue is mainly because of beliefs on it, and whether its morally right or wrong. Some people may look at this image and feel opposed to it, as it is morally wrong for a human to want to voluntarily end their own life. This has become one of the reasons why PAS is a major debate in the United States. Individuals against assisted suicide typically have a variety of has to why they do not support it. Most of these include religious views on assisted suicide, and the idea that humans should not have the ability to choose when to end their life. On the other hand, supporters of PAS may find this photo empowering. Referring to image 1, not all individuals are given the opportunity to through with assisted suicide. Typically, the people going forward with this process are diagnosed as terminally ill. Both of the images below present valid reasons as to why assisted suicide is ethical through the support of the Death With Dignity Organization. The main reason why PAS is legal in the five states in the U.S. is because of Death With Dignity. The organization allows individuals to freely make their own end-of-life decisions, main issue with legalizing PAS is that it is considered of being a Meaning that if assisted-suicide were to become legalized, then everyone would have access to to but that is not the case (Jaret N,p). The PAS law strictly promotes that individuals who are fatally ill and do not want to suffer anymore have the option to start the process of physician-assisted suicide. Death With main goal is to satisfy the individuals who are suffering and want peace and dignity with their death. Word Count: 1016 Image 1 Image 2 Works Cited  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Jaret, Peter. Physician-Assisted Suicide: Is It  BerkeleyWellness. N.p., 26 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Physician-Assisted Suicide -  Physician-Assisted Suicide - Introduction. Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.