Van Decker 1 John Van Decker Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102-909 27 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric world is dominated by the media. Images and videos are prevalent in advertising stances and allow individuals, companies and organizations to project their opinions forward into the world. Visual rhetoric is the use of images to convey messages and argue issues. Alpha Sigma Phi is a National Greek Letter Fraternity that is known as the 10 th oldest fraternity, and aims Better the (About us). In this issue, a National Greek Letter Organization (Fraternity), Alpha Sigma Phi was trying to get people to donate to their philanthropies. This movement was put forth by the passing of their 171 st Day. Alpha Sigma Phi successfully amassed a total of over $200,000 using effective advertising that utilized the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos and Kairos. Two images utilized these rhetorical appeals and helped greatly in allowing the fraternity to achieve this goal. Alpha Sigma Phi is a National Greek Organization founded on December 6 th , 1845 with the intent better the man through the creation and perpetuation of brotherhood founded upon the values of character: silence, charity, purity, honor, and Mission, and Alpha Sigma Phi (Alpha sig for short) has made strides in the Greek community, having five philanthropies representative of their values, and ensuring that every man that goes through the organization has been improved from the self that they started as when they came in. The organization has recently celebrated their 171 st Day, raising over $200,000 towards their five philanthropies and the organization. The organization currently has over 150 Van Decker 2 chapters and colonies in universities around the globe, being one of the largest Greek organizations based out of the United States. The first image was released a few days prior to the 171 st Day and utilizes a lot of ethos. Ethos is the appeal to credibility. Meaning that anything on the image that helps verify the information or position given is part of the rhetorical appeal. Elements of this photo that exude ethos are small but quite noticeable, such as the seal of Alpha Sigma Phi that is present in the center of the image. This element lets the reader know that this image is officially being released by Alpha Sigma Phi. This aspect is also present in the comments section of the post, showing the official account for Alpha Sigma Phi National has released the photo. Other elements of this photo that evoke ethos are the motto at the bottom Better the and the listing of the website where one could go to donate. These elements make the reader recognize how official the image released is. Along with ethos, pathos is another rhetorical appeal that is largely present in this photo. Pathos is the appeal to emotion, something that makes the reader or viewer feel something. Pathos can be represented by a specific image, color, or even a certain phrasing. Pathos in this first image is present in the grey and red that is predominant in the photo. Cardinal and Stone (Red and Grey), are representative of the five values of character: silence, charity, Van Decker 3 purity, honor, and patriotism Mission, and The small photos of the brothers are meant to create a sense of relatability which falls under pathos. To make the viewer see that this fraternity is made of genuine people and show that all chapters are connected. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness which is concentrated mostly around the wording of the of the released photo. Actions words and specific times are possible elements of this rhetorical appeal. In the first image, the caption is reflective of Kairos as it mentions the timing of the Founding date and challenges chapters and non-members to donate to the fund and the The second image was released on the actual founding date and further stresses the importance to donating the fund and congratulates the fraternity on staying around and continuing to grow for 171 years. Ethos in this image is established similarly to the previous image. The seal of Alpha Sigma Phi is placed in the center at the bottom of the ad, while elements such as the motto and the fact that this was posted on the official Instagram of the fraternity are present. Once again, these elements prove the credibility of the content being published. Pathos is the largest part of this image. Coloring in this image is representative of the colors and what they represent in terms of the values. The silhouette of the continent of North America has certain areas colored in red. This is meant to represent how large the organization has grown in the 171 years that they have been around. This makes Van Decker 4 those viewing feel a sort of sentimentality towards the organization and gives the public a look in to the outward progress made in that time. The statement in cardinal and stone lettering is meant to give the reader an idea of what the organization has been meaning to do. Like a sort of condensed progress report. The photos of the brothers, like in image 1 are meant to evoke a sense relatability showing that the organization is made of men who wish to bettered in every aspect of their own lives, through brotherhood and practicing the values and motto of the organization every day. The statement 171 years of is meant to describe how the bond between the members of this organization is very different from that which is present in other National Greek Letter Organizations. Image 2 utilizes mostly pathos to advertise the quality of the brotherhood and discuss the importance of Day to the viewer. While Pathos is most apparent in the image, there is a small amount of Kairos that lingers in the message that the message the picture is trying to convey to the viewer. 171 years of brotherhood, the message the picture depicts, is meant to give the viewer a perspective of how long the organization has existed. The caption to the photo on Instagram means to inform the viewer of the importance of the day. Kairos that is present in this image is meant to make the reader understand how time affects the organization both positively and negatively. Both Images goal is to promote the celebration of the 171 st Day of Alpha Sigma Phi, while also trying to get people to donate towards their organization and their five philanthropies, which like previously mentioned are representative of their values. While examining the images, it is apparent that both are effective to the goal that they wish to achieve. As the event that occurred is a past event, and the $200,000 was the goal originally set to beat, these ads have already been proven effective. Van Decker 5 Alpha Sigma Phi has done a great job with their campaign to raise money for their five philanthropies and have used effective advertising as well as visual rhetoric in their images to prove their points and generate support for donations to reach their goal. The ethos, pathos, and Kairos used in their images is extremely effective and gives the viewer reason, and need to act. In short, the images put out by Alpha Sigma Phi are effective in that they utilize the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, and Kairos to make a point and make the viewer act. Van Decker 6 Works Cited Mission, and Alpha Sigma Phi, http://alphasigmaphi.org/vision-mission-and- purpose. Accessed 30 January, 2017. Alpha Sigma Phi. Years of Bettering the World Through Better December 6, 2016. Instagram. Accessed February 27, 2017. Alpha Sigma Phi. Made a December 6, 2016. Instagram. Accessed February 27, 2017.