Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 March 4, 2017 The safety and regulation of GMO products. Currently, there exists two very different camps when it comes to the decisive issue of One side strongly for, and one side strongly against. No two stakeholders better show this fact that the pro GMO website Facts about and the strongly against GMO website Institute for Higher Technology. These two websites could not be more against each other when it comes to the topic of and perfectly symbolize two stake holders who seem to have nothing in common when looked at on the surface. But, with a deeper inspection, similarities between the two begin to develop. Both websites focus on which while seems basic, is important since that means they both have a vested interest in figuring out the best way to control the regulations concerning and protecting Both stakeholders care about the consumer, since they both are fighting so heavily for the right of GMO production. Finally, both care greatly about scientific studies, which are featured all over their websites and makes it easier to find a compromise between the two, which may seem difficult, but is much easier than it may first appear. Both stakeholders, by virtue, want the other stakeholder to be proved wrong, and would thus be ready at any chance to prove them wrong. While science may take the stance that are safe to use, many of the population in the world feel that more studies must be done in order to persuade the consumer to purchase them. The points of view that are taken from these two stakeholders are incompatible, however the compromise of regulations regarding can be implemented through the change of laws concerning the safety of the addition of a controlled study that both stakeholders can agree on, and the management of labels on GMO products. A huge development in the European Union in the was the introduction of laws governing the sale of which released some devastating consequences to the industry. As a result, two very specific camps came out with support either for or against While the usage of is generally thought of by the science community to be a good thing, the opposite side, against the production and usage of these products, remains adamant that they must be not used. While this may seem a bit crazy, an article called GMO War on (Koberstein, GMO War on argues against the usage of them, citing several different sources, including a professor from the University of Hawaii speaking out against them. The article speaks out against saying they induce the use of dangerous pesticides, and can lead to corruption, such as when a Monsanto director was appointed to the board of directors for the university of Hawaii and accepted a large donation of $620,000, and then silenced the professor speaking out against them (Koberstein, GMO War on This argument begins to take more and more shape, as does the opposing, pro-GMO, side. This side features tons of scientific studies, that if included in this paper, would stretch incredibly long. While this seems strange, one study compared many of them together. The study a statistical reanalysis and review of experimental data presented in some of these studies and found that quite often in contradiction with the conclusions the data actually provides weak evidence of harm that cannot be differentiated from (Panchin et all, Published GMO Studies Find No Evidence of Harm When Corrected for Multiple ), thus showing that many studies find that are, in fact, safe. An easy first compromise to these differences would be regulations that fit both needs. This regulation should include both views, as well as allow for money to be allocated for joint researching between the stakeholders, which is a secondary compromise. This research would have to be done with both viewpoint kept in check, and could have its employees, research study design, and everything else used in a study be controlled by both stakeholders equally. Finally, more labeling could be used on products containing alerting consumers to whether or not the product contains them, and the quantity in each product. This would compromise both stakeholders, since it would appease both sides into finally reaching a sensible solution to both problems they have with each other. Works Cited Admin. Institute for Responsible  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. The Facts About  The Facts About GMO. The Grocery Manufacturers Association, n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Koberstein, Paul. The GMO War on  Progressive, Jul/Aug2015, pp. 48-51. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=103602428&site=ehost-live. Panchin, Alexander Y. and Alexander I. Tuzhikov. Published GMO Studies Find No Evidence of Harm When Corrected for Multiple  Critical Reviews in Biotechnology, vol. 37, no. 2, Mar. 2017, pp. 213-217. EBSCOhost, doi:10.3109/07388551.2015.1130684.