Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 2 March 2017 Mental Illness or Strictly Mental? The debated topic on the treatment of depression has sustained a part in the lives of people all around the world who either suffer or know someone who is suffering from the mental disorder and there are many views surrounding the subject. There are two successful associations who are both advocates for mental health but in total opposite ways; one of which is called the Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) and other is the Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR). These two organizations are active stakeholders for their topic at hand from supporting and treating mental illnesses (ADAA) and the total opposite of not using mental illness as an excuse and protecting those affected by the mentally disabled (CCHR). While the two stakeholders are polar opposites in their missions, they both share the passion of helping others, teaching people about mental illnesses and wanting to put an end to the sickness all together and will have the ability to do so by connecting with a younger audience and advocating prevention so the illness never reaches an extreme case in the first place. The first stakeholder is called the Anxiety and Depression Association of America and their mission is to focus on refining the value of living for those with mental illnesses. From first being founded over 30 years ago, they have dedicated themselves to prevent, cure, support and research mental illness and why it starts in the first place (Roy-Bryne 5). Since that point on, they have treated numerous patients and are continuously transforming alongside the Student 1 advancements in technology and research that have allowed them to obtained more in-depth information on what mental illness is and where it sprouts from. Starting from the beginning, children display the warning signs of a future of mental illness and it is most important at that time to get help as soon as possible in order to protect them from future self-destruction. This pro-mental health advocacy association continues to help thousands of patients who provide them with a personal connection that allows them expand even further. Taking a look back at their 30 years of history, the Anxiety and Depression Association of America today has now found a way to relate with the children/millennials through connecting with them on the internet and giving them ways in which to prevent depression or stop it all together such as, Animals to Improve Mental and Habits to Combat (Cassiday). This reach toward the generation of advanced technology is allowing them to reach a whole new audience and help more people than ever before. The association prides themselves on telling real stories of successful treatments in order to ensure the validity of their treatment processes. Their focus on the people as well as the validity of their mission represents people of all ages bur there are those who believe the illness is actually an excuse in downfall and there is a much darker side to mental illnesses. In contrast to advocates for treating mental illness, the second stakeholder called the Citizens Commission on Human Rights have very conflicting views compared to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America. From the start of the group over 48 years ago, the mission for their organization is, eradicate abuses committed under the guise of mental (Szasz), and they are more directly focused on the majority of their victims who are mainly younger children and are snapped on by the parent. They are best known for challenging the norms of mental illness and providing explanations on what they believe to be true as well as Student 1 thrive off of donations from those affected by the mentally ill. Their controversial article names such as, Prescribing Psychiatric Drugs Becomes Reckless and Mass Drugging of Our Armed are widely effective in capturing the desired audience and leading them to want more (Szasz). Their bold viewpoints are boundless topics of controversy and they have been challenged from the beginning but it stopped their advocacy for protecting those affected by people with mental illnesses. Diving in deeper to understand the purpose of this non-profit organization, their focus on protecting and attaining justice of the people is how they are able to keep it alive since there are not many organizations out there who agree with their views on depression and mental illness. They manifested from the numerous people getting away with criminal like acts with the excuse of obtaining a mental illness and they believe, psychiatric labels are not diseases they are marketing (Szasz). Their convincing claims are hard to ignore when they are displayed alongside dark pictures of abused children who promote their focus on the emotions that are brought about when visiting their website. By concentrating on the future generation, they continue to transform themselves by keeping up to date on what is common at all times and connecting past experiences and what could occur in the future. Although both stakeholders have different beliefs on the topic of mental illness, they both share the passion of helping others regardless of the circumstances. While there is already an abundance of information available on mental illness, there is still a lot of discoveries left to be made about what it truly is, of the biggest obstacles of beating depression is the huge amount of inaccurate information in both popular culture and, amazingly, the medical (Elliot and Tyrrell 7). With knowledge being limited to both sides of the topic, even from a medical professional stand point, both stakeholders can find a way to have an open mind Student 1 since there is so much left to discover in the field of psychology. While treatment and prevention is something that they have in common, their main conflict lies in the reality of depression being a real illness or an excuse for more serious cases, indicate that under current insanity standards jurors do not distinguish between defendants with rationality deficits and defendants with control deficits regardless of whether the legal standard requires them to do (Helm). With the concept of insanity being a probable explanation for some jurors, others do not follow that especially when dealing with cases as serious as murder. Depression and other mental illness can all be defined as one word, mental, and this creates the aspect of these issues being internal and personal and can be treated and worked on but medication and taking it out on someone else is not an excuse since people have a choice even through mental illnesses. In order for the two stakeholders to work together, they have to ask themselves, mental health issues excuse bad (McKinnon). Looking at it through both eyes of the organizations, they can both agree that it does not count as an excuse and must be treated in the healthiest way possible. They have to ability to come together so one side can help the victim of the illness and the other can help the victim who was hurt by one with mental illness. Although their views may be polar opposites, emergence of new developments in technology has influenced the types of questions that can be asked, and has shaped the development of biological (Wolman 15). As time goes on, more research and techniques have been invented in order to expand the countless theories on mental illnesses and, as the stakeholders continue to develop as well, they will be able to more efficiently challenge their own personal questions and have a better understanding for opposing views. A man by the name of Edward Crane, who has struggled with depression all of his life, is one of the many examples of the dangers that comes along with the mixture of violence and mental illnesses but experiences ways Student 1 in which to distinguish between situations, thoughts and feelings (Freeman). Both organizations have numerous opportunities of joining together but the only obstacle is their opposing views. By taking a step back and looking at people with mental illnesses or those affected, they both have the ability to work together and form a constructive union primary focus is to help and care for others; regardless of their mental status. The Association for Anxiety and Depression of America and the Citizens Commission on Human Rights may not share the same views on mental illness but have the ability to come together by understanding that both in existence to help and care for those affected by mental illness in different ways. There is no one way to describe the effects of depression and other mental illnesses but the two stakeholders have the opportunity to work together and discover new ways in which it is developed. (WC: 1455) Student 1 Works Cited Cassiday, Karen L. Anxiety and Depression Association of America. N.p., 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Freeman, Arthur . Depression: A cognitive therapy approach. N.p.: Kanopy Streaming, 2014. Kanopy Streaming, 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Helm , Rebecca K. Unpacking Insanity Defence Standards: An Experimental Study of Rationality and Control Tests in Criminal Law. The European Journal of Psychology Applied to Legal Context, vol. 8, 01 July 2016, pp. 63-68. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ejpal.2016.02.004. McKinnon, Alex. Sticky Dylan Frost may have a mental illness, but no excuse for violence; good the frontman has acknowledged he is struggling, but time we stopped allowing mental illness to change the narrative. Guardian [London, 7 Dec. 2016. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Roy-Bryne, Peter P. Depression and Anxiety. University of Washington School of Medicine. 10th ed. Vol. 30. Harborview: Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2013. Online Library. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, Oct. 2013. Web. 26 Feb.2017.http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1002/da.22201/epdf Szasz, Thomas. Citizens Commission on Human Rights. Citizens Commission on Human Rights International, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tyrrell, Mike, and Rodger Elliot. The Depression Learning Path. N.p.: Uncommon Knowledge, 2013. Clinical-depression.co.uk. Uncommon Knowledge, 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Student 1 <http://www.clinical- depression.co.uk/sites/clinical-depression.co.uk/files/Depression- Learning-Path-Free.pdf. Wolman , Benjamin B., and George Stricker. Depressive Disorders Facts Theories and Treatments. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Free ebooks. International Psychotherapy Institute E- Books, 1990. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.<file:///C:/Users/Owner/Downloads/depressivedisorders.pdf>.