1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC1102 3 March 2017 A Truce for Justice Food waste is a huge societal problem that is faced by many countries around the world. The overproduction of food combined with a lack of a good disposal method has wreaked havoc on the environment and put many countries to shame- a disgrace that many work daily to try to put an end to. An important stakeholder in this issue, Rescuing Leftover Cuisine, believes that the best way to put an end to food waste is to collect the food that is supposed to go to waste and donate it to those in need instead (Ma). This organization utilizes the idea of two birds with one and strives to end both food waste and hunger (Ma). Another key stakeholder, WRAP (Waste and Resources Action Programme), promotes food waste prevention as the best strategy to bring a stop to food waste globally (WRAP). The main issue, ending food waste, is a shared purpose for each of these two stakeholders, but each stakeholder has their own opinion on how this issue should be resolved. Though the two stakeholders have two clashing ideas on how to end food waste, both still have the same goal, so to ease the tension between their seemingly incompatible goals, a mutually satisfying compromise is to reduce the amount of food produced to reduce the amount wasted and then redistribute any food that still ends up being leftover to further decrease the amount of food wasted. The first stakeholder in this debate is Rescuing Leftover Cuisine, a non-profit organization that has been operating since 2013. One of the main issues Rescuing Leftover Cuisine addresses is food waste; they argue that the best way to end food waste is by 2 redistributing leftover food to the hungry (Ma). The main objection many have against this strategy is that the food could be go bad, but Blasi provides evidence that of the food wasted is still fully fit for human disproving that argument. There are also environmental, social, and economic reasons why one should recover food waste: there will be a reduction in ecological footprint due to lowered water and resources gone to waste, many soup kitchens will be filled with meals, and a there will be a monetary return greater than the cost to start the project (Blasi). As more and more food gets wasted each year, the paradox of food waste gets larger and larger. Rescuing Leftover goal is become the most widely used solution for companies and individuals to eliminate food waste in their (Ma) and eliminate hunger. By doing their part to decrease food waste, Rescuing Leftover Cuisine supports the idea that one day food waste and hunger will come to an end. Contrastingly, the second stakeholder in this debate is WRAP, a non-profit organization started in 2000. On the issue of food waste, WRAP believes that food waste prevention is the best way to bring an end to food waste (WRAP). This idea is supported by Bassle et al, who believe that of the current high scale of wastage is regarded as the best to end food waste. Bassle believes that although not all food waste can be prevented, this method is the best to allow resources to be used most efficiently. The logic behind this is that if less resources that are wasted at the beginning, less will end up being wasted at the end. goal is to: re-invent how products are designed, produced, and sold; re-think how products are used and consumed; and re-define what is possible through re-use and recycling (WRAP). While they seek to reduce waste of every kind, food waste is one of the main branches that they deal with. Since this is their overall strategy, they believe that by applying it to food waste they can do their part to help bring an end to food waste. 3 Both Rescuing Leftover Cuisine and WRAP are invested in the fight against food waste and are hoping to see an end to food waste. Both stakeholders are committed to educating the public about food waste and ask people to volunteer to help further their impact- each organization using their own strategy to fight for the cause. One previous strategy that was tried was to take leftover food waste and begin to compost it. The goal was to both fertilize the ground and possibly capture natural gases from the compost emissions (Sasser). Sasser claims that the main barriers to entry are the cost and public acceptance/participation, so while this strategy helped to get the movement against food waste started and raise awareness, it ultimately failed in attaining its main goal. In the void created by the absence of a unified strategy, there have been multiple strategies growing and clashing on ideology. To bring an end to food waste, there must be a consolidated effort and strategy worldwide to increase resources and efficiency. Looking to the future, it is time to develop a new strategy that will combine the ideas of both Rescuing Leftover Cuisine and WRAP to bring an innovative and fresh idea to the movement that will also be feasible. By creating a system to both prevent food waste and redistribute any food that is still leftover afterwards, food waste could possibly be eliminated. To achieve this, both sides would have to be willing to give in and work with the other stakeholder. Each stakeholder must acknowledge that the other has some validity and realize that they are working towards a mutual goal. Both sides would have to blend their ideologies and strategies to educate the public and their volunteers. This compromise is supported by Mourad, who states that food waste prevention been the least promoted and most marginal solution so far, although it is the best opportunity from a (Mourad) but states that there must also be other methods to responsibly get rid of the excess food waste that will undoubtedly still be produced. 4 The data collected in Gruber et research also shows that store managers have already effectively been using this new strategy in their stores for years to reduce the amount of food they must throw away. This strategy is feasible if both stakeholders look past their differences and combine their resources to make a bigger impact on the world than they each could have made individually. This new compromise is not only viable, but it also benefits both stakeholders equally- both of their strategies are being utilized and their overall goal is being worked towards. Though both stakeholders have different methods to stop food waste, by compromising and combining their strategies and resources, a new and effective strategy can be created that will be able to succeed under a unified effort. If a consolidated strategy is not implemented, the amount of food that is wasted will continue to grow and neither organization will achieve their goals. Food waste is a critical issue because even with all the technology developed, it is still a huge problem all over the world. A problem that not only impacts those that go hungry every day, but also impacts every person. Though it may not be immediately visible, the toll that wasted food takes on the environment is huge. From the resources wasted, to the impact that compost has, the environment cannot support this process for much longer and we must all work together and see eye-to-eye to build a brighter and more sustainable future for generations to come. (WC: 1249) 5 Works Cited Blasi, Emanuele. Value of Food Waste: An Exploratory Study on Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, vol. 30, 2016, pp. 96-104, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S096969891630007 8?. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Bossle, Marilia, et al. Characteristics and Success Factors of Supply Chain Initiatives Tackling Consumer-Related Food Journal of Cleaner Production, 2016, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S095965261632035 2?. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Gruber, Verena, et al. a Waste! Exploring the Human Reality of Food Waste from the Store Journal of Public Policy & Marketing, vol. 35, no. 1, 2016, pp. 3-25, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=1c748c82-4f68- 4b78-a7ac-17e4bb79715d%40sessionmgr4007&vid=2&hid=4203. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Ma, Runbai. Rescuing Leftover Cuisine. http://www.rescuingleftovercuisine.org. Accessed 23 January 2017. Mourad, Marie. Recovering and Preventing Competing Solutions for Food Systems Sustainability in the United States and Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 126, 2016, pp. 461-477, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S095965261630153 6?. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Sasser, Larry. of Large-Scale Organics BioCycle, vol. 36, no. 10, 1995, pp. 68-71, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=58be4fe7-075d-428c-8c9a- 6 882299481941%40sessionmgr101&vid=0&hid=119&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=edsgcl.17987704&db=edsgao. Accessed 03 March 2017. WRAP - Circular Economy & Resource Efficiency Experts. http://wrap.org.uk. Accessed 03 March 2017.