Tkach !1 Daria Tkach Adam Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Horror and Dark Fantasy as A Competent Form of Art Tkach !2 Beliefs in supernatural forces originated from the beginning of the human formation. The feelings of anxiety and fright were commonly applied in folktales and ballades. Back in the past, grim stories were used as sermons and admonitions. However, in the middle of the twentieth century the genre of horror became especially popular. Nowadays, horror along with dark fantasy are considered to be an important part of the pop culture. Eventually, creators of somber materials claimed that horror and dark fantasy should be perceived as an art form that is respected by the public. One of the most influential organizations which supports this position is the Horror Writers Association (HWA). As it is claimed on the s official website, the association protects the rights of horror and grim fantasy writers, provides access to qualitative literature, and promotes the idea of scary content being a competent form of self-expression. To grab the attention, the association presents expressive posters which reckon on an accurate application of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. As an example, two given images are bright reflections of the activity. Both of the pictures possess evidences of the credibility of presented material. The viewer could see the official logo of the Horror Writers Association in all pictures. While carefully observing the label of the HWA you could notice few obvious references to the activity of the organization that supplied both posters. First of all, the name of the association gives a direct designation to the content that is offered by the HWA and related images. Moreover, the logo contains symbolical representations of horror and literature (a raven and a stack of books) which are connected to the speciality of the society and helps to associate imaged material with the institution that supplies it. Reliability of posters could also be proven by the ability of the viewer to logically connect the tag and the images. The possibility to see a bond between the content and Tkach !3 the source helps to convince the viewer in authenticity of the material. Additionally, the credibility of the imagery appeals to logos. At the same time, while the second poster contains only the doubled logo of the HWA, the first one comprises a link to the official website of the organization. Furthermore, the images highly rely on pathos to attract attention of the audience. Both of the pictures are very grotesque and expressive, yet all of them contain some famed details. The first poster presents a gruesome imagery of a semi-decomposed man in a fancy suit portrayed on a white background. The use of a blank background makes the viewer to focus on a disturbing figure on the foreground. The picture immediately makes clear that it is related to the genre of horror. The art style in which the depiction is performed clarifies the accessory of the poster to comic convention. Generally, the image grabs attention of the viewers of different demographics and causes either aversion and reluctance or curiosity and a desire to learn more about the activity which is promoted by the image. The second image is performed in a simpler way, but the coloration is brighter and more disturbing. The other poster shows a heart made up of two human skulls. The imagery on the foreground is red and is associated with blood, danger, and anxiety. The repeated use of the white background produces gloomy contrast which attracts attention. As does the first picture, the second depiction causes a wide range of feelings and emotions but lures a corresponding auditory successfully. Application of logos in these images is always combined with other rhetorical appeals. The first picture is a parody of a famous call-to-action poster. The use of a well-known base causes necessary association in the mind. What is more, the comic art style creates a logically based bond between the image and the related convention. Additionally, as the mentioned convention is Tkach !4 held with the purpose of a competition among the horror and dark fantasy comic authors, the representation of the previous victorious works on the background of the poster serves as a straight designation on the adversary aspect of the promoted activity. Symbolic art style of the second poster shows a straight connection between a theme of the message and the attitude towards the genre of horror by the using of a popular I  base. The second image, however, displays no noticeable attempts to apply kairos. On the other hand, there is a direct utilization of the concrete rhetorical appeal in the first picture. The link to an official website of the association is accompanied by a straightforward call to action Please ask us how, or visit www.horror.org for more  The exhortation is formulated friendly and politely, what helps to make the viewer to associate themselves with the activity of the association. Moreover, coming back to logos, there is a strong logical reference to the message of the poster since the only figure that is portrayed in the picture is pointing on the viewer as if they are supposed to do a particular thing. Finally, the imagery itself is a parody of a recognized poster which also had a goal to encourage the audience and called for a specific action. As it could be seen, the Horror Writers Association applies the whole range of rhetorical appeals in their posters to cause a strong emotional response within the viewer. The major part of the significance is based on the shock effect of the promoted material. Nevertheless, both of the pictures are an attempt to attract the attention of the audience to the activity of the Horror Writers Association. Imagery of the two posters is frightening and intriguing at the same time. The HWA concentrated on the report of the main idea to the viewer. Promoted activities Tkach !5 have a emulative or collaborating basis and focus the interest on the artistic side of horror and dark fantasy fiction. Tkach !6 Works cited Eskine, Kendall J., et al. images: Fear, not happiness or arousal, makes art more American Psychological Association, October 2012, Vol 12(5), pp. 1071-1074. Jamil, Mustafa. good horror has its place in gothic strategy in Tess of the Studies in the Humanities, December 2005, Vol. 32 Issue 2, p93, 23 p. . Horror Writers Association. Horror Writers Association, horror.org/about/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Horror Writers Association, horror.org/chapters/chapters.htm. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. (Heart) Horror Writers Association, horror.org/chapters/chapters.htm. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Tkach !7