Nicole Franze Mr. Phillips ENC 1102- 025 26, February 2017 The Fight The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe fighting against the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline. The Dakota Access Pipeline is an underground pipeline that is being built to transfer hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil from the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota to the oil tank farm near Patoka, Illinois. The pipeline is being built by the Bakken Holdings Company. Due to the company having previous issues with their pipelines leaking, the natives predicted that the pipeline will contaminate the natives only water source. To avoid a leakage from the pipeline, the tribe is trying to put an end to the construction of the pipeline all together. In image one, there is a press conference being held in recognition of Standing Rock; Press conferences are media events that are designed to either get positive press coverage of an announcement or to limit negativity of a problem or disaster. The second image is the logo for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. The logo tells the viewer that the tribe is Native American and they have been together since 1873. Both images represent the concerns that Standing Rock is facing between the construction of the Dakota access pipeline and the contamination issues. Each image demonstrates their own rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos, that illustrate the overall image. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe that lives on the Standing Rock reservation. The members and other devoted native people have been protesting since April 2016 and this project began in December 2014. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other committed natives are protesting the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline due to the pipeline being built below their only water source and through their sacred burial grounds. The tribes overall goal is to end the construction or have the pipeline project be moved elsewhere. The tribe does not want their water to have any chance of being polluted or their sacred burial grounds being destroyed. They cherish their land that they call home, and they are protecting it like we would ours. Ethos is one out of four rhetorical appeals. confirms the credibility of a writer or a speaker and thus they become trustworthy in the eyes of listeners and readers who as a result are persuaded by their (literarydevices). That meaning, ethos provides the viewer with confirmation that the writer is credible. In image one, there is a dark, shady effect to it and this effect makes the viewer feel negative or depressed. There is a press conference being held in the picture and If the event is negative or causing an issue, press conferences will usually be held at the scene of the problem. In the image, the press conference is being held at the main problem, the D.C. District court house, so this alone shows the importance in the problem. In image two, the logo has a few colors in it that represent different things. Red represents passion, love, anger, hunger, health, and life. Yellow represents warmth, and caution. Blue represents professionalism, trust, authority, power and loyalty. These three colors are important because they all describe the situation. Red was chosen because the natives are filled with all of those emotions because their land is being destroyed. They love their reservation, mad that its being taken from them, and the water gives them life. Yellow was chosen because the Image one natives are warning and informing us of the production of the pipeline and how no one is helping to stop it. Blue was chosen because the natives trusted that their land would remain theirs for forever and they feel as if they are losing power. Those three colors come together to represent the Standing Rock Sioux tribe in their logo. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal to emotion. is a way of convincing an audience of an argument by creating an emotional (literarydevices). In image one, it has a dark, shady effect to it. This effect makes the viewer feel negatively or sad. The emotion that the viewer gets from the image is important, it lets them understand the meaning behind the image. By adjusting the hues, saturation, and brightness of a picture, it allows the audiences to feel depressed, anxious, or even happy from this one picture. In the image, there is a man standing alone, speaking for the natives. By him standing alone, it makes the viewer believe that the natives are fighting alone and not many people are understanding them and where they are coming from. In image two, the color red grabs the attention and gives them a sense of urgency to fix the problem. Yellow is used to highlight an issue. This logo is screaming for attention and makes the viewer feel like the problem needs direct attention. Logos is a rhetorical appeal to logic, use logos would be to cite facts and statistics, historical and literal analogies, and citing certain authorities on a (User). Any time there is a number or something that is not common knowledge in an article or picture, it is automatically referred to as logos. In image one, it shows how the natives and other people feel about the pipeline being built. is is written on a lot of protesting signs. It simply means what it says, without water people would not be able to live. Water is not just for Image two drinking, but for everyday activities like bathing, brushing teeth, and using the toilet. The signs in the image are supposed to represent how serious each protestor is about the pipeline. The signs show how much hurt and willing to fight. This image might provide the viewer with new information that they did not know before. For example, the viewer could possibly not have known how serious the problem was to natives or maybe they did not realize the pipeline is contaminating hundreds of water source. Image one is a wakeup call to the outside world. In image two, the logo has 8 tepees in the center. Each tepee represents the eight districts of reservations. Under the tepees, there are names, each name goes with a tepee and the names listed are the names of each reservation. The tepees give the viewer the idea that all the reservations are one big family and they all come together to make one. Also, the logo lets the viewer know that the Standing Rock reservation has been around since 1873. Kairos is the last out of four rhetorical appeals. Kairos appeals to timeliness and according to an article on Writing Commons website written by Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee, is timeliness, appropriateness, decorum, symmetry, of the rhetorical (Pantelides, McIntyre, and McKee). Unlike image two, in image one there is Kairos. In image one, the people are protesting in front of the D.C district court house. They are protesting the Dakota access pipeline being built. The protestors are trying to put an end to the production of the pipeline by stating how without water they cannot live and how life is sacred. The image shows how the production of the pipeline does not just affect adults, but elders and children as well. Overall, the lack of clean water will affect life. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe will not back down in this fight and they are determined to protect their land and water. Both images above represent standing rock and the seriousness in this situation. In image one, a press conference was put together to support Standing Rock in their fight. In the second image, the logo for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe tells the viewer that the tribe is Native American and they have been together since 1873 supporting one another in all of the reservations. Standing Rock has put up a fight that will not end until their once was home, is home again. Work Cited Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee. Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. User, Super. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.