Student 1 Student ENC 1102 Dr. Jamie Thornton 5 March 2017 Different Energies for Different Purposes In this time, fossil fuels comprise about 85% of the total energy used by the world (Hendrickson). This arises a problem, as eventually the world will run out of its limited quantity (Hendrickson). It is simply not possible to stop using something that comprises so much of daily life at a quick pace, not to mention the cost of switching to renewable energies or other means. That is where Saudi Aramco, stands to use fossil fuels to help supply the world while, and Solar Energy International imposes using renewable energies to help power the globe. The point of views that are taken by these two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of slowly decentralizing out energy system off fossil fuels and integrating solar energy can be implemented through the compromise of both companies, both working together for the better of humans, and both using the extent of their resources and knowledge. Solar Energy International (SEI) is non-profit organization that stands to people around the world through education of sustainable (Solar Energy International). SEI argues that renewable energy systems are a more practical and reliable way to help protect the environment and keep it healthy. In 2006, R wrote an article assessing what could possibly happen if California concentrated more resources into Solar Power. In this article, it states that if a 4000 mega Watt solar array was established in California it would reduce the amount of CO2 emissions by 7.6 million tons per year ES-4). Student 2 Integrating solar energy into the grid would result in much less emissions into the ozone, and in turn reduce the risk of climate change to the planet. The second stakeholder, Saudi Aramco, is the largest oil company producing in 8 of oil used throughout the globe (Saudi Aramco). This company stands to produce products people and depend for economic growth and (Saudi Aramco). The use of fossil fuels is heavily relied on, about 85% of our energy comes from them alone (Hendrickson). In a book titled, The Moral Case of Fossil Fuels, Alex Epstein persuades the reader of why fossil fuels are needed currently. Simply put, is the only energy technology that can currently meet the energy needs of all 7+ billion (Epstein). Fossil fuels, are simply a cheap and easy way to supply the world with the abundance of energy it needs. While both companies promote different forms of energy, both stand to provide some form of energy to its consumers. Either company is focused on implanting their energy source, as they see it is fit for the needs of the consumer. In addition, both stand to make a necessary revenue to expand their companies and offer a wider array of services to more people around the globe. While, SEI and Saudi Aramco, have different backing their intentions behind providing energy are shared. Their vision of providing energy is the underlying factor that brings the two companies together, and will allow for a compromise if both companies work together. Compromises between companies like those of SEI and Saudi Aramco, have been unsuccessful in the past as either party was unwilling to maneuver their own vision. Many individuals see as the oil companies stopping the production of oil, which would pose major economic hazards as society relies on it very heavily. While, oil companies would like to see renewable energies be eliminated altogether from the power grid, in favor of one form on energy. This ideal is not sustainable as it takes of for fossil fuels to develop, Student 3 so the supply will not be able to keep up with the demand. Based on these past failures, it is right to deduce that both companies must give up a little to obtain more. It is needed for companies Saudi Aramco, and companies alike, to lower the amount of oil produced and distributed over time. However, SEI will share their knowledge with Saudi Aramco and allow the resources of the bigger company to help educate and implement more sustainable practices. Both stakeholders must work with one another, to agree to implement more sustainable practices and not rely so heavily on a fuel that will die. Both companies wanting to provide energy for the consumer, they will need to provide it based on needs and availability of resources. The benefits for SEI include the ability to impact more persons around the world and provide sustainable practices, backed by a company that directly impacts most individuals around the world. Saudi Aramco is larger and has more resources available to them, allowing for SEI to use these to their advantage. However, Saudi Aramco has the benefit of looking forward for years in the future not losing all their inventory but slowly leveling it out. Saudi Aramco will have even more of an impact and a greater image weeding out their fossil fuel production as environmental agencies will enjoy the approach the oil giant is taking. In an article written by Kartikeya Singh, titled Of Sun Gods and Solar Energy, he assesses the availability of consumer energy in urban slums in his home country of India. Singh writes, million and many face a daily struggle to access to commercial (Singh 50). In a very populous country such as India, many still struggle to gain access to electricity and daily energy sources. For both Saudi Aramco, and SEI this is a problem that they could assess with more research and implementing more sustainable ways for those in lower socioeconomic backgrounds to gain access to consumer electricity. Both companies working together to create a more integrated energy system and helping the planet in the process. Student 4 In implementing a compromise, it is above all, the companies job to assess one another and monitor their involvement in the compromise. If only one of the two companies are doing their part to the compromise than both will suffer from the decisions of the other. Implementing tactics to phase out the use of fossil fuels, will be the hardest challenge as the rate at which they are removed cannot be done to quickly or consumers will suffer from lack of resources. If the phasing out takes too long than the companies will suffer from lack of revenue. However, practical implementation can be put into place by looking at research and using mathematical models to hypothesis the best course of action. Per an article published in January of 2016, systems offer more susceptibility for improvement by integration of (Baniassadi 298). Amir Baniassadi, the author of the article, assess how using a statistical model of R-curves, you can analyze the rate at which renewable energies are implemented into the system. Per his article the integration of renewable resources is impactful in improving electrical systems already present. In addition to Baniassadi, an additional article by the duo of Tim Schmidla and Ingo Stadler, agrees in the establishment of renewable energy added with cogeneration systems. The duo established that in majority renewable systems, the turnout of efficiency with cogeneration systems was greater than that of preexisting power systems. The article stated, that operation mode is calculated using a linear algorithm structure involving actual and forecast showing the assessment of data is easily done using algorithms and knowledgeable research. The integration of two organizations with the same goal but different ways of executing that goal is a challenge. However, the ineveitable end of it all allows for the future to be looked for an more sustainable planet, instead of one in which we hurt more than care for it. We know fossil fuels will end, something should have been done sooner. (WC: 1281) Student 5 Works Cited Baniassadi, Amir, et al. Application of R-Curve Analysis in Evaluating the Effect of Integrating Renewable Energies in Cogeneration  Applied Thermal Engineering, vol. 93, 25 Jan. 2016, pp. 297-307. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2015.09.101. Epstein, Alex. The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels. Portfolio, 2014. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sebk&AN=1122790&site=eds-live. Hendrickson, Cary. Fossil  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89475132&site=eds-live. R. Economic, Energy, and Environmental Benefits of Concentrating Solar Power in  2006. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2172/881924. Aramco Where Energy Is Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabian Oil Company, 2017, www.saudiaramco.com/en/home.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 Schmidla, Tim and Ingo Stadler. Prospective Integration of Renewable Energies with High Capacities Using Combined Heat and Power Plants (CHP) with Thermal  Energy Procedia, vol. 99, no. 10th International Renewable Energy Storage Conference, IRES 2016, 15-17 March 2016, Dusseldorf, Germany, 01 Nov. 2016, pp. 292-297. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.egypro.2016.10.119. Student 6 Training, Solar PV Training, Solar Installer Training, Solar Energy Solar Energy International (SEI), Solar Energy International, 2016, www.solarenergy.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. SINGH, KARTIKEYA. Of Sun Gods and Solar  Issues in Science & Technology, vol. 33, no. 2, Winter2017, pp. 48-54. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=120774616&site=eds-live.