1 Russell, Montgomery Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 27 February, 2017 2 The UNHCR Brings Awareness to the Resettlement of Refugees On January 27, 2017, United States President Donald Trump signed into executive order a national ban of refugees and immigrants alike from seven dominantly Muslim countries. In detail, immigrants would be barred from the country for 90 days and admission of refugees would be instantly declined for 120 days. Such an order would mean the deportation of any refugees and citizens born out of the nation. This of course caused an uproar in America and abroad. Refugees, specifically, set their eyes on America with the hopes of escaping religious persecution, terrorism, and other such injustice. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, is a refugee agency that aims to relocate refugees to safer locations outside of the country they are fleeing. The UNHCR has openly acknowledged the U.S. withdrawal of support and strongly hopes to gain their assistance again. The organization has exploited media by releasing images meant to sway support for their movement, both images showcasing the rough conditions that many refugees are forced to live in. Each image can be broken down by its use of the rhetorical devices ethos, logos, and pathos and their effectiveness, The mission statement of the UNHCR is protect and assist refugees This much holds true as they have invariably assisted refugees even from countries of current high hostility. The organization encourages that all people have the ability to seek asylum safely in another country and, additionally important is, that they have the option to eventually be able to return home. The UNHCR, when caring for refugees, distributes water, sanitation, healthcare, shelter and more. Since the birth in 1950, The United States has been one of the largest partnering governments to the agency, especially in recent years under the head of the Obama administration when they admitted nearly 39,000 Muslim refugees. This movement 3 of support would take a large shift after the Trump administration retracted all support. The UNHCR the U.S. will continue its strong leadership in providing equal treatment and protecting and resettling refugees in need. The UNHCR has released images to bring awareness to their mission and goals and each image uses the rhetorical devices ethos, logos, and pathos. The first image displays a what can be inferred to be two refugee families that, at the time the picture was taken, was living in a UNHCR refugee camp. As observed the tents that refugees live in are set up over dirt and gravel and provide much of the cover that habitants will have from environmental factors like the sun, and subsequently heat. Ethos, the first device to be addressed, is defined as method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the by primarily appealing to authenticity. The first element of Ethos within this image that can be identified is the UNHCR logo and verbiage seen on the tents. The use of their name on the tents allows viewers to know that they are directly involved in the refugee support and makes it clear that the facility is being ran by them. Additionally, the choice to include views of the dirt terrain proves the tough situation that these people have to live in while they await relocation to harboring countries. Both elements make it real for the viewer that refugees even after leaving their previous country are still leading tough lives, and that the agency is aiding as best they can during the transition to a newer and more permanent home. The second device, logos, is defined as an appeal to logic. To deduce the logic of an image/argument enthymemes must be present and clear. There are three parts to enthymemes: the claim, the 4 reason, and the unstated assumption provided by the audience. A claim that can be made about the first image is the poor state that refugees are forced to live in as they await relocation. The reason would be to address the tent structures and dirt surfaces that are viewable in the image. The assumption is that viewers will likely agree that there are healthier, more sanitary living options that refugees could be living in with the support of harboring nations. Thirdly, the image uses the pathos device. Pathos is used when there is an attempt to make an emotional appeal. Again, the use of the family, especially the children, makes a strong emotional appeal to viewers. The Refugee Agency likely captured them as well to show the importance of the situation and how it is affecting adults and children alike. The second image, also captured by the UNHCR, shows the volunteers help remove refugees from life rafts. Pathos elements include the tools that the volunteers use like the life vests and the life rafts that provide credibility that the agency is an established organization aiming to help in the many ways that they can. The volunteers carrying the children above the water makes it more believable that the people are in need of assistance, assistance that the UNHCR has provided. Logos is represented in the image, again, with the volunteers physically helping to carry refugee children through the waters to land. The claim is that the agency is directly involved in the initiative to safely relocate refugees to locations where they can escape persecution and terrorism. The reasoning is that they provide resources and human power to assist these individuals as can be seen by the vests, rafts, and workers. The assumption is that the UNHCR are very involved in the well-being of refugees. Just like the first 5 image, the use of children is the strongest emotional appeal that the image uses. They understand that when viewers see children in need they are more likely to pay attention to a problem and may even join the cause in helping. As addressed, the goal of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is to aid refugees from all countries. For the agency, the best way to gain support is through media. After analysis, these images seem to be very effective in there initiatives to gain awareness and support to the mission. Both use the rhetorical devices similarly in establishing credibility, logic, and emotional appeal. The UNHCR aims to play a pivotal role in aiding those refugees in need and encourages countries, like the United States, to continue their support in harboring these people. As stated in there goals, the UNHCR will continue to provide resources for housing and nurturing refugees until more permanent residency and resources can be established. Images one and two, both aim to attribute support to the movement and to encourage viewers to help in any way that they can. Ethos, logos, and pathos are all used to help present the stance of the agency and waiver support. The program is recorded to have increased volunteer numbers by 72 thus proving the effectiveness of the media. European countries like England and France continue to work with the agency and many Americans wait to see what role America will choose to play in refugee assistance under the Trump administration. 6 Works Cited EXECUTIVE ORDER: PROTECTING THE NATION FROM FOREIGN TERRORIST ENTRY INTO THE UNITED  The White House. The United States Government, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. First Time In 10 years That Muslim Refugees Outnumbered Christian  The Daily Caller. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The High  UNHCR. N.p.,n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The relevance and effectiveness of durable solutions activities in protracted refugee  UNHCR. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. We are human : Khaled Hosseini on the story of  We are human : Khaled Hosseini on the story of refugees. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.