Student 1 Student Professor Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Maintaining the Coal industry in a growing Solar Economy Energy is a growing concern across the world, with the increasing issue of climate change all countries are searching for alternative sources of energy. With this concern conservative sources of energy such as fossil fuels, coal and oil are disbanding due to their impacts on towards the environment. Also through this solar, wind and hydro energy are growing through more government funding and incorporation in large businesses. As the solar industry grows and the coal industry stagnates interest groups take sides promoting their viewpoint on the conflict. Stakeholders disagree on the issue of whether to invest more time and money into alternative sources of energy or to continue to fund and research energy acquired through fossil fuels. A prime example of a stakeholder promoting solar and other sources of alternative energy is the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), this organization creates articles and backs companies to promote the usage of solar energy within America (Solar Energy Industries Association). Another stakeholder that stands out to defend the coal industry by preserving it in Western America through education is the Rocky Mountain Coal Mining Institute (RMCMI). This organization sets out to work with state governments and colleges to secure the coal industry within most of America (Coal and Mining Industry Organizations Companies and Non- Profits). Global warming and energy as means for empowering America is an impending issue, many people look towards alternate sources of energy while others believe the continuity of fossil fuels is important. As organizations and companies side against one another fiscally the Student 2 issue becomes less and less compatible. A possible solution to compromise this problem is to maintain the coal industry by utilizing it to increase production of solar panels. The SEIA is a non-profit organization that was established in 1974 as a trading association that works with several other companies to make solar energy a mainstream resource within America (Solar Energy Industries Association). It notes that the organization maintains a complete dedication to solar energy as means for powering America and intends to do so by influencing the general population of the United States. Due to the recent concerns of global warming and climate change, ideas of alternative sources of energy have become more prominent throughout the world (Mackay). The SEIA stands to champion the use of clean, affordable solar energy in America by expanding markets and working with over a thousand member companies. Solar energy is a major form of alternative energy and most think it should be considered as the primary source of power in America because they believe cost-efficient, promotes a new source of jobs, and is a clean supply of energy (Solar Policy and Legislation). The SEIA maintains a hold that climate change is affecting the world now because of the usage of fossil fuels as a means of energy. The other stakeholder in this argument is the Rocky Mountain Coal Mining Institute, this organization is a nonprofit western based American company set out on defending the coal industry through education. Founded in 1912 the organization enounces its ideals as sponsoring educational programs that pertain to coal mining technologies, and production techniques, as well as safety on federal and state laws. To disseminate to the public and to educational and scientific institutions knowledge and the results of study and research into recent developments in coal mining technologies and production techniques, mining management and safety, federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to coal mining and other energy related issues Student 3 (Coal and Mining Industry Organizations Companies and Non-Profits). The company also maintains through primary sources that the coal industry greatly affect climate change in America and through proper education more people can be informed of the issue (Miller). The SEIA wants to improve the environment by disbanding fossil fuels and improving solar power in America. The RMCMI wants to continue the coal industry in western America by educating the public and sustaining the industry as a whole. While each stakeholder has interests that goes against one another they each want to continue the energy industry in America greatly. Concerns that both organizations have been based on climate change and global warming as a whole, the melting of ice caps, stronger hurricanes, and severe heat waves are all prominent due to the changes in the environment. Through this both companies have a common need of expansion and that through factories each will succeed more. Past solutions to this incompatibility have occurred but mostly through the cutting down of coal power as a whole in America to open up more alternate sources of energy. Other solutions have been created so that solar energy furthers and the coal energy starts to diminish. Past solutions have cut down on coal power as a whole in America to open up more alternate sources of energy (Smart Energy Solutions: Decrease Coal Use.). To begin the solution process for this compromise in the past, Solar groups cut on its creation of solar panels so the coal industry can further, and at the same time the coal industry can begin to discontinue some factories (Mathur). A possible new compromise that can be reached between the two companies is that to create more solar panels, Americans can invest in coal factories by means to create them, by doing this both sides of this conflict benefit. This possible compromise will firstly benefit the first stakeholder by creating more solar panels there will be more openings to alternative sources of energy. This still furthers the second Student 4 goals and opinions as It continues and furthers western coal as a source of jobs in America. This will benefit both as a whole through the compromises implementation, more jobs will be created in the coal industry to be able to create more solar panels so that the solar industry will increase (Walker). At a practical level coal companies can begin selling their power output to other companies that create solar panels in America. Specific steps include increased production of solar panels, and increased output of coal mining and factories to be able to create the alternative energy source of solar panels. Concluding this argument as a whole, the overall lesson seen from this compromise and every other type of compromise is that both sides have to give a little to benefit overall and each other. In this and for every other compromise each group is always cutting back in a way to further the general concept. The concept discussed in this essay is the issue of climate change and alternative sources of energy challenging conservative resources. On a positive note the possible compromise that may occur between my two stakeholders is that overall the compromise will benefit the planet as a whole by reducing emissions and lessening the problems that arise from climate change. With this the other problems that global warming bring will be lessened immensely and humanity will greatly benefit. (Word Count: 1268) Student 5 Works Cited Coal and Mining Industry Organizations Companies and  Coal and Mining industry Organizations Companies and Non-Profits. N.p., n.d. Web. Mathur, V.K. Coal gasification using solar  Elsevier Ltd, n.d. Web. Mackay, Michael E. Solar energy: an introduction. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2015. Print. Miller, Bruce G. Coal energy systems. Amsterdam: Elsevier Academic Press, 2005. Print. Smart Energy Solutions: Decrease Coal  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., 02 Mar. 2017. Web. Solar Policy and  MassSolar. N.p., 26 June 2016. Web. Walker, Andy. Solar energy: technologies and the project delivery process for buildings. Hoboken: Wiley, 2013. Print.