Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Social and political problem regarding homelessness. amazing and beautiful how life can be, living life of complete happiness and fulfillment without stress or struggles of any kind can be a dream come through. Many have argued that huge amounts of its population are left to suffer and struggle without adequate care and support. The idea of people living without proper shelter and adequate income to carter for themselves, their families and loved ones is seen as being homeless. Bowery Mission and Leesa Sleep Cooperation believes that with the help of charitable donations and gifts could help reduce and eradicate homelessness; however, the Weingart Center Association opposed to this idea, they argue that people should stop donating to the homeless and focus on investing in their life instead, investing would better help them become responsible individuals in the society. Eliminating homelessness completely might be a challenge to making our society prosperous however; obtaining literacy through charitable donation is a step towards achieving this goal of eliminating homelessness. Providing hope when there seems to be no hope as well as offering donations and a descent place to call home is what the Bowery Mission and Leesa Sleep Cooperation provides. Having two different founders but one aim in mind, which is to help the less privilege in ways possible. The Bowery mission has been in existence since the early eighteen hundreds, it was founded by Reverend Albert Gleason Rulifsson and his wife, it was the third rescue mission in the United States and the second in new york city; however, Lessa sleep Student 2 cooperation is not that far behind though a-little new compared to Bowery mission, it was founded in the late 2000 by David Wolfe who is also the active CEO of the company with the sole aim of making changes and creating opportunities in communities and its society. Having a better place to sleep at night is a trail to living a better lifestyle. This organization believe danger that comes along with not just being homeless but sleeping without adequate sleeping materials like bed, pillow, cases etc. According to David Wolfe, On a given night, more than half a million people in the U.S. are living on the streets, in cars, in homeless shelters or in subsidized transitional he believes that the achievement of being the most powerful nation in the world when countless number of its people are homeless living on the streets and in cars. Believe the society can do better in ending this issue of unrest by donating clothes, shoes and mattress or anything that can help those in distress. He stressed on the danger of theft and crimes that comes with being homeless. Being Homeless leads to not being safe at night, which poses a huge threat and danger to that individual and those around them. The majority of crimes and atrocities perpetrated are mostly from homeless individuals. According to James Winans, chief development officer of New Bowery mission, on the streets means being never being able to close your eyes and say or going to be here for a full he believe we should take responsibility to help solve this issue. When sleeping you generally have one eye always open to ensure things is not taken or that someone that intends to do you harm approach you while sleeping and also you get used to being moved around either by the change in weather or even police officials. Helping can go a long way for such individual struggling to even make it pass nighttime. Student 3 The organization primary goal, aim and objectives are to provide a safe place for such individual by means of charitable donations for items like, food, and mattresses etc. They plan on supporting local communities that are deeply in need of help by providing them with reliable support to carter for themselves, family and loved ones. They aim to help homeless individuals to get off the streets by offering a shelter-home in a day-to-day basis. They also plan on having a social impact on the society in-order to use these medium and influence to attract individuals that have the means and compassionate mind to help others who are not as fortunate. Another thing is that they plan on implementing a strong social impact on their business model, to not only achieving business success but also making an authentic difference. To empower and transform lives by delivering innovative solutions to fight poverty and break the cycle of homelessness is what the Weingart Center Association thrives and stands for. A non profit organization whose aim is not as that of Bowery mission and lessa sleep cooperation that base on the idea of charitable donations and gift rather this company focus on implementing ways to invest and transform the lives of the homeless in order for them to be an important part in the society. The Weingart association has been in existence going far back to 1983. This benevolent organization was founded and place under the ownership of Ben Weingart and the Weingart Foundation. They generated support from the business community, city as well as having a dynamic director, Maxine Johnson who had the vision for a stop for the homeless men, women, and children. They focus on providing a sanctuary that one can call home, mental health services as well as having job trainings to rebuild lives than just giving donations. make a donation. Make an investment. The Weingart center discourages the idea of giving donations, Student 4 it cost less to house, educate, and employ homeless people than to maintain their status quo on the they argue that we should try and invest in the lives of homeless people rather than giving unnecessary charity because investing would not only help improve the lives of the homeless in the long run but it will also help take them off the streets completely. They believe that It costs more to leave a homeless individual living on the streets than it does to help them transition back into the society. The primary missions and objectives of the Weingert Center is to help homeless people get back into regular jobs, housing, schools and getting their degrees by enrolling them in schools if possible. Investing in their in-order for them to be well-respected and prosperous individuals in the society. Because helping a person get off the streets is in the best interest of everybody living in that city and not just a charitable gift. By investing rather than donating one can put a homeless individual through an in-depth programs that can help them get a job as well as the necessary training to keep it, as well as food and follow up support if necessary. Despite having incompatible goals both stakeholders share a common concern because they both believe that homelessness poses a threat to the growth and stability of our society. These two non-profit organizations share a common goal and element, which is to eradicate the issue of homelessness completely in our nation. Both stakeholders believe that with their companies and the help of the masses the problem of homelessness and the risk that comes along with it can be avoided. By creating a separate firm or company that can balance the charitable donations received as well as the investment be it education, job opportunities would be a win-win situation for both stakeholders. Doing these would greatly benefit both stakeholders because Student 5 they go out of business and can continue doing what they believe in. by doing this stakeholder one would continue to receive donations and contributions meant for the homeless people while stakeholder two would still focus on the idea of investing in the of homeless people either by creating job opportunities, sponsoring them through school or providing them with permanent housing instead of sleeping on the streets. Homeless poses a threat to the stability and success of our nation. The idea of accepting numerous charities in terms of material things like it food, clothes or even mattress as well as planning on lifting people up to be better and meaningful people in the society through investment could be a start to ending these fears. Having separate believes in eliminating homelessness but both stakeholder share same concerns, interest and need which is ending homelessness and the danger that comes with it in whichever way possible. Through contributing and investing in the lives of the homeless people is a step in making our society better. (Word count: 1,400) Student 6 Works cited page Peters, Adele. This Homelessness Organization Says You Should Stop Donating To The  Co.Exist. N.p., 08 June 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017 Wolfe, David. Company Tackles Homelessness: One Mattress at a Triple Pundit: People, Planet, Profit. N.p., 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 22. Jan. 2017 Alexander, Ellen and Bailey Stingl. Homelessness  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login PR, Newswire. Lack of Affordable Housing Gives Calgary Vast Majority of  PR Newswire US, 29 Sept. 2011. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url HOMES ISSUES TACKLED; Study into  Birmingham Evening Mail (England), 2004. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login https://www.fastcoexist.com/3046331/this-homelessness-organization-says-you- should-stop-donating-to-the-homeless http://www.triplepundit.com/podium/mattress-homeless-leesa/ http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ers&AN=891582 14&site=eds-live