Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 2 March 2017 Making the Unusable Food Usable Again Food waste stands as an overlooked issue in America and many other countries. Following WWII, into the 1950s, food policies began to change, marking the pivotal point for large upwards growths in food waste (Evans). Overall, people are not fully aware of the global concern of food waste, that up to a third of food produced is discarded every year (Chandler). To combat the issue, many stakeholders have formed, aiming to inform and assist people in the fight against food waste. Although many stakeholders have risen to the cause, there are different conflicting opinions on how the topic should be approached. Particularly, the Food Waste Reduction Alliance and Think Eat Save have seemingly incompatible goals for the same issue. Though the points of the two stakeholders seem incompatible; a viable compromise of ending food waste can be implemented through the diverting of food away from landfills, educating all people of food waste, and creating strategies for both people and companies to follow. The first stakeholder, the Food Waste Reduction Alliance, believes much of the potential wastecould be used to help the needy. They focus on strategies to divert the unwanted food from production lines to food banks, helping to keep food out of landfills. The FWRA proposes that most of the changes need to happen in the big production lines Waste Reduction An article done by Krista Thyberg, Review: Drivers of Food Waste and Their Implications for Sustainable Policy emphasizes the effect globalization has had on food waste, as companies reach to further distances around the world to import and Student 2 export food (Thyberg 110-115). The FWRA argues that the production lines waste plenty of perfectly edible food. Instead of that food being thrown away, the stakeholder suggests the food should be taken to food banks Waste Reduction By funneling food to food banks, the FWRA aims to fight food waste and food insecurity simultaneously. The second stakeholder, Think Eat goal is to explicitly eliminate food waste, which is incompatible with the first stakeholders. Another one of primary goals is to educate consumers of food waste. They argue that restaurants and consumers are the primary concern of food waste, and that consumers are uneducated in the matter. TES believes the most food waste can be stopped by changing the ways individuals live Eat It is estimated that individuals collectively spend over 1.2 trillion dollars a year on food in America, compared to the 20 billion a year in 1929 (Thyberg 116). A study done by emphasizes the contribution of households to the economic aspect of food waste, giving TES reason to focus on that audience 202). In contrast to the the FWRA, TES focuses just on ending food waste, while the FWRA is concerned with simultaneously ending food waste and feeding the hungry, making the two stakeholders incompatible. Though both stakeholders initially seem completely incompatible, they do have some similar common focuses, such as eliminating the amount of food going to landfills, and a desire to educate and equip people. Both stakeholders share this concern, because it is not good for food waste to be in landfills. A study done by Karim Ghani stated that, food waste can produce methane gas that results in 21 times greater impact on global warming than carbon (Ghani 1277), due to improper decomposition of food waste that occurs in landfills. Food waste awareness and strategy development are also commonalities between the two stakeholders. Though they are using different approaches, both stakeholders are concerned that Student 3 people do not understand the gravity of the effect of food waste. This concern led both groups to lead campaigns and release information to people to educate them in the issue. Both stakeholders are also interested in creating the means for people to make change. By creating strategies, the give people the means to make change. Food waste cannot end without the support of individuals coming alongside the stakeholders to battle the issue. For that reason, both stakeholders spread awareness of the issue, and give people to tools they need to battle food waste. To reach their common goals, both groups would need to yield their approachs for a proposed compromise. To work towards a compromise, the FWRA will have to broaden their focus away from the production industry, and pull away from their food bank strategy somewhat. For the TES, they will need to broaden their focus away from just consumers, and would need to allow for the use of food banks in their strategies to eliminate food waste. In the past, proposed solutions involved recycling food waste by feeding it to farm animals. A study done by Salemdeeb investigated the health impacts of that process, and while no significant health issues where found, the process in currently illegal in the EU (Salemdeeb 871, 880). Another solution, proposed by a group of researchers in, Combining Two Wrongs to Make Two Rights: Mitigating Food Insecurity and Food Waste through Gleaning  looked at the idea of using a gleaning process on farms for lesser income families to battle food waste and food insecurity simultaneously (Lee 40). If both groups are willing to relinquish their original approaches they can follow a compromise that incorporates both of their goals. Proposing the use of a broadened focus, both can cooperate on pursuing the end food waste. Together, the stakeholders should create strategies that the entire production line can implement, from the farmers down to the consumers. Instead of focusing on one group, Student 4 useful strategies would be developed for farms, food production factories, and consumers. Food banks should be incorporated in the production line, allowing unwanted food to be picked up by trucks for food banks, instead of disposed of. After that, food waste should be sent to farms instead of landfills. The food that would be sent to landfills by industries and consumers should be sent back to farms to be recycled as nutritious soil for crops. A larger scope allows aspects of both points to be included. The proposed compromise benefits both stake holders. First, by allowing trucks to pick up unused food, the NWRA gets to continue to contribute to food banks. Also, the broadened reach allows TES to continually reach out to consumers. Furthermore, the proposition benefits both stakeholders, because the food diverted to food banks and farms will keep a significant amount of food waste out of landfills. Additionally, a broadened approach to food waste education emphasizes on the importance of reaching all areas of production and consumption, including both original audiences. Adhering to the compromise would allow the stakeholders to influence a larger spectrum of people, while engaging shared interest. There are several steps the can follow to begin practically implementing the compromise. First, both stakeholders need to modify their websites to appeal and reach out to a broader scope of people. Then they can begin developing strategies that reduce food waste for the entire production line instead of just the consumers or big companies. Thirdly, food banks can be encouraged to send their trucks and volunteers to the production companies directly. Having the food banks oversee picking up excess food keeps businesses more likely to help since the businesses would not have to use extra time or money to donate food. Lastly, the stakeholders can influence farms to use food waste compost to fertilize crops. Following those steps can help the stakeholders to act, working together. Student 5 The two stakeholders may have conflicting issues, but a proposed compromise to end food waste through redirecting food to food banks, educating the masses and developing strategies for people to act on. Both stakeholders had different approaches to food waste, but shared commonalities open the door for the two stakeholders to work together. Avoiding landfills was a key commonality that led to a proposed compromise that incorporated goals from both stakeholders. The economic and environmental impacts of food waste cause the two groups to continue to fight for global food waste reduction. Under a compromise, more people can be informed of the issue, and both stakeholders provide information on how common people gave join the movement to end food waste (Word Count:1368). Student 6 Works Cited P., et al. Full Length Article: Economic Impact Assessment of Food Waste Reduction on European Countries through Social Accounting  Resources, Conservation & Recycling, pp. 202-209. 16 Feb. 2017. 26 Feb. 2017. Chandler, Adam. Americans Lead the World in Food The Atlantic. The Atlantic. 15 July 2016. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Evans, David, et al. A Brief Pre-History of Food Waste and the Social  The Sociological Review, no. S2, 2012, p. 5. 26 Feb. 2017. Food Waste Reduction  FWRA Food Waste Reduction Alliance. Food Waste Reduction Alliance. n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Ghani, Karim, et al. An Application of the Theory of Planned Behaviour to Study the Influencing Factors of Participation in Source Separation of Food  Waste Management, vol. 33, no. 5, May 2013, pp. 1276-1281. 26 Feb. 2017. Lee, Deishin, et al. Combining Two Wrongs to Make Two Rights: Mitigating Food Insecurity and Food Waste through Gleaning  Food Policy, vol. 68, 01 Apr. 2017, pp. 40-52. 26 Feb. 2017. Salemdeeb, Ramy, et al. Environmental and Health Impacts of Using Food Waste as Animal Feed: A Comparative Analysis of Food Waste Management  Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 140, Jan2017 Part 2, pp. 871-880. 23 Feb. 2017. Eat Save: Reduce Your Think Eat Save. Think Eat Save. n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Thyberg, Krista L. and David J. Tonjes. Review: Drivers of Food Waste and Their Implications for Sustainable Policy  Resources, Conservation & Recycling, vol. 106, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 110-123. 23 Feb. 2017