Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 21 February 2017 Treatment of Depression In the United States alone around 350 million people suffer from depression com). While some believe that the drug Prozac is a good treatment, others believe that Special K is better. Prozac is the common everyday drug that is used to treat depression. Special K, known as a party drug is an illegal substance that medical professionals are trying to get legalized since it has been proven to also help treat depression. is a mood disorder that causes a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of (Mayo Clinic Staff 1). The Mayo Clinic staff states that researchers are not able to find what directly causes depression, but have four influential factors in mind that they think causes it. The four influential factors are biological differences, brain chemistry, hormones, and inherited traits (Mayo Clinic Staff 1). The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders seem incompatible; however the compromise of treating depression can be implemented through, clinical trials, letting the patient choose what treatment they want to use, and having the doctors administer the drugs. To begin with, Health.com supports the treatment of depression. Health.com is an organization based out of California that provides readers a website to help people who are struggling with depression 1). Treatment of depression is strictly talked about on this website and gives viewers insight to what the drug Prozac is. This stakeholder gains information about their medical content by conducting interviews with Student 2 experts, medical personal, and real people 1). The main argument that this stakeholder presents is that people who suffer from depression should be taking the drug Prozac. Prozac is the common everyday drug that most doctors prescribe to their patients who suffer from depression 1). Although Prozac might be or might not be prescribed Statistics show that about 400,000 people attempt suicide in the United States each year 1). These statistics show that depression is a very serious disease that we need to fix no matter what drug the patient is given. To continue, The Washington Post is the second stakeholder that agrees with treating depression. However, this stakeholder believes that depression should be treated with the drug ketamine, also known as Special K. This drug is known for being a party drug since the 1960s Washington 1). In 2006, researchers at the National Institutes of Health began studying this drug in context of treating depression Washington 1). Researchers found out that Ketamine reported to have reverse effects of depression more effectively than traditional antidepressants, in fact it was found to be seventy-five percent effective. Washington 1). The difference between Ketamine and Prozac is that Ketamine targets NDMA, which is a receptor in our brain that is linked to depression Washington 1). The only problem with this is that Ketamine is an illegal drug that technically cannot be used medically or recreationally (Winter 3). It was reported by researchers that patients who take this drug are likely to experience a rapid blood pressure increase, while 20 minutes after they experience a rapid blood pressure decrease (Wolfson 1). According to Wolfson, These types of symptoms might be dangerous depending on the patient. Student 3 Continuing with the discussion about Ketamine and Prozac, these stakeholders are not able to compromise yet because they have not tried to find out which treatment is more effective than the other. The second stakeholder wants Ketamine to be given since it was proven to work more effectively. Although it was proven to work effectively on some patients, it might not work more effectively on all patients since we have a different chemical and genetic makeup. The first stakeholder believes that we should just use the common drug that we have know for years, Prozac. Although this is the common everyday drug that is given to people with depression it also might work differently on different people. This could be solved by the three compromises that were mentioned above. Moreover, using the Rogerian argument, which requires that the reader find common ground between two stakeholders who have different ways of doing things (Rhetoric Really Matters 375). Both of these stakeholders share the interest of treating depression even though they have two completely different views on how to do it. Although these stakeholders have different goals, they are both trying to figure out solutions that would help people who suffer from depression. The needs the these stakeholders have in common is that they feel the need to treat depression and what can medical professionals use to treat it. If this compromise were to be implemented at a professional level then a medical professional would need to get a sample of about thirty people for each drug. These would have to individuals that suffer from depression. The medical professional would then have to conduct clinical trials where the patients would not know what drug they were receiving making it a single-blind study. This experiment would need to conduct this research over a span of at least five years. Student 4 Another way that the stakeholders can compromise is by letting the patients see both the effects and benefits of each drug or insights of each drug. Medical professionals or researchers could do this by showing the patients what they have conducted in a clinical trial or even let the patient have a trial period with each drug. This would be a way of letting the patient have first hand experience with the drug and letting them see which one works more effectively for them. While Prozac may work effectively in healing one depression, Ketamine might work better for another patient. Since each person has a different chemical and genetic makeup drugs might not work the same between two different people. They might have the opposite effects of what should occur. The side effects of these drugs might sway a persons decision on which drug to take so it is important that they are able to understand and know the side effects of each drug. The last way that theses two stakeholders could compromise is by having the doctors administer the drug that the patient wants to use so that the doctors know what is going on with them rather than having to take the pills at home. The benefit of this would be to having less suicide attempts. Doctors would administer the drug so that they would be able to see if the drug is helping progress the depression or regress it. From these check ups the doctors would then be able to determine which drug each patient should use. Also with the doctors being able to administer each drug, they will be able to study them better to determine if one is more effective than the other of if they work about the same. By letting the medical professionals study the drug patients might be able to determine which one works for them best when given facts about the drug after they are diagnosed with depression and are not sure about which drug to take. Student 5 In conclusion, both Ketamine and Prozac are drugs that are able to help treat depression. Although we do not know which one is more effective we are able to implement a proposed compromise of conducting clinical trials, letting the patient choose which drug they want to take, and letting the medical professionals administer the drug intake. These three proposed compromises can help the medical professionals and patients who are diagnosed with depression determine whether they want to take Prozac or Ketamine to determine which one is more effective. Both stakeholders provide good evidence to get a better understanding about the different use of drugs in treating depression, while both they stakeholders have different views on how to treat depression, they have the same goals in healing depression. (WC:1306) Student 6 Works Cited Finzi, Eric, and Norman E. Rosenthal. Emotional Proprioception: Treatment of Depression with Afferent Facial  Journal of Psychiatric Research 80 (2016): 93-96. University of South Florida Library. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Gardner, Amanda. 12 Great Blogs for People With  Health.com. Health Media Ventures INC., 2017. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Noseworthy, John H. Depression (major  Mayo Clinic. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sava, Florin A., Brain T. Yates, Viorel Lupu, Aurora Szentagotai, and Daniel David. Treating Depression: A Randomized Clinical  65.1 (2009): 36- 52. University of South Florida Library. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Solovitch, Sara. Onetime Party Drug Hailed as Miracle for Treating Severe  The Washington Post. WP Company, 01 Feb. 2016. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Takashi, Yakushi, Kuba Teizo, Nakamoto Yuzuru, Fukuhara Hiroshi, Koda Munenaga, Tanaka Osamu, and Kondo Tsuyoshi. Usefulness of an Educational Lecture Focusing on Improvement of Public Awareness of and Attitudes towards Depression and Its  17 (2017): 1-9. University of South Florida Library. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Winter, Caroline. Dr. Feel Good and The Club Drug  4439 (2015): 54- 59. University of South Florida Library. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Wolfson, Philip E. Ketamine for Depression: A Mixed-Methods  (2015): 75-83. 2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.