Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Solar Energy and Hydropower Helping the Environment In recent years the rapid growth of damage caused by greenhouse gases has caused for different organizations to support different ways on using renewable energy sources that help reduce the climate impact. What the best environmentally friendly alternative power used as main source of energy has been a major discussion. The Solar Energy Industries Association is a stakeholder that supports the use of solar power as main energy, On the other hand The National Hydropower Association is a stakeholder that supports the use of hydropower. The two stakeholders have had conflict in the past on which kind of energy would benefit the environment more. An alternative way of obtaining energy will benefit the environment and help reduce damage to the ozone layer, however, the first stakeholder SEIA considers that using solar energy is the best way of creating alternative power while the second stakeholder NHA considers that using hydropower is better, Hydropower could be used for large corporations and large cities while solar power could be used for small businesses and homes. The solar Energy Industries main goal is to spread access the most abundant form of renewable energy. energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source available, and the U.S. has some of the richest solar resources in the world. Modern technology can harness this energy for a variety of uses, including generating electricity, providing light or a comfortable interior environment, and heating water for domestic, commercial, or industrial (SEIA.org) Solar Energy can be access easily by the public as well as different corporations. The usage of solar panels is convenient and can be an individual choice. Solar Energy : Application, Economics, and Public Perception by Adaramola States that more countries are considering using solar energy as main source of power do to the rise in energy demand. Solar power can be accessed by many countries and many people can benefit from it. U.S. solar market faces both challenges and opportunities; the industry is working to scale up the production of solar technology, and drive down manufacturing and installation ( SEIA.org) Even through the instillation cost for solar panels can be quite expensive, organizations such as SEIA are working on making the cost more affordable. In the long run is worth expanding to use solar energy because you only must install the panels once then you will achieve power by the sun. The National Hydropower main goal is to spread access to the most climate friendly form of renewable energy. about three percent of all U.S reservoirs are equipped with hydropower. Hydro help nation avoid 200 million metric tons of (Hydro.org) The usage of Hydropower can avoid Co2 production and is an environmentally friendly of obtaining energy. Student 2 According to Climate Informed Long Term Seasonal Forecasts of Hydroenergy Inflow for the Brazilian Hydropower System By lima present, the planning of reservoir operation and energy production in Brazil is made with no reliable long term (one season or longer lead times) streamflow forecasts. Here we use the NINO3 index and the main modes of the tropical Pacific thermocline structure as climate predictors in order to achieve skillfull forecasts at long Using Hydropower has benefited Brazil in many ways. Using hydropower has a great impact on climate change, and helps reduce creation of greenhouse gases. NHA seeks to secure a reliable energy source that is good economically and environmentally friendly, advocating for the usage of hydropower throughout the united states. Both stakeholders wish that an alternative source renewable energy as power would be use and their main concern is the environment. NHA and SEIA could work together to benefit the environment and spread the use of renewable energy. If each stakeholder would focus on a specific audience they could create a larger impact on their goal. They could come to a compromise, NHA could only focus on large corporations and large cities that would benefit from using hydropower while SEIA could only focus on individual homes or small businesses that could benefit from using solar energy. According to A multi-Reservoir Based Water- Hydroenergy Managemnt Model for Identifying the Risk Horizon of Regional Resources- Energy Policy Under Uncertainties By Zeng hybrid MWH model can plan human-recourse-energy with a robust and effective manner.Results can support adjusting water-energy policy to satisfy increasing Hydropower can produce high quantities of energy and meet the high demands of a large city. NHA would benefit from the compromise since they would be helping large cities as well as large corporations produce renewable energy in an efficient and affordable way. A Hydroenergy generating plant structure is arranged in a body of water, the structure compromising a top portion, a bottom portion and walls between the top and bottom portions define a reservoir therein, having an inner volume for water according to Generating hydroenergy by Aaltonen. The form hydropower plant is very convenient for large corporation that may be near water, they can be near a hydroenergy plan that will produce the power. SEIA would benefit from the compromise because they would be helping individuals who can have solar panels in their homes as well as small businesses who can afford to use solar energy and would save energy this way. Solar Energy: the state of the art: ISES position paper by Gordon states that the most common way of harnessing energy from the sun is through photovoltaic panels, like the ones on roof tops. These large panels are perfect for homes and business such as farms, that can have the large panels on their roofs. According to Solar energy: an introduction by mackay these photovoltaic devices present active and passive solar thermal energy conversion. By the sun being the most abundant source of energy people would be able to benefit. The National Hydropower Association and the Solar Energy Association are both stakeholder who are interesting in the use of renewable energy. They are concerned about the environment and their main goal is to have an environmentally friendly source of energy. They would both benefit from a compromise where NHA would focus on being used by large cities and corporations while SEIA could be used by homes and small business. The Compromise would Student 3 help the stakeholders reach their goal and would also help people benefit from using an alternative source of power. (WC: 1218) Work Cited Energy Industries SEIA.org. Collin Silver, 12 july 2012. Web 05 Mar. 2017.< http://www.seia.org> Hydro. Hydropower Hydro.org. Linda Church, Web 05 Mae 2017. <http://www.Hydro.org> Zeng, X.T., et al. A multi-Reservoir Based Water-Hydroenergy Management Model for identifying the Risk Horizon of Regional Resources- Energy policy under Energy Conservation and managements, 03 Feb 2017 Aaltonen Jane (Turku) and Markus ( Heisinki) Aarnio. 2012. Lima, Carlos H.R. and Upmanu Lall. Informed Long Term Seasonal Forecasts of Hydroenergy Inflow for the Brazilian Hydropower Journal of Hydrology, vol. 381, 01 Jan. 2010. Gordon, Jerffrey M. energy: the state of the art: ISES position London: Earthscan Publication, 2001. Print. Mackay, Michael E. Solar Energy : An Introduction. Oxford : Oxford University Press 2015. Student 4 Adaramola, Muyiwa. Energy : Application, Economics, and Public Perception. Waretown, N.J : Apple Academic Press, Inc, 2015.