Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Difference in PTSD treatment. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, which is also known as PTSD, is a mental disorder caused by a shocking and/or life-threatening event, like natural disaster, sexual assault, combat, etc. Everyone, despite his or her age, sex and social status is at the risk. The disorder does not have specific range of impact, since almost everyone had, has or might experience something traumatizing during his or her life. However, even though most of the people recover from traumatic event comparatively fast, some people might have issues with getting over the frightful memory of the event. Luckily for those people, some organizations, such as For and Refuge a healing are willing to offer help and treatments to people with PTSD so they will have a chance to recover from the disorder. Although these organizations are aimed to help people with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, they have different opinions about the treatment methods. On the one hand For which is a non-profit organization that aimed to provide trained dogs to veterans to help to cope with PTSD. The organization was founded in 2011 and its founder Shari Duval got inspired by her son, who served in Iraq and returned with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, which affected the entire family. To help her son, Shari Duval started an organization that trains canines and gives them to veterans to provide a support and some kind of a therapy. Besides the fact that the organization helps American warriors to cope with mental health disorders, it also rescues dogs from shelters, so the organization saves not Student 2 only humans but canines as well. The main goal of the organization to provide a life-time friend and support, who will help to overcome the negative experience and cope with traumatic memories of the event. This is an alternative therapy for people who suffer from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. On the other hand Refuge a healing national treatment center that was founded in 2003. According to their website, The Refuge is a residential care facility in Ocala National forest that offers patients with PTSD help, treatments and recover from mental disorders. Additionally, Refuge a healing is a 12-step based program that treats each person as a unique (The Refuge - A Healing Place). The program is aimed to help their clients to understand what is PTSD, find the root of problems and finally help them to recover. Overall, it is a sort of a sanatorium, where people who are suffering from PTSD and addictions receive the treatment that they need. The program is consist of a variety of different therapies and assignments that aimed to make people feel relaxed, calm, safe and restore mental health. Both organizations, For and Refuge a healing have one primer goal to help people who suffer from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder recover from the disorder. Nevertheless, the way of achieving the goal is different. On the one hand, the former offering the way how to cope with the disorder, while Refuge a healing trying to find a root of the issue. Thus, both stakeholders cannot reach a compromise due to the difference in their beliefs and treatment methods. Considering the fact that both stakeholders have same goal to help people, the difference is notable. For does not offer deep treatment to cure the mental disorder, but provides alternative way to cope with it. In the meantime, Refuge a healing offers Student 3 the place, where people can receive all types of psychological treatments. The stakeholder believes that for complete recovery their clients need quiet place, almost isolated from possibly triggering moments or things. Refuge a healing is a program that requires to a from daily life and take their long lasting recovery treatments, while For allows to receive their alternative treatment without disturbing life routine. In spate their differences, the goal that both of the stakeholders are trying to achieve is bound them. Therefore, to help people, as both organizations want to do, they should unite their strong sides and create a better treatment method or several different methods to satisfy both beliefs. Ideally, it would be better if Refuge a healing will make their almost isolated center less insulated and open a shelter for animals on their facility, while For will also allow people to play and spend time with service dogs during treatment sessions. Thus, the place will include both treatment methods and allow people to have a life-time support that always will associated with a calming and relaxing place, where patients received help and support. The symbiosis of both organizations will create a perfect place as for people who suffer from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, so for homeless animals. Surely, the idea sounds too perfect since it would not be too problematic to recreate it. For instance, even though it is incredibly difficult to open a place as shelter without a financial support, both organizations probably will be able to combine their finances. In case if both sides will be against, For still will be able to open another center for training canines. Nevertheless, besides financial issues, the idea does not sound achievable due to difficult and complicated way of treatment methods. Since veterans and civilians might have different types of PTSD, the nuances in treatments will be notable and issues that might appear during the treatment might cause difficulties to avoid. Additionally, since For focuses only Student 4 on training dogs to provide them to veterans afterwards, those canines will be mostly trained to serve to military related people more than to civilians. However, it cannot be omitted that other possible types of issues and nuances will be caused during finding a compromise for both organizations, but all these nuances can be solved and the compromise might be achieved. For example, the mental disorder treatment methods and canine trainings can be modified or slightly changed, so treatments will satisfy veterans and civilians as much as possible. Therefore, to combine beliefs and ideas of both organizations seems to be the most fair and decent option to achieve the compromise between For and Refuge a healing The idea of a long-lasting treatment somewhere quiet and relaxing already seems to be a good way to cure. In addition to a good treatment method, an alternative method of a treatment also can affect positively. According to Benefits of Canine Companionship for Military Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder article by S.L. Stern, the alternative treatment, such as having a friend, support and a creature that helps a patient to overcome the disorder might increase the possibility of recovering from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. The article treatment and 5-year remission among patients with substance use and posttraumatic stress states that psychological treatment for PTSD helps patients a lot and actually has a chance to cure the disorder. In addition to psychological treatment, as was mentioned before, service pets increases those chance to recover from PTSD. Thus, the symbiosis of both stakeholders will lead to a better treatment method of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. Word count: 1200. Student 5 Work Cited Premier Residential Program Treating Adults with PTSD, Trauma, Depression and Co-Occurring Disorders, 2013, web. http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/ K9s for Warriors, 2011, web, https://www.k9sforwarriors.org/ S. L. Stern, D. A. Donahue, S. Allison, J. P. Hatch, C. L. Lancaster, Trisha A. Benson; A. L. Johnson, M. D. Jeffreys, D. Pride, C. Moreno, A. L. Peterson, Potential Benefits of Canine Companionship for Military Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Society & Animals, 1063-1119, 2013. PTSD: National Center for PTSD, U.S. Departament of Veterans Affairs, web. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/index.asp Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, National Institutes of Mental Health, Feb 26, 2017, web. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd/index.shtml O. Paige, R. H. Moos, J. W. Finney, PTSD treatment and 5-year remission among patients with substance use and posttraumatic stress disorders, Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology 71.2, pr, 2003, 410-14. PsycARTICLES, web, http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/ccp/71/2/410/