Kendall 1 Casey Kendall Instructor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Planned Parenthood Strategies Kendall 2 Planned Parenthood was created in 1916 with the sole purpose of providing equal health care to those who are in need. With this platform, they area a well-developed organization that is recognized world-wide. Throughout society and media you can view their ideals and goals through images, with these images they are able to illustrate their purpose through rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Image one that Planned Parenthood has illustrated highlights pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. In this image, it reads, Parenthood Care. No matter It starts by saying Planned Parenthood, which allows us to show ethos. Planned Parenthood is an established organization and by stating their name it gives credibility to the organization and the image that they created. As well as saying, this image shows their logo. By implanting their logo it allows an audience to identify with the fact that this image is legitimate and will represent the goals of Planned Parenthood. As well as ethos, this image shows pathos by stating the word, Even though care is a word that is represented with feelings and emotions it allows a reader to connect the organization to care and really look into the purpose of this image. In this instance, care allows an audience to see that this organization is wanting attention and is needed help. The pathos that come with the world care allows the purpose of their organization to come to light. For centuries Planned Parenthood has had an ongoing battle with opposing stakeholders to keep their doors open and with this simple word care, this idea is being represented. Pathos is also represented through the words, matter These words signify that Planned Parenthood has had obstacles and regardless they want to be there for their patients as well as the fact that they want people there for them. matter also allows an audience to identify with one of Planned ideals, equality. Through pathos, Planned Parenthood can reach an emotion connection through these words to connect it to their main goal. Another ideal that is Kendall 3 used in this image is logos. Through the words, No matter it is logical that individuals should be helping those in need. It is a human trait to want to reach out to others and help them to the best of their ability so by stating these words it allows an audience to want to help. When an audience looks at these words, their sense of help is illuminated and helps bring awareness. This image also gives light to kairos by putting periods at the end of care and no matter what. By placing these periods in the image, it instils a sense of urgency, it creates a tone of eagerness. These periods allow the image to seem more direct and to the point, this makes the image seem like it is in a rush to do things and is on a time crunch. Demonstrating this sense of urgency will allow someone to feel like they need to take action and the period really drive home a call to action. In all, this image has used different appeals to really strive for a better understanding of their goal as an organization. Image two allows Planned Parenthood to really create a sense of their goals using rhetorical appeals. This image states the words, in the center of the image. This allows pathos to be created, it gives a sense of the past. Evidently, these words are illustrating of a time that was worse than this that the audience does not to go back to. Also, it creates a picture that people had to fight to be where they are today. By creating this, it allows people to be passionate about Planned Parenthood. As well as the words demonstrating pathos, all the women in the image standing and cheering allows individuals to feel happy and accomplished. This image shows that these women have accomplished something and they are celebrating. With the celebration, it creates a sense of happiness and allows an audience to really take interest in what exactly the organization is fighting for. As well as pathos, this image used ethos by having the logo and the words Planned Parenthood in the back of the image. These two factors to the image create credibility to the image and make an individual connect the image with Planned Parenthood. Logos Kendall 4 is also demonstrated in this image. Through the history of Planned Parenthood it is known that women have had to fight for their rights to equal health care. In this image, with the words back, it allows an audience to connect this image with the past. Just the word back, it allows an audience to logically connect the past issued Planned Parenthood has had and connect it with this image of women standing and cheering for something they believe in. Also, with all these women standing in the background of the image, it makes this image seem very logically due to the fact that Planned Parenthood deals with health care. This image also creates a call to action through the hashtag. Hashtags are usually represented by things that are trending and that are happening right now. With this hashtag, it create a sense of time and urgency to do something about this right now and it shows that it is a movement. All together, these appeals allow this image to illustrate a sense of hope for future and tie in goals of Planned Parenthood and compare it to their past. Planned Parenthood is an organization that has allowed equal health care for women nationwide. This organization thrives on the ideals of equality and wanting to help those that are in need. They have set a goal to help as many people as they can through their free services and their information. Planned Parenthood gives access to information to individuals who might not have it otherwise. This organization is not only about abortion, rather, it is about health care as a whole. Through both images Planned ideals are represented. Planned Parenthood has had to fight for where they are today and continue to fight to keep their doors open, both images illustrate it with their call to action and sense of urgency. Also, these images both highlight a sense of care that Planned Parenthood is known for providing to their patients. Another goal that is represented is equality, with the first image stating no matter what, it allows Planned Parenthood to really show that they are welcoming to all. As well as Planned Parenthood and their goals, these Kendall 5 images show that individuals really need and want Planned Parenthood. It really illustrates that Planned Parenthood is effective due to all the women in the second picture standing in support. Both images allow Planned Parenthood to be represented by the organization who is open arms to anyone in need of health care. Planned Parenthood, today, still strives to implement their ideals everywhere they are able. They continue to fight for what will help others and they stand for equality and are on the side of health care. As they aim to represent themselves in the best way possible, they use rhetorical appeals to speak to their audience without words. Kendall 6 Works Cited Planned Parenthood Official  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.<https://www.plannedparenthood.org/>  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.