Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2015 Putting our differences aside to help the Earth A recent issue that has surfaced, is the issue of which type of recycling is the better choice. Recycling is a form of converting waste into reusable material. Two major forms of recycling include paper recycling and plastic recycling. The debate for which type is the best to recycle has pros and cons to both sides. This issue is an important contemporary concern because the health of the environment is affected. Consumer recycling helps to reduce waste and sustain the environment (Biswas et al. 93-105). When people disagree on the importance of recycling, or they argue which type of recycling is better, they can cause pollution with the neglect of recycling. A compromise can help enforce the importance of recycling and prevent the spread of pollution. The American Forest and Paper Association has a history of promoting paper recycling and raising the paper recovery rate. The International plastics on the other hand, promotes plastic recycling compared to paper recycling. The compromise between these two stakeholders can be implemented through their shared appreciation of the environment, their shared concern to stop pollution and their shared desire to recycle. The primary goal of the American Forest and Paper Association is to promote paper recycling and raise the paper recovery rate. In 1993, the association was formed when two groups combined. The first association was called Merger of National Forest Products Association and the second was called American Paper Institute (afandpa). The association has been around for over twenty years, which gives them credibility to back up their claim. On the Student 2 website, the stakeholder discusses why paper recycling is the better option compared to other recycling options. A principal argument used by the association to support their position is, weight, more paper is recovered for recycling from municipal solid waste streams than glass, plastic, steel and aluminum combined, according to Environmental Protection Agency (afandpa). This argument helps to prove their claim by showing the audience that more paper is recycled, making it the better option compared to plastic recycling. Michael R. Darby provides evidence that more paper is recovered for recycling in his article Paper Recycling and the Stock of Trees. has been a movement now to by recycling (Darby 1253-1255). This movement has caused more of the public to take part in recycling to help raise the paper recovery rate and protect the environment. With every paper recycled, it contributes to saving trees all over the world. With a higher recovery rate, paper recycling seems as the better option compared to plastics. Shushuai Zhu and Joseph Buongiorno also provide evidence that supports the American Forest and Paper Association and its claim. The article discusses the importance of recycling paper for everyone including the author who is a librarian. Then the article goes to discuss ways to help improve recycling paper and promote paper recycling to the public. (Zhu, Buongiorno 133-142) The primary goal of International Plastics is to promote plastic recycling over paper recycling to protect the environment and reduce pollution. The organization believes that plastics are better to use over paper because plastic is cheaper so that makes it easier to recycle (interplas). This statement is their principal argument for their claim. Another argument for the claim is that plastic is better to use over paper because plastic weighs less and creates less waste. Gail L. Achterman provides evidence for International claim through the article Implementing Plastics Recycling Mandates. In the article, it discusses how legislative Student 3 attention, has shifted largely from outright bans to initiatives designed to remove obstacles from plastic recycling. The removing of these obstacles helps to promote more plastic recycling. This in turn benefits the environment that is greatly affect by plastics that pollute the atmosphere (Achterman 13-15). With this promotion, more of the public will see plastic recycling as the better option compared to paper. Another article that supports International claim with evidence is Classifying Waste by Reducing its Generation. This scholarly source supports International plastics and their claim because it discusses how plastic recycling has changed drastically over the last decade. The source also states that recycling is one of the most important actions currently available and represents one of the most dynamic areas in the plastic industry today (Belkin 154-155). To even begin creating a compromise for the American Forest and Paper Association and International Plastics, one would need to look at their shared interests, concerns, and needs. One shared interest that both have is seeing the importance in recycling. Both have concerns for the environment and want to stop the spread of pollution. behaviors that benefit the environment are potentially influenced by personal values of environment (Viscusi. 65-70). Here Viscusi states that individual behaviors that benefit the environment are influenced by values of quality for the environment. The quote really explains the goals for both stakeholders and shows their common ground. With the stakeholders shared need of wanting to recycle, and concern for the environment, they can see eye-to-eye in that aspect to come together with a compromise. Despite having incompatible goals, one compromise would be for both stakeholders to work together and promote recycling of all materials. This compromise benefits the American Forest and Paper Association because it still benefits and promotes paper recycling. This compromise Student 4 also benefits International Plastics because it still benefits and promotes plastic recycling. Then together, both materials are being promoted for recycling compared to just one over the other. At a practical level, this compromise may seem difficult to achieve, but it can be achieved by getting both stakeholders to discuss the positives that come with recycling with their material of choice. Once they discuss, they can understand both sides and work together on promoting recycling on either material. A good compromise cannot be achieved all at once. It will take gradual steps to promote the recycling of all materials. The first realistic step would be to get the stakeholders to discuss the positives, like previously mentioned. The next step would involve hearing both sides and finalizing their decision that all recycling has it benefits. Lastly, the stakeholders can come together to use the promotion of recycling to benefit the Earth. With more recycling, pollution will become less of a problem. To conclude, both stakeholders began with two seemingly incompatible goals. The American Forest and Paper association has one primary goal to promote paper recycling over any form of recycling. International Plastics on the other hand, has one primary goal to promote plastic recycling over any form of recycling. Both stakeholders promote recycling to benefit the Earth and stop the spread of pollution. Their disagreements do not have any positive benefits as their goals seem to have. The compromise suggested helps both stakeholders put aside their differences to think about their one common goal. The main goal that both stakeholders have in common is the goal of helping the planet by promoting recycling. If the stakeholders can come together to promote all forms of recycling to stop the spread of pollution, they would still be positively benefiting the public. WC: 1205 Student 5 Works Cited Achterman, Gail L. Plastics Recycling Natural Resources & Environment, vol. 9, no. 2, 1994, pp. JSTOR. E-text. Feb. 2017. Belkin, Nathan L., and Alan David Kaye. Waste by Reducing Its Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology, vol. 19, no. 3, 1998, pp. JSTOR. E-text. Feb. 2017. Biswas, Abhijit, et al. Recycling Cycle: An Empirical Examination of Consumer Waste Recycling and Recycling Shopping Journal of Public Policy & Marketing, vol. 19, no. 1, 2000, pp. JSTOR. E-text. Feb. 2017. Darby, Michael R. Recycling and the Stock of Journal of Political Economy, vol. 81, no. 5, 1973, pp. JSTOR. E-text. Feb. 2017. afandpa.com. DC Web Design Company, 2017. Web. 5 Mar. 2017 Plastic Green Interplas.com. International Plastics, Inc., 2017. Web. 5 Mar 2017. Viscusi, W. Kip, et al. Recycling: Private Values, Social Norms, and Economic The American Economic Review, vol. 101, no. 3, 2011, pp. JSTOR. E-text. Feb. 2017. ZHU, SHUSHUAI, and JOSEPH BUONGIORNO. Impact of National Environmental Policies: the Case of Paper Recycling in the United The International Forestry Review, vol. 4, no. 2, 2002, pp. JSTOR. E-text. Feb. 2017.