Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Treating Depression for All Depression is a disorder that effects many people worldwide. Because of its vast effect and different types and severities of depression, most information and treatments for depression is still up in the air. One of the leading causes of death in people (especially teens) is suicide, in order to save lives, a light needs to be shined on depression and have it be treated as a real and severe mental illness. Lighthouse is an organization that is geared toward helping teenagers and their families in the fight against depression. On the other hand, Postpartum Progress is an organization that is for women that are dealing with mental illnesses that comes with being an expectant or new mother. There is some division between these two organizations because of the fact that they cater toward two different groups. depression affect everyone? Lighthouse and Postpartum Progress are stakeholders providing support to people being affected by depression and other mental illnesses. Even though each organization is catered toward a different type of age group/gender and also the different types of depression there is hope that all of these organizations can come together and fight the fight or mental disorders/illnesses. As mentioned before, Lighthouse is an organization that focuses on depression in adolescents. Their mission statement is that are a not-for-profit dedicated to educating and raising awareness about adolescent depression, encouraging good mental health and breaking down the stigma surrounding mental health issues Notice how in the Student 2 mission statement it even states that their organization is strictly for adolescent depression. Teen depression has been a growing problem that has somewhat become ignored. Because of this, of teens receive help for their depression This statistic contributes to why there is a certain stigma that comes to adolescent and even general depression. Since teenagers adults, people believe that depression in teenagers is not a thing. In order to stop this Lighthouse wants to help adolescents and their parents understand information about depression and that they are not alone. Since of teens will experience depression before adulthood this organization stresses the importance of creating a sense of community with other families that are combating depression in their adolescents. Lighthouse stresses the importance of this because of what the founders of this organization went through. The organization was founded by Tom and Ginny Neuckranz after their daughter, Erika, took her own life through battling depression Lighthouse). Because of their heartbreak, they were able to create an organization that can live the lives of many teenagers and the pain and heartbreak of their families. Postpartum Progress is a stakeholder that helps expectant and new mothers go through the mental illnesses that come with being a new mother. The mission statement is that raise awareness, fight stigma and provide peer support and programming to women with maternal mental illness (Postpartum In the same way as Lighthouse, it clearly states that this organization is catered to only helping women with maternal mental illnesses. Although postpartum depression has not been as much in the light as teen depression, it is still a serious mental illness that affects many new mothers after childbirth. Even though taking care of a baby and childbirth itself is a lot to handle, 1 in 7 new mothers endure postpartum depression as another obstacle (WebMD). According to WebMD, Postpartum Student 3 depression is a form of clinical depression related to pregnancy and childbirth Because of the severity of this particular type of depression, Katherine Stone, in 2004, created this blog after dealing with postpartum herself after giving birth to her first child (Postpartum Postpartum Progress is a blog that helps to create a sense of community for women going through the same thing. It is there for women to not only receive help but also be able to help other women. This stakeholder is there to provide information to both expectant mothers and new mothers. It helps for them to be prepared for what is ahead and seek help from other women who have been in their shoes. To compare these great organizations to each other there are definitely more similarities than differences between the two. For one, both organizations are catered toward the stigma of mental illnesses and helping people to be educated on depression and what comes with that illness. Depression, no matter how severe or what type it is, is still depression. Depression a mood disorder that causes a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of interest (Mayo Throughout both stakeholders and any depression organizations in general, the same definition of depression still stays consistent through each no matter who the organization is catered toward. The concerns that the stakeholders have is that people are not taking these illnesses legitimately because of the fact that they are not educated enough. These organizations strive to combat these stigmas by providing information to these two parties. Depression itself is a major mental illness that is overlooked by more mental illnesses like anxiety, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and OCD. All mental illnesses are extremely important and should be held on the same pedestal. Since the only real problem between these two stakeholders is the groups different age groups they stand behind, the compromise that they should reach is that depression is depression Student 4 and it can happen to everyone. Depression happens to men, women, teenagers, young adults, the elderly, anyone and everyone is at risk for depression. Instead of having these two stakeholders representing similar stances separately, they should be united together for the same cause. To make this compromise practical, the heads of the organizations should talk together about the similarities between their organizations and how they can unite. To conclude, so what now? Do all depression organizations geared toward different age groups like these two unite together for one cause? Although it is not impossible, it is a thing that can be achieved. The compromise that was given can help reach out to age groups that are not represented enough but are yet still affected by depression. Depression organizations all share the same thing in common, erasing the stigma associated with depression and educating people about it as a serious mental disorder. But the question is, do all depression organizations have the same goals like these two or different. How would you unite them? Student 5 Student 6 Student 7 Student 8 Works Cited Teenage Depression Programs  Teenage Depression Programs Lighthouse. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Postpartum  Postpartum Progress. Postpartum Progress Inc., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Malcore, Paul. Teen Depression: Troubling Statistics and  Rawhide. N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Postpartum Depression (PPD) Center: Symptoms, Causes, Treatments, Medications, and  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mayo Clinic Staff. Depression (major  Mayo Clinic. N.p., 7 July 2016. Web. Feb. 2017. Ugarte Ugarte, Amaia, et al. Psychoeducational Preventive Treatment for Women at Risk of Postpartum Depression: Study Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial,  BMC Psychiatry, vol. 17, 13 Jan. 2017, pp. 1-7. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1186/s12888-016- 1162-5. Student 9 MOREH, SWENDA and HENRY Common Risk Factors Associated with Adolescent and Young Adult  Journal of Health & Human Services Administration, vol. 39, no. 2, Fall2016, pp. 283-310. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=buh&AN =119548716&site=eds-live. Watson, J. P. Depression: Biology, Psychodynamics and  British Journal of Psychiatry, vol. 134, Jan. 1979, p. 122. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed b&AN=24779873&site=eds-live.