Student 1 Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Working Together for a Greener Tomorrow Reduce, has been a phrase many have used to discuss the process and mentality people should have towards their environment. ton of recycled paper can save 17 trees,380 gallons of oil, 3 cubic yards of landfill space,4000 kilowatts of energy, and 7000 gallons of water. This represents a sixty-four percent energy savings and fifty-eight percent of water savings and sixty pounds less of air (USI Paper Facts). The Waste Management company represents just this, because they seek for a better tomorrow for not only the environment but for its customers as well. But even though paper recycling can be the answer to many of the environments problems not many would agree on the control or regulation over the process of paper recycling. There are people who believe that paper recycling is beneficial to the environment but the way in which it is being handle can improve. This is what Kostyantyn Pivnenko argued in his case study Paper for recycling: Identification of potentially critical In Technical University of Denmark. They argued that paper recycling is in fact beneficial to the environment but that there should be concern on the potential chemical hazards it may contain. Their goal is to emphasize the importance of knowing what paper recycling implements and the certain harms in can do to humans. But a solution can be made if both come together to discuss the issue. A compromise can form in which the agreement could be that more regulations on paper recycling be performed to control the potential harmful effects but still continue to do the process of paper recycling. Each sides of the argument provide enough evidence to back up their thoughts on the subject. Plus, both are credible due to the fact of the background of where it comes from. For example, the waste management company is a leading provider of environmental solution services to over twenty-one million people in north America. (WM Web) This provides the credibility the company has on the subject because enough population trusts the attempts on bettering the environment little by little. Same goes for the other side of the argument the case study came from a well-known university in Denmark. 2014, DIU was granted an institutional accreditation by the Danish accreditation institution (member of ENQA) this ensures that the quality assurance system of the institute is well described, well-argued and well-functioning in (DTU Web) This brings in credibility to their case study due to the fact that the university is well-known for their research. Both could have already performed a compromise but what limits them too is the issue of how much control one should have over the other. To better explain it imagine two children which in this case both sides of the argument. They are playing a game of who gets the praise for winning or achieving a certain goal. The certain goal in this case is achieving a better tomorrow. Well who gets to decide if the waste management with their control over recycling have on the case study the students proposes. Both are on the same page of the benefits of paper recycling but the waste management company just showcases the luxury of recycling while the others showcase both the benefits of it as well as the consequences and the importance to seek regulations. overall goal of this study is to provide a basis for systematically addressing the recyclability of waste paper with respect to the potential presence of hazardous (Pivnenko 135) This showcases the goal of the opposing side because the mission is clear in that they seek to only improve paper recycling by first addressing the issue first. In the study they gathered enough data to come to the conclusion that there is a need for more comprehensive quantitative data documenting the levels of potentially hazard substances in paper that come primarily from printing in paper sent to recycling as well as the final paper (Pivnenko 140) The suggested compromise among both arguments is that there should be a balance as to the control pf paper recycling and not only the benefits should be shown but also the consequences of its process. As waste goal states goal is to manage and reduce waste from collection to disposal while recovering valuable resources and creating clean, renewable (WM Web) After investigating both sides the argument, both seek for a greener tomorrow through the process of paper recycling but it is true in that some regulation should be implemented in order to protect the people around because not only the environment can be harmed but also humans in the process of it. The solution is simple as long as all work together to achieve the primary and shared goal they both have. Which is to utilize paper recycling to limit waste but as well as regulate to contain small yet harmful consequences. The compromise is simple because both seek the same goal so why not just work together instead of fighting over who can achieve the goal in a more productive or safer manner. Overall, Paper recycling is an issue that has changed over the past couple of years. At first it as widely used as today since it was very unknown to many but as time as gone by the issue of the environment deteriorating has become such a popularized issue among the population. The solution is simple and easy enough due to their shared final goal. Even though both may view it from a different perspective both still want to improve our planet. As long as both just learn to compromise among them by allowing the use of more safety regulations brought upon them, not much of an argument on paper recycling will be left. Works Cited Page Pivnenko, Kostyantyn, et al. Waste Paper for Recycling: Overview and Identification of Potentially Critical  2015. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsagr&AN=edsagr.US201600276251&site=eds-live.  About Waste Management, Practices, Ethics, Leadership and History. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.wm.com/about/index.jsp>. Services, USI Web. Main  University of Southern Indiana. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.usi.edu/recycle/paper-recycling-facts>.