Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 A Technical Versus a Literal Approach to Art Education Art education has been a growing concern when it comes to its importance in schools. There are two stakeholders with opposing views about this concern: Americans for the Arts and the Common Core State Standards Initiative. Americans for the Arts is an organization that essentially advocates for all things art. The CCSSI is a set of standards for English/Language arts and math that prepares students for college courses. The values of the two stakeholders disagree, it seems to be a left brain versus right brain debate. Though the views seem incompatible, a compromise can be established through working to implement optional art classes to all schools, continue using art-implied English, and considering the National Coalition for Core Arts Standards. Originally referred to as Community Arts Councils Inc., Americans for the Arts is an organization that has been around for over fifty years th Anniversary Americans for the Arts has four sub-groups: Arts Action Fund, National Arts Marketing Project, pARTnership Movement, and Animating Democracy (Americans for the Arts). All the groups do different tasks to properly promote arts in the nation. The Arts Action Fund raises money to build political influence and donate all its time to advocate for the arts and art education We Stand Another group is the National Arts Marketing Project; NAMP helps artists and art professionals expand their artistic horizons, or become more successful, which will spread art Student 2 awareness to the community The pARTnership Movement is another group; it encourages business leaders to use the arts as a strategy to improve their performance and give them an advantage The fourth group is Animating Democracy, which promotes cultural change through the arts and advocates to make art the solution to community issues Animating Currently, Americans for the Arts keeps its website up to date, has an and gives information about Americans for the Arts in the news (Americans for the Arts). In a recent news posting, Americans for the Arts announces Arts Advocacy Day on March 20-21 and describes how the arts benefit the economy; the arts employ 4.8 million arts workers and the arts and culture sector is a $730 billion industry on Arts, Jobs, and the Americans for the definition for art education is and programming in all arts and advocates to establish that for all children Nick Gibb, the Minister of State for School Reform in the United Kingdom explained in a speech that every child should have access to the arts, no matter the disability or household income (Gibb). There was a Harris Poll run by Americans for the Arts, published by Sandra S. Ruppert, that found 93% of the people questioned said the arts give children a more education; 86% of the people said art helps students have a more positive attitude about going to school; and 54% said art education is rated ten on a one to ten scale of importance (Ruppert). The second stakeholder, The Common Core State Standards Initiative, is a set of curriculum standards that prepares students for college (Common Core State Standards Initiative). The CCSSI started with concern of the quality of American education; the National Governors Association met with the Council of Chief State School Officers and decided standards for students in math and English was a good idea. This is a statewide option; each state Student 3 decides whether to take up the standards instead of the federal government. The standards were set to improve the quality of public education and prepare students for college, no matter where they lived. The standards went through two phases and the final standards were released on June 2, 2010. (Lang) The Common Core State Standards have been adopted in forty-three states; Minnesota only uses the English standards and the only territory of the United States that does not use the standards is Puerto Rico in Your The CCSSI website contains information about which companies and organizations support the initiative; including ACT Inc., Military Child Education Coalition, and National Parent Teacher Association of Towards art education, there is a bit of a gray area in the CCSSI. David Coleman, president of the College Board and, per Alice Wexler, a architect of the released a statement about how the arts should be taught and based it off preexisting New York State standards (Wexler). Coleman said students should be able to develop the skill of observation, similar to re-reading literature, when learning about art. Coleman explained that classes should have deep analysis of works of art and learn about how each choice affects the outcome. The standards expect students to describe how a work of art was influenced, whether from social or economic concerns that were going on at the time. Students should be able to study works of art in the community voluntarily after learning about how to do so in class. As the grades increase, their knowledge and ability to analyze art should also increase; students should also learn how to imitate harder works of art and face bigger challenges that could potentially be applied to their work. The standards want students to observe how a choice was made, see how work changes over time, and study how art can affect consumers. The goal is to teach the students well enough so they can take their skills with them throughout their lives. Student 4 (Coleman) One can argue that Coleman only wants to art into preexisting classes, such as English, instead of giving the arts its importance of its own class; Alice Wexler makes the arguments that view of art is more concrete. Wexler also stated that Coleman said it is impossible to learn English without having some portion of art education thrown in there, implying that he did not care for regular art classes because it is implied in other classes. (Wexler) Though the views of Americans for the Arts and the CCSSI seem to differ, both recognize art education as a key to succeeding and both value quality education. An example includes the fact that Coleman said in his statement that artwork can affect a choice on a product; if a product has an aesthetically pleasing, a deep meaning, or a compelling message through the artwork on it people are more likely to purchase it. The message behind pARTnership agrees with this and says that businesses will benefit from using art, and this is one way how. National Coalition for the Core Arts, though not a part of the CCSSI, is a set of core standards for the arts, it goes more into depth about what the students should be able to achieve artistically and touches on most forms of art classes. (The College Board) A compromise can be made between Americans for the Arts and the CCSSI by doing three things: considering some type of merge with National Coalition for the Core Arts, working to provide art classes to all schools, and continuing to implement art into languages such as English. With these steps, Americans for the Arts will benefit because if the steps are successful, not only will art be available to all, students not taking art will learn about it through their English classes. The CCSSI will benefit because the values of teaching art through English would be adopted, and if students decide to take art classes then the classes will be monitored through their own set of standards with the National Coalition for the Core Arts Standards. Student 5 Both stakeholders are sacrificing a bit, but with this compromise both stakeholders win. Once enough money is raised to provide optional art classes throughout the nation, Americans for the Arts wins. If students choose not to take up the arts, they will still learn through their English classes about analyzing works of art, which addresses the part of Americans for the definition. The CCSSI benefits because the standards and implied-arts will still be in the courses but arts classes will also be provided; art classes would adopt the art standards so that even when the students are creating art, it will be regulated. It seems from afar that the stakeholders have opposite views, but a compromise can be made with ease by implementing optional art classes in schools, continuing the art-implied English, and adding the art standards. (WC: 1396) Student 6 Works Cited 50th Anniversary  Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 15 Oct. 2014. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.americansforthearts.org/about-americans-for-the- arts/50th-anniversary/50th-anniversary-timeline. The fiftieth anniversary timeline for Americans for the Arts gives historical information about the organization. This will help for the background portion of the essay. About Animating  Animating Democracy. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.animatingdemocracy.org/about. Animating Democracy is the portion of Americans for the Arts and promotes social change through the arts. This page will be referenced when discussing the sub-groups of Americans for the Arts. About  NAMP. National Arts Marketing Project, 02 Feb. 2017. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://namp.americansforthearts.org/namp/about-us. Serving as a sub-group of Americans for the Arts, the National Arts Marketing Project helps artists and art professionals. This source will be used when describing all of the organizations inside Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 2015. americansforthearts.org. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. This is the original website for the first stakeholder listed: Americans for the Arts. This will be used to gather general information about the organization. Coleman D. 2012. Guiding principles of the arts Accessed February 26, 2017, at http://usny.nysed.gov/rttt/docs/guidingprinciples-arts.pdf. This is the statement published by David Coleman, president of the College Board, giving his exact interpretations of the art standards. This will be used for the Common Core argument. The College Board. (2014). The Arts and the Common Core: A Comparison of the National Core Arts Standards and the Common Core State Standards. New York: The College Board. Student 7 The College Board has published this to describe the similarities between the National Core Arts Standards and the Common Core State Standards. This source will be referenced when proposing a compromise, and mentioning the National Core Arts Standards as a preexisting compromise. Common Core State Standards Initiative: Preparing Students for College & Career. Common Core State Standards Initiative, 2017. Corestandards.org. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. This is the website of the second stakeholder. This website will be beneficial in gaining general information about the Common Core State Standards initiative. Getting  Americans for the Arts. Vans Custom Culture, 20 Apr. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/networks-and-councils/arts- education-network/tools-resources/getting-started. On the Americans for the Arts website, there is a page called getting  which has a slideshow of a booklet that was published through a collaboration with Americans for the Arts and Vans Custom Culture. This slideshow will be referenced when Americans for the Arts defines its definition of art education. Gibb, Nick. Importance of High-quality Arts Music and Drama Education Exposition, 9 Feb. 2017, UK, Speech. https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/nick- gibb-the-importance-of-high-quality-arts-education. Nick Gibb, the Minister of State for School Reform in The United Kingdom, released a speech about his experience with the arts and how all students should have access to them. This speech will be used to benefit the Americans for the Arts argument. Lang, Jayden, ed. Common core state standards: background and issues / Jayden Lang, editor. New York: Nova Publishers, 2015. Education in a Competitive and Globalizing World. USF Online Resource. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. A book written by Jayden Lang, this source gives a lot of information about the Common Core State Standards. The ebook will be used to describe background information about the Common Core State Standards Initiative. Student 8 Learn a little about  About Us Americans for the Arts Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. This is the  page for the Arts Action Fund. This page will give basic knowledge about the fund. Ruppert, Sandra S. Critical Evidence: How the Arts Benefit Student  Eric Institute of Education Sciences. MetLife Foundation, 30 Nov. 2005. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. This source was found using Google Scholar and is written by Sandra S. Ruppert who is the director of the Arts Education Partnership. This source will be used to support the Americans for the Arts argument. Sabol, F. Robert. Shifts in the Education Landscape: What Do They Mean for Arts Education and Arts Education Arts Education Policy Review 115. (2013): 33- 45. Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. An article written by a student at Purdue University, this source will give a clear understanding of the Common Core State Standards impact on art education. The source also gives valuable information about why the arts are beneficial. This source could be used to support the importance of art education or measure the impact of the Common Core State Standards. Standards in Your  Common Core State Standards Initiative. Common Core State Standards Initiative, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. http://www.corestandards.org/standards-in- your-state/. Taken directly from the Common Core State Standards Initiative website, the information from this cite contains which states in the United States have adopted the standards. The information gathered will be used to explain how the standards are doing in the present day. Statement on Arts, Jobs, and the  Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.americansforthearts.org/news-room/arts- mobilization-center/statement-on-arts-jobs-and-the-economy. Student 9 A statement was released in February of 2017 about the impact of how art affects the economy. This statement also includes information that can be used for what Americans for the Arts is doing in the present day, for it was published fairly recently. Statements of  Common Core State Standards Initiative. Common Core State Standards Initiative, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. http://www.corestandards.org/other- resources/statements-of-support/. The statements of support posted by the Common Core State Standards Initiative give companies and organizations that are in full support of the initiative. Some of the companies and organizations will be listed to depict how the initiative is doing in the present day. The  The pARTnership Movement. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.partnershipmovement.org/the-movement/. The pARTnership Movement is a movement to get business leaders to partner with it. This Movement is a part of Americans for the Arts and will be used to support the background information about the sub-groups of the organization. Wexler, Alice. Reaching Higher? The Impact of the Common Core State Standards on the Visual Arts, Poverty, and  Arts Education Policy Review 115.2 (2014): 52- 61. Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. This source gives information about the Core State Standards and how it treats the arts. The article includes dialogue from David Coleman, the president of the College Board and what he says about how the arts should be taught. What We Stand  Americans for the Arts Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.artsactionfund.org/pages/what-we-stand-for. As a page from the Arts Action Fund, this website describes what the Arts Action Fund is and how it works. This information will be used to contribute to background knowledge of Americans for the Arts and the sub-groups it contains.