Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2016 A Peculiar Idea for Pennies The discussion of pennies has started to be heard by more people. Both sides of the argument have found more evidence to support their ideas. American for Common Cents is a stakeholder that is lobbying to keep the penny in circulation. Waiting for Change is supporting the opposing side of eliminating the penny. Both stakeholders want to have their ideas be pushed to Congress so laws can be passed, however nothing has been passed because a compromise has not been made. Americans for Common Cents wants to keep the pennies circulating while Waiting for Change is looking to get rid of the penny. Both stakeholders are concerned about the penny but disagree with the future of it. The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders who seem incompatible; however, the compromise of losing the penny and keeping jobs for those who make the pennies can be implemented through understanding the importance of the jobs of those who mint the penny, understanding how the penny can be taken out of circulation, and how both sides want to raise awareness about the penny. Americans for Common Cents is a stakeholder that is lobbying to keep the one-cent coin in circulation. Their goal is to inform as many Americans as possible about why the penny should stay in circulation. They claim that two-thirds of Americans still support keeping the penny in circulation (American for Common Cents). Not only is the one-cent coin supported by Student 2 Americans but it charitable causes, allowing wonderful charities to raise millions of (Americans for Common Cents) Charities use pennies to raise money and if the penny is taken away then many of these charities could lose millions of dollars (American for Common Cents). This organization reaches out to Americans in hopes that they will fight for the penny with them; to help fight against legislation changing their thoughts on the penny. They even state on their website what legislation has done to the penny so far, including changing the metals it is made from (American for Common Cents). Americans for Common Cents is not the only organization standing up for the penny. The article, Headed for Trouble written by The Examiners is also on the side of keeping the penny. The penny is not the only part of the currency that is costing the United States money (The Examiners). The dime and the one dollar bill are also costing more money than their worth (The Examiners). Corey Alexander also wrote an article stating why the penny should stay in circulation. He states, Penn State University economics professor Robert Lombra said that if the penny was pulled from circulation it could cost consumers an additional $600 million a year in rounded-up costs and would have a notable effect on the (Corey Alexander, Penny-ante feud riles lobby group). With this thought, Americans will still be losing money as citizens and as the government. Citizens would be affected so badly because Lombra created a study that stated roughly 93 percent of prices would be rounded up (Alexander). American for Common Cents, Alexander Corey, and The Examiners all support the idea of keeping the penny in circulation. On the other side of this argument, Waiting for Change, written by Josh Sanburn, speaks up in hopes that Americans understand the idea of taking the penny out of circulation. The idea is Student 3 to slowly take the penny out of circulation, beginning with the step of no longer making the penny (Josh Sanburn- Waiting for Change). This will help Americans save money because the penny costs more than double its actual cost to make (Sanburn). Sanburn talked to a big penny company in Tennessee, run by Mark Weller, to hear about the concerns of losing the penny (Sanburn). The biggest concern from Weller was employment for all of those who work in this factory; claiming the city lives of the income brought in from the company (Sanburn). Knowing this is a big concern, that is one reason America has clung onto the penny. However, other countries have begun to get rid of their lowest denomination coin and America is starting to pay attention (Steven Chase, The One-cent Solution). Steven Chase and Kevin McManus both have written an article about Canada and their ability to get rid of their one-cent coin. Chase states that the when Canada decided to lose the penny, it was helping both the government and the citizens; taxpayers are saving on average $11 million a year (Chase). McManus claims that even though there is not a border between the United States and Canada, Canada functions much differently than the United States (Kevin McManus, The Great Penny Elimination). Canadians can work with change in their everyday life and McManus fears that Americans would make losing the penny very difficult; but he does think it would be better to follow the Canadians and lose the one-cent coin (McManus). He claims Americans could prosper like Canadians have from the loss of their penny (McManus). Time magazine also states that the penny was made from 95 percent copper and five percent tin and zinc (Time, Making Cents). Now, due to raise in cost of copper, the penny is made of 97.5 percent zinc and only 2.5 percent copper, and the penny still exceeds one cent (Time). With so many doubts, the loss of the penny has not been put to action, but many more people are starting to see the benefits of the idea. Student 4 The discussion of whether the one-cent coin should stay in circulation or not has become a greater issue that has very opposing sides. It is hard to find an appropriate compromise as to where both sides will benefit. Tim Cavanaugh states that in years to come, the penny will fade away out of circulation (Tim Cavanaugh, Penny Reign: Least Valuable Coin Endures). The one-cent coin has brought much controversy and no action has been taken because no compromise has been raised. Previous legislation has only changed what the penny is made of and what is on the face of it (Americans for Common Cents). However, the idea of changing the material completely has not been brought up. If the coin were made from aluminum, money would be saved but many more coins would have to be created because they would not last as long. The best compromise is to lose the penny completely. To follow the steps given by Sanburn, where pennies are no longer made, then Americans slowly stop using the penny, and eventually prices would be fixed to the nearest nickel. Then, credit cards would still use on-cent increments instead of five-cent increments because no coins will be used in these transactions. This means those with jobs in the penny industry would lose their jobs; however, we could keep the factories, using the same material to create other items or to mint other coins for the United States and other countries. Americans for Common Cents and Waiting for Change seem to be incompatible stakeholders when it comes to pennies. Americans for Common Cents believes in keeping the penny in circulation, because jobs are important to citizens and the economy. They fear the economy would diminish if the pennies are to be taken out of the currency. On the contrary, Waiting for Change feels the penny is no longer needed in the currency and Americans could thrive without it. With both ideas put together, the penny could be taken away but the jobs for those in the industry could be kept. (Word Count: 1,258) Student 5 Works Cited Americans for Common  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pennies.org/>. Cavanaugh, Tim. Penny reign: least valuable coin  Reason, Jan. 2011, p. 70+. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A243525211/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=c7dec6e5. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. Chase, Steven. The one-cent  Globe & Mail [Toronto, 30 Mar. 2012, p. A11. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A284637600/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=0dd84d73. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. Corey, Alexander. feud riles lobby American Metal Market 2001: General OneFile. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 for The Examiner, Independence- Blue Springs- Grain Valley, MO, 19 Jan. 2017, inforweb.newsbank.com/resources/doc/nb/news/162055B9F4FC930?p=AWNB. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Time 170.22 (2007): 18. Academic Search Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 McManus, Kevin. great penny Industrial Engineer 2013: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. SANBURN, JOSH. Waiting for  Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 04 Feb. 2013, pp. 36-40. EBSCOhost, Student 6 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=r m&AN=85504546&site=eds-live.