West 1 Floyd West Adam Carter ENC 1102.034 14 Feb 2017 The Problem of Smoking Smoking has been an important issue throughout the years, doctors and many parents have petitioned for the harmful vice to be abolished. They want a healthy future for the population and future generations. The Truth Campaign represents those who want to end smoking in America. (The Truth). Many wonder how smoking has continued to still be allowed legal by the government even though over the years an increasing amount of facts and human evidence of what smoking can potentially do the consumer have been brought to light and flooded the world. Current smokers, on the other hand, do not want to be forced to give up their habit and calming pass time nor do they want their freedoms to be taken away from them. They believe that they have a right to do whatever they want to their bodies without the government having any say, even if what they want to partake in might be killing themselves slowly. Citizens Lobbying Against Smoker Harassment or represent this group of people, those who just want to enjoy their freedom to smoke in peace. (C.L.A.S.H.). Both health advisors and current cigarette smokers will have to find a middle ground in order to prevent future generations from participating in the harmful vice; a ban on purchasing cigarettes for those born past the year 2000 would allow current smokers with addictions continue their habit and satiate those who are trying to protect the population from deathly health issues that could easily be avoided. West 2 Citizens Lobbying Against Smoker goal is to, the constitutional rights of all-- to free assembly, equal protection, and equal access to public (C.L.A.S.H.). They want others to stop dehumanizing humans for smoking, to stop trying to ban smoking from public establishments and public areas, and to keep their right to do whatever they want with their bodies including smoking. C.L.A.S.H. believes that banning smoking is a violation of rights at that it is un-American for certain groups to make others feel bad about their life decisions just because they do not agree with them. They believe that at first it will just be cigarettes but then it will turn into banning much more. (C.L.A.S.H.) Current smokers just want their rights to continue to smoke and are afraid of their liberty to do so becoming smaller and smaller as bans in public places continue to happen. The Truth Campaign wants to expose to truth about cigarettes and keep future teens from falling into an addiction concerning smoking. Their website states that their goal is not to make current smokers feel bad or force others to give up their addiction but to educate young people and give them tools to help them not start smoking and tools so that smokers can make the change to a healthier living if they care to. They call themselves because they want expose the truth about cigarettes and share facts with teenagers so that they can know the real dangers of smoking and will hopefully stray away from the harmful habit. The Truth Campaign states that currently only six percent of teens still smoke but they are not happy with that number and want to continue to educate others in order to drop that number to zero. (The Truth). An article written by Philippa Roxby called impact five years which talked abou the ban on smoking in restaurants, bars and hotels, stated that the impact on others health just from five years was and of the most important public health acts in the last (Roxby 2012). The Truth main focus is to secure a healthy West 3 future for teens and make sure that they never fall into a dangerous addition that big tobacco companies ignore. While they may or may not see it or acknowledge it both of these organizations have some common ground and some core values that they both stand for and support. If realized, these shared interests could help bring some togetherness to the two organizations and help them reach an agreement that would benefit a large group of people that hold smaller stakes in this issue. Both C.L.A.S.H. and the Truth Campaign do not want smokers to be pressured to quit by anyone of for them to be treated differently. The main goal is to make sure smokers are left alone and not harassed or looked down upon by anyone who does not share the same interests with them. (C.L.A.S.H.). the Truth Campaign shares the same vision in that they never want to make others feel bad for enjoying their vices but instead want to create tools that can help those who want to quit their addiction. (The Truth). Both of these organizations also have a common interest in the fact that their mission statements do not come in conflict with each The Truth Campaign wants to help and focus on teenagers but not harass or guilt them into quitting smoking and C.L.A.S.H. wants current smokers to be protected from being restricted from enjoying their pass time. These two organizations have no interest in changing or fight against these two issues and if they could see that then a reasonable compromise could hopefully become a reality due to their understanding of each other. In order for both parties to get what they want, a healthier future and protected rights, a compromise must be made. My compromise would have the government ban the purchasing of cigarettes for people born in the year 2000 and after. This would allow current smokers to keep their right to smoke that they desperately need because they have addictions. But the compromise would also allow for the Truth Campaign to accomplish their goal of reducing the West 4 amount of teen smokers to zero. An article written by the Sydney Morning Herald talks about other countries such as Australia trying to ban the selling of cigarettes too and their leader believe the ban could easily work. (Darby, Corderoy 2012). But in order for this compromise to be put into place without any backlash from others the government would need to stop trying to tightly restrict the areas where current smokers are allowed to enjoy their vice in order to satiate C.L.A.S.H. and their goal to end harassment of smokers and protect their freedom to continue to do so. If both parties could come together and agree to make this compromise a reality, then future generations will be healthier and those who have addictions or enjoy smoking can continue to do it. If these two organizations could come together in agreement for the betterment of the future health, then a lot of good could come from a ban of selling cigarettes to those born after the year 2000. It would have no effect on current smokers while completely eliminating the potential health problems that smoking brings to all you indulge themselves in it. The ban would not harm the goals of either of the organizations but would help many stake holders who want a healthier future but also do not want the rights of current smokers to be stripped from them for the fear of more boundaries being pushed. The compromise would be beneficial for the public in general and even though some things would have to be given up they would seem minimal to a much healthier generation looking back on this conflict. West 5 Works Cited: About  Truth. Truth Initiative, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. NYC  NYC C.L.A.S.H. Audrey Silk, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Corderoy, Andrew Darby and Amy. Bid to Ban Cigarettes for Anyone Born after  The Sydney Morning Herald. The Sydney Morning Herald, 21 Aug. 2012. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. Rox, Philippa. Smoking Impact Five Years  BBC News. BBC, 01 July 2012. Web. 08 Feb. 2017.