Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Reviving the Brain The brain provides the energy one needs to live life with ease. Without proper mental health care, one can be subjected to depression. Even when a person has already fallen to depression, proper mental health care will help one be happy in life again. To treat depression, there are many different treatments that one can go about. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America, the ADAA, and Food for the Brain are two stakeholders who thrive in providing different treatments for people who are depressed. Despite their incompatible perspectives towards how to treat depression, they can endure a compromise due to their common passion for believing in needing treatments for those with depression, for educating people about depression and its treatments, and for wanting people with depression to be mentally healthy again to live life to the fullest. Treating depression is important for a healthy mind; however, despite the logic behind treating depression, many people still oppose the need for treatments. It is unethical to not allow people the opportunity and choice towards a healthier life. Because of these people who discourage the need of treatments for depression, organization such as the ADAA and Food for the Brain strives to encourage people to seek treatments for depression. However, even though these two stakeholders have the same goal, their methods in treating depression differ greatly. The ADAA encourages a therapy-based and medication approach, while Food for the Brain seeks an organic approach using nutrients to help people overcome depression. Student 2 The ADAA is an international nonprofit organization that has been working towards the quality of life for those with (ADAA). To do so, they believe in educating their viewers about depression and the treatments. The ADAA advocates towards therapy treatments such as cognitive-behavioral therapy and the use of medication to improve the minds of those who are depressed. The mission is entirely focused upon their well-being and works towards providing quality information about treatments for their patients. The use of therapy has been justified as a useful treatment especially with the combination of medication through many studies. Brown University conducted a study to see if treating depression is more effective with a combination of therapy and anti-depressants. The results displayed great success with 72.6% of the participants recovered from depression (Price, 5). Knowing that there are research that acts as evidence for the advocating for therapy and medication will give people hope for a new beginning. Not only does the ADAA provide credible information for their patients, but they also highly encourage their viewers to be educated about depression and the positive outcomes when seeking out treatments. The ADAA believes in education being the foundation to the path towards a healthier life. There are many people that lack the knowledge about depression and its treatments, as a result, those people oppose depression and its treatments. With to the lack of education, people develop a stigma of being against depression and treatments for depression (Takashi et al, 2). This stigma prevents these people from having the opportunity to make peace with their mind from depression. Thus, it is the mission to educate and help more patients to become healthy again. Student 3 Food for the Brain is a non-profit educational charity that educates people on the relationship the mental mind has with nutrients. Food for the Brain understands that there are many contributing factors that lead to depression, however, their main arguments is that the nutritional imbalance is a major part of one becoming depressed. Thus, to help treat depression, people need to fix their nutritional imbalance with nutrients that have relations to certain parts of the brain to stimulate a positive atmosphere in the brain. Food for the Brain provides a list on nutrients and food to consume and not consume on their website to inform people of the proper nutritional diet to carry out while with depression. One major nutrients that is advocated is omega 3 fats. With an increase on omega 3 fats intake, mood will increase positively. Some regular food that can be consumed that carry this nutrient are salmon, tuna, and pumpkin seed. A reduction in omega 3 fats intake correlates with an increase of depression (Harbottle and Nicola, 579). By following this nutritional diet with other nutrients, mental mind will be more positive towards life. There are many studies that justify this perspective in treating depression. Mental health is not only cognitively based and should not be dependent on drug usage. Even though therapy and anti-depressants have proved to be effective towards treating depression, nutrients have been shown to be equally effective to lessen symptoms. Some reports have shown that taking in omega 3 fatty acids results in an improvement in brain and nervous system (Truesdell, 63). Some reports also demonstrate the effectiveness of other nutrients such as vitamin B12 and its correlation with depressive symptoms (Truesdell, 61). Nutrient are important to body in general, thus will help improve the mind tremendously when depressed. Student 4 Even though these two stakeholders have differing methods in treating depression, they have one common goal; for patients to be healthy and happy again. The ADAA and Food for the Brain are both interested in new research and are concerned over their health because they believe people need to understand the importance of treatments and a healthy lifestyle for those with depression. Due to their common end goal and their passion about educating their patients and the public about depression and its treatments, a suitable compromise that these to stakeholders could settle upon is incorporating education of all types of treatments before a patient settles on one treatment. Along with education, stakeholders should encourage patients to go through a trial and error process to find out which treatment they are most comfortable with by having doctors and psychiatrics provide pamphlets of different types of treatments. Due to the lack of education causing one to not seek treatments, this educational plan will help increase awareness on how important it is to treat depression, especially with the most suitable treatment (Van Voorhees, 746). This compromise does not force patients to either side of the stakeholders but rather gives the patients a higher understanding of the type of treatments available and which could be suitable based on their own needs. Compromising is about gaining and loosing, fortunately, both stakeholder will benefit more than lose. This compromise benefits the ADAA because it allows them the gain new information to relay back to the patients. The compromise benefits Food for the Brain due to this charity being an educational charity. The compromise promotes education upon depression and its treatments and how the mind can heal base of healthy measure. This compromise benefits most for the viewers and patients. The viewers and patients are allowed the opportunity to seek treatments after being educated about the variety of treatments available to proceed towards a healthier and happy life. It has been proven that giving lecture about the Student 5 importance treating depression can change attitude positively towards receiving treatments (Takashi, 6), which in turn can bring one closer towards achieving the happiness they deserve. Practical measure to proceed towards this compromise lies within the ways to educate people. Free lessons should be held as local clinics, libraries, and/or schools to provide full education about depression. To go about with the trial and error process, the stakeholders should create pamphlets containing information about all types of treatments, therapy, medication and nutritional, to give to doctors and psychiatrics to provide for patients. There was a study on providing information about the importance of nutrients during family therapy for those with depression, and the results showed that using both treatments and having the education brought healthier minds and relations (Edwards, 248). This educational compromise will allow people to realize what works for them and what does not while being exposed to all type of treatments. Treating depression is a controversial topic that many agree with and many do not. Even if someone still does not believe in treatments, they would still have the opportunity to receive a full education about depression and the possible treatments. An education will give the understanding that even if they themselves do not agree to treatments, the loved ones could have the chance to be happy and healthy again through the means of treatments. Both stakeholders, despite the contrasting methods, can and will uphold their most precious goal in giving their patients a healthier life. (Word Count: 1395) Student 6 Work Cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2010, https://www.adaa.org . 24 Feb. 2017. Edwards, Todd M. A Place at the Table: Integrating Diet and Nutrition into Family Therapy  American Journal of Family Therapy, vol. 30, no. 3, May/Jun2002, pp. 243- 255. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/019261802753577566. 24 Feb. 2017. Food for the Brain. Food for the Brain, 2012. Web. http://www.foodforthebrain.org. 24 Feb. 2017. Harbottle, Lynn and Nicola Schonfelder. Nutrition and Depression: A Review of the  Journal of Mental Health, vol. 17, no. 6, Dec. 2008, pp. 576-587. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/09638230701677746. 24 Feb. 2017. Price, Lawrence H. Depression Study with Flexible Design Shows Benefit of Combination  Brown University Psychopharmacology Update, vol. 25, no. 12, Dec. 2014, pp. 1-6. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=cin20&AN=103920769&site=eds-live. 24 Feb. 2017. Schwartz, Thomas L. and Timothy Petersen. Depression. [Electronic : Treatment Strategies and Management. Boca Raton, Fla. : CRC Press, 2010., 2010. Medical psychiatry.EBSCOhost, Student 7 Takashi, Yakushi, et al. Usefulness of an Educational Lecture Focusing on Improvement in Public Awareness of and Attitudes toward Depression and Its  BMC Health Services Research, vol. 17, 10 Feb. 2017, pp. 1-9. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1186/s12913-017- 2071-0. 24 Feb. 2017. Truesdell, Delores D. The Efficacy of Nutrition Arid Lifestyle Approaches in the Treatment of  Topics in Clinical Nutrition, vol. 24, no. 1, Jan-Mar2009, p. 55. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=edo&AN=36672153&site=eds-live. 24 Feb. 2017. Van Voorhees, Benjamin W., et al. Attitudes and Illness Factors Associated with Low Perceived Need for Depression Treatment among Young  Social Psychiatry & Psychiatric Epidemiology, vol. 41, no. 9, Sept. 2006, pp. 746-754. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s00127-006-0091-x. 24 Feb. 2017.