Martes 1 Emmanuel Fernando Martes Professor Adam Carter ENC.1102.034 15 February 2017 The ethical discussion regarding modern agriculture The dynamic change of agriculture throughout history, has led to a major argument regarding the morality of the, Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations which are farms in which animals are kept in (N.A, 2017), in order to be able to make agriculture efficient enough to account population growth. Moreover, this agricultural method has led to the discussion of this practice between organizations, such as: and Ethical Farming In this way, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) is an organization that fights for the rights of animals, having with them the support of over 5 million people, to fight for their ideal: are not (PETA, 2017). On the other hand, Ethical Farming is an organization formed by: Farmers, and government officials, which fights for the conservation of agricultural practices, reflecting this on their webpage slogan: ethical animal farming practices and support local, ethical animal (Farming Fund, 2014). Moreover, whereas the data and research each organization has, creating a written law that reduces the amount of animals permitted and that improves the sanity conditions in the farms, will benefit both organizations. Furthermore, the development of the: Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations leaded to a struggle between organizations, like: Ethical Farming and which struggle to define the best agricultural method to feed what has been accounted as a reason why creating a Martes 2 written law that reduces the amount of animals permitted and that requires sanity conditions on the farms, will asset a benefit and disadvantage to both organizations. have been portrayed as a damage to the environment and to the health of both animals and humans, yet organizations tend to mislead the information, as they are not portraying the benefit to our society. Whereas the research is not extensive, this practice is possibly the only solution to feed a large and demanding society because of the efficiency people can get from it. The fact that 1,000 cows or 3,000 hens can be kept in one place (Grist, 2012) helps the development of a safe environment because confined indoors are (Yes, In Your Backyard, 2015), as they are not affected by natural and they are being treated periodically with antibiotics that help them survive in a healthy way (Antibiotics like FDA, have been approved by studies made by the Animal Health Institute). Furthermore, The Ethical Farming Fund is portraying this argument on their research, providing information that demonstrates the efficiency of this type of farming and how it had led to an improvement on the economy. Establishing that our current society is not cable to be sustained with pasture animals, knowing that currently occupies almost 89 million acres in the United States, soy a little over 84 project, 2017), which demonstrates the lack of land available for a type of farming different than CAFOS. Moreover, they demonstrate how 300 million tons of produced in a farm can work as a fertilizer to the soil, helping with this the production of other essential resources, such as: Corn, vegetables, fruits, wheat... Throughout these arguments, analysis and research, the Farming Fund is portraying objectively this type of farming as the only solution to feed an exponentially growing Martes 3 population, explaining how it is not the type of farming but the only one viable right now (State legislatures; 2000). On the other hand, PETA portrays that population growth is not what people should be concerned about; on the contrary they state that the idea is to be able to enforce rights under any circumstance. Their argument is supported on the concept that, animals should not be used for any of the following things: Wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, abuse or exploit (Singer, 2014), showing how animals are living things, which do not need treatment like humans but equal Moreover, the way works, contradicts each of the ideals this organization is trying to preserve, specially on how antibiotics and hormones (Bovine Growth Hormone for example) are used in order to accelerate the growth process and maintain the animals (Knowing that in Tewksbury Massachusetts it was found the evolution of the bacteria E. Coli on pigs because of the conditions the animals were leaving in) (CDC, 2010). Also, they support their argument based on the condition animals are living in, starting from the odors produced because of the accumulation of ammonia, hydrogen sulfide and Carbon Dioxide, as well as, the alimentation they are getting, emphasizing on the fact that most of the water that is used to feed animals, is combined with all the manure and the nitrates, making the water fully contaminated and susceptible to bacteria and viruses (Congressional Research Service, 2008). Furthermore, this shows a major credibility on the information, as it is showing the consequences have on and how this actions impact humans too, demonstrating an objective and unbiased argument. Martes 4 Based on these arguments, it is clear how these organizations share a common purpose, feeding and maintaining the world. They are both aware of the growth our population is experiencing and are consent that people should be fed either with just vegetables, meat or pasture animal meat. It is also clear, how both arguments are emphasizing on maintaining a suitable life for all living things in general and that no animal or human, needs to be in where he would starve or die because of the sanity regulations he is living in. Furthermore, this shows the objective arguments of each organization, as they are pursuing global goals rather than personal; which demonstrates how both stakeholders have scientific proof, data and ideas to support the goal of maintaining one world. A world that can be better if they are able to see as a possible solution to their common problem, which could improve if they are able to find a compromise that will benefit both. A viable compromise would be developing a written law throughout the United States legislature power, in which it is stated that: 1. These farms can have just: 500 cows or 1,500 hens, 2. The use of antibiotics and hormones is forbidden and 3. The space between animals should be at least 80 cm; leading to a benefit to both organizations. First, PETA would be benefited, as it will improve the condition of life on the farms, but at the same time would be negatively affected because they will let animals be eaten (Contradicting one of their principles). On the other hand, Ethical Farming will be letting go, economic profit because of the reduction of animals available and how they use hormones to grow the animals, but at the same time they would avoid the contamination of water and food, restraining with this the spread of diseases and lawsuits from other organizations. Furthermore, it is clear that the Martes 5 compromise will be affecting both sides positively and negatively, but it will ended up leading to a possible solution to an issue that is currently affecting us. To conclude, it is clear that the development of the: Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations leaded to a struggle between organizations, like: Ethical Farming and which struggle to define the best agricultural method to feed what has been accounted as a reason why creating a written law that reduces the amount of animals permitted and that requires sanity conditions on the farms, will asset a benefit and disadvantage to both organizations. Additionally, the compromise could be a successful solution to this issue, due to the fact that everyone is affected by this controversial aspect because all what we eat comes from this farms and sometimes we are not even able to realize it; an example is how there is one of this farms in Hillsborough county, which is 15 minutes away from residential areas, like: Tampa, Clear water and The University of South Florida, reason why their water and food is being both negative and positive affected by this farms. Finally, it is clear that the arguments each stakeholder has, can be unified throughout a compromise that is a viable solution to the issue and it could help preserve animal rights, maintain the environment and fulfill the needs of the population. Martes 6 Works Cited Zboreak, Vanessa. Yes, In Your Backyard - Model Legislative Efforts To Prevent Communities From Excluding Cafos  Wake Forest Journal Of Law Policy 1 (2015): 147. HeinOnline. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Lyons, Emily R. Authority Gone Awry: The Flawed Cafo Reporting  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 15.(2014): 599. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Titley, Kristin. Environmental Law--Regulation Of Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations--Reducing The Nuisance: How Arkansas Can Use Its Right-To- Farm Statute To Protect Against The Destruction Of  University Of Arkansas At Little Rock Law Review 37.(2015): 495. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. MCLAREN, WILLIAM M.1. The Death Of The Duty To Apply: Limitations To Cafo Oversight Following Waterkeeper & National Pork  Journal Of Animal Law 11.(2015): 87-113. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Concentrated Animal Feeding . Ncsl.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Animal Antibiotics - Animal Health . Animal Health Institute. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Greenaway, Twilight. Confined Dining: A Primer On Factory Farms And What They Mean For Your . Grist. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Environmental Impact Of Factory . Socially Responsible Agricultural Project. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Martes 7 Barker, Rodney. Pros of factory farming: Are there . Ethical Farming Fund. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Roser, Max. World Population . Our World In Data. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Government, U.S.A. Concentrated Animal Feeding . Ncsl.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Why Are Cafos . Sierra Club. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Factory Farming: Misery For . PETA. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.