1 Lymaris ENC 1102 007 Prof. Mariama M. Changamire February 27,20017 Learning Disabilities Since 1963, The Learning Disabilities Association of America has been an advocate for people with learning disabilities. It also supports parents, teachers and other professionals with research on different types of disabilities, and provides a network full of resources that help learning disabilities be universally understood and effectively addressed. The LDA also visualizes a world where the of learning disabilities are reduced and all disabled individuals are empowered to thrive and participate fully in (LDA). To educate others on how to help reduce the incidences of learning disabilities and raise awareness, the LDA partnered with the John Merck Fund in the Healthy Children Project to grassroots prevention activities aimed at reducing human exposure to toxic chemicals in the environment. Such exposures are linked to increased incidence of learning disabilities and (LDA). The LDA is also constantly recruiting people to join their organization, not only to be part of projects like the Healthy Children Project (HCP), but also to support, educate and raise awareness to set afloat mission. The Learning Disabilities Association of America carries out these goals successfully through two visuals that appeal to the emotions of the audience and successfully portrays their credibility as an organization. The LDA is dedicated to providing funds for research and education and the promotion of public awareness of both children and adults with learning disabilities. The purpose of this organization is to support for charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, 2 and for the accurate identification, ongoing evaluation and complete education of, and services for, children and adults with learning (LDA). This organization does all it can to expand their reach when it comes to supporting people with learning disabilities. They have partnered up with a few other organizations and made a couple of projects that set these goals forward to better the education and understanding of learning disabilities. One of the projects that they have set in motion is the Healthy Children Project. The Healthy Children Project goals are to: Raise awareness of environmental factors, particularly toxic chemicals, that can harm brain development, contributing to learning disabilities and behavior disorders, promote policies and practices to prevent toxic chemical exposures, especially among pregnant women and children, and build a nationwide network of LDA members working to protect health and reduce toxic exposures that may lead to learning disabilities in current and future generations. (LDA) The Healthy Children Project also provides research for its cause: According to a 2011 report issued by the U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly 1 in 6 American children were diagnosed with a learning or developmental disability in 2008. The National Academy of Sciences estimates that environmental factors, including toxic chemicals, cause or contribute to at least a quarter of learning and developmental disabilities in American children. In recent decades, scientists have learned that the developing human brain is much more susceptible to toxic substances than the adult brain, and that certain chemicals can have a profound effect on the developing brain at levels that were once thought to be safe. (HCP) 3 Through their visual (Image 1), the LDA mostly tries to appeal to the emotions. The LDA uses the psychology of color to achieve this. The colors that stand out the most in this image are yellow, green, and blue. Yellow is a color known to represent youthfulness, optimism, and clarity, which is also seen in the children drawn in the image. Green is used to portray peace and growth, representing the growth and development of this project, and blue is used to portray trust and strength, which also serves to establish credibility between the organization and the audience. The children drawn in the image also help bring out the youthfulness that the color yellow portrays. The picture looks like it was drawn by little kids, helping the image appeal to the emotions even more. The purpose of the representation of these colors and the idea to make the image childlike and innocent, is to put attention to the children that, according to this project, are being affected by environmental factors. The Learning Disabilities Association of America believes that person with learning disabilities can succeed in school, at work, in relationships, and within the community when provided the right supports and the right (LDA). membership is comprised of both parents and professionals in the field who work side by side to advocate for individuals with learning disabilities. This organization is constantly on the lookout for new members to create opportunities for people with or without learning disabilities alike, to expand their research and their educational reach. To persuade the audience to become a member, the LDA uses a visual (Image 2) that successfully portrays their credibility as an organization, while simultaneously provoking emotion from the audience. We see the credibility in the teacher with the student, symbolizing that they are capable of providing children, and adults alike, with proper education about learning disabilities . We also see a 4 professional woman smiling at us, which represents the professionalism of the organization as a whole. With the man holding his glasses, we can see this symbolizes intelligence, which makes the audience trust the LDA. This image also tries to appeal through emotion by showing us a loving family, symbolizing that a family with a disabled member can be as happy as any other family. Though not much, this image also utilizes color to reach its audience. The words are in the color blue that, as started before, portrays trust and strength. Also, the words belong with are colored in green which, also discussed above, represents peace and growth. All these things help the audience believe that the LDA is a strong, trustworthy and dependable association to be a part of. Even though these two images are both from the Learning Disabilities Association of America, they are quite different from one another, since both aim to cause different reactions from the audience. Image 1 mostly focuses on causing the audience emotion and pulling at their heartstrings. With the bright colors and childish style that this image has, easy for people to feel sympathy towards the cause, and hopefully get interested enough to do research on the project and learn about its goals. Image 2 however, focuses mostly on the portrayal of credibility through the usage of photos. Through this visual, the LDA is trying to persuade the audience into joining their organization. In doing so, it is logical they would focus demonstrating how credible and trustworthy they are as an association. That way, the audience will believe that the LDA is in fact an organization they can rely on to achieve their goals and mission to help and support individuals with and without learning disabilities. The Learning Disabilities Association of America successfully appeals to the emotions while simultaneously representing their credibility through the use of these two visual rhetoric. The strategic use of different colors in Image 1 that help the audience 5 sympathies with the cause, and the strategic placement of the images that create trust and reliability in Image 2, both help represent the organization as a whole and their goals to help learning disabilities be universally understood and effectively addressed, and their mission to reduce the incidences of learning disabilities. Word Count: 1,243 6 Works Cited Ciotti, Gregory. Psychology of Color in Marketing and Help Scout. Web. Feb 20, 2017. https://www.helpscout.net/blog/psychology-of-color/ Children Healthy Children Project. 2011, Web. Feb 22, 2017 http://www.healthychildrenproject.org/ Image of the Children Learning Disabilities Association of America. Web. Feb 23, 2017. https://ldaamerica.org/healthy-childrens-project/ Image that says Learning Disabilities Association of America. Web. Feb 20, 2017. https://ldaamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/join-lda-slider.jpg Disabilities Foundation of LDA. Web, Feb 16, 2017 https://ldaamerica.org/about-us/ld-foundation/ 7 Image 1 https://ldaamerica.org/healthy-childrens-project/ Image 2 https://ldaamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/join-lda-slider.jpg