Yates 1 Evan Yates Professor Carter ENC1102-034 29 January 2017 Nuclear Energy for U.S. Civilian Use Since the U.S began utilizing nuclear power to provide electricity for its citizens post WWII, it has spawned controversy. Concerns with safety and efficiency of nuclear reactors, with the prospect of alternative fuel sources, collide with studies and reassurances from proponents of the method claiming otherwise. This is a global issue, but for the interest of narrowing the problem, we will focus on just the U.S., and talk mainly about the World Nuclear Association and the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament as the proponents and critics of harnessing nuclear energy, respectively. These stakeholders have very different ideas about harnessing nuclear energy, but they share some common ground in that both entities care about the environment, human life, and providing a viable source of energy for U.S. citizens. Implementing policy placing stricter safety regulations on nuclear reactors could be a possible middle ground for advocates of nuclear energy, such as the World Nuclear Association, and critics of the method, such as the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. The development of nuclear reactors for generating electricity began as a side project of the nuclear arms race of the WWII era. The destructive capability of harnessing nuclear chain reactions was the original reason why research began on the topic, and it remains a major problem in the eyes of many when it comes to continuing the use of nuclear energy. The Yates 2 Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, a leading organization in the campaign against use of nuclear energy and nuclear weapons, mainly forms its mission statement around the fact that the ongoing uranium extraction, and operation of nuclear reactors should stop because of the enormous threat to humanity that nuclear weapons face. campaigns non-violently to rid the world of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction and to create genuine security for future (CND, About). The threat of nuclear weapons would not be gone until the nuclear power industry was too, gone. The organization includes in their mission statement the transferring to alternative renewable energy sources to supplement nuclear energy. Another problem with nuclear power is the danger of a nuclear reactor core meltdown, in which radioactivity escapes and can inflict massive injury and death upon civilians. The two largest and most notable nuclear disasters were the Chernobyl and Fukushima disasters, which caused an combined cost of over $100 billion dollars and hundreds of estimated deaths due to radioactivity (Davies, pg. 49). Conversely, there are many organizations and scientists that see nuclear power as a perfectly viable and sustainable source of energy, and that overall safety has been improved upon in recent years. One of these organizations, the World Nuclear Association, directly addresses major concerns with the industry on their website, including the two previously mentioned, nuclear weapons and reactor core meltdowns. They claim that many safeguards are in place today to insure that certain countries do not use uranium for any military or weaponized purpose, and that the higher grade uranium used for weapons instead of energy is not very accessible. If it could be insured that certain entities did not get their hands on the higher grade uranium, then the risk of weapons falling into the wrong hands diminishes greatly. On the risk of exposing civilians Yates 3 to radioactivity, the organization claims the nuclear industry has an excellent safety record, with some 14,800 reactor years of operation spanning five They also claim that the Chernobyl disaster was an anomaly, as Western reactors have a better history with safety, and regulations have only improved. Both of these organizations are internationally involved and seek to enact real world change on this issue. The similarities stop there, as both the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament and the World Nuclear Association lay out in their mission statements the passion that they have for the betterment of human lives, both pursuing the same goal through different means. They both recognize other forms of harnessing energy as viable, and care for sustaining environments and mitigating CO2 pollution. Despite some common ground, these two entities have a major conflict of interest, so finding a compromise that satisfies both parties completely would be impossible. However, there are things that could be done that would at least achieve goals sought by both parties, such as preserving the environment, ensuring safety, and providing a viable source of energy for U.S. citizens. This compromise would include implementing harsh security on all high grade uranium to prevent nuclear malpractice as much as possible, a complete safety evaluation on every nuclear reactor in the country, and initiatives and tax breaks on alternative renewable resources. This would try to satisfy the safety concerns of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament as much as possible, while still utilizing nuclear energy as a viable source of electricity. The initiatives that would take place to encourage renewable energies could result in an energy revolution in the future, possibly ending the need for nuclear energy. While this compromise completely satisfies Yates 4 neither side in this debate, it at least addresses concerns with real world policy that could lead to change. Yates 5 Works Cited: Payne, J. E., and J. P. Taylor. Nuclear energy consumption and economic growth in the US: an empirical  Sources, Part B: Economics, Planning, and Policy 5.3 (2010): 301-307. Davies, Lincoln L. Beyond Fukushima: Disasters, nuclear energy, and energy  (2011). Jacobson, Mark Z. Review of solutions to global warming, air pollution, and energy  Energy & Environmental Science 2.2 (2009): 148-173. Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gitzel, Tim. World Nuclear Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.world-nuclear.org/>.