Allowe, 1 Adam Allowe Smith Composition I February 2, 2017 Police Prejudice in the Black Community The police prejudice in the black community targets the civil rights of many, and leads to imperfect relationship between the African American community and the police sworn to protect them. African Americans have been unfairly treated by the police by being racially profiled, by being arrested at a higher rate, and by being subjected to a higher rate of police brutality. Some states have started issuing body cameras to police officers to combat the prejudice experienced by the African American community. The experiences of the African American community is not only affecting them directly, with physical violence, but also indirectly, by discouraging the act of reporting crimes. What are the results of police prejudice on the black community? Desmond, Matthew, Andrew V Papachristos, and David S Kirk. Police Violence and Citizen Crime Reporting in the Black  American Sociological Review, 81.5 (2016): 857-876. This article analyzes the case of police violence on Frank Jude, an unarmed African American, in Milwaukee and how it affected the number of 911 calls after an incident of police violence. After the attack on Jude was released to the public the number of 911 calls from predominantly black communities sharply decreased. Numerous other cases of police violence have also affected police reporting in fear of backlash from the police, and after attack there were over 22,000 less calls to 911 and 56% fewer calls from minority communities. Matthew Desmond is a Sociologist, professor at Harvard University, and author of Poverty and Profit in the American City. Andrew V Papachristos is an associate professor at Yale University and focuses on neighborhoods and interpersonal violence. David Kirk, the last Allowe, 2 author, is part of the Sociology department at the University of Oxford and he researches conditions on criminal behavior. Hadden, Bernadette R, Willie Tolliver, Fabienne Snowden, and Robyn Brown Manning. An Authentic Discourse: Recentering Race and Racism as Factors That Contribute to Police Violence Against Unarmed Black or African American  Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment, (2016): 1-14. The article studied race in relationship to police violence towards men, where it was concluded, via the 2012 General Social Survey that surveyed nearly 2,000 people aged 18 and up, that the people who approved of police violence also had negative cultural views of African Americans, such as they had a lack of motivation and willingness to learn. A significantly large portion of police shootings happen to african american men as opposed to caucasians or women. Bernadette R Hadden researches quantitative social research at the University of New York. Willie Tolliver, another author of the article, has his Ph.D in Social Welfare. Robyn Brown area of expertise is multicultural social work and she has her Ph.D in social work. Rembert, David A, Jerry Watson, and Rickey Hill. A Trilogy of Trepidation: Diverse Perspectives on Police Violence Targeting African American  Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment, (2015): 1-9. This article focuses on the violence that African Americans experience due to racial discrimination and prejudices of some police officers. The Group Threat states that the main cause for the police violence is to minority groups who threaten their economic, political, and public safety interests. (Blalock, 1967; Chambliss, 1969, 2001; Grettenberger, Beatty, & Weathersby, 2014; Quinney, 1973; Spitzer, 1975; Weitzer, This can be seen in any case of police discrimination, where a victim was wrongfully killed or attacked, to create fear in the community. Allowe, 3 David A. Rembert, a member of the department of criminal justice at Jackson State Mississippi, and studies statistics in relation to social justice. Jerry Watson, another author of this article is a member of the department of social work at Rust College, and has his masters in social work from the University of Illinois. Rickey Hill, the last author of this article, is a member of the department of Political Science at Jackson State University, and he specializes in black politics and political theory. The police dilemma: Using ethnicity to disambiguate potentially threatening individuals.Correll, Joshua; Park, Bernadette; Judd, Charles M.; Wittenbrink, Bernd Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Vol 83(6), Dec 2002, 1314-1329. In this article, the authors tested police bias by showing police officers pictures of either armed or unarmed people and the officer had to decide if it was right to shoot or not to shoot. The police officers tested took less time to decide if they needed to shoot an armed target if that target was African American, and they also took less time to decide they did not need to shoot an unarmed target if that target was Caucasian. The test did conclude that when making the decision to shoot, or not to shoot, the participant used cultural stereotypes to influence their decisions. This can be directly related to how police interact and view the African American community, and by having these stereotypes puts the community at risk. Joshua Correll, Bernadette Park, and Charles M. Judd research at University of Colorado at Boulder, and Bernd Wittenbrink researches at the University of Chicago. Josh main topic of research is how people react to minorities, but more specifically how police react to minorities. Charles M. Judd and Bernadette main topic of research is intergroup relations, which she applies to the previous test. Bernd Wittenbrink studies how stereotypes can affect the decisions of people. Stewart, E. A., Baumer, E. P., Brunson, R. K. and Simons, R. L. (2009), Neighborhood Racial Context And Perceptions Of Police-Based Racial Discrimination Among Black Youth. Criminology, 47: Allowe, 4 This article studies the relationship of African Americans in predominantly white communities and the effects of police bias in those same communities. The article focuses more on the mental and emotional problems African American youth encounters because of the racial discrimination they encounter in these communities. The article states that the experiences with racial discrimination are associated with a variety of adverse consequences for blacks, which include lower levels of self-esteem and perceived social support, weaker academic commitment and performance, higher levels of depression, and involvement in (Stewart 849). Eric A. Stewart and Eric P. Baumer both study criminology and criminal justice at Florida State University, so they have a very good understanding on police and how police think. Rod K. Brunson works in the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice at Southern Illinois Ronald L. Simons works in the Department of Sociology at the University of Georgia, so he understand how the effects of police prejudice can affect the African American community.