Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2015 A Plan to Clean Up the Past Emission Problems In world, cars may be one of the most important, if not the most important people use everyday. In 2015, of an estimated 148 million workers 16 years and older, about 85.6% of these workers use a car, truck, or van as a means of transportation (American Fact-Finder). Of these 148 million about 1% of users drive an electric vehicle. (UCSUSA) This number in the past few years has been rapidly increasing, with the increase or range and popularity of electric vehicles. This causes concern in the petroleum business because if the rate of increase in electric vehicle sales stays the same, there will soon be a high percentage of people who will no longer use gas stations in order to refuel their cars. As a huge contender in the battle between electric and gasoline powered vehicles, Tesla contends that electric vehicles are cleaner than other cars. Producing and selling top-tier affordable electric vehicles, they are setting the standards of what electric vehicles should be. On the contrary, Koch Industries, owner of Flint Hills Resources, produces gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel We Koch Industries and Flint Hills Resources however have invested millions of dollars in order to make the process of oil refinery cleaner and reduce emissions and Reducing pollution and making the world a cleaner place to live is a common concern for both Tesla and Koch Industries, but both stakeholders share different views of how to improve the issue. Therefore, a compromise that may benefit both Tesla and Koch Industries is focusing their goal of cleaning up the environment Student 2 and implementing a movement to help clean up the damage done in the past by excessive fuel emissions. On one side of the problem, Tesla is a company that was formed with the goal of the transition to sustainable Clean energy is one of the main reasons Tesla was created. With zero emission cars, and a renewable energy powered main objective is to increase the rate at which the world transitions from non-sustainable energy to sustainable energy. Starting with cars is a huge step forward to meeting their goal since as mentioned before, in 2015 alone 85.6% of 148 million workers in the United States used a vehicle to commute to and from work According to the Environment America Research and Policy center report, electric cars are cleaner than vehicles that run on oil, even when charged with coal-fired power. (Environment America). This is important because some people believed that the emissions let out by coal-fired power that was used to charge the electric cars was the same as the emissions let out by gas-powered cars. Because of goal of having a sustainable energy powered world, it is also their goal for all of their to be solar powered in the years to come. This shows how Tesla is moving forward and making a difference in the advance to a world run by sustainable energy. Otherwise, Koch Industries has a focus on petroleum and production of fuel. Owners of Flint Hills Resources, a refining and manufacturing company, it is obvious to see how they may differ from goal of a world run by sustainable energy. But Koch Industries also focuses a big portion of their resources to making the process of oil refinery cleaner and increase the domestic crude oil processing and reduce and It is clear that the company wants to be known as the ones in the oil industry who are making a difference and Student 3 making the oil business as as can be. Per Business Flint Hills Resources $23 million to supply Alaskans with low-sulfur (Clean Fuel). In addition to this, Flint Hills Resources states that 2002, have spent about $940 million on refinery modifications in (Fuels and Aromatics). With such a large contribution to finding cleaner methods to their old ways, it is clear how much Flint Hills Resources and Koch Industries cares about the environment and the steps they are taking to improve the way their companies work in the future. Both Tesla and Koch Industries are interested in the wellbeing of the planet and focus on improving the methods of transportation. Both companies care about bettering the way cars run and focus on doing the least harm possible to the environment. Tesla on one hand, focuses on sustainable energy and cars running on only electricity, while Koch Industries focuses on keeping the way cars have run for hundreds of years but improving the methods used to make the fuels in order to reduce emissions and reduce pollution. Both of these companies share the same goal of bettering the environment while doing it in distinct ways. While efforts to make cars that run on both electricity and gas have been made, these cars been all that popular and a real movement was never made like the one the electric car is making currently. Aside from this, there been a movement where a big company comes forward and promotes the cleanup of the harm that has been cause not only by gasoline powered cars, but by all emission-producing factories, boats, trucks, and any other things. Possibly, it is time for two companies of such high caliber to work together in order to shed new light on the situation and find new solutions to this on-going problem. When two strong, powerful companies share a same concern and goal, it is often very likely for them to join forces and create a movement that promotes a solution to this concern. It Student 4 is clear that both Tesla and Koch Industries share a common concern of the environmental state the world is currently in. Whether be the transition of cars running on electricity or the improvement of already established forms of producing oil, both Tesla and Koch Industries implement the changes and transitions not only to ensure a brighter future with lower emissions and better environment, but to have satisfied customers who are worried about the direction the earth is heading. One thing these companies currently do not is take part in an organization promoting the cleaning up or undoing of the damage that has already been done. Instead of fighting about the future, these two giants can come together and think about the past. By forming an organization that promotes the cleanup of the damage previously done by pollution emitting cars, trucks, ships, factories, and anything else that produces a negative impact on the earth, these two companies will take their intentions to the next level. Not only focusing on the future but on cleaning up the past, these two companies will gain world-wide recognition of going beyond the expected and help the environment in ways never done before. Because these two powerhouses have both the economic supplements as well as the public outreach necessary for such a movement, it would be very easy to grab media attention as well as supporters from all over the world. In this way, both Tesla and Koch Industries, two companies with such different views, will put their common goals in practice and create a life-changing movement. Overall while both stakeholders share different views of how to improve the issue, a compromise that can benefit both Tesla and Koch Industries can be made. Even though there are efforts out there to clean up the planet, there has not been any that has used two huge companies such as Tesla and Koch Industries to lead their movement and attract the attention necessary to make a big enough impact. If ignored, the problems of the past will continue and never be repaired. If properly managed, implementing a movement to help clean up the damage done in Student 5 the past by excessive fuel emissions will bring the world together and finally positive change will come. (WC:1331) Student 6 Works Cited About Tesla, https://www.tesla.com/about. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. FactFinder - American FactFinder - Results, 5 Oct. 2010, factfinder.census.gov/faces/tableservices/jsf/pages/productview.xhtml?src=bkmk. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Electric Vehicles, http://www.ucsusa.org/clean-vehicles/electric-vehicles/bev-phev-range- electric-car#.WLxpL4WcHE0. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Flint Hills Invests in Clean  Alaska Business Monthly, no. 2, 2006, p. 7. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.142421140&site=eds-live. Fuels and Aromatics, https://www.fhr.com/products-services/fuels-and-aromatics. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Gigafactory, https://www.tesla.com/gigafactory. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Koch Industries, http://www.kochind.com. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Madison, Travis. New Report: Electric Cars Are Putting the Brakes on  Environment America. http://www.environmentamerica.org/news/ame/new-report-electric-cars-are- putting-brakes-pollution. 24 June 2014. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Millward, David. Electric Cars Harm  Daily Telegraph (London, England), 2009. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgbe&AN=edsgcl.211783773&site=eds-live. Tesla, https://www.tesla.com. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. Student 7 What We Do, https://www.fhr.com/about-fhr/what-we-do. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017.