Patricia Perez Professor Philips ENC1102.025S17 24 February 2017 success in school depends on many different factors, one of them being a strong support system. The Parent Teacher Association focuses on finding ways to support students and help them reach their full potential. Image number one and image number two are a representation of the association. Image one is an advertisement encouraging students to bring their families to school. Image number two proves the audience, the experience the association has and how long they have been around creating trust between the audience and the association. Both images use rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience one way or another. The Parent Teacher Association creates advertisements, such as these images, using rhetorical appeals, for the purpose of encouraging the support of families in school life and helping students reach their full potential. Just like a mentor, students need a support system to motivate and encourage them to be the best they can be. The Parent Teacher (PTA) mission is to every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all (PTA). This association values collaboration, commitment, diversity, respect, and accountability. They focus on improving the school system by offering support; giving kids time and attention when it comes to school is crucial. A parent attending a parent teacher conference, a teacher helping a student one on one, parents and teachers being able to contact each other and keep updated about how the student is doing both at home and school, is very important. This kind of attention is essential coming from the people the students look up to. If they feel like school matters, they will understand how important it is to get a good education, and they will only understand this when everyone around them is giving school importance and attention. Perez 2 Rhetorical appeals are described as the way engage their (USF, 20). Image number one uses all four types of rhetorical appeals to portray a message to the audience. Using ethos, appeal to (USF, 20), the image conveys information about the associations website. The quote the changing faces of supports the idea that they have celebrated the Take Your Family To School Week many times before, and have a lot of experience with it. Using pathos appeal to (USF, 22) the image portrays happiness, showing different groups of families with smiling faces. Using logos appeal to (USF, 23), the image encourages kids to take their families to school, an event created by the PTA for of course families. The announcement shows many families and their students on a car as if on the way to school ready to celebrate the week. Lastly using Kairos appeal to (USF, 25), the image urges kids to bring their families on a specific time of the year. By the use of rhetorical appeals the image illustrates how families being part of the school life is a good event that positively affects success. Image number two as well as image number one, uses rhetorical appeals to get across a specific message to the audience. By using ethos, showing diplomas, medals, and notes, the image proves that the organization has been around for a very long time and is very experienced at what they do. Using pathos, with the representation of the founding pictures, the image appeals to the sense of nostalgia. By the use of logos, it is clear that the association is dedicated to success, and it is composed of parents and teachers. The association had to wait until one hundred anniversaries to make the advertisement using kairos. Using such a long time as proof of experience gives the audience trust towards what the association stands for. By the use of these rhetorical appeals the Parent Teacher Association is able to make a representation of their association, portraying a message that proves the fact that they know what Perez 3 they are doing. Looking out for students and helping them reach their full potential is what they do best. These images are not the only ones that have something to say about the PTA. The article Teacher states that the association was formed in 1897, about one hundred and twenty years ago. The article also says, modern PTA involves itself in a wide range of social, economic, and moral issues, while working for laws for the care and protection of children and youth and fostering cooperation among the home, school, and The association focuses on helping students be the best they can be, and the images are a way of spreading the knowledge about the association, encouraging more people to be a part of it. For the purpose of encouraging the support of families in school life and the academic success of students, the Parent Teacher Association uses rhetorical appeals to create advertisements. Using these appeals gives the association the power to persuade the audience and portray the importance of families being a part of schools. Ethos, pathos, logos and kairos, allow the association to engage the audience in their message. Spreading the word about what the Parent Teacher Association is dedicated to and what they stand for is key to making the association bigger, stronger, and accomplishing its goals. Perez 4 Perez 5 Works Cited University of South Florida. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. Ed. allyson hoffman and kimber wiggs . n.d. february 2017. Teacher http://www.pta.org Accessed February 2017 Parent Teacher  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=ers&AN=102082358&site=eds-live.