Quinones 1 Alesia Quinones Professor Phillips ENC 1102-025 25 February 2017 The Transportation Security Mission The organization Transportation Security Administration was created back in 2001 after the horrific terrorist attacks that took place on the World Trade Center. In November of 2001, Congress passed the and Transportation Security (TSA 1), which established the TSA and ever since they have been working toward the transportation system to ensure freedom of movement for people and (TSA 1). Two images from the TSA.gov website, they help describe what the mission for TSA is and what they are working for. In image one, the TSA logo, shows many rhetorical appeals that show the true mission behind the TSA. Image two, shows the options of security in airports. Both images show the importance of TSA and that they are working for the safety of the people. The TSA is a run by the Unites States of Department of Homeland Security and is fighting to protect all citizens from future terrorist attacks and to keep all means of travel safe. The creation of the Transportation Security Administration has caused a great change in the safety of travel throughout the United States. Safety measures have increased tremendously due to it. The TSA was formed through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security whose mission was to the most effective transportation security in the most efficient way as a high performing counterterrorism (TSA 1). With its mission and reason for being created, having such a strong effect on many Americans of thousands of people joined TSA and committed themselves to strengthening our transportation systems while ensuring the Quinones 2 freedom of movement for people and (TSA 1). With its strong backing many people are willing to allow the measures taken by the TSA to protect their safety. On the TSA.gov website there is their logo is shown. The image shown above is what I am using as Image one. In this image, many rhetorical appeals are shown. In this image, a strong use of ethos, in that it uses the U.S. Department of Homeland logo within its own logo to show that the U.S government created the TSA and it should be recognized as that. The image also uses color as a visual rhetoric. The blue font on the white background makes it easy for the viewer to see. The image is clear and to the point but also has a bit of power and authority with the U.S Department of Homeland stamp on it. With this stamp, it also appeals to pathos, in that it gives citizens a sense of relief that the government is taking action to prevent terrorist attacks and is fighting to protect safety. On the TSA.gov website there is also the image shown above, which is used in this paper as image two. In this Image is shows another option of TSA security screening. It has been Quinones 3 proven that many have felt violated through TSA means of security. The image appeals to viewers through the rhetoric appeal of logos, in that the TSA is giving citizens another form of security if one does not agree with the standard form of security. The image also appeals to ethos, in that it shows the exact difference between standard screening and TSA pre-check screening. Image two is almost in fact promoting TSA pre-check screening which allows you to go through security without having to take of your shoes, belt, or jacket and not have to take out your laptop or liquids. While in standard screening you do have to go through all those security measures. This image appeals to those who have an issue with the TSA security and have a negative stigma about it. With allowing citizens options of how to go through security that way they feel forced and as if they are giving up their freedoms. Since 2001 the TSA has been fighting to protect United States safety from terrorist attacks. Within all its efforts, there are still citizens who have felt as though their rights and freedoms are being compromised within the TSA security screenings. On the TSA.gov website you will find two images that help describe and visualize their mission to citizens. In image one, the TSA logo, you find that it has many rhetoric appeals such as ethos and visual rhetoric. In image one it helps show the importance and power through the placement of the Department of Homeland Security being placed within the TSA logo. In image two, it was shown that there are other ways of security other than the standard screening. Within this image, the rhetorical appeals of ethos and logos were present in the image. While there are people who dislike the TSA means of security and feel it is a violation of their rights and freedoms, the TSA provides other ways of screening. These two images provided by the TSA.gov website, defend and explain the mission, to protect citizens from future terrorist attacks and provide safety through travel. Quinones 4 Quinones 5 Works Cited TSA Logo. Digital image. Tsa.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. TSA Pre-Check. Digital image. Tsa.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. Staff, TSA.  Transportation Security Administration. Transportation Security Administrtion, 09 Dec. 2016. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.