Megahed 1 Hamad Megahed Adam Phillips English Composition 2 26 February 2017 The Zakat Foundation Everyday in some part of the world there are people suffering. These people sometimes gain the attention they need through the media. Whether it be from: the internet, television, or newspaper people today are exposed to distressing and heartbreaking stories about a group of people in a distant part of the world who need support. Today there are organizations who are working to bring light to these situations and hopefully collect the donations to bring them relief. Often times these organizations use rhetorical appeals in their advertisements to motivate more people to donate. One of these organizations is called The Zakat Foundation which is an international charity that provides aid to troubled areas around the world. The two images from their website both use the same rhetorical appeals, but in different ways. The first image evokes a sense of happiness by showing two young girls smiling while the second image gives a more somber feeling by depicting the horrible conditions of the people in Gaza. The Zakat foundation wants to show that they are able to help the people in these poor communities. Their mission is . . . to address immediate needs and ensure the self-reliance of the poorest people around the world. . . (Zakat Foundation). However, to do this they rely heavily on donations from people around the world. One of their strategies is creating advertisements using rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience to donate to their cause. The Zakat Foundation uses their website to publish advertisements to reach out to people, and through the use of the Megahed 1 rhetorical appeals, pathos, ethos, and kairos they are able to effectively raise awareness and motivate people to donate/support poor communities around the world. The use of pathos relies on bringing out the emotions of the audience, and The Zakat Foundation effectively uses pathos in both images to stimulate a sense of sympathy for the people in the images. In the first image depicts two young girls smiling next to each other. Right below them is a text in big white letters 400 futures . . . The purpose of this is to get people to sympathize with the children who are in conditions which hinder them from developing a rich future for themselves. The use of the word especially shows that children, like these two young girls, are in great need of assistance and The Zakat Foundation picked that word specifically to establish their situation. This image is especially for parents. The Zakat Foundation most likely planned to appeal to parents because parents want their children to have the best future possible. This image is effectively appealing to the emotions of parents by making them sympathize with underprivileged children and the parents who are unable to provide the support to nurture their futures. The use of the text is an invitation for people to directly help children from around the world. By showing two young girls smiling it evokes a sense of happiness and a desire to maintain their happiness by supporting children like these two young girls. However, the second image gives a much more contrasting feeling of sadness. The second image uses pathos by showing a family living in horrible conditions in Gaza. There are three young children, and two women in the photo. The image purposely shows a large area of the house so the audience can get an understanding of how these people are living. The house appears to be half destroyed with limited furniture. There are rough concrete floors and a large opening in the wall behind them. The Zakat Foundation uses this image as an example of Megahed 1 what homes look like in Gaza. And they use the text Gaza: Home by which gives the impression that these homes were destroyed. This is an effective use of text by Zakat because these home were destroyed because of fighting. According to Emily Harris between Palestinians and Israel leads to widespread damage. Then reconstruction money comes from abroad, leading to limited (Harris 2016). The violence caused by this conflict has affected the residents of Gaza and why the family in this image is living in these conditions which is what Zakat is trying to emphasize. Their goal here reflects what their mission statement is about. The text says Gaza . . . and their mission statement says they want to develop projects which will help these poor communities become self sustaining. Zakat heavily relies on pathos in these images, however Zakat does use ethos in both of the images as well. Zakat establishes ethos in both of these images by offering links to gain a better understanding of the situation, and for the audience to verify that these causes are real. Both of these images have the same links, one leads to a donation page, and one leads to a page where it provides all the information about the program or the context of the situation. The link establishes more credibility to the organization because it provides: what the organization has done, what their program is about, photos of their campaign ,and what exactly will be done with the donations receive. For the first image Zakat provides information how they have helped children in the past sponsored 1,200 orphan and vulnerable children in 2016, alleviating much of their hardship and opening the door to a brighter Foundation). This information gives credibility to Zakat as an organization that can help children and that the donations they receive are solely used for to provide aid. In the second image the Megahed 1 link leads to a page where it provides more context on the situation in Gaza and how the donations can help rebuild homes. This page establishes a lot of credibility because it provides a chart where it specifically says how much money will go to what. For instance, according to the chart . . . $10,000 will help reconstruct a home that has sustained major Foundation). If people get a better idea of where their money will go and what it can do it can motivate them to donate more. Zakat gives itself credibility by showing that they are invested in these situation. While ethos is strong with these two images Zakat also uses kairos to motivate people to donate. Zakat uses kairos to create a sense of urgency and a time interval to motivate people to donate in the time given in these two images. In the first image the text read . . . sponsor a vulnerable child in This is an interval of time in which Zakat wants people to either donate or sponsor a child within it. By giving this interval Zakat is establishing that sense of urgency and it gives the feeling that if it is not done in this year then when will it be done? In the second image the text by shows that it will take a long time to rebuild Gaza as a whole, but Zakat is encouraging everyone to take it one at a time. This makes the situation appear easier, but in doing so it establishes an indefinite reconstruction process that could take years. But through the use of kairos people will be more inclined to donate to easy, small goals instead of insurmountable ones. In an interview with Laila Mohammed of the Zakat she says that Zakat is focused on empowering communities and producing long term benefits for themselves (Bolano 2015). By helping to rebuild a home one at a time Zakat is hoping to give hope to the community so that they can eventually become self sustaining which again reflects their mission statement. Megahed 1 Like many organizations The Zakat foundation resorts to strategically using rhetorical appeals within their advertisements in order to motivate people to support their cause. The effectiveness of these advertisements depends on the proper use of the rhetorical appeals. For Zakat, in order to encourage potential donors their advertisements had to rely heavily on pathos. But, in order to gain some credibility they needed to establish some ethos which will assure the audience. And to be able to receive these donations as fast as possible they needed to use kairos to establish urgency. The Zakat Foundation uses pathos, ethos, and kairos in both of these images to effectively raise awareness about the people in need and to foster donations so they can continue to fulfill their mission. Megahed 1 Megahed 1 Works Cited America, Zakat Foundation of. Zakat Foundation of  Design, LLC . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Harris, Emily. In Gaza, A Few New, Shiny Homes Rise Amid The  . NPR, 05 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Interview with Laila Muhammad of Zakat  Foundation . N.p., 02 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.