Wesolowski 1 Ryan Wesolowski Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Analysis of Imagery Used by The National Rifle Association In the last few years gun violence has increased in every facet of American society; from deadly police shootings, by six percent, police officer fatalities, by 39 percent, and even mass shootings which shot up since 2015 by 383 percent (Washington Post). These statistics are extremely alarming and not many Americans seem to be aware of the ever-proliferating numbers of gun violence that are occurring day to day. A major stakeholder in the gun violence and gun control issue is the National Rifle Association (NRA), although the NRA works hard to keep the freedoms of the Second Amendment for the American public they do deeply understand the inherent dangers of owning firearms. Many opponents of the NRA like to claim that the gun laws that the NRA supports and chose not to support help criminals get their firearms, but in reality the NRA does not wish for criminals or the mentally unstable to end up with weapons. The NRA has the primary focus on the history of firearms, the protection of American rights, and teaching the public firearm safety as well as other public benefits. This is best shown through most of the advertisements that the NRA displays such as their own emblem and through the endorsements of their own shooting courses, both of these present the ideology of the NRA, which is an organization that wants to protect firearms and by proxy must defend gun laws that keep citizens freely able to buy and sell their firearms. Wesolowski 2 As a nonprofit organization founded in 1871, the National Rifle Association is deeply intertwined with the history of the United States. The NRA is one of the oldest civil rights groups in the United States. The organization did not become politically active until 1975 when it began, the critical need for political defense of the Second Amendment, NRA formed the Institute for Legislative Action, or (NRA). Aside from being politically active in legislation that has been passed in the last forty years, the NRA has an extensive history in training and educating many different communities to use firearms safely and properly. 1949, the NRA, in conjunction with the state of New York, established the first hunter education program. Hunter Education courses are now taught by state fish and game departments across the country and Canada and have helped make hunting one of the safest sports in (NRA). They have also grown into civilian training, proving to the public that they exist not only to protect their rights to gun ownership, but are dedicated to making sure those who own guns are appropriately trained in using firearms the NRA estimates that they are leader in firearms education. Over 125,000 certified instructors now train about 1,000,000 gun owners a (NRA). The NRA has grown from a past that is entwined with the American culture and because of this close relationship they have an understanding of the American public, which is why their emblem is a symbol of the lengthy history. The emblem used by the NRA is symbolic of those used by federal organizations in the United States. The emblem consists of a bald eagle clutching crossed rifles over a shield imprinted with the flag of the United States of America, all of this is over a field of Wesolowski 3 red. The point of the emblem is supposed to evocate the Great Seal of the United States found on almost all of the currency printed here. Psychologically, the NRA emblem is meant to provide the NRA with some ethos; the fact that the emblem reminds the viewer of these more prestigious and accomplished emblems grants the emblem with some sort of credibility. Much like Geertz states, can only be in symbols: a cross, a crescent, or a feathered serpent. symbols, dramatized in rituals or related in myths, are felt somehow to sum up, for those whom they are resonant, what is known about the way the world (Geertz). In the case of the NRA the symbol is meant to resonate with the American culture, a bald eagle and a shield painted with the American flag to show how patriotic the organization is and how they are present to fight for the freedoms. The field of red is meant to grab the attention of the color; psychologically the color is very attention grabbing and can also be, with importance (think of the red carpet at awards shows and celebrity (Chapman). The red field is meant to grab the attention while displaying the importance of the NRA and the importance of what they stand for in the foreground. The NRA also takes this color and font psychology into their advertisements. This use of color is also displayed in the second image; the color red is used heavily throughout the ad, such as on the important words of and its claim to be best and most trusted firearm safety The color is also put to work in the background to emphasize the cluster of bullets that are grouped directly in the center of the target. The use of red is again meant to signify the importance of these words and the cluster of bullets. The symbolism in the bullets being grouped in the center of the target Wesolowski 4 gives the viewer and unconscious level of logos, without the viewer knowing they take into account this bullet placement and begin to agree with the words on the ad because it only seems logical that the firearms training would be able to allow a person to have that much control over their gun. The advertisement also takes into account the psychology of font size and differentiating font, style manipulations despite a tendency for both groups to predict higher recall for items in large and in regular and italic styles than for small and bold fonts and achieve higher recall for regular than italic or bold (Price/McElroy/Martin). This means that people have an easier time recognizing and remembering large font that is not bolded and is italicized, which this NRA ad is exclusively comprised of aside from the name of the organization, which is highlighted in red. These images take into account the history and everything the organization stands for, this is not done mistakenly. The use of the color red to grab attention, and the intentional use of fonts that people tend to remember more clearly is all because the NRA wants to seem like a trusted organization that fights for the rights of the American people and trains them to use their firearms properly and safely. While the NRA may perpetuate some unsafe gun laws, they are not the cause of these increased gun deaths and gun violence in America; the country is going through a very turbulent time where its people are growing apart from each other and people need to realize that the deaths of police officers and innocent people will not fix the political and social issues that occur daily in our country. (WC: 1176) Wesolowski 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron and Cameron Chapman. Color Theory For Designers, Part 1: The Meaning Of Color Smashing . Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Geertz, Clifford. Ethos, World-View And The Analysis Of Sacred . The Antioch Review 17.4 (1957): 421. Web. NRA . Home.nra.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Price, Jodi, Kelsey McElroy, and Nicholas J. Martin. The Role Of Font Size And Font Style In Younger And Older Predicted And Actual Recall . Aging, Neuropsychology, and Cognition (2015): 1-23. Web. Soffen, Kim and Kim Soffen. Yes, Violence In America Has Suddenly Increased. But Far From The Whole . Washington Post. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.