Girton 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC1102 5 March 2017 A Conversation on the Ethics and Efficiency of Geothermal Energy A hot topic in society is the use of clean energy alternatives. This is because the use of fossil fuels is both endangering the environment and the human population through its contaminating nature. Petroleum, oil, and natural gas, all of which are fossil fuels, are also dwindling as a resource. This is because more fossil fuels are being used than can be replenished. However, the question of the ethics and efficiency involved is the main problem with opposing viewpoints on the subject. The energy alternative that has had some of the most vocal support, as well as some of the most retaliation is that of geothermal energy. Two stakeholders, the Union of Concerned Scientists, and the Energy Justice Network, have two opposing viewpoints on the subject of whether or not to use geothermal energy. The Union of Concerned Scientists boasts that geothermal energy is a valuable and ethical form of energy use, whereas the Energy Justice Network disagrees. The efficiency and ethical standards of harnessing geothermal energy is widely debated among educators, scientists, and the common man; although, both organizations agree in the education of the common man, as well as experts, on all facets of the truth of using alternative energy sources. The primary stakeholder, the Union of Concerned Scientists, has a main goal to investigate clean energy alternatives through the support of scientists and educators for the good of humanity. The principle arguments used by this stakeholder is the positive comparison of geothermal energy against fossil fuels with both safety and efficiency, the highlight of wide Girton 2 access of this type of energy, and the low negative economic impact it would have on the United States economy (among others). Geothermal energy is often boasted as having high efficiency, due to it gathering heat directly through the ground via means of hydrothermally circulated water. This water is convected through a generator, creating electricity. This process involves no harmful chemicals, and is renewable for humans to use for future generations. The United States Energy Administration noted in the Levelized Cost and Levelized Avoided Cost of New Generation Resources in the Annual Energy Outlook 2016 that the capacity, or efficiency of input versus output of materials into energy for this type of source was 91%. This was the highest number of all alternative energy sources, including wind, solar, and even advanced nuclear energies. The popularity of the source of energy is highlighted by the fact that in at least 64 countries around the world are enjoying the use of geothermal resources in variable (Fridleifsson 97). This statistic shows that the use of geothermal energy is accessible to many different cultures, landscapes, and technologically different parts of the world. This is a major aspect to consider, as fossil fuels are running out of resource for human use, thus creating the need for a long term sustainable energy source. The Energy Justice Network, an opposing stakeholder, has a primary mission to advocate through the community for the advancement of research and support for a waste and emission free clean energy source for all. The principle arguments used by this stakeholder are current areas of geothermal plant development and the negative consequences involved. They highlight clean air violations is Hawaii, the loss of Native American land in California, and drinking water contamination in Nevada (among others).Specifically in Hawaii, energy development threatens perhaps the most sacred space in all Hawaii, the home and body of the fire goddess (Edelstein 1). With this concerning affect, it is easy to understand the concern Girton 3 of the advancement of geothermal power. One potentially harmful effect could be, metal and other chemical contamination from geothermal energy production sources may have spread into the soil and into water catchments and affected drinking water (Alder 10). This could potentially cause imbalances of metallic minerals in the human and animal populations, while also affecting plant growth. This topic is also a social concern; it has been observed that common thread in the public reservations about renewable energy is landscape change and the consequent disruption such change produces to established ways of life for those who are (Pasqualetti 1). Shared interests between both stakeholders involve finding the most optimal and ethical clean energy source for use by mankind. They both share the concern of negative ethical impacts of new types of renewable alternative energy, as well as any negative effects on the environment. The two stakeholders share the need of educating and raising awareness to a wide audience to provoke concern for the topic at hand. Due to petitions and community outcries, a current solution would be to build geothermal plants where air and water quality would not be compromised, and sacred Native American lands would remain untouched. The first stakeholder supporting geothermal energy would have to bend to certain regulations of site building, which would still benefit their idea of advancing geothermal energy as a primary source of energy. The second stakeholder would have to allow for the power plants to be built near populations where a lot of energy can be harnessed safely, but the general population would not be harmed through air and water contamination. If the power plants were built in desert areas, along with solar and wind power, then sacred lands would not be harmed, and drinking water and air quality would not be compromised. The shared goal of renewable clean energy alternatives would be fostered with this proposed compromise. In order to implement this compromise, there needs to be a raising of awareness through the Girton 4 community, educators, and scientists of the multitudes of sides of the subject. It has been studied that most countries development has been slow. This is not surprising as fossil fuels are a major competitor as well as the initial high investment costs of geothermal (Lund 26). The fact that the dwindling source of fossil fuels are still the most widely used source of energy in the world is a cause of concern from both stakeholders. This can be done through community outreaches, experts willing to give talks on the subject in public spaces, etc. Geothermal heat is an alternative energy source with both great support and relentless opposition. With its efficiency and its ability to be consistently renewable, it could be a major source of clean energy for future generations. However, in a few places where there are geothermal heat plants, there is great opposition due to the compromise of air and water quality, as well as social issues surrounding its development. Both stakeholders, the Union of Concerned Scientists and the Energy Justice Network, are both concerned by the ethical and efficiency standards of geothermal heat. It is recommended that geothermal plants are built far enough away from populations to keep from compromising air and water quality, as well as sacred lands. In this way, both stakeholders have to give a little on their own stances in order to implement a compromise. As far as educating the common man, as well as educators and scientists, it may also be prudent to give public talks, perhaps as a fundraiser, to achieve the common goal of educating citizens of the effects of different energy sources. With this knowledge, voters have the informed choice of who to represent them in office for who will keep their water clean to drink, their air safe to breathe, and their traditional sites safe for worship and preservation. [Word Count: Girton 5 Works Cited Adler, Peter S., PhD. Data Sources for Public Health Needs  Geothermal Public Health Assessment FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS (n.d.): 39-60. GEOTHERMAL PUBLIC HEALTH ASSESSMENT FINAL REPORT. The Geothermal Public Health Assessment Study Group, 9 Sept. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://punapono.com/2015/docs/health/Report.pdf>. Edelstein, Michael, and Deborah Kleese. Cultural Relativity of Impact Assessment: Native Hawaiian Opposition to Geothermal Energy  Society and Natural Resources 8.1 (1985): 19-31. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/08941929509380896>. Fridleifsson, Ingvar B. Geothermal Energy for the Benefit of the  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 5.3 (2001): 299-312. Web. <https://www.geothermal- Lund, John W.  World-Wide Direct Uses of Geothermal Energy  Renewable Energy Systems (2013): 744-60. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.geothermal- energy.org/pdf/IGAstandard/WGC/2005/0007.pdf>. Pasqualetti, Martin. SOCIAL BARRIERS TO RENEWABLE ENERGY  The GeoJournal Library Geographical Dimensions of Energy (2011): 27-40. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www2.le.ac.uk/departments/geography/documents/research/seminar-series- Vest, Britney. Levelized Costs AEO 2012 Early (2016): n. pag. US Energy Information Administration. U.S. Energy Information Administration, Aug. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Girton 6