Patel 1 Darshan Patel Professor Phillips ENC 1102-025 February 26, 2017 Mars: Home of Tomorrow Could you imagine living on a new, completely different planet, like in the space science fiction movies? Well SpaceX is about to make that a reality. SpaceX is an organization that designs, manufactures and launches advanced rockets and spacecraft (Spacexcmsadmin). This company was founded by Elon Musk in 2002 to revolutionize space technology, with the ultimate goal of enabling people to live on other planets, starting with Mars. To get the general public in favor of their constant missions and the future they promised, they have been strategically marketing concept retrofuture art to make Mars seem like a vacation spot in the future. With the occasional photo of veterans to make the SpaceX seem relatable and in support of America. These photos effectively promote their mission statement by the rhetorical appeal such as ethos, pathos and logos to the public eye. The first image shows a couple watching a sunset on mars with the glamorized retrofuture art popularized once again from the 80s to hipster culture. The warm color palette and just overall tone shows the future. Phobes & Deimos are the moons of Mars, and soon to be the vacation hotspot in the future thanks to SpaceX. a Space Age cruise abroad the Moons of The second image a group of combined images of veterans and their families in front of all the different SpaceX bases and headquarters. With the text saying those who have a very generic image that a lot of companies release to show support of Patel 2 the veterans and wars. Ironic because one of the main problems of colonization of Mars will be the wars that will be fought for land, minerals and resources by all the different countries of Earth. Ethos is a method of persuasion. The first image that was released by SpaceX is appealing to the aspirations of a better possible future that SpaceX is trying to work towards. The photo shows a couple watching a sunset on Mars. already seen a sunset at the beach on plain old earth, this concept is evoking emotions of the last time you saw a sunset and the next time you will but with the possibility of it being on Mars. They are trying to make Mars a vacation spot in the future. With the glamorized retrofuture style of art from the past, and the bright warm palette colors, it creates an emotional tone of possibility. evoking the rhetoric appeal pathos. Even to the smallest detail like the font choice, futura, evokes to tone of possibility and the future. The rhetoric appeal Kairos is also used in this image. Under the big yellow, Wes Anderson-esque style words PHOBOS & DEIMOS (moons of Mars) it says, a Space-Age cruise abroad the Moons of Kairos appeal is trying to make the viewers think that they miss out on this once in a life time cruise to Mars. Image 2, just like Image 1, is full of the rhetoric appeals of Ethos and Pathos. The organization, SpaceX as a whole are saluting those who have served. This image is trying so hard to tell the views that SpaceX is an company. With 4 photos in one with the title being those who have it gets the message across. Pathos is heavy in this image. With bright colors, big American and Texas flags, army logos, huge crowds of veterans and wearing SpaceX shirts, it appeals to the emotions of many Americans that have respect towards America and veterans. Like stated before, this image is very ironic if the viewer knows a little bit of history and has logic appeals like Logos. A 1967 treaty, popularly known as the Outer Patel 3 Space Treaty, signed by major world powers including the United States, Russia, and China, states that, Outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation, or by any other (UNOOSA). This means no country can own anything in space including planets. Obviously, this bind private companies like SpaceX, but if, for example, the United States violates this treaty, Russia and China would be likely to as well, potentially leading to armed conflict on the moon. (Williams 4-8). While right now SpaceX supports wars, Trump, and the veterans, with this image, the future may hold another tale after colonization caused by SpaceX. Both images have at least one example of the rhetorical appeals. These images are very similar and accomplish their main target and help the organization in the eye. Both having bright colors, promises, and the emotional appeal aspect, SpaceX lose any attention or appeal from the public anytime soon. In conclusion, SpaceX is really smart at marketing and knows how to appeal to the public eye with these strategically placed, rhetorical appeal photos, and garner support for almost anything. Even though they are drastically behind schedule and are wasting tremendous amount of money on failed rocket launches, somehow the public still is in support of them and the awe of the future they promised them. Both photos show examples of rhetorical appeal which was the main point and they both relate to the target mission goal of this organization. When they do colonize Mars and the new 7 Earth-like planets that were recently discovered by NASA, SpaceX will have the full support of the American population and maybe even the worlds. Patel 4 Work Cited UNOOSA. Outer Space Unoosa.org. United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs. 27 Jan. 1967. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Williams, Lynda. Dreams of Space Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice 22:4-8. WorldCat. Web. 23 Sept. 2014. Spacexcmsadmin, SpaceX. SpaceX, 27 Nov. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Patel 5