Nguyen 1 Anh Nguyen Robert Ryan ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Another Energy Option: Renewable Energy People have always been looking for an answer to the question as to which energy source is the best option both for the environment and economy. Scientists suggest renewable energy as the solution to this unsolved issue but feel as though it will not be an easy transition. It will not be easy since humanity has been dependent on fossil fuels for centuries and breaking a habit is not easy. There are many organizations who are working hard to support the switch to renewable energy and 350.org is one of them. As a leading figure in the climate movement, 350 strives to make a difference in the environment and thus urges the implementation of green energy. Renewable energy is the key that humans are looking for to take them toward a brighter future. 350.org is working hard to send a message that the usage of fossil fuels is badly affecting the environment and uses an image to portray the negative future in store if humans continue this path. Looking at the first image, there is dark theme that is highlighted with made up of many candles. In front of the image is a child who is wearing a 350.org shirt and holding a candle in his palm while putting on a serious face. Everyone in the background is also presenting grave faces while holding different signs, showing that this is a serious message which should not be taken lightly. One of the two bigger signs in the middle is a Nguyen 2 huge 350.org sign, and the other says Pope Francis light the way for a fossil free portraying the severity of the situation. The image is trying to bring more supporters to the side in the issue. The people want to unite to spread the message and fight against the fossil fuel industry. They want the people to start the movement, now. In the first picture, the 350.org sign appears many times. For example, on the shirt, on both posters held in the background. All this was done so viewers can acknowledge that this message is supported and deliver by 350.org. The Vatican people stand together to show that they are standing together for a fossil-free future. Sending a message that everyone is welcome to join the movement, and keep it positive to create a better place for the kids. The image gives a hashtag movement to raise awareness and if anyone search for that hashtag on every social media, they can see many pictures are showing the support from all around the world. The dark background creates a doleful atmosphere representing people fed-up with the fossil fuels, and by using candles they send a message of stop using too much energy since they are all produced by fossil fuels. The picture want the audience to think about the future, the next generation since there many signs that the environment is getting worse. Climate change happens naturally but humans have pushed it to change at a faster speed. Pope Francis, who now stands with people against fossil fuel, believes that the tide is turning, and now is the time to divest the Vatican. People are showing their support with belief. As mentioned above, the first image displays a group of people holding signs and here the second image portrays a factory with a lot of smoke coming out of it. The picture has a monochrome theme which contrasts the colored message. The factory only takes up one fourth of the picture to emphasize the smoke instead. Additionally, the sky, where the smoke is moving Nguyen 3 toward, has a darker color than the other side of sky. The advertisement also shows a deserted landscape that serves as further evidence of the adverse effects of burning fossil fuels. Looking at this advertisement, parents and children will be aware that fossil fuels are threatening their future and in fact there are no human it. Again, the second advertisement was created to gather more supporter in the movement of stopping the usage of burning fossil fuels. The biggest impression of the photography is that it contains mainly black and white, except for the blue to highlight the message. 350.org use this monochrome theme to builds a gloomy atmosphere to catch the people attention, and to show them the consequences that fossil fuels leave behind is very devastating. to demonstrate what factories are doing to the environment. The factory, the sky, the deserted landscape, and finally is the smoke, are all the factors that was used to forge a spine-chilling warning to the society. The link to 350.org website is provided at the bottom left is an effective way to motivate people: take an action by press this link It is interesting that this second advertisement has no human included at all. As if they are showing their vision of the future that society is heading toward to. By using this scary and realistic advertisement, 350.org want everyone to unite as one and tell world leaders: ALL NEW FOSSIL FUEL was mentioned in the message because people are still having hard time dealing with current fossil fuel projects that are threating the Earth. The two pictures have the same main goal, which is to stop the usage of the fossil fuels. They both focus mainly on pathos, because it is appealing to the emotion of the viewers by making them empathize toward the Vatican people and scared of the consequences of burning fossil fuels. However, they have different approaches when trying to achieve the goal. Although both images have several rhetoric appeals in them, each one of them has one that is clearly more Nguyen 4 noticeable and more important than the others. The first image connects to the people by showing the Vatican people are tired with fossil fuels. They also look for empathy from viewers through the child in the middle of the picture, the child stands for the younger generations. The second image display the terrible consequences of fossil fuel to the people and they need to break free from fossil fuels. The use of that information will help people understand of how serious this problem is and there are people who desperate looking for some help. Energy source is a very controversy topic, and the most active organization, who is fighting against the use fossil fuels, the 350.org. They want to stop the usage of the fossil fuels and let the people beware of the consequences. They are also advocated in uniting people and creating protest event to send a stronger message to the world leaders that they need to stop the fossil fuels industry. To achieve their goal, they try several ways to persuade the rest of the population to join their side. The use of rhetorical appeals in the image only helps them to catch the attention of the audience, taking them one step closer to achieving their goals Nguyen 5 Figure 1. Nguyen 6 Figure 2. Nguyen 7 Works Cited  350.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <https://350.org/>. How We  350.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://350.org/how/>.  350.org - Today launching a new global demand for... N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  350.org - TOMORROW: Youth at the #WYD2016 are holding a... N.p., 28 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Zzz. 350.Org  Our Times, vol. 29, no. 2, Apr 01, 2010, p. 7. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=apn&AN =ALTP811902&site=eds-live. Divest the  Fossil Free. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Mar. 2017.