Running Head:ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN Crino 1 Calvin Crino Emil Smith First Year Composition 1/29/17 Socioeconomic Progression and Accessibility in Public Transport and Civic Design Accessibility is the idea of making our world accessible to people with disabilities such that no one is left behind. While often thought of as just ramps or elevators for those without working legs, it also includes braille for the blind, bright signs for the deaf, and even trained civil servants for the mentally challenged. Without these things people with disabilities cannot use public transport to work around the cards been dealt to improve their lives. Comparing what we have now to that of the past we can see that society has improved in helping the those with disability but often accessibility improvement is ignored in favor of cheaper options. Considering what had been done, and what can still be done leads to the question: how has time and socioeconomic development changed the focus on accessibility in public transport and civic design? A., V., & N. (2016). Urban Public Transport Accessibility for People with Movement Disorders: The Case Study of Vilnius. Procedia Engineering, 134, 48-56. doi:10.1016/j.proeng.2016.01.038 This article is a case study of the state of public transport in the city of Vilnius, Lithuania. It discusses the state of the public transit system with the use of a high level calculation combining aggregate data on average wait time, accessibility to people with disabilities, and some additional ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN Crino 2 statistics to grade the cities individual districts on Transport Accessibility Levels & 2016, p. 52) . Over all the source grades the city rather low on its scale showing Vilnius as example of a unaccessible city with little systems in place for accessibility however the source also explains how each of its metrics represent quality forms of transit such as listing expectations and qualitative grades along with the numbers. The source is useful for answering the research question because it both gives an example of valid public transportation grading scales and therefore ideal conditions as well as an example of less well developed public transit which shows how the socioeconomic scale may affect accessibility in respect to public transit. The recent nature of this article helps show the youth of discussion of accessibility in public transport. Additionally, this article comes with a credible backing, one of the authors Alina is a doctoral researcher of transport and logistics while has a doctoral degree in transportation engineering. Vasiljevic-Tomic, D., & Obradovic, R. (2015). Architecture - inclusive culture: Protection of persons with disabilities. Facta universitatis - series: Architecture and Civil Engineering, 13(1), 47-56. doi:10.2298/fuace1501047v This article discusses the importance of civil to create situations of highest accessibility as well as preventing against people with disabilities through the implementation of exclusive architecture. In the article mindful civil design refers to designing with all people in mind such that the abilities and disabilities of a person do not limit them from their access to public resources. While mainly focusing on the concept of discrimination, and ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN Crino 3 how designing for everyone and therefore increasing accessibility will lead to improved democratic standards of equality, this article has no examples of this kind of design. Overall this article is less relevant in its discussion of social ,cultural cognition and discrimination, but it does touch on some rather good points relating to social wealth to the treatment of people with disabilities. Its credibility is less than perfect due to the political verbiage. Additionally one of its authors Radojko is the vice president of the Serbian National Assembly which suggests that this paper is less research concerned, more politically concerned, and is therefore more opinionated. However the paper still has worth due to its utility in both description of accessibility and its discussion of social wealth. Ahmad, M. (2015). Independent-Mobility Rights and the State of Public Transport Accessibility for Disabled People. & Society, (2), 197-213. doi:10.1177/0095399713490691 This article discusses the accessibility of rural Pakistan using a grading system similar to that of Vilnius, however it focuses on a less strict numeric score and instead uses a statistics and perception polls. The overall tone of the article is the judgement of the treatment of people with disability in rural public transportation. This includes perception of the operators of transit systems, the people with disability, and other passengers in regards to the treatment of those with disability. The article discusses equality more so than the grades in its conclusion choosing to focus on ideals and less on solutions. The author Mahtab Ahmad seem to have many qualifications or at least has not been recognised for his work. However I doubt this indicates his inadequacy as an author because his location may have caused him to be overlooked. The articles value is in its ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN Crino 4 counterexample to Vilnius discussing a more rural situation of relatively similar socioeconomic conditions and time period. Preston, J., & F. (2007). Accessibility, mobility and transport-related social exclusion. of Transport Geography, (3), 151-160. doi:10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2006.05.002 This article discusses policies the UK implemented in 2007, referring to the treatment of people with disabilities in society. It includes an explanation of the term social exclusion, a force that causes groups not to participate in society as they normally would, as well as going in depth about the political evolution of the phrase and its modern use in the public transport. In earnest the article is less useful for discussion of public transport in particular and more on the subject of people with disability, however it really digs into the topic of exclusion and therefore is meaningful in the discussion of accessibility. Additionally, it publishing year dates it as one of the earliest articles to discuss accessibility if only by association. The author has some renown as an irish politician but this is expected due to the political nature of the paper. Considering the nature of political works it should be taken with a bit of caution but otherwise serves as a useful paper due to its chronological significance and definitions of exclusion. Mackett, R. L., Achuthan, K., & Titheridge, H. (2008). AMELIA: A tool to make transport policies more socially inclusive. Transport Policy, 15(6), 372-378. doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2008.12.007 This article discusses the development of a public transport improvement planning program know as Methodology for Enhancing Life by Increasing Accessibility Achuthan, & Titheridge, 2008, p. 372). AMELIA allows policy makers to make informed public ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN Crino 5 transport changes, by using aggregated data about the portion of the public with disabilities and their habits, to predict the effect of a change on the accessibility of the system as a whole. The program as discussed at the time of this article was incomplete but moving to the testing phase and has most likely been implemented. This article is an interesting look into the development of accessibility measuring and predicting software, with useful components in both areas. Its chronological position is a strong indication of the increase of accessibility goals in highly socioeconomic regions and serves as a foil to the articles on Vilnius, and Pakistan. The leading author, Professor Mackett has a doctorate in transit planning and is known for his work on five transport modeling program including AMELIA. The other two authors appear to have been graduate students at the time of the article but have since become lecturers in civil engineering furthering the validity of the source. Overall the article is a useful perspective for considering the research question. Battellino, H. (2009). Transport for the transport disadvantaged: A review of service delivery models in New South Wales. Transport Policy, 16(3), 123-129. doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2009.02.006 This article is a discussion on the implementation of public transport in New South Wales, Australia. The main idea being that Australian public transport does not adequately consider policies to change transport disadvantage, and social exclusion such as those implemented in the UK. The article includes some poll data about the usage of public transit systems to support its argument. While mainly a call to action for Australian public transport improvement this article also serves as a fine gradient to the previous articles, allowing a socioeconomic scale to be created. This article is the author, Helen most renowned work on her subject, public transport and ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN Crino 6 transport planning. Due to its opinionated nature the article is less directly useful, but if its agenda is acknowledge it can still be used to identify the condition and goals in Australian public transport.