Zhao 1 Ming Zhao Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 3/1/2017 Blizzard Entertainment Since the video games become popular entertainment among young people, the methods of creating video games in order to attract people to play are multitudinous. Some video games companies devote themselves to design games for the interests, and it is ture that working for earning money is their primary goals due to the essence of corporations. However, some firms such as Blizzard Entertainment prefer to do something else beyound simply earning money. To be more specific, Blizzard Entertainment do care about the profits, but this company more comsider about the experiences of players than the profits. After establishing in 1994, Blizzard quickly became one of the most popular makers of video games. The mission statement of this company is to dedicate to creating the most epic entertainment experiences for players (Blizzard Entertainment: Mission Statement). Based on creating the experiences, this company sets up a sense of incoporation for players and people who want to work for. Blizzard Entertainment successfully attracts people by using the sense of incoporation throughout two images that bring people to participate in the community of them. Blizzard entertainment attracts people to jion in their community via two images by building the sense of incoporation. More specifically, the first image exhibits a poster of hiring. In the left of this poster, there is a gray statement YOU Zhao 2 WITH and this statement is come from one of famous game named Overwatch. Basicly, the purpose of this picture means Blizzard Entertainment is in the stage of hiring now. Additionally, on the right side of the statement, there are a dozen of different charactics which also originate from Overwatch. The reason why this hiring poster uses the game Overwatch as the way of propagandizing is because that Overwatch represents a very high achievement of Blizzard Entertainment in recent years. This game gets the approvel from the public by winning the top honor from Game of the Year at 2016 Game Awards (Totil). If people who are in the field of game designing, they must heard of the Game Awards. The Blizzard Entertainment is trying to make a statement that demonstrating the Overwatch is their recent successful masterpiece in order to attract people to jion in them on game designing. On top of that, if anyone is interested at working on Blizzard, he or she could go the website link which is provided under their gray statement. This supplied website link exhibits the credible for the audiences as well. Speaking of the audiences, this image is not only for the people who want to find a career or are already working on game designning domain, but also for the people who are students or simply players recently and have not decide to do what kind of jobs. In addition, it makes people who are not familiar with video games industry have a different view on the video games. In other wards, it makes people feel that the video games industry is not something for kids or something lower than other industry anymore. So, Blizzard uses this image set up the sense of incoporation not only for players, but also for public by showing a common topic employment which is as same as in other fields. Nevertheless, another image made by Blizzard shows how the video games could related to the real world. Zhao 3 The second image not simply releases the connection between video games and the real world, but also provides how the video games industry can support the world in a special way. The style of the second image is quite samiliar to the first one that the statement on the left and one relevant subject on the right of the picture. The statement on this picture is posting a big green and a smaller sentence under the big one is $2.5 million raised for On the right beside the statement, there is a black cat with the green lights sitting on the grass. The interesting thing is the green lights throughout the cat body is as same as the color of the sentences, and it gives the audiences a feeling that this little cat is saying the statements to people. Thus, this is how the Blizzard uses the pathos to attract people by a little cute cat saying Additionally, the reason why this cat saying that is because the raise for Make-A-Wish, which is a non-profit organization related to health, is just over 2.5 million dollars. The quantity 2.5 million dollars for raising shows the accurate to people, because they know they will receive the negative consequences if they put a fake statistic. According to investigation, this little cat is a virtual pet which can be adoptted by players via purchasing it, and then players can own it on the game World of Warcraft, which is another famous game published by Blizzard in 2004 and still popular even for now. The price of the little cat is 10 dollars, and Blizzaed states that of the purchase price will be denoted to (Adopt Mischief). It is exciting that so many people have participated in this public benefit activitiy. Moreover, this image not only says to people who helped this non-profit organization but to everyone. The children who have the illness and now are accepting the treatement from Make-A-Wish express the thankfulness to the whole world. Here it is the sense of Zhao 4 incoporation which is utilized by Blizzard Entertainment for drawing people get involved to their community. For example, people who have seen this picture and try to figure it out, they will realize Blizzard Entertainment and how this company build the connection with the real world finally. In conclusion, these two images both show the way that Blizzard Entertainment uses to attract people to understand them which is establishing the sense of incoporation. In other words, Blizzard Entertainmen is a game maker but not only concentrating on game designning, and also emphsizing the process of construting the atmosphere between the video games world and the real world people living. In addition, this sense gives people strongly empathy no matter when they are playing games or when they are working in the real world. Somehow, it powerfully encourages people when they face the obstruction in lives. It is just like what the creater of Blizzard said on the awards scence game and the world that we are building has a message and it is a message about heroism, diversity, bright and positive and hopeful (Totilo). Zhao 5 Works Cited Adopt Mischief Today and Support -  World of Warcraft. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Blizzard Entertainment: Mission  Blizzard Entertainment: Mission Statement. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Totilo, Stephen. Overwatch Wins Game Of The Year At The 2016 Game  Kotaku. Kotaku.com, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.