Williams 1 Joseph Williams ENC 1102 Professor Ryan 26 February 2017 A World Without Gas Sustainable energy is a controversial topic that is very relevant today, since energy is necessary for humans to grow. Some people see sustainable energy as a way for companies to lose money and others see it as a way for humans to be more environmentally friendly. Tesla is a commercial organization that specializes in producing and distributing electric vehicles. They are an environmentally friendly company that strives to maintain the earths well-being. Tesla believes that sustainable energy is what people will use in the future to fuel their daily lives. Therefore, they only develop vehicles that run on a sustainable source of energy. According to official website their goal is accelerate the transition to sustainable (Tesla.com). They are so confident that sustainable energy is the future that they say rather than start. Both images presented use different techniques to get consumers to understand and even get their interest by mission. Both pictures strongly hint that they do not see a need for fossil fuels in their cars. The ads that Tesla presents addresses their goal and short term issues that inhibit them from completing it. Tesla believes that the higher sales they have, the closer they are to achieving their goal. They believe this because if more people use their products, it means that more people are using a sustainable energy (for transportation). In order for Tesla to gain more sales they need to attract more consumers with advertisements. Williams 2 The article by Washington Post describes how there are with cars and there is a reliability (Washingtonpost.com). This creates a bad reputation for Tesla and it can have a negative impact on their sales. The advertisement with the red car attempts to convince the audience that their product is reliable and there is nothing wrong with it. The image takes a more forward approach, when it states performance statistics. The purpose of this ad is to convince the audience that their vehicle is just as impressive as a vehicle that runs on fossil fuel. First it gives some performance information and then it adds on to it with However, the sentence with the most impact is with a clean It is written in small faded font which makes it seem more insignificant than the rest of the information, but this is not the case. This sentence gives the readers the idea that product is the right choice since it promotes a healthy environment. This attracts the audiences interest since it can perform well and more. The advertisement is trying to convince the readers that their vehicle can perform just as well as vehicles that use fossil fuel, with the bonus of zero emissions. Tesla is trying to appeal to a wider audience since they attempt to attract performance enthusiasts and environmentalists. The Forbes article describes how Tesla targets people with a medium/high income since those are typically the people that impact society the most. By targeting these type of high impact consumers, it helps accelerate the rate in which they can complete their goal. Tesla establishes their credibility in this ad by placing their brand logo and website so the audience can reference this to see if this is an official advertisement. The ad also has statistics about their product which is another form of credibility since they are most likely accurate. Williams 3 The image appears to be designed professionally which adds more credibility to it. With the use of pathos, the ad makes the audience feel convinced and relieved that product performs reliably, since it removes any unwanted doubt. With the use of logos, the advertisement helps tell the audience that there is nothing wrong with electric cars and they are just as good, if not better than traditional cars. There are some negative myths about electric cars that some people believe and Tesla uses this ad to put these concerns to rest. There is only one main color that pops off the image and that color is red, which symbolizes a form of emergency. Tesla does this to spark a sense of urgency for the audience (Kairos) that the time to switch to an electric car (one that runs on sustainable energy) is now. Overall this ad is trying to convince the audience that there is nothing wrong with their product and they run just as well and if not better than cars fueled by fossil fuel. Tesla does this to gain more sales, and this contributes to their goal. If more people are using their product then they are accelerating their goal, since they are convincing these people to use a vehicle that runs on alternative energy. The image with the black car takes a simpler approach but overall impact is quite large. This advertisement is more straight forward about goal. The first word is which is written in a way that makes it seem unnecessary. The first word attracts an audience since people want to pay a lot of money on gas. The second and third line tell us that gas is unnecessary where they are going, and in this case Tesla is talking about the future (since in the bottom left it says boldly into the This advertisement tries to encourage and convince the audience that the future of transportation will run on sustainable energy, and their cars are the gateway to that future. There is no information about what their product Williams 4 does or how it performs but there is a deeper meaning than that of the first image. The image is professionally made and there is a Tesla logo in the bottom right corner that helps give the ad credibility. The scenery in this ad is a car on a one-way road heading past a mountain. This is imagery for where their company is heading, past a mountain (the present) and to a new location (the future). This ad uses one phrase and an image to describe what Tesla believes in. It strongly relates to how Tesla wants to change the future, so that people rely on sustainable energy rather than gas (fossil fuel), this is what is over the mountain. The image makes the audience feel curious to what Tesla has planned when gas a part of it. The phrase going, we need gives the audience this sense of curiosity since gas is seen as necessary by consumers. It also makes the readers feel obliged to search for a type of transportation that depends on a sustainable energy (this is where tesla hopes for people to come to them). When it says boldly into the it has two meanings. The first meaning is that they want the audience to feel confident with their decision on transportation. The second meaning is that Tesla hopes that the consumers follow them to a future where sustainable energy is dominant. This is linked to their overall goal. The ad uses logos to help the audience understand that gas have to be a necessary resource used by humans. Williams 5 Williams 6 Williams 7 Work Cited About  Tesla, www.tesla.com/about. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Dyer, Jeff, et al. Decoding Secret  Forbes, 19 Aug. 2015, www.forbes.com/sites/innovatorsdna/2015/08/19/teslas-secret- formula/#261ef9b9653c. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Harwell, Drew. Tesla, Once Beloved by Critics, Ranks near Bottom of New Consumer Reports  The Washington Post, 24 Oct. 2016, www.washingtonpost.com/news/the switch/wp/2016/10/24/tesla-once-beloved-by-critics-plummets-in-new-consumer- reports Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Williams 8 Williams 9