Nick Cerelli Professor Jackson English Comp 1 1/29/17 Animal Captivity Over the years, there have been many thoughts on animal captivity and if more beneficial to animals or humans. Animal rights is a heavily debated topic, and the importance of the issue depends on what humans feel is right for the animals and for themselves. Many people would consider captivating animals as long as there is good reasoning in doing so. There are various reasons for animal captivity, some of the biggest being behavior testing and maintenance of endangered species. Even though there are a good amount of advantages that can come from these practices, there is a fairly good amount of disadvantages, like neglecting captive animals and when released, having survival issues. But the main question is, are out methods for keeping animals captive good enough? After many different predictions on this well discussed subject, there have been many studies on animals and if actually beneficial to the animals to be kept within human control. After reading over an article on a study with house mice, the study showed how raising animals to increase population in a certain species can be very beneficial when trying to predict how going to behave in different surroundings. The results were very effective and can potentially help other species adjust to changing surroundings. However, after the process the animals sometimes have trouble adjusting to new environments. For an example, animals tend to be more stressed and troubled after being released from a non- danger zone (human captivity). This article is credible because it is a study done by a professional researchers the Centre for Sustainable Ecosystem Solutions, School of Biological Sciences and University of Wollongong, Australia. This study was published in a peer reviewed academic journal called Applied Animal Behaviour Science. It shows how captive breeding programs can prevent species from going extinct but it also effects their behavior to the point where they struggle to adapt to different surroundings when released. But is sacrificing a few to potentially help many more worth it? Jones, Stephanie K. Courtney, Adam J. Munn, and Phillip G. Byrne. Research Paper: Effects Of Captivity On House Mice Behaviour In A Novel Environment: Implications For Conservation  Applied Animal Behaviour Science (2017): ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Even though there are many good purposes for keeping animals captive, there are also some down falls. For an example, the serious problem for the Hawaiian crow. After a lot of research on the endangered species, there has been reasoning on why these captive crows can never be released into the wild again. The Hawaiian crow is near extinct and almost no way to save them from reproducing in the wild. The only living Hawaiian crows are in captivity by professional researchers, which is three pairs kept captive. Little did they know, the problem they tried to solve, actually hindered the species from developing to their true potential. The Hawaiian crow originated with five major calls to help them communicate with other crows, (1) alarm (2) territorial broadcast (3) aggression (4) submission (5) courtship. However, since the captive crows have never needed these calls in a captive area due to culture change, the crow never developed three of these calls. These calls are very important to the crows from survival in the wild. This study is credible because of the three researchers that performed this study on the crows. The three researchers were in the department of biology at the University of Hawaii. This article was also peer reviewed by other professionals in animal behavior association. Tanimoto, Ann M., et al. Changes In Vocal Repertoire Of The Hawaiian Crow, Corvus Hawaiiensis, From Past Wild To Current Captive  Animal Behaviour 123.(2017): 427-432. PsycINFO. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. A typical discussion about the captivity of animals involves the topic of the animals stress levels and how they deal with the stress that being in captivity presents. To try and cement some ideas and concepts on a captive animals stress we can look at Renata G. Strategies in Captive Capuchin The journal refers to a study done on 123 newly captive Capuchin monkeys in order to get a gauge on how the captivity affects their level of stress, what the monkeys do in order to cope with the stress, and what effects the developed coping devices have on the monkeys. As it turns out, over the course of the study, the results from the majority of the Capuchins became pretty similar. Observations were showing that these normally energetic, normally exploratory chimps became more subdued and less adventurous, and the consensus is that an increased level of stress caused by the confusion and uncertainty of a new environment caused the majority of the capuchins to act in a reactive manner in such a way that they even feel like what doing what was supposed to be instinctually correct. Here Dr. Ferreira used a legitimate study in an attempt to create an abstract on just how heavy the stress of captivity can be on an animal (in this case the capuchin monkey). very hard to imagine a scenario where a monkey loses its will to explore/play and completely miserable. Captivity driving a monkey out of centuries of biological habit obviously seems very unethical and appears to be a breech of animal rights concept of keeping animals captive. Ferreira, Renata G., and Michael Mendl. Coping Strategies in Captive Capuchin Monkeys (Sapajus  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 176 (2016): 120-27. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Very similar to the Capuchin Monkey, captive cheetahs are also exhibiting some very serious debilitations because of the stress that accompanies the adjustment to captivity. But unlike the monkeys, cheetahs are reacting to the stress in a much different and arguably much worse way. Per Stress in Captive it has been proven that cheetahs in captivity show a weaker ability to reproduce. Along side that have been new diseases that are causing morbidity not known to free-ranging cheetahs. An analysis of sampled data from 20 free-ranging and 20 captive cheetahs showed some very interesting results. Namely that the captive cheetahs showed significantly lower levels of certain adrenal hormones and testosterone which is most likely the reason for the new morbidities. This study is very thorough and performed by 3 expert veterinarians who aimed to give a good look at what goes on chemically in some captive animals. only so much you can observe, and to have a study that really dives into what is going on inside of an animal is really important. It shows us without any subjectivity that the captivity of some of these animals is truly hurting them and may just be counteractive and doing more bad then good. Terio, Karen A., Laurie Marker, and Linda Munson. Chronic Stress in Captive  Cheetah Conservation Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Displaying negative effects during captivity is not something special to only terrestrial animals, in fact it might be worse amongst marine animals. There was an extreme case where a group of researchers captured 12 fish and placed them into different tanks to examine how the fish reacted when freshly exposed to captivity. The results the researchers released were pretty startling. Within the first week 2 fish died, and within the next week 3 more dies. They were dying because they want to swim and they were refusing the food that they were being fed. The different fish for the most part had no clue how to react to the new environment. This experiment had a ton of control variable and was repeated several times, and the consistency of the results is what provides validity to the experiment that the group at the Federal University of Minas Gerias performed. That, in turn, provides some validity that perhaps there are some things about captivity that humans fully understand, and that the inattention to the intricacies of an animals psyche can lead to a total disregard of animal rights. Costa, Deliane C. Capture, Adaptation, and Control of Freshwater  Science Direct. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. To rally off of the experiment involving the freshwater fish is a study that became arguably the most notable of any case involving the captivity on animals. It is the case of the captivity of killer whales, and the depth of the effect that captivity has on the overall life span of killer whales. After recording life expectancy and using different metrics to judge the overall morale of both captive and free-ranging killer whales, the original research team that targeted SeaWorld began unearthing some stark consequences to captivity, especially when done haphazardly. It has been much publicized and much of the public has come to realize that not only are captive killer whales living shorter, unhealthier lives, but the attitude and morale of the animal is severely dampened. Though in this case a lot of the stress was due to the mistreatment of the animals, it is still undisputable that the captivity provide much of a reprieve form the horrid treatment. The case that shined a massive light on the ethics of captivity; no other study has been more scrutinized, and through the media and the formation of groups more and more studies about captivity have been released. The fact that killer whales just simply live much shorter, and much more miserable lives then those in the wild, should point to the fact the idea and methods of captivity need to be adjusted. Scientists Clash over Lifespan of Captive Killer  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. In culmination, the collection of studies shows that perhaps the captivity an art that we have perfected. It seems like we do some things right when it comes to taking care of animals, and it could very well be a necessity for many endangered species. But, that mean that we have all of the answers, and that mean we should stop trying to optimize animal captivity. As it stands now however, there are too many cases where animal rights are being ruptured, and because of that we should seriously consider putting resources towards improving the way in which we capture and maintain wild animals.