Jack Siambanes Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 3 March 2017 UNICEF For Childhood Vaccinations While many in the healthcare industry support vaccines, debate persists over the suspected dangers of immunizing children. Vaccines, or vaccinations, are shots containing weakened forms of diseases which are given to young children in the hopes of creating immunizations: resistance to the disease. people who do not support vaccines, argue that the medicine may inhibit a mental state and lead to learning disorders such as autism. Those in favor of the practice claim vaccines prevent children from contracting diseases later in life; some of which can be fatal. The United Nations International Emergency Fund (UNICEF) is a humanitarian organization that supports and provides childhood vaccinations. The association believes that vaccinating children has lowered mortality rates and improved the health of many young people. To successfully further their case, UNICEF employs two images that emphasize the importance and benefits of childhood vaccinations. The images produced by UNICEF focus on the positive impact vaccinations programs have had on society since their inception. One image, Image A, shows a calm, young girl just after receiving a vaccine. The text in the center of the image reads: year, 1.5 million children die because they For the most part, this statement is true. The World Health Organization ascertains that indeed million deaths could be avoided [every global vaccination coverage (WHO.int). This is logos, an appeal to logic based on reasoning and concrete data. Organizations like UNICEF often use factual evidence in their publications to demonstrate how their actions are sensible. According to the Stanford Social Innovation Review, will make the work of social change agents more effective and will build the case for support for the best programs and (Fruchterman, 1). The phrase at the beginning of the text in Image A presents a time frame. This brings the reader to the second appeal: kairos. This is the appeal to timeliness and is mostly used to create a sense of urgency. In this case, the urgency is the continual death of a million and a half children for every year that vaccination coverage does not improve. The intent of employing kairos in rhetoric is to coerce the reader to make a change soon. Image A prompts the reader not only to donate or support UNICEF but to do so almost immediately, lest the situation worsen. The final appeal offered of Image A is pathos, the appeal to emotion. Throughout the text, words and phrase such as million and are either boldened, colored or enlarged. In the case of the word all three techniques are used. These highlighted elements lead the reader to the very bleak thought of children dying. UNICEF does this as an obvious at the but also because provocative imagery tends to stick with people. As the Journal of Advertising and Promotion Research states, advertising, as the name indicates, is more likely to catch attention and settle into their memory more than non-provocative (Nam et al. 111-112). The use of logos, pathos and kairos in this image impact the sense of empathy and rationale while also promoting a pressing call to action. In unison, all three rhetorical appeals of Image A work together to successfully deliver the message UNICEF wants people to hear: children can avoid deadly diseases through vaccination coverage. The second visual produced by UNICEF, Image B, furthers the conclusion that vaccinations present benevolent effects on society. In Image B, the picture shows a mother and her baby smiling together along with a few others in the back whom may be her children also. The mother and son look rather happy and healthy; both appear to be wearing clean clothes as well. For added affect, they are sitting outside on a sunny day surrounded by green trees and blue sky. The text says, are one of the most successful public health initiatives This statement, though one that can supported by evidence, is an opinion and not a fact. Therefore, the text would not be an example of logos. It is worth noting, however, that the family appears to have African traits. One of the areas UNICEF has focused their efforts on most has been Eastern and Southern Africa. In 2006, the organization the Global Immunization Vision and Strategy (GIVS) program aimed at administering vaccines to poor countries; many of these countries were in sub-Saharan Africa (UNICEF.org). For that reason, the text is still relevant to Image B despite not having exact factual connotation. The sole appeal of Image B is certainly pathos. The photo of the happy family is meant to elicit a warmth from the reader. Since they are possibly African, the text exists to connect the picture to the GIVS program and how vaccinations from UNICEF have helped many Africans in need. Though Image B panders mainly to feelings, this visual relates back to the holistic advantages of vaccinations. Images A and B are noticeably similar in effect yet differ in most aspects. These include content, tone and the types of appeals used. Image A obviously struck a much darker tone; it contained much more upsetting and provoking material than the latter. The difference is clearly visible when reading the text: Image A wants the reader to worry but Image B wants them to be confident. They both took a different course when it came to emotion. How this was accomplished by each visual is also significant. The first image used three different appeals to form one conclusive message while the second stuck to just pathos. Also unlike Image A, the last image brought much more attention to the actual picture used. The photo of the family in Image B was the source of pathos for that visual while the photo of the girl in Image A was hardly useful in terms of rhetoric. Interesting enough, neither of the two visuals used ethos, the appeal to credibility. In other words, no information was given by UNICEF through these visuals that might have shown their experience and qualifications on the subject. Both images still managed to effectively reach the audience and spread their message. The audience for both pictures was most likely anyone with money to donate but more targeting parents. Most parents would probably be drawn to help needy children as they have strong relationships to their own youths and may be more likely to sympathize with the situation. As previously stated, message is to convince readers that vaccines pose extraordinary health improvements and security. UNICEF took two very distinctive approaches with Image A and Image B, yet they successfully argued in favor of childhood vaccines as a safe and necessary health practice. Images A and B fixated on how modern vaccination programs have changed the world and may continue to change it with additional support. Until then, UNICEF strives to extend their vaccine outreach as much as possible. With currently three million children a year saved by immunizations, plans look to expand those numbers to disadvantaged families susceptible to preventable illness. If UNICEF succeeds, another twenty million children may receive treatment sometime in the near future (UNICEF.org). Image A Image B Works Cited World Health Organization, N.d Web. 2 March. 2017. <http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs378/en/> Fruchterman, Jim. Data for Action and Stanford Social Innovation Review, vol. 14, no. 3, 2016, pp. 30-35 Nam, K., Iyer, N. & Frith, K. Responses Towards Provocative Advertising for Social Journal of Advertising and Promotional Research, vol. 4, no. 1, 2015, pp. 109-141 and Southern Africa UNICEF, N.d Web. 2 March 2017. UNICEF, N.d Web. 2 March 2017. https://www.unicef.org/immunization/