Cohen,1 Zachary Cohen Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Animal Testing The stakeholder on the opposing side of animal testing goes by the name PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). What PETA strives for is protecting the rights of animals. Their motto, which basically sums up their goals, is are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for (Kruse 2017). In two advertisements, they successfully convey a powerful message similar to that of their motto. In both images, there is a strong message about animal abuse, yet it is demonstrated it in different ways. The first image is about wearing animals while the second image concerns animal abuse as a whole. PETA is an organization that was founded in March of 1980 and fights for the equality of animals around the world. In both of their advertisements, PETA conveys a powerful message about animal abuse. Although both of these images show completely different things, they both have the same central idea behind them. In the first image, it shows a woman holding a dead, skinned animal that says is the rest of your fur What this is saying is that the animal she is holding was killed in order for somebody to have a fur coat, and the rest of the coat is the dead animal. In the second image, it shows a woman with all of her body parts labeled. At the top of the ad, it says animals have the same What this ad is saying is that animals are no different than humans, and killing an animal puts them through the same amount of pain as it Cohen,2 would a human. While both of these images are slightly different, they both have the same meaning behind them. To somebody who have an interest in ending animal cruelty or just aware of it, these advertisements contain a realistic and powerful image to potentially make others aware of it. To some, advertisements may seem odd, but they stated that they care what they have to do, they will do anything to get the message about animal abuse out to everyone. On their website, it says aim is to stop animal suffering, and we use every available opportunity to reach people with our messages. Our gimmicks may sometimes seem silly, but they are vital if we are to reach the masses and initiate discussion, debate, questioning of the status quo , and, of course, action. The current situation is critical for billions of animals, and our goal is to make the public aware of the if it means wearing a funny costume, engaging in a public stunt, or taking our clothes (Kruse 2017). This quote states that PETA will do anything they can in order for people to become more aware about animal abuse. In many of their advertisements, they frequently take a goofy or graphic approach in order to gain more attention from viewers. Instead of using a plain, boring advertisement, PETA takes a different approach by using more eye-catching images such as the one of the woman who is almost naked and the other woman holding the dead animal. These two images easily catch the attention from viewers and convey a stronger meaning because of the images. Their website also says, makes a point of offering something for all the most conservative to the most radical and from the most refined to the most this approach has proved very (Kruse 2017). What this is saying is that PETA uses many different approaches in their advertisements to reach out to all different types of people. They have ads that target more Cohen,3 conservative people all the way as well as ads that target more radical people. They stated that this has given them success because they are able to reach out to all different types of audiences through these advertisements (Regan 179-189). As far as the elements or logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos, these advertisements both demonstrate all of them. Both advertisements contain logo in the corner of the picture. The reason that they do so is so that the information given to the viewers is known to be credible. For pathos, the images inside of the advertisements are supposed to make the viewers feel sympathetic for the animals. In the first advertisement, they show a woman holding a dead, skinned animal. By showing the reality behind the fur industry, consumers are able to feel emotion regarding what really happens when they purchase fur products. In the second image, it also makes the viewer feel sympathy for the animals and provides a realistic approach towards the amount of pain that abused animals are put through. The reason that they do this is so that people become more aware of animal cruelty and want it to come to an end. For logos, the images are designed to make people think about the topic, which is animal cruelty. In the first advertisement, seeing the skinned animal gives the consumer a new, clear perspective on purchasing any sort of animal clothing products. As for kairos, both advertisements are intended to provide a sense of urgency to take an initiative to end animal testing. The stakeholder on the opposing side of animal testing is PETA. They strive to make people more aware and end all forms of animal cruelty around the world. Through powerful images, their advertisements are designed to make people more aware of animal cruelty and create a sense of urgency to end it. The images from PETA successfully demonstrate the four rhetorical appeals; ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. For ethos, they use valid information in their Cohen,4 advertisements which contain their logo to show the viewers that it is legitimate. For pathos, they used images that allow the viewers to feel sympathy towards animals and potentially make them want to make a change. For logos, the information that these images contain may teach the viewer something they know about animal cruelty and provide them with a new perspective. For kairos, these rhetorical appeals may create a sense of urgency to make a change in the world towards ending animal cruelty. Cohen,5 Works Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  . Web. 26 Feb. Corwin R. Gender, views of nature, and support for animal  & Animals 7.3 (1999): 179-198. Galvin, Shelley L., and Harold A. Herzog Jr. Ethical ideology, animal rights activism, and attitudes toward the treatment of  & Behavior 2.3 (1992): 141-149. Regan, Tom. The case for animal  in Animal Welfare Science 1986/87 . Springer Netherlands, 1987. 179-189.