Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Mental Illness Awareness Depression is a devastating mental illness that can seriously take a negative toll on life. There are plenty of treatments for depression and organizations that can help one get that treatment. One well-known treatment is an anti-depressant. The organization, Anxiety and Depression Association of America offers patients to look up a local therapist to go to and receive this medication from. The main goal of this organization is to help people with anxiety and/or depression; provides education about the disorders and helps people find treatment, resources, and (ADAA). As well as anti-depressants may appear to work, not everyone agrees with the usage of them. Addiction Hope is an organization that helps people overcome addiction, which is also a mental illness. This organization is not in favor of the usage of anti-depressants and offer alternative ways to overcome an illness rather than ingesting medications. The most common treatment of depression is an antidepressant; however, not everyone agrees with this medication even though the main goal is to overcome a mental illness. site offers plenty of resources for those suffering with depression or anxiety. The recurring hyperlink present in the website is labeled and once it is clicked, it gives a list of antidepressants commonly prescribed and their effect on the human mind. Antidepressants are really effective in a positive way according to Hidalgo Lopez-Torres, of the patients reported being satisfied with the antidepressant treatment, though the level of satisfaction was higher among those who presented with less marked depressive symptoms, Student 2 received longer-term treatment and took a favorable view of drug (Lopez-Torres). This scientist conducted a research project on people who are diagnosed with depression and are currently taking antidepressants. As time progressed on the medication, the happier people have become. It was obvious that in the beginning of the experiment that the patients lacked confidence to participate in the simple activities that were presented to them. By only one month on the medication, confidence in the patients has gone up by 97%. This one experiment supports the claim that antidepressants are a reliable and effective treatment for depression. ADAA also offers a page which ensures that all antidepressants included under the hyperlink are safe and have been tested. This kind of information gives the patient diagnosed a sense of ease that the medications presented are safe and reliable. Even though medication is being used, the main goal of this organization is to help treat people with mental illnesses. Addiction Hope is an organization that helps people with mental illnesses in a more natural way. It is believed that antidepressants are not good for human health and people can become addicted to it. are considered to be non-addictive and non-habit forming, but through continued abuse, a dependency can be (Erken, Jacquelyn). This quote came from the article on the Addiction Hope site about antidepressants. This organization believes that antidepressants may be a good and effective way to treat depression; however, it may lead one into another mental illness which is addiction. A common treatment available on this site is a rehabilitation center. There are plenty to choose from and the purpose serves to prevent patients from the temptation of using something they are addicted to whether drugs or alcohol. These centers allow patients that share the same mental illness to overcome their issue in a more natural way rather than relying on a medication that alters the human mind. Student 3 Addiction Hope also states that antidepressants are said to be non-addictive but the patients using it could, and usually do, develop a dependence on it. Self-medicating is also very common when prescribed antidepressants. Just like any other prescription, it has medication instructions labeled on it for when and how many times to take each dosage. When someone suffering from this mental illness may be feeling like they need more of a boost, or happier, they can easily take more than is instructed to which ultimately leads to addiction. Antidepressants to depression patients act almost as if it were a simple pain relief to someone with a headache. With the knowledge that the medication will relieve your pain, pain or sadness in this case, the temptation of increasing the dosage level when experiencing these symptoms increases as well. Although Addiction Hope is against the usage of antidepressants, this goal is to help treat people diagnosed with a mental illness. It seems as if ADAA and Addiction Hope would never agree on one effective treatment to help people with mental disorders because of their different beliefs on medication. ADAA is more in favor of prescribing medication to patients to help alter the way their brain functions rather than a natural way of healing like Addiction Hope offers. Even though they both do not agree on each treatment, both of their goals is to help treat mental illness and heal those in need. The mental illnesses may not be the exact same, but addiction and depression are both very serious and critical conditions that alter the way a human thinks and can have a serious negative impact on their lives. The common ground found here is to help those in need. Both organizations also include articles that educate the public on the mental illnesses to clarify any misconceptions possibly heard or believed about the illnesses. Student 4 In order for these organizations to compromise to have an effective impact, ADAA should not emphasize the use of medication so much. They can include it but it be the biggest highlight on the site. Perhaps including more natural ways of overcoming a mental illness such as; exercising, eating healthy, and group therapy where everyone talks about their illness. This will be effective to patients because knowing the fact that they are not alone with this mental illness will have a positive impact on them and will allow them to network and make more friends that go through the same thing. Addiction Hope should not have rehabilitation centers as their main treatment because not everyone is comfortable with admitting their mental illness and then having to be isolated for a period of time without any communication with the outside world. society also looks at rehab as a negative thing if one has to go through it. Both organizations need to work together to come up with group therapies and healthy living habits in order to overcome their mental illness. For all both organizations want to do is help treat those suffering from a mental illness. Therapists need to realize that automatically going to a prescription of antidepressants is not always the answer. With the compromise of both organizations, more people will get treated of their mental illness in a more natural manner and it will be more effective without the use of drugs. With the knowledge that there is support on every corner without having to go to a rehabilitation center or taking a pill every single day for the rest of your life, more people will feel comfortable to admitting their mental illness and seek help. The overall goal for both organizations is to help people with mental illnesses and give them an effective treatment. (W.C. 1214) Student 4 Works Cited ADAA. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. ADAA, 05 June 2010. Accessed. 22 Jan. 2017. https://www.adaa.org/ Charey, Michael. ArXiv.org Q-bio  A Computational Model of the Effects of Drug Addiction on Neural Population Dynamics. Cornell University Library, 15 Sept. 2012. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3411>.. Ekern, Jacquelyn. Antidepressants Addiction Symptoms, Abuse Stats, Withdrawal  Addiction Hope. NCC AP, 22 Mar. 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. https://www.addictionhope.com/antidepressants/ Evans, Elizabeth A. , Sullivan, Maria A. Substance Abuse and Rehabilitation. Annual, 2014, Vol. 5, p107, 14 p. Dove Medical Press Limited. 20 Feb 2017 http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=21&sid=ec0a4c08-ea64-4fdc-893d- fd17b0895b63%40sessionmgr103&hid=113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=eds gcl.412982353&db=edsgao Gaspersz, Roxanne, Lamers, Femke Anxious distress predicts subsequent treatment outcome and side effects in depressed patients starting antidepressant treatment. Elsevier Ltd. Web. 20 Feb 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=f2aaaeaf-85b1-47c6-89b5- 96f0165590fa%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=S 0022395616304095&db=edselp Student 5 Haddad, Peter Do Antidepressants Have Any Potential to Cause Addiction? - Jul 02, 2016. Sage Journals, 05 May 2010. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/026988119901300321>. Hidalgo, J., Gallardo, Y., Treatment Satisfaction Among Patients Taking Antidepressant Medication Community Ment Health J (2016) Web. 20 Feb 2017. 52: 738. doi:10.1007/s10597-015-9865-5 T., Van Leeuwen Jayden. Antidepressants: Types, Efficiency and Possible Side Effects. New York, NY: Nova Science, 2010. Print Student 5