Marino 1 Eric Marino Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 March 5 th , 2017 A Look into Monsanto When people hear the words modified organism the image of a science fiction Frankenstein type of monster pops into their heads. There is a very negative connotation of in general and especially in the food supply. in the food supply leave a sour taste in many mouths because they believe that if it did not naturally occur that way then it should not be eaten. also the idea going around that people should not be tampering with nature using genetic engineering because it is not something people should do but rather only God should do so. To break it down, are beneficial because they can be used in agriculture to increase crop yield, crop quality, and thus could potentially be used to alleviate malnutrition and hunger in developing countries. One work with launched them into a controversial spotlight. Monsanto was originally founded in 1901 by John F. Queen and have been around ever since (Monsanto.com). They started off with saccharine and over time began to produce herbicides and develop research in agriculture (Monsanto.com). Monsanto is an agrochemical company whose mission is to provide sustainable agriculture, advance human rights, and donations towards research, growth, and sustainability of the agriculture industry. In developing countries where starvation and malnutrition are so prevalent, can also be utilized to feed those who need it. In Uganda, people are starving and dying because of Marino 2 crops wilting due to diseases, extreme weather, and pests (Ssali 44). Farmers are struggling to yield enough crop to feed themselves, make money for the next planting, and be able to sell their crops on the market to the public. One of the ways farmers can achieve a higher crop yield is through Rather than heavily using pesticides and other chemicals, they can use genetically modified crops that are engineered to be more resistant to disease, insects, and various harsh conditions (Monsanto.com). The same way crops can be genetically engineered to be resistant to various conditions, they can also be modified to be larger and yield more nutritional value than they did previously (Monsanto.com). While people can survive off crops such as potatoes, bananas, and cassava they do not possess the necessary micronutrients vital to good health. Their bellies will be full but they will still suffer from malnutrition all the same. bio-technology scientists around the world have succeeded in fusing, iron, zinc, and vitamin A into domestic food crops that have been eaten for (Ssali 45). As a result, people can take in the micronutrients those foods previously lacked and stave off malnutrition. The first image chosen is an advertisement by Monsanto. It uses a visually pleasing sunset background with ethnically diverse people in the foreground holding books implying that they are studying agriculture and its benefits. The image is shot from below the subjects so that the audience looks up to them. This camera angle coupled with the textbooks and the Monsanto logo employ ethos to appeal to their credibility. The colors used in the image are all earth tones to maintain the agriculture theme. The words grow ideas is a play on words that refers to fact that they are an agriculture company and they are not another corporate machine. The stakeholder is utilizing the text and the young adults in the image to appeal to the emotions. They are trying to seem more human, rather than a corporate entity, by implying that they foster creativity and reward those who advance their ideals using it. Marino 3 The second image is another advertisement by Monsanto. The subjects are a man, a woman, a young girl, and a baby used to convey the message of family. They are using pathos to appeal to the emotions of parents and families viewing the advertisement. Monsanto is trying to convey how they are a company that cares about families and have their best interest in mind. This image is also shot from below so that the audience is looking up to the subjects. The colors used are also earth tones to maintain the agriculture theme. The words dream imply that Monsanto and all its employees have high standards of excellence. This is another example of pathos that communicates how parents and children can grow and flourish with Monsanto. Logos, the appeal to logic, is also used here to communicate the idea of how not only does Monsanto care but it is the obvious choice and what is best for families. The primary visual message is that people, especially families, benefit from work. People can discuss all the different unknown risk associated with genetic engineering and with but there is no denying all the benefits that come from using genetically modified seeds in the food supply. They have been modified and used in numerous ways to increase crop yield by engineering them to be resistant to disease, extreme weather conditions, and pests. This allows for the food supply to be more plentiful in general and reduces the use of pesticides and harmful chemicals. This also allows for cash crops to flourish and help improve the economy. Genetically modified crops are engineered to have increased nutritional value to stave off malnutrition and allow for a more healthful and balanced diet. While it is true that we do not know the long-term health risks associated with consuming genetically modified food, there is a level of risk vs reward. It begs the question of whether or not it is morally ethical to be feeding people genetically modified food without knowing the risks involved. The main problem seems to be that people are uncomfortable with what they do not understand and that a large Marino 4 corporation is spearheading these efforts. At the end of the day, Monsanto strives to prove itself as a company that cares and a company that will make the tough decisions for the betterment of the human condition. Whether people agree with it, that is the image Monsanto is trying to portray itself as. Marino 5 Works Cited -Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. -Monsanto. A Sustainable Agriculture Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Sept. 2016. -Ssali, Michael J. The Case for Gmos In  New African 542 (2014): 44-45. Academic Search Premier. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. Image 1: Image 2: Image 1: Image 2: