Montoya !1 Sergio Montoya Mrs. Aranda ENC1102 3/5/17 World Voice on Climate Change Earth, home to mankind and millions of other species animals and plants, is in the process of sixth mass extinction. This sixth mass extinction that we are in is the of kind however.This process is unique because of growing human activity and rising carbon emissions into the atmosphere. The Earth is getting hotter because with more carbon in the atmosphere, more sun radiation and heat is kept from escaping the atmosphere and in turn heating up the Earth. An organization that is set on cutting down on carbon emission and has been an active group against climate change is the World Wildlife Fund. This group believes in a future where burning coal and oil to produce energy will not be the primary form of receiving energy. WWF brings awareness to climate change through the use of two pieces of visual rhetoric that assimilate and warn of the consequences of climate change through the use of kairos, pathos, and a call to change to prevent disaster. The World Wildlife Fund claims that is past due time to take action against climate change in the two images by pointing out the urgency of making change. Both images display urgency throughout he use of kairos. The image shows an hour glass that has a melting glacier on top of a city behind submerged by water. the image is captioned, time to stop global warming is melting This is a use of how our reaction to this issue needs to be fast acting because not only will species living in Montoya !2 colder areas of the world go extinct but and civilization will be in biblical proportions. The second image uses a simile image of the globe melting like an ice cream would. It appeals to how a person would want to save the joy their ice cream would give them buy either licking the melting ice-cream or getting to a cooler environment where it can be enjoyed at a much more relaxed and and longer pace. Both images also make use of pathos in how they evoke a feeling of sadness in the way they represent the impending doom if carbon levels in the atmosphere are not corrected. The image represents sadness int hat if the ice is melted by the heat produced by the city that represents human activity and industrialization, the seal on the glacier will have no habitat to live and will die. Not only will the seal die but the human population will also dip and the economy will suffer because coasts will be and the sea level will impact billions of people. The second image evokes sadness in a more juvenile fashion represented as a a melting ice cream cone. Anyone who eats ice cream on a cone would want their scoop to be cold so that they can take their time licking away at the sweet dessert. Similarly the image wants the audience to feel that the globe should be colder like your ice cream if it were melting. The images created by the World Wildlife Fund were created to bring awareness on climate change. Coupled with awareness, the WWF hopes that audiences are inspired and motivated to take the call of being cautious into each lifestyles. the images call people to better their habits by being conscientious of how much water they use, or arranging means of transportation with other people in order to save on gas consumption. The WWF want people to do anything to help their cause even if it is only Montoya !3 donations. Both images promote these goals through their visually rhetorical messages. A future with less coal and oil consumption and more focus on eco friendly lifestyles is possible if organizations like the Work Wildlife Fund continue to produce awareness through advertisements with a call to its audiences to pay attention and react to the issues that are causing climate change. WWF will continue on its mission to better the environment but it is up to each person to contribute in someway for this goal to be achieved. Montoya !4 Works Cited Climate &  WWF. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Climate Change Causes: A Blanket around the  NASA. NASA, 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 06 Mar. 2017.  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Montoya !5 Montoya !6 Montoya !7