Salih 1 Daria Salih Adam Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Every image, advertisement, or flyer, always conveys a message whether it be hidden or easily perceived. A stakeholder known as is a non-profit organization whose main objective is to respect the right of each individual throughout the world and to manage his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or residence. The goal of the advertisement image is to promote the organization by inviting people into scheduling their appointments with them using the rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, and logos. The Planned goal is the commitment to helping women, men, and young people lead healthy lives with its tagline No matter Both images use the rhetorical appeals: logos, pathos, and ethos. Applying visual appeals and rhetorical strategies such as ethos, logos, and pathos, will further help the audience encode the underlying meanings behind Planned images. The Planned logo may only reflect one meaning to the audience before analyzing the logo in detail and incorporating rhetorical and visual appeals. There is more to the logo than the slogan No matter The goal is to advertise the organization, and by applying rhetorical appeals, it will better help the audience understand the full significance of what the company is for. is the appeal to logic and reason in the consistency and clarity of an argument. The slogan, No matter is the claim which Salih 2 leads the audience to the reason being that the organization cares no matter what the circumstance is of the human being. Most of us would probably agree that the simple slogan has little meaning to its four words. This is an unstated assumption because there are several important underlying meanings to this slogan. Logos and Pathos merge with this image because using logic and reason to decode the meaning, will then reveal an emotional appeal to the image. The logo illustrates the intended to branding a message in a way that words alone could not convey. By applying the rhetorical appeal logos, the one inside another looks almost like two leaves sprouting from the same side of a plant. Depending how this is interpreted by the audience, this may also represent the little getting aid from the larger thus, Planned Parenthood helping or people in need. Pathos is a rhetorical device used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the argument using an emotional appeal. The use of can be interpreted in three different ways using Pathos. The first meaning is the organization provides health CARE for the people. For example, 2.5 million women and men in the United States annually visit Planned Parenthood affiliate health care centers for trusted health care services and information (Planned Parenthood). The second meaning is Planned Parenthood really CAREing for their patients. The third meaning pertains to CARE which provides more Americans with Affordable Quality Health Insurance, and attempts to curb the growth in healthcare spending in the United States. The emotional appeal Pathos is broadly used in the logo because the organization imitates that they care about their patients for several reasons no matter the circumstance. They bond with the audience by emotionally implying that they care for their patients well-being; rather than wanting people to be a part of their organization. The rhetorical device Ethos is incorporated in Salih 3 the logo vaguely, yet still having significance. Ethos is a method that attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority. The audience can come to the conclusion that the matter part of the slogan implicates the acknowledgement of obstacles to their promotion of abortion. It focuses on their patients stating they are willing to help matter versus pertaining to politics and funding. In spite of the rhetorical appeals used in the logo, visual rhetoric is equally conveyed in the image. Visual rhetoric is the argumentative strategy conveyed through images or design. In the organizations logo, the color chosen was a blue background. Using visual rhetoric strategies, the audience can conclude that the color blue used in the image reflects depth and stability. The color blue originally symbolizes trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, and truth. We can assume that the company used this color to promote the underlying message of and to their audience. Telling people that they can trust the company for its stability and sincerity. Light blue is associated with health, healing, tranquility, understanding, and softness; therefore, the organization uses the color to primarily depict the underlying meaning of the color in relation to what the company provides and promotes. Furthermore, the text of the logo is written in white which is associated with safety, purity, and cleanliness. The choice of these colors in the logo reveal true visual rhetoric uncovered by the underlying meaning. Moreover, the advertisement mainly focuses on the rhetorical devices Pathos and Ethos. The advertisement incorporates Pathos by appealing to the audience with an emotional story from a former patient. Planned Parenthood made this advertisement in order to draw in the audience and help them connect with the former story. The short insight from the former patient given in the advertisement, could sway the audience into using Planned Salih 4 Parenthood over any other organization through commonly held emotions. Likewise, the audience may read the advertisement and relate to the story on an emotional level, due to similar events occurring in their life. The rhetorical device Ethos is widely used in the advertisement. The goal of most advertisements in general, is to attempt to persuade and encourage the audience to believe in what the organization is known for. In this case, Planned Parenthood efforts to persuade the audience by quoting a former patient, Parenthood helped save my When first glancing at the ad, that quote from the patient is what stands out the most due to its larger font and color of the text. The patient is giving the organization credibility for her success in her health. The ad also uses borrowed credibility by specifically quoting the patient, making the ad a fact rather than an opinion. In addition, in the short story of the ad the organization specifies diction by using the word By using this specific word choice, Planned Parenthood voices to its audience that they guarantee covered diagnostic tests and help to pay for critical follow-up care. Correspondingly, this word choice adds to Ethos by the patient giving credibility to the organization. Taking visual rhetoric into consideration with the ad, the strategies are similar to the logo. The colors used are blue and white which depict meaning to the image similarly like the logo does. The patient in the image gives off a distressed, yet comforted look by the expression on her face. To conclude, the advertisement and logo has assisted the audience in connecting to visual and rhetorical strategies through the effective use of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos. Evaluating the rhetorical and visual strategies used in both images; thus, taking into consideration audience, message, and purpose allows the images to support the claim of Planned goals and motives. The two images represent the interests, goals, and messages that Salih 5 Planned Parenthood denotes to its audience. The two images differentiate from each other; yet are very similar due to what they are portraying to their audience. No matter the image or the marketing, the deadly reality is what counts at the end. Works Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric matters: foundations of rhetoric and composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Ph.D. Randall K. New Logo, New Slogan, Same Old Planned  NRL News Today New Logo New Slogan Same Old Planned Parenthood Comments. NRL News Today, 09 Nov. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Official  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 16 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Images