Name Professor Ryan The controversial topic of abortion has been argued for years. One of the reasons why this topic has yet to settle down is due to the fact that abortion is not just a logical situation answered by yes and no, it incorporates feelings, beliefs, finances, timing, and lives. The two images presented below by the Pro-life Action League uses logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos to present their concerns and persuade an audience to support their cause. The Pro-Life Action League is an organization dedicated to ending the practice of abortion. It uses non-violent protest, vigils, rallies, and advertisements to develop support in communities across the nation. The PLAL main goal is to save unborn babies using non-violent direct action. It offers counseling services to help women and families choose other routes other than abortion. From 1980 to present day, the Pro-life Action League has been working to put a stop to abortion and organizations that support it. The first thing Image 1 presents is logos with the large lettering that states that Planned Parenthood sells baby parts. This is a statement that can be researched and verified. The image appeals to the factual side of the argument against abortion. Pathos is targeted with the picture of the baby in this image. The picture of the child is used to stir up thoughts of innocence, paternity and sympathy. The PLAL uses the money signs on the baby to create a reaction from the audience. The money signs make the child look more like an item for sale than a human being. This is used to create dislike towards Planned Parenthood and support for the baby as well as the Pro-life Action League. Kairos is also an element used by the PLAL in this add. The image of the baby is used to create the propitious feeling in the audience. The development of a child in the womb happens relatively fast, taking less than a year. According to the CDC, most abortions take place within the first eight weeks of pregnancy (CDC n.p.). The image of the baby encourages the audience to act now before it too late. In addition to the image of the baby, pink also creates a sense of Kairos within the audience. According to author Kate Smith, the color pink can encourage action and confidence. The PLAL advocates for action within communities, so using pink helps the organization voice their goals. Following the statement appealing to logos, the image appealing to pathos, and color appealing to kairos, the PLAL creates ethos within the audience with the print at the bottom of this image. The credibility of this organization is provided by their name, phone number and Facebook information. This is a very important element of this advertisement because this organization has made a very serious accusation against Planned Parenthood. By stating a verifiable statement that Planned Parenthood sells baby parts and putting their name on the statement, the Pro-life Action League has created ethos among the audience. Image 2 uses kairos to create a sense of urgency within the audience. With abortion being a hot topic today, this ad ties in to the heated argument between pro-life and pro-choice supporters. The words encourage the audience to act now. This call to action is followed by the words Planned Not only is the image calling the audience to act, it is also giving the audience direction on how to act. Image 2 also appeals to pathos within an audience. The Planned sign is held by a chid. The bright clothing and small hands are used to connect Planned Parenthood and children. Because abortion is one of the biggest issues between the PLAL and Planned Parenthood, the child holdng the sign evokes pitty or sadness for children. This image has Action printed in large print at the bottom of the ad. Not only is the ad suggesting that the audience act, but that the audience act with the organization. By putting their name on the ad and calling the audience to act with and follow them, the Pro-life Action League is creating ethos. The organization is implying that they are worthy of the The Pro-Life Action League focuses non violently putting an end to abortion through its pro-life activism and encouraging others in their community to join the movement. The two images presented reflect the goals via logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos. Image 1 uses a bold statement, a timely and emotional image, an action-provoking color, and contact information to create logos, pathos, kairos, and ethos within an audience. Image 2 uses a call to action, an image of a young child, and large print of their name to create kairos, pathos, and ethos within an audience. Both images support the Pro-life Action fight against abortion and encourage the auience to join.