Lanier 1 Shamond Lanier Ms. Aranda ENC 1102- 033 March 5, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Everyone, especially athletes everywhere have at least once tried one or two sports drinks in order to replenish their energy and continue working out. Gatorade is a company based on supporting these athletes everywhere with the nutrients necessary to compete at an elite level. Gatorade, which has been developed since 1965, often helps elite athletes as well as everyday people replenish carbohydrates along with electrolytes in order for energy levels to stay high. Since the introduction of the worldwide drink, Gatorade has become the leader of all sports drinks that replenish athletes and have since tried to downgrade the impact of water. Gatorade claims water does not deliver all of the necessary nutrients and does not have the best benefits that Gatorade employs. These two Gatorade advertisements further their agenda by showing that Gatorade believes water is the inferior refreshment. Image A includes a man holding a bottle of Gatorade along with words explaining what ingredients water does not have. The purpose of this image is to say that water is not sufficient enough and lacks the necessary nutrients that Gatorade uses. The visual employs the use of ethos in order to persuade the customer to buy the well-known sports drink. Ethos, as described by professors Stacy Weida and Dr. Karl Stolley, is ethical appeal based on the character, credibility, or reliability of the (owl.english.purdue.edu). Image A cites years of research being conducted and that research has been most likely provided by the Gatorade Lanier 2 Sports Science Institute (GSSI) since 1985. -Image A uses facts to establish credibility that water lacks electrolytes and other nutrients that Gatorade has. The image says, is the original, most researched sports drink. A scientifically proven blend of carbs and electrolytes that fuels muscles to go This suggests that Gatorade is appealing to the future customer hoping they believe in credible and reliable research from personal scientists. Another rhetoric appeal image A uses is logos, or the appeal to reason which relies on logic or inductive or deductive reasoning. Image A uses the support of years of research to support its claim that Gatorade has more usefulness and value than water. The advertisement states that water has no carbs or electrolytes, thereby suggesting that water is inferior. Image B relies on the rhetoric appeals of ethos and pathos. In regards to ethos, Image B employs Gatorade winning a boxing match because boxing has long been used to show the feeling of strength and superiority to another. People who have won boxing matches have long been regarded as strong and respectable people. Regarding pathos, an appeal to the motions, image B uses boxing as a metaphor to describe Gatorade beating water to show how powerful it is. Those who see the advertisement will feel that a winner of a boxing match is a better narrative. Together these two Gatorade advertisements use rhetoric appeal to convince their customers of buying their product. Lanier 3 Image A Image B Lanier 4 Works Cited About GSSI. (n.d.). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from http://www.gssiweb.org/about False Advertisement. (2012, May 07). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from https://isitreallyinyou.wordpress.com/false-advertisement/ Gatorade G Series Sports Drinks for Energy, Hydration and Recovery. (n.d.). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from http://www.gatorade.com/company/heritage Gatorade Sports Ads. (n.d.). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from http://pelfind.me/p/3576370/gatorade-sports-ads Weida, S., & Stolley, K. (2013, March 11). Using Rhetorical Strategies for Persuasion. Retrieved March 01, 2017, from https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/588/04/