Laverde 1 Valentina Laverde Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 1 March 2017 UN Women Gender Equality Advertisements Feminism is a social issue that dates back to women earning the right to vote in the United States with the passing of the nineteenth amendment. Its become a movement that has sparked activism from different organizations, each with their own missions and goals. The motivation and strive to support gender equality arises from beliefs that can range from religious to political beliefs. The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) is one that participates in the feminist movement, serving as an extension to the United Nations as an organization established to address issues regarding gender equality. UN Women addresses gender equality worldwide, providing awareness, financial assistance, and supporting activism in rights. Their approach to feminism is at an international level, addressing countries of varied economic standings. Their efforts not only provide opportunities for younger generations of women, but unite men and women in the feminist movement, bringing them closer to their goals. The activism UN Women is responsible for is demonstrated through their use of visual rhetoric in two of their advertisements that incorporate the strive for gender equality and providing awareness through different mediums. Oftentimes the most powerful messages of an organization such as UN Women are expressed in advertisements that are uncomplicated. Image depiction of a facial expression uses pathos to draw in the audience. This advertisement is one of a series of Laverde 2 advertisements from October 2013, presenting actual Google searches from March 9, 2013 Women Ad The data in the advertisement invokes a large part of the pathos in the image, the searches purpose is to make the audience feel sympathy, sadness, and to interpret it as a serious message. The dark background, along with the focus of the face with her mouth blocked by the search box, emphasizes the statement UN Women is making on gender equality. At first sight, an observer be able to comprehend what the reason is behind the advertisement until reading the information, but by doing so exposed to the rights issues that UN Women wants people to not only understand, but feel their importance. logos in the facts stated, but it resonate as much as the pathos details explaining the searches are found in their original article Women Ad Other details of the image go beyond what is physically presented and can be seen in the choices made when the advertisement was being developed by UN Women. Beyond the surface of image one, reference to UN primary goal in the feminist movement, to demonstrate that the issue of gender equality pertains to women from all nations. Their overall intent is for the audience to identify with the emotion expressing, reaching out to not just the public, but those unaware of how current the issue of gender equality is. The decision on how to express their message, not just in image one, but the other images that belong to the same series gives each one its individuality. In image one, this individuality is seen in the physical characteristics that might define her as being Hispanic or Latino. a reason for this, the variety in the series is most likely to address women of all cultures; this image could be interpreted as a message towards Hispanic women or anyone that has a tie to the culture through employment, relationships, or interest. Developing Laverde 3 relatable ties between the audience and the image increases the emotional connection the audience has toward UN cause. Tailoring to women whose pastime is boxing or who pursue a position of authority at their place of employment accomplishes this as well. By incorporating relatable details UN Women draws in its audience; they take it a step further when they add a well-known public figure to their campaign. Gender equality is an issue that is meant to unite both men and women under a cause that influences and impacts both of their lives, Emma Women Global Goodwill this in her speech for the initiation of the HeForShe campaign UN second image addresses HeForShe is an extension of UN Women that works with addressing gender equality, clarifying that a human rights issue and pertains to more than just women The HeForShe campaign image promote an annual event the campaign hosts to unite the issue of gender equality with the fine arts; the event starts on International Day. In this advertisement, Emma Watson is not only used to convey a point regarding gender equality, but her presence provides credibility. The ethos that is intended is accomplished by the inclusion of Emma picture and quote; not only is she a world renowned actress, but she is a UN Women Global Goodwill Ambassador, this elevates her status in society and clarifies her position within UN Women. inclusion works to draw in the audience, persuading them to understand why present, motivating them to understand the purpose of the image (Dwight 19). advertisement may be to promote HeForShe Arts Week, but it also stands for the purpose. Just as the first UN Women image invokes a feeling of seriousness, the trend continues with the HeForShe image. A predominantly black and white Laverde 4 image, with some magenta, separates the facts from the details meant to support the purpose of promoting the event. The magenta color is significant because a component of the logo, symbolizing unity between men and women in the feminist logo is a combination of the female and male gender symbols The magenta is between the colors pink and red, meant to represent the of pink and of the red to properly represent the movement for gender The use of the magenta quotations on Emma quote serves as an indication that the quote applies to UN HeForShe campaign; Emphasizing that gender equality is not only meant to be understood, but should invoke emotions from within. It may be an advertisement for an event, but it exemplifies UN campaign to invite men from any nation to be a feminist. UN Women was created to advance in the issue of gender equality and the empowerment of women across all nations, reaching out to both men and women (Burki). Emma Watson defined feminism in her speech for the initiation of the HeForShe campaign as: belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities. It is the theory of the political, economic, and social equality of the important to recognize that achieving gender equality is a task in the feminist movement that be reached by only women, but by men and women across the world uniting, not for their own benefit but for the future generations they nurture to thrive in the world that exists today. Using different methods of activism UN Women continues to strive towards their mission, making sure that a wide audience is reached and the outcome of their efforts is understood to be beneficial to both genders and all cultures. Laverde 5 Works Cited Burki, Talha. UN Women to Spearhead New Drive for Gender  , vol. 376, no. 9739, 07 Aug. 2010, pp. 405-406. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=52816529&site=eds-live. Dwight, Emma. Celebrity Humanitarianism: Bridging the  International Review , no. 3, 2016, p. 18. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.459804757&site=eds-live. Watson Gender Equality Is Your Issue Women , www.unwomen.org/en/news/stories/2014/9/emma-watson-gender-equality-is-your-issue- too. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. , www.heforshe.org/en/our-mission. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Women Ad Series Reveals Widespread Women , www.unwomen.org/en/news/stories/2013/10/women-should-ads. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women. Women , Accessed 28 February 2017. Laverde 6