Maynard 1 Matthias Maynard Ms. Emil Smith Composition 1 29 January, 2017 Student Athletes on NCAA Payroll The National Collegiate Athletic Association is a non-profit organization that controls over 400,000 athletes in more than 1,000 institutions. The NCAA values itself on being an organization for the student athlete well-being, but there has been some concerns regarding their core value. These concerns are a result of the primary source of revenue being through its student athletes. These revenues stem from various sources such as: TV contracts worth billions of dollars, jersey sales, brand name contracts, the use of college names, likenesses and images without their permission in video games, posters and other types of memorabilia. The student athletes do not receive compensation from any of these sources. Some argue that they receive these profits in an indirect form of compensation, such as scholarships and new sports facilities for their respective schools. Also, some argue that the revenues would vary depending on the sport the student plays, or the school they play for. It would be unfair to pay a football player more than a baseball player, or a student athlete that goes to a more popular school. One college sport that brings in a lot of money for the NCAA, and is in the middle of this controversy is basketball. For this reason this research will solely focus on the NCAA division I basketball on the issue of, should student athletes get paid? Baysinger, Tim. College Fight For Pay Finally Targets Tv  Broadcasting & Cable 144.37 (2014): 4. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maynard 2 The article athletes fight for pay finally targets TV is about how the controversial issue of student athletes getting paid has progressed to lawsuits against the biggest winners of exploiting the student athletes, which are TV networks. The lawsuit the article talks about is against ESPN, FOX, NBC, CBS, and ABC, for with each other and the NCAA to exploit rules that allows them to use college athlete names, likenesses, and images without their The article also talks about a previous lawsuit that was filed by a former UCLA basketball player Ed against the NCAA for violating antitrust law restraining athletes from licensing their names in game telecast and that ruled in favor of and his lawsuit helped this issue gain popularity. This article also describes the big difference in compensation from TV contracts in professional sports and college sports. Professional basketball players in the NBA are entitled to half of what the league makes off of TV contracts, while the NCAA takes all of the revenues and distributes them to different conferences or individual schools. This article is applicable to the topic in multiple ways. It covers how the first lawsuit against the NCAA and the issue of student compensations came from a former NCAA college basketball player, which is the sport that is covered in this paper. It also tells us that the NCAA has big contracts with some of the biggest most popular TV networks, and this issue will also be discussed throughout this research paper. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. This article was also written by Tim Baysinger who is now a writer for Reuters, and previously worked for ad week. Hoover, John. Pay to play: Full OU  Tulsa World (Tulsa, OK) 2013: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maynard 3 The Article to is about how different college athletes from different sports feel about the question of should student athletes get paid? One student is a football player from Tulsa, and he describes how bigger schools would be compensated way more than a smaller school like Tulsa would. He also states that it be fair to other sports that as popular as football or basketball, because other sports put in the same amount of work. A volleyball player was also interviewed on the same topic. She goes into details about how student athletes get jobs because of how their schedule is based around the sport they play as she states a student athlete, hard to find a job flexible with your classes, but then trying to find a part-time job that is flexible with your classes and your schedule and we travel you have to find someone that wants to work with This article is relevant to the topic in various ways. It talks about the different arguments that arise from the issue of should student athletes get paid. It shows that there are people that are opposed to this idea of student athletes getting paid because of the unfairness it would have with students that attend bigger schools, and students that play more popular sports, which is an area that will be covered in this topic. It also has arguments about how students are already getting compensated with scholarships, housing, and new sports facilities, which is also an argument in this topic. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. The author of this article is a sports columnist for Tulsa world sports. also covered the Dallas Cowboys, Kansas City Chiefs, and was a writer for Oklahoma University where he was named National Beat Writer of 2011 by the associated press. Mitchell, Horace, and Marc Edelman. Should College Student-Athletes Be  U.S. News Digital Weekly 5.52 (2013): 17. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Maynard 4 The article Student-Athletes Be gives two different viewpoints on the matter of, if the NCAA should start compensating student athletes. The first argument is about how they be compensated, because of the fact that not all Universities have a profitable athletics program, and that some schools are even operating at a loss. It also argues that for student athletes playing a sport in college is the way to a higher education, and that it will not leave them with the burden of being in debt from student loans unlike many other students. The second argument is that student athletes should be compensated because college sports industry generates 11 billon It also argues that argument in favor of allowing colleges to pay their student-athletes comes down to economic and that argument against allowing pay to student-athletes arises mainly from greed and to show you that the issue at hand could be about ethics, morals, and greed. The article relates to the topic because it is not a bias article and it does not only give you one argument on the matter. It gives two very valid arguments for this research topic, it describes why student athletes should get paid and also why they should not. Both arguments make good points and they both have good counter arguments. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. It was also written by Horace Mitchel the president of Cal State and a NCAA Division I board directors, and by Marc Edelman a law professor. David Iaconangelo, Staff. Is a new era for college-athlete compensation on the  Christian Science Monitor 04 Oct. 2016: N.PAG. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The Article a new era for college-athlete compensation on the describes some of the legal aspect of the research topic. It states how the NCAA is violating antitrust laws Maynard 5 barring athletes from claiming compensation for the use of their image, names, and It also states that the NCAA lost an antitrust lawsuit, and it was the first lawsuit they lost about the student athlete compensation issue. The NCAA legal argument about this issue is amateurism is foundational to college This article also describes how the northwestern football team was trying to form a labor union because they were spending over 60 hours a week on football related activity, which was shut down by the National Labor Relations Board due to the fact that impact on college sports would not serve to promote stability in labor and this was a setback for student athletes trying to change the NCAA system. This article is relevant to the research topic because it dives into some of the legal aspect of it. It describes the type of lawsuits that have been filed against the NCAA, and the NCAA arguments against those lawsuits. It also describes the lawsuit which was one of the very first antitrust law suits against the NCAA. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. It was also written for the Christian Science Monitor, which is an international news organization. III, William W. Berry. Educating Athletes Re-Envisioning The Student-Athlete  Tennessee Law Review 81.(2014): 795. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article Athletes Re-Envisioning The Student Athlete is about how the NCAA should re-design its current student athlete model. Especially focusing on educating the student athletes in order to improve educational outcomes at the end of their collegiate careers. It talks about how the current model operates off of revenue, and how in this model schools are competing to recruit the best players so they can become that top school and get more TV time. Because of this schools spend a lot of time, money, and resources on Maynard 6 charming the top high school recruits, by trying to upgrade their facilities so they are better than other schools as the author states the pressure to recruit has led to a facilities among It also goes into detail on how the current model could jeopardize a student athlete academics for various reasons including the pressure of eligibility requirements on a student athlete, heavy reliance on tutors, athletic participation requirements that beat an average full time job, and academic fraud. In the new model proposal the article describes, it would focus on education, proposing a six year scholarship for revenue generating a reduction of courses during in-season semester, and to reduce the college basketball season to one semester. This article fits the research topic for various reasons. This topic will examine how college sports generate revenue for NCAA and this article analyses the current structure of the NCAA and how it focuses generating profits. The article also argues that there is a better model for the NCAA to follow that will benefit student athletes, and it would give them the most opportunity to get a good quality education, and this an issue that the topic covers. This source is credible as it was found through the USF library services and a peer review article. The author of this article is a law professor at the University of Mississippi and has written for various law journals around the country. Ingersoll, Mike. Amateurism And The Modern College  Elon Law Review 7.2 (2015): 607-635. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article And The Modern College is about how the argument of the NCAA on not paying student athletes is invalid. It describes how the NCAA amateurism rule be applicable to division I student athletes for multiple reasons including how Athletes Maynard 7 are stars in the local area where they get free drinks and food at bars and restaurant just because they play for a particular institution. Other reasons this article states are that student athletes play in front of thousands of people in huge stadiums while being broadcasted on TV and also have cutting edge training facilities. The article also describes how most of the time spent in a day by a student athlete is related to their respective sports and how little time is dedicated to school, as the author states that time spent on sport activities 40 This article also describes how sports scholarships are in all actuality contracts between the universities and the athletes, as the article states that the scholarships are year renewable at discretion of the coaching staff, and are contingent upon the athlete performing in a way it benefits the It also goes into detail about how some basketball players are worth more than $100,000 to universities, but the scholarships they receive fall short of that amount. The article is relatable to the research topic because it covers issues that the research paper will be analyzing and dissecting. The issue of the core values that the NCAA states they follow but this article contradicts them, legal issues, and how the in student athlete should be the second word after Athlete. It covers these issues by describing a student athlete schedule, arguing weather or not a sports a scholarship is truly a scholarship and not a contract, and how much some division I basketball players are worth. This source is credible as it was found through the USF library services and a peer review article. The article was written for Elon Law Review. The author, Mike Ingersoll, is a former student athlete at the University of North Carolina and is now attending law school at Elon University following an NFL career. Maynard 8