Higgins 1 Maddie Higgins Professor Gottlieb 3/1/17 ENC 1102 Marine Litter Affecting Wildlife Most people do not see littering as a big deal, because to them it is simply one piece of trash here or there that they believe will disappear. That is where a controversial issue is brought up because that single fragment of trash can do more harm than some people believe. The stakeholder being represented in these images is the conservationist, Greenpeace, whose goal is to protect ocean life. They do not stand for having litter being thrown into the oceans for no reason, because it is causing harm to all marine life whether people see it or not. Greenpeace wants to save what is left of the marine life population, and prevent more ocean pollution from occurring in the future. The opinion is represented in both photos since they each signify damage done to animals by debris in the ocean. There is more than one type of ocean pollutants, not just trash: oil spills account for a portion of the pollution as well which is represented in Figure 2 Ocean This organization wants people to stop carelessly throwing their garbage into the oceans and realize what kind of harm it is causing to the living marine population. The goal is to catch the attention of the outside world and create awareness for how bad this issue of ocean pollution has become. Figure One, is a pretty telling photograph. It does not contain many words, but the image itself says it all: what should be a stream of fish has been replaced by trash, including all types of bottles from glass to plastic. This is supposed to catch emotions because the ocean should not look like this and this image should serve as a reminder that littering is not acceptable, even if someone cannot directly see the effects of it themselves. The point is to represent that if Higgins 2 ocean pollution keeps progressing to get worse, eventually there will be no fish and just trash in the oceans and that is a logical problem that should be simple to understand. There is a wide range of the type of trash that people unknowingly throw into the ocean and do not think much about. This is represented in how many different types of bottles are floating in what should be a stream of fish. On the photo, there are words printed that say, greatest wonder of the sea is that still (Muzaurieta). These words are there because since there is so much trash in the sea that it is taking over, no one knows how it is still functioning. Also, in this image, the emphasis is on the litter that is meant to look like a school of fish. The litter has replaced the fish because the trash is all that is left and something needs to be quickly done about it. This kind of littering is harmful because a large portion of it is plastic which never disappears, which is a big point that Greenpeace wanted to make. Plastic takes about 400 years to disintegrate and even then, it still exists as something called a which are nearly impossible to see, so it ends up found in the stomachs of many fish (Mechanics). Because so much of this debris is consumed by marine life, there are no actual fish shown in Figure 1 to represent how bad it affects them. The large stream of trash symbolizes how all this litter is consuming the ocean life because it is harming and destroying all marine life. It is so hard to imagine that animals are still able to live and survive under these conditions and surrounded by all this debris. The blue color of the sea in the background ranges from light to dark. There is a stream of light coming into the sea and it seems to be aimed towards the orange sea plant which is the only thing alive. This sea plant is the only natural object in the photo that belongs in the ocean and there are no fish to live around it. Also, it gets extremely dark in color towards the bottom of the sea in the picture and the plants on the bottom look gloomy and almost dead. This again represents that most of the wildlife that did exist is now dead and gone including the plants except for the one. Higgins 3 Figure 2 also involves marine life, but it shows the impact that debris can have on these animals on land as well. This image shows what, at first, one would assume is a turtle. But when looking farther into it, there is just a turtle head and arms with the body as a tire. The turtle looks like it is being crushed by the tire that does not belong there: this represents how the litter is overpowering the existing marine life. Also, there is a glistening, rainbow color coming off the tire and the sand around the turtle, which looks as if it is oil that has leaked onto the beach and into the water. Greenpeace wants everyone to realize that oil is another kind of waste that some people do not consider to be litter, but in the end, it harms the environment when not contained so in this case it is equivalent to trash. Both the tire overpowering the turtle and the oil surrounding it is meant to draw on human emotion so they feel empathy towards these animals and hopefully stop carelessly throwing their trash into the oceans and beaches surrounding them. The title at the top of the photograph states, Species of the California which supports the fact that in the image the trash is overpowering the wildlife (Muzaurieta). Also, the beach does not look like a nice one; it is a dark brown with rocks in the sand which adds to the pictures sadness. Brown is an earthy color so the beach represents the earth beneath the trash; pointing out the fact that there is still a natural earth underneath all the debris that should not get forgotten. The that is mentioned is referring to the turtle with the tire as a shell because that is something that no one has seen before, or wants to see in the future. The fact that the tire is overpowering a turtle and looks as if it is crushing it shows not only the major detriments these pieces of trash can be to animals, but also the logical effects it has on the environment surrounding the marine life as well. Both images come together over the same issue: they are both going against littering in the ocean because of how badly it affects the animals. These two figures coincide with what the Higgins 4 stakeholder is saying about how bad throwing trash in the oceans can really be. Greenpeace advocates for the preservation of the environment which, in this case, is the ocean and surrounding areas. Their point of view is clear in the images presented because both have a part of the sea or wildlife population replaced by trash to show how much of an impact it really has. They are both aimed towards grabbing the same human emotion which is empathy for the animals in hopes that people will realize how their actions are effecting the marine life population. Also, both images have a sense of urgency about them in needing people to step up and act now to solve this issue at hand. It will not go away on its own, it needs attention from the human population since they are the main cause. These two photographs equally grab attention, mainly by catching their emotions. No one likes to see animals hurting or being harmed in any way, so that usually convinces people that something really needs to be done about the issue. Animals are basically a step down from humans, so if it is affecting the animals in such a bad way, eventually it could affect the human population, even though that is who is causing the problem. Littering affects the wildlife population in more ways than one. As shown in these two images, it has an impact on both marine life in water and on land because littering does not just happen in one place. Greenpeace is an organization that works to raise awareness for ocean pollution and how to prevent it. These two photos only represent two situations where trash has effected the ocean life, but there are many more. Once people become more aware of their surroundings and where they throw their trash, ocean pollution has the possibility of decreasing a bit. Overall, these two images represent the effects of littering on the marine wildlife in and out of the ocean. Higgins 5 d(http://www.thedailygreen.com/environmental-news/latest/environmental-ads-44102408#slide- 5) Figure 1 (http://www.thedailygreen.com/environmental-news/latest/environmental-ads-44102408#slide-9) Figure 2 Higgins 6 Works Cited Litter - Pervading the  World Ocean Review. World Ocean Review, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Figure 1: Muzaurieta, Annie Bell, and Thomas Klenck. 11 Powerful Environmental  Popular Mechanics. N.p., 24 Oct. 2008. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Figure 2: Muzaurieta, Annie Bell, and Thomas Klenck. 11 Powerful Environmental  Popular Mechanics. N.p., 24 Oct. 2008. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Ssaxon. Visual Environmental  Pghenvironmental. WorldPress.com, 16 May 2013. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Preventing Ocean  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.