Lopez 1 Edison Lopez Emil Smith ENC 1101 01-23-2017 Stipulations of Electric Cars As time progresses, technology becomes more complex and humans become a more influential force on the planet. Throughout the years , mankind has polluted and abused the earth with no remorse or acknowledgment for the consequences. However, recently we have begun to convert to technology that is environmentally  at the cost of an extra dollar. Some believe that this change is greatly beneficial to the environment. However, others believe that these technologies are arguably as damaging to the environment. So, what are the environmental and economical stipulations of electric cars? Miret, Santiago. the electric car really helping the berc.berkeley.edu. University of California, Berkeley. 23 September 2013. This article narrows on the facts behind the use of electric cars in regards to the environment. Within this article, both, pros and cons of electric effects on the environment are evaluated and compared to the environmental effects of the common internal combustion engine vehicles. Miret reveals that electric vehicles are actually more environmentally damaging to make than regular vehicles due to the complicated nature of batteries and other extraneous parts exclusive to electric cars. This article also concluded that both Electric vehicles and Regular cars both contribute equal amounts of environmental damage in their disposal Lopez 2 processes. However, Miret did acknowledge that throughout the life cycles, electric cars produce a smaller GHG footprint. This article is highly relevant to my bibliography because it displays both pros and cons of electric vehicles. This article was a beneficial source because the writing seemed rather unbiased and came from a renowned website. Santiago Miret is a PHD materials science and engineering student with an emphasis on future energy technologies. He runs the BERC website for energy, constantly explores and reports energy issues and has posted over 12 articles on energy matters. As a well known editor and energy conservation enthusiast, Miret is well qualified as a source for my research. Eisler, Matthew N. A Tesla in every  Ieeexplore.ieee.org. IEEE. February 2016 This article generally investigates the truth behind so called Zero emission electric cars. Throughout the article, Eisler takes a deep look into every aspect of vehicles. Eisler unveils the rivaling competition that Tesla vehicles place on ICE vehicles due to their exceptional qualities in comfort, power, and convenience. Eisler then places intense emphasis on how environmentally sustainable these vehicles are without sacrificing the conveniences of ICE vehicles. The author does acknowledge that these cars are not economically affordable for most middle class people. However, Eisler proceeds to say that Tesla has acknowledged this problem and is working on manufacturing a Model 3 that will be affordable to the masses. This article provides a deeper look into electric cars that the first source could not provide because it places emphasis on a specific company that produced EVs. This article provided information both for and against electric cars, much like the first article. However, Eisler narrowed in on one specific company which allowed the readers to realize real life examples of the benefits Lopez 3 and detriments of electric cars instead of the issue as a whole. Eisler is a phenomenal source for information on the topic of electric cars and other science technology related topics because he is the Interim Director of the science, Technology, and Society program at North Carolina State University as well as an accredited author for several of his published books. Mattila, Matt & Bellew, Justin Lowell. Do EVs Create Jobs and Improve the  Rmi.org. Rocky Mountain Institute. May 2011 This article gathered information on the economic benefits and detriments of electric cars. Mattila and Bellew reveal gathered information and surveyed large electric vehicle related companies on the economic stipulations of electric cars. One large company called The Electric Coalition predicts that 1.9 million additional American jobs would be created by 2030. Another company called EnerDel has already added 1,400 jobs at Indiana based EV battery plant and plans on adding another 3,000 soon. However, Mattila and Bellew were not blind to the economic burdens these vehicles produce as well. They exposed the fact that however economically beneficial these unique vehicles are, they are still only an option to those that can afford the inflated upfront cost. This article is relevant and effective in the case of this research because it provides hard evidence on the economic benefits and detriments of electric vehicles. It provides unique information on the stipulations of electric vehicles because it tackles a different aspect of electric vehicles, how they effect pocket. Matt Mattilla is a phenomenal and proper source for this research. He has been the project manager to Rocky Mountain project Get Ready, a project solely dedicated to helping the world seamlessly convert to electric vehicles since 2012. Lopez 4 Barbarossa, Camilla, et al. A self-identity based model of electric car adoption intention: A cross-cultural comparative  Sciencedirect.com. Elsevier Ltd. June 2015. In this article, Barbarossa attacks the idea that electric vehicles are always the greener option. This article evaluates and provides hard evidence as to why this is not always the case as well as why consumers convert to EVs. Barbarossa reveals that most consumers, dependent on the area, are convinced to convert to EVs because of their green . He unveils that in Italy, the conversion to EVs are also motivated by moral obligation. Barbarossa also acknowledges that Belgium consumers were mainly convinced by the environmental consequences of regular ICE vehicles. This article has useful information regarding the research question because it investigates the reasons why people consider converting to EVs and how convincing these reasons are. It provides unique information that the other sources do not because of its emphasis on the consumer beliefs and responses to advertisement. This information also proves to be useful in a distinctive way because of its focus on cross-cultural studies. Barbarossa is an accredited author, who works for LUMSA University in the Department of Human Studies in Italy. Fontainhas, Jose, et al. Is investing in an electric worthwhile from the  Sciencedirect.com. Elsevier Ltd. 15 November 2016. This article contained valuable information for this research because it gathered information on electric vehicles from all parts of the world. In a study conducted in China by Geng Wu, an Author for the Department of Management, Technology and Economics, electric vehicles are still most economically costly than a regular internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle. However, her study also predicts that future electric vehicles will have smaller price ranges, thus Lopez 5 making them more economically beneficial then This article also revealed another study conducted by Evanthia A. Nanaki, an author at the University of Western Macedonia with an emphasis on mechanical engineering, which showed that EVs actually cause lower emissions than ICE vehicles. However, EVs only reduce a limited amount of GHG emissions, dependent on how much GHG is released to produce the electricity used in to power the EVs. This article provides valid and unique information for this research because it takes all parts of the world and various studies into consideration with its evaluation of EVs. Fontainhas is a reliable source for information on electric vehicles because he is an author from the Universidade do Minho, with a emphasis in the Department of Production and Systems. This article is also a peer-reviewed source and is associated with other credible authors such as Paula Fernanda Varandas Ferreira, and Jorge Cunha. Mallig, Nicolai, et al. Modelling the weekly electricity demand caused by electric  Sciencedirect.com. Elsevier Ltd. November 2016. This article narrows in on specific qualities of electric vehicles that sway society to continue with ICE vehicles. One of those limitations that the article mentioned was the fact the EVs have a limited range. ICE vehicles can travel significantly farther on a full tank than an EV can. This causes potential buyers to be reluctant to purchase an EV and sway towards ICE vehicles. Mallig, then attempts to provide possible solutions to these issues such as amping up the production of Extended Range Electric Vehicles (EREV). This article also agrees with the others sources by pointing out that the conversion to EVs to reduce carbon emissions can only be effective if paired with environmentally friendly charging methods. Lopez 6 This article proves to be a phenomenal contribution in the efforts to answer the research question because it provides specific information on how potential consumers view EVs. This source is peer-reviewed and was written by a well informed author. Nioclai Mallig is an accredited author from the Institute for Transport Studies and Karlsruhe Institute of Technology. Mallig has published over 10 articles on transportation and currently holds the position of assistant researcher at Karlsruhe Institute of Technology.