Leslie 1 Amanda Leslie Emil Smith Composition 1 29 January 2017 College Athletes While college athletes are in school to earn a degree, most of their time is spent on their sport. It is a widely talked about topic among ex-college athletes, coaches and current players how college athletes spend the same amount of time playing their sport as people do at their job. It is easy to forget that college athletes are not just athletes; they are students first. Their lives are always non-stop from schoolwork to practices to workouts. They often work as strenuously as those who are employed full-time, yet receive none of the benefits. Some argue that college athletes should be paid for the amount of time and effort they put in to their sport and because they make money for their schools and promote the school to the community. On the other hand, some people believe that college athletes should not get paid because of the free schooling and tutoring they receive. Though both sides have valid perspectives, it is crucial to explore the different arguments in order for the reader to form an unbiased opinion. This paper will investigate why some people think college athletes should get paid. Cooper, Kenneth J. Should College Athletes Be Paid To Play?. Diverse: Issues In Higher Education 28.10 (2011): 12.Biography Reference Bank (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This article informs readers of arguments as to why college athletes should get paid and why they should not get paid. It gives multiple perspectives on this issue. The Leslie 2 author of this article advised the reader on the official NCAA rule and some reasons behind why that rule exists. The NCAA rule is that college athletes cannot be paid to play because their job is to be a student. They are limited to annual scholarships that can be renewed for four years. In essence, the cost of their education is exchanged for their participation in athletics. The author interviews many different people about their opinions on this topic. Donald Remy, who is the general counsel and vice president for legal affairs, says court precedents and tax laws have upheld the status of college athletes as students, not as employees. On the other hand, Robert McCormick, who was an attorney for the National Labor Relations Board under President Jimmy Carter, believes that college athletes are under very tough, strict conditions and that they are in terms of the physical demands on Remy and McCormick both give excellent reasons for their beliefs. The article provides current opinions on this topic although the debate has gone on for years and it appears as though the debate will continue. Kenneth J. Cooper has been a journalist for more than 30 years and has written for the Washington Post. He graduated from Washington University St. Louis with a degree in English in 1977. For the Washington Post, his focus was education policy and Congress. Cooper is a Pulitzer Prize winner. He won the Pulitzer Prize for his work in producing Race which is a Boston Globe Series that examined racism in Boston. He is the youngest African American to win a Pulitzer Prize for journalism. Cooper reported on the campaign of Michael Dukakis. He currently works as a senior editor on newscast for a Boston television station. This article is helpful for understanding why some people believe college athletes should get paid because it Leslie 3 explores many different sides and opinions to this topic. It is also peer-reviewed, making it a credible source. Zissou, Rebecca. Fair play: should college athletes get  Junior Scholastic/Current Events 2013: 15. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This article offers two different perspectives on why college athletes should or should not be paid. The author argues that athletes bring a lot of money into the school. While every school brings in a different amount and it is impossible to determine how much each school brings in, some large schools with large athletic programs generate millions of dollars. The average athletic scholarship is less than $11,000 a year. The author, Zissou, then informs readers that some colleges cannot afford to pay athletes. Although athletes bring in a lot of money, colleges use that money for tuition, books, tutoring, housing, meals, clothing, coaching, medical care, travel expenses and more. Thus, they would not have the money to spare to pay wages. Zissou also mentioned that there is a common belief that pay for athletes would lessen the value of a college education. Since less than two percent of college athletes become professional players, it is important to instill the belief into the students that they are in school to get an education. Zissou acknowledges that there is an issue but appears to support that student- athletes should not get paid. Rebecca Zissou works for Junior Scholastic. She has written many cover stories for Scholastic. She has significant accomplishments for only being in her 20s. This article is relevant to understanding why some people believe college athletes should get paid because Zissou gives the two points of view on this topic. She has published multiple articles that discuss current politics including the recent and prior presidential elections, Leslie 4 religion such as Kristallnacht, social issues such as poverty in addition to collegiate athletics and professional athletics. Karaim, Reed. Paying College Athletes: Are Players School  CQ Researcher 24.25 (2014): 577. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses a movement, for private schools, to make college athletes unionized. The vote was in favor of doing so. However, Northwestern, in Evanston, Ill., appealed the ruling to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), so no action will be taken until the NLRB has made their ruling. Private schools are extremely regulated but do not have the same restrictions as public institutions. They do not typically receive the same government subsidies. However, tuition rates are generally much higher than public institutions. With boosters, etc., some are in better financial positions than their public counterparts. The article makes it clear that there is a large movement to change the system so that college athletes get paid. On the other hand, however, not everybody is ready to move in this direction. Hence, the fact that the NLRB will have the final say and has not simply accepted this movement. Reed Karaim graduated from North Dakota State University. He is a writer in Tucson, Arizona. Karaim has written for multiple outlets. These include The Washington Post, U.S. News & World Report, Smithsonian, American Scholar and the USA Weekend. Also, he has written novels. He is the author of If Men Were Angels, which was recognized by Barnes & Noble. Karaim has won several other awards for his writings. Sack, Allen. Should college athletes be  The Christian Science Monitor 2008: General OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Leslie 5 This article discusses the belief that college athletes should not be paid. However, based on the volume of the money generated and the fact that it is a huge business, college athletes should receive additional rights and benefits. The author is upset how scholarships are no longer guaranteed for four years and whether or not they renew, depends on the performance. The article acknowledges the disconnect between the money generated by college athletics and the fact that the athletes themselves do not get paid. The author believes that additional rights and benefits instead of wages is a means to level the playing field. It is clear that this is an issue that will not go away anytime soon. The larger the movement and money generated, the greater the movement will be towards compensating college athletes. Allen Sack has his Ph.D. in sociology from Pennsylvania State University and his BA from Notre Dame where he played on the national championship football team. He has a unique insight into the topic of whether or not college athletes should be paid because he, himself, once played for one of the largest college athletic programs in the nation. He taught for forty-one years in the college of business at the University of New Haven. He has published multiple articles in scholastic journals on sports, ethnicity and economic development. Sack is the current President of the Drake Group. The Drake mission is to defend academic integrity in college sports. The author, himself, was a college athlete when scholarships were guaranteed for four years. He has published many articles and written two books. He is also a guest columnist for newspapers, including the New York Times and Los Angeles Times. Leslie 6 Schneider, Raymond G. College Perceptions On The Payment Of Intercollegiate  College Student Journal 35.2 (2001): 232- 240. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This article is important because it surveyed college opinions on whether or not collegiate athletes should be paid. As has been discussed, it demonstrates how there is public awareness that this issue exists. Of further interest is the fact that the survey results detail the perceptions of the college peers of the student athletes. The survey found that fellow students believe that student athletes should be paid in addition to receiving academic scholarships. The author believes that it contains important findings because educators and administrators should consider the views of students on this issue and maybe this will cause them to act. The consensus of the proponents of payments to college athletes was that it would decrease illegal payments made to student athletes such as payments made by agents trying to get the athlete to be their client after they graduate. Moreover, student athletes should be compensated as they are generating significant revenue for the institutions they represent. On the other hand, opponents argue that scholarships, tutors, special computer laboratories and other benefits are sufficient compensation for student athletes. Raymond G. Schneider is an assistant professor in Sports Management at Bowling Green State University. He earned his Ph.D. from Florida State University. While at FSU, he provided management assistance with large sports including basketball and football. Dr. career focus is on issues in intercollegiate sports. He has been published in multiple academic journals such as the Journal of Sport Management, International Journal of Sport Management, and The College Student Journal. He is also Leslie 7 a published author. One of his notable works was about Bobby rise to one of the greatest collegiate football coaches of all time and his success as head coach at FSU. Dr. research and work in the field of intercollegiate sports combined with his credentials make him a well-versed expert in the field of intercollegiate athletics. Also, the article is peer-reviewed, so it is a credible source. McCormick, Robert A., and Amy Christian McCormick. The Myth Of The Student- Athlete: The College Athlete As  Washington Law Review 81.1 (2006): 71-157. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 18 Feb. 2017. The Myth Of The Student-Athlete: The College Athlete As  details exactly what its title states, students are employees. It argues that a college athlete meets the definition of employee and, thus, is simply an undervalued employee of his/her college. While it acknowledges that they receive some form of compensation via scholarships, it discusses how this is insufficient because the athletes receive none of the protections employees are typically entitled to such as compensation benefits, insurance, and they are unable to negotiate their wage. Further, they are completely controlled by their have little to no bargaining power, and their relationships are not primarily academic. To not label them as employees is It concludes that society accepts this myth due to the power of the NCAA. Additionally, the student athletes accept this in exchange for their hero status and glory on campus. Robert McCormick is a law professor at Michigan State University. He earned his law degree from the University of Michigan in 1973. His insight is due in large part to his Leslie 8 work as an attorney for the NLRB from 1973-1978. Additionally, he has represented a well-known running back in challenging the rule that prohibits a collegiate athlete from entering the NFL draft until three years after the graduation of their high school class. He has also published law school textbooks on sports law as well as law review articles that discuss race and NCAA sports, and the exploitation of college athletes. Clearly, his career focus has been on fighting for the rights of athletes, and minorities. This makes him a reliable author on this topic. Also, the article is peer-reviewed, so it is a credible source. Co-author, Amy Christian McCormick, is also an attorney. She earned her law degree from Harvard in 1981. She is currently a professor of tax law at Michigan Statue University law school. In addition to being published on tax law, she has co-authored articles with Robert McCormick on race and NCAA sports, and the exploitation of college athletes. She also wrote and co-produced a documentary on Michigan labor lawyers and served as a panelist on several boards addressing pay, race in NCAA sports, and should college athletes be paid. Her expertise in college athletics stems from her participation on these various panels and publications. She, like Mr. McCormick, is for collegiate athletes receiving pay for their play. She has also advocated for equal rights for minorities in major college sports.