Equizi 1 Tyler Equizi Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 1 March 2017 The Fight for Animal Rights While a large topic in society is equal rights for all people, you often hear about the battle of animal rights. When people hear animal rights they often think of the over extreme PETA. But there are many other organizations that support the rights of animals. One of these organizations is Animals. While Animals is a Portuguese activist group, they are world known and have made many influential advertisements. Two advertisements in particular are great at grabbing the attention of viewers by using influential visual rhetoric, while making an argument for the rights of animals. Based in Portugal, Animals main focus is the protection of animal rights. Even though from a different country, they share similar goals and missions as animal rights groups in America. The two images selected are powerful but very different. Photo one is an ad used for an anti-circus campaign called are not (Frass). The ad includes a Lion behind a cage with his face painted to resemble a clown. Also included is a paragraph of text explaining the harsh treatment circus animals face. Photo two contains a portrait of a man, head can be seen morphing into multiple dogs. The photo includes a fact about the abandonment of pets and the result it has on people. Each image uses aspects of visual rhetoric that enhances the message of the image. The most powerful aspect of the first image is how the lion is represented. A lion being humiliated makes even non-animal lovers upset. When people think of a lion, they usually think Equizi 2 of the What kind of King gets locked up and has its face painted to resemble a clown? This aspect of the photo clearly applies to pathos. wants people to be emotionally moved and feel sympathetic for the animal, in an effort to convince people to stop attending the circus and make a change. If people stop attending the circus, the circus will no longer be able to go on. Pathos is also used by when reading the text included in the picture. Written like a Ringleader would talk, the inhumane ways circus animals are treated are explained such as, up, roll up, ladies and gentleman, boys and girls for the crack of the whip against the stinging The picture also goes on to explain how the animals are kept when not performing, and see the famed number of cages and tightly binding chains allowing no escape from endless training These vivid descriptions give the viewer a picture of what circus animals face every day, and creates a lot of negative emotions towards the use of animals in the circus. A second appeal uses is ethos. By including their logo as well as logo, is making their ad more reputable. LPDA is another Portuguese animal rights activist group that teamed up with to raise awareness for the rights of circus animals. Including a logo on an ad or product, makes the viewer or buyer more likely to trust it. When people see an advertisement without an endorsement, they can often question is reliability. Even more so when that advertisement includes statistics or facts. Seeing the well-known stamp of and LPDA on the picture of the lion, reassures people that the information being given can be trusted. The second picture is very different from the first. A first look at the picture can be very confusing, and it takes a few seconds to understand what is actually going on. A cartoon man has dogs growing out of his head. Out of context, that sentence seems comical, but when realizing Equizi 3 what the advertisement is calling to action, it makes much more sense. animals is making the statement you abandon a dog, you never leave it The dogs coming out of his head is a physical representation of dogs never leaving their owners. Pathos is used in this image to generate the effect of its viewers. The photo creates confusion and gets its viewers to look more into it in order to discover the meaning. This is a great tactic used by It catches the readers eye and draws them into finding out more about it. then adds the statistic, year, over 20,000 pet animal are abandoned, most during the summer. So, when thinking about adopting a dog, think hard on whether you want him for This fact hits you like a train. 20,000 pets are left to fend for themselves every year. By including this, does a great job at influencing people to consider the responsibility of owing a pet, before adopting. In addition to pathos, Animals also used logos in the second picture. The fact that they include is very influential. Not only does it provide an emotion appeal, but it also makes seem more informed on the issue of pet abandonment. 20,000 is a large number when thinking about pets being left on the streets. This could reach both pet owners as well as potential pet owners, and make them consider if they are ready for the commitment of taking on an animal. Both pictures created by Animals are powerful messages in favor of animal rights. While one focuses on animals in the circus, the other focuses mainly on the abandonment of pets by their owners. Photo one uses the basic approach of drawing sad and sympathetic emotions through pathos, as well as making the advertisement reputable through ethos. Photo two takes a different approach when using pathos, and makes the viewer question what they are seeing in order to stand out and draw more attention. Also used by photo two is logos when giving statistics of the number of pets left by their owners. Using two different varieties of Equizi 4 advertisements was smart by They are able to appeal to a wider range of people by incorporating different uses of visual rhetoric. The advertisements that Animals created shows a lot about our culture today. Photo one for example, is calling out people for enjoying the circus even though circus animals are being mistreated to entertain us. Animals do not need to be used or suffer to put on a good show. There are many circuses that do not include animals, one being Cirque du Soleil, that are still very successful. Photo two uses a business man to show that anyone can be at fault for abandoning an animal. While many people assume only poor income households abandon pets, they are not the only culprits (Dolan). also point out in the second picture, that people are careless when adopting a pet. If people are ready to take on animals, they should not be giving them up later on. People need to be more aware of the responsibility before adopting. Through both images, Animals makes a powerful statement for the rights of animals. Whether they are in the circus or in your home, animals deserve to be respected and well take care of. Equizi 5 Photo 1 Photo 2 Equizi 6 Works Cited Dolan, Emily D., et al. Risk Factors for Dog Relinquishment to a Los Angeles Municipal Animal  Animals (2076-2615), vol. 5, no. 4, Dec. 2015, pp. 1311-1328 Frass, Cristina. Animals Are Not  Wanderlust. Penn State University, 14 Oct. 2014. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. https://accaoanimal.wordpress.com http://www.lpda.pt