Cheema 1 Mohammad Cheema Professor Basil ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Intermediate Draft Images can be very ambiguous when trying to determine the meaning behind each. Images play a huge part in society, because they can stir up so many emotions for an individual and may convince someone to change. The Center for Disease mission is to protect the American people a health, and safety and one of the things they provide information about is concussions. The CDC gives direct information about concussions in youth sports and how they can impact the youth athlete for a long time in the future. The two images that will be analyzed convey a clear message by the CDC. The first image shows that concussions are consequential and youth athletes should be aware of the symptoms. If the athletes are not aware, they will not suspect a concussion themselves and can go untreated, which in the long-haul could be very detrimental. The second image, also done by the CDC, displays a message that informs youth athletes to be smart and logical when coming back from a concussion, because if they start playing before they recover and get another concussion, the brain could suffer second-impact syndrome, or other long-term symptoms. Pathos is the appeal to emotions. Pathos can evoke emotions in many different ways, they can bring back memories that could be good or bad, and also pathos could give someone motivation to do something in the future. Image 1 appeals to pathos by showing a picture of a Cheema 2 youth athlete being on the floor after being pulled down hard and landing on his head. It is clear to see that the youth either is, or will suffer from a concussion shortly after the picture is taken. Another way pathos is shown in this picture is by displaying all the possible symptoms an average person will experience. This evokes emotions because people will not want to suffer this injury because of the extent of it. Emotions are very powerful and can lead people to do and say many things. Image 2 talks more about missing time, rather than the symptoms and visual representations. Image 2 uses a very punny text when they say This comical line can make someone laugh, but the main reason for the image is to appeal to pathos by letting parents, coaches, and especially the youth athletes know that missing a week more to recover from a concussion is okay, because in the long-run it will only benefit everyone involved. Ethos is the credibility that an image or information has. In their advertisements, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) include their logo in both images to add to their credibility. The CDC is a very trusted, credible, and reliable source that many people, including doctors and scholarly authors rely on for information. In addition, the images also show elements of ethos by showing many different sports, because the reality is that a concussion can happen in any sport, so appealing to all youth athletes makes it more credible. Ethos is something that an image needs, which both pictures have, so people can actually trust the picture for telling the truth, because if people do not trust, or believe in an image they will ignore it and not take anything from it. Logos is the appeal to logic in information and images. Concussions are a hot topic that most of society either knows about, or is learning about, and that can appeal to logos because it Cheema 3 consistently talks about concussions and both images use superior evidence to get their points across. The first image supplies the symptoms of a concussion, which most of the audience do not really know about. Also, the word is bolded and displayed in a different color from the rest of the text to make sure everyone knows what the image will be about even before they read it. The second image supplies information that by missing more time, the youth will actually recover more fully and in a better way, and also the image uses a simple and hysterical text to get their message across. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness, which basically means that time is scarce, so actions need to happen in a timely manner so things can be accomplished. Kairos is shown clearly in the first image because it says in doubt, get checked out which appeals to kairos by telling the audience to go get checked out, because if they and continue playing, and do regular activities, the long-term consequences could be very detrimental. The second image appeals to kairos by saying okay to be out for an extended period of time, because by being out longer, the brain could heal more efficiently. The CDC uses kairos by saying on their website that a youth athlete suffering from a concussion to be seen by a medical provider as early [as Up Action Concussions are not something that anyone, no matter the age, should take lightly. The reason concussions in youth sports is taken a bit more seriously is because the youth athlete has a brain that is still developing, and probably will continue to develop for many years in the future. The New York Times writes an article about the risk of concussions and talk about how concussions from a long time ago, can still effect people. They state that athletes pay the price for this ambiguity: Kids who are cleared prematurely may receive another, sometimes Cheema 4 relatively minor but suffer significant and tragic long-term Risk of Concussions from Youth This statement clarifies image 2, because it is trying to say that youth athletes that come back to the game before they have recovered, can have another concussion which could be very detrimental, because even one soft hit to their heads could cause another concussion. When a youth athlete suffers multiple concussions in a short period of time they can be in pain from what is called second impact syndrome. Probably the hardest part about a concussion is dealing with the symptoms that come along with the injury, which image 1 lists. According to mayoclinc.com, a concussions symptoms can last from anywhere from the first seven to 10 days and go away within three months, though they can persist for a year or With the symptoms of a concussion lasting an ambiguous amount of time, it is important for youth athletes to get checked by a medical doctor before returning to many daily activities, like going to school. It is clear to see and tell that no one should be rushed back into any sport after they have suffered a concussion, because the reality of the epidemic is that it can hunt someone for many years of their lives. In summation, concussions are a serious injury that should never be taken lightly by anyone. The two images that were analyzed throughout the essay convey a similar message by the same organization. The CDC advocates for many different type of diseases/epidemics, one of them being concussions. The first images shows that concussions are serious and youth athletes should be aware of the symptoms. The second image displays a message that informs youth athletes to be smart and logical when coming back from a concussion, because missing one game could be saving them one month of symptoms. Both images appeal to pathos, logos, ethos, and Cheema 5 kairos in a very effective way. The advertisements should drive a youth athlete, their coaches, and their parents to change the way they look at concussions. They should realize that a concussion is not a joke, and should never be treated like one. It is the responsibility to take their child to a doctor to get elevated. It is the job to make sure the youth athlete does not return to the field/court before they are ready, and most importantly it is the job to stay away from many activities to allow their brain to heal properly. Cheema 6 Works Cited Responding to a Concussion and Action Plan for  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 Apr. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Risk of Concussions from Youth  The New York Times. The New York Times, 25 Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Post-concussion  Mayo Clinic. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cheema 7