Student 1 Student 4f March 2017 ENC1102 Dr. Thornton How much is a Penny Really Worth? The penny is currently the United States lowest denomination of currency. Coming in at only 1 cent, in economy the penny cannot be used to purchase anything on its own. Yet in the a single penny could be used to buy candy, like tootsie rolls and Hershey kisses in the year 1907 (Reference.com/food). Since the penny has lost the value it once had, an organization Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, who believe that the penny is costing the United States valuable money, is pushing to get the penny removed from the U.S. economic circulation. While another organization, Americans For Common Cents, sees the historical value of the penny and wants it to stay in circulation. Within the past decade there has been an ongoing argument on whether or not the penny should be kept or be removed from U.S. currency circulation, clearly the penny cannot be both removed and kept at the same time, but there is compromise; continue to produce the penny, but with less expensive material. Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny is an organization with avid beliefs that the penny is costing the U.S. more than it should. The organization stated that 2014, the U.S. spent almost 132 million dollars to produce less than 50 million dollars in circulating (RetireThePenny.org). The ultimate goal of citizens to retire the penny is to remove the penny from circulation; this is in the hopes of lowering unnecessary government spending that the penny is causing. The monetary value of one cent gives it no purchasing power, it is Student 2 used a majority of the time for sales tax purposes. Author Robert Whaples reinforces the organizations views giving the statement little would be lost from eliminating the penny from the U.S. economy and more could be Citizens to retire the penny, sees the historical impact that the penny has on the United States, even admitting that the penny has served us for a while now. Yet educating the public on the damage the penny is causing the United States economy is how Citizens to retire the penny is trying to get through to people. One statistic given on the website is production cost is added to the opportunity cost of using the penny economists say that the penny drains almost $900 million from the national economy every (Retirethepenny.org). Considering that the penny is still seen as a historical influence on the country the organization uses education in hopes to get the penny eliminated. In retrospect, Americans for Common Cents, is an organization that vouches for the continued existence of the penny. The organization aims to educate the public on the historic value and economic importance penny. The group hopes that administering accurate information about the penny will help in the understanding of how the penny positively effects the economy and the impacts that would occur from removing the penny. The penny would is often used for sales tax, which is a large concern according to ACC (Americans for Common Cents). The organization makes a statement that according to a United States poll in 2014 two- thirds of adults (68%) favor keeping the penny in Without the penny in circulation sales tax would have to be rounded up to the next denomination, raising prices. One of the reasons that adults are in favor of the penny is because three-quarters of Americans (73%) were concerned that without the penny merchants might use price rounding to raise (pennies.org). Pennies are also a huge contributor to charities. Many charities rely on people donating pennies to important causes. fact that pennies have so little value makes Student 3 them useful to charities, because people are happy to give them (Moneycrashers.com) The organization does see the importance of the economy, and made a statement referring to the price it costs to make pennies; the zinc market collapsed meaning metal is cheaper to purchase, this allows for the penny to be made for cheaper into the foreseeable future. The organization pushes for the public to understand the historic value of the coin, penny was the first currency of any kind authorized by the United (pennies.org) and the first idea for the one cent coin was of by Benjamin making it an important piece of history. ACC also keeps the importance of the U.S. economy, ACC discussed the fall of the zinc market making metals cheaper. Using this information the group stated that pennies would be cheaper to make saving tax valued money. A comparable aspect the two organizations, Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, and Americans for Common Cents share is the want to educate the public and preserve the U.S. economy. The goals of each may be different, Citizens to Retire the Penny wanting to eliminate the penny from circulation, and ACC wanting to keep the pennies in circulation. Citizens to retire the penny have stated that the penny is costing the United States millions of dollars a year, while ACC makes the claim that getting rid of the penny would cost the U.S. even more. The goals of these two organizations cannot be met together, the penny cannot be kept and removed at the same time. Yet a compromise can be met. If the penny were to be made out of cheaper metal. If the penny was to be made out of steel rather than its copper and zinc mixture, the penny would be able to stay in circulation and the government, along with taxpayers, would be saving millions of dollars a year. Copper is expensive at over 3 dollars a pound and although zinc is slightly cheap at 91 cents per pound using steel would be the cheapest most efficient way coming in at 36 cents per pound.(Livescience.com) The penny is currently made out of 97.5 percent zinc Student 4 and a thin copper surrounding(Livescience.com), although zinc is a cheaper metal to use than full copper, it is still expensive to make pennies every year. Switching the penny over to steel would save the government millions every year. The penny would be able to stay in circulation retaining its 1 cent worth, yet the costs to make it would be drastically reduced thus drastically reducing government spending for the mints to create them. This compromise allows for each organization to take care of a major concern. Keeping the penny in circulation while significantly reducing the cost of producing pennies, making them worth 1 cent again. All things considered, a compromise can be met even with each organization having opposing views. The major concern between both organizations, aside from whether or not to keep the penny, was the U.S. economy. Citizens to retire the penny wanted th elimination of the penny because the government and taxpayers were spending too much money on producing the penny. ACC wanted the penny to remain in circulation not only because of its historical value but without the penny sales tax and other change related objects would skyrocket. Today the penny costs 2.4 cents to produce (Livescience.com). If the penny was to be made out of steel instead of its current metals, the savings would be outstanding. According to ACC 68 percent of Americans wanted to keep the penny, and according to Citizens to retire the penny, the government wastes over 82 million dollars a year to produce pennies. Using steel to produce pennies would grant each organization what was desired; keeping the penny and saving the U.S. government. (WC:1254) Student 5 Student 6 Works Cited Acton, John. Currency  Harvard Political Review, vol. 41, no. 1, Spring2014, p. 22. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=edb&AN=95604240&site=eds-live Erlichman, Jay. A History of  Financial History, no. 93, Winter2009, p. 27. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed o&AN=40508587&site=eds-live  Americans for Common Cents. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://pennies.org/> How to Make the Penny worth 1 Cent  N.p., n.d. Web. Jacobsen, Joyce P. and Gilbert L. Skillman. Dialogue: Time to Eliminate the  Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, Winter2007, p. 137. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bu h&AN=24488858&site=eds-live Kelley, Edward W. Jr. Statements to the  substituting $1 coin for $1 bank note and benefits and costs of such Federal Reserve Bulletin, vol. 81, Sept. 1995, pp. 841-844 Lombra, Raymond E. Pennies, Pricing, and Rounding: Is All the Relevant Analysis  Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, Winter2007, pp. 147-152. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bu h&AN=24488860&site=eds-live http://www.moneycrashers.com/get-rid-penny-reasons/: What Can You Buy with a  Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. http://www.retirethepenny.org/ Student 7 Student 8 Student 9 What Was the First Wrapped Penny Candy in  Reference. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.