MacMillan 1 Kelcie MacMillan Harley Campbell ENC 1102 2/27/17 Intermediate Draft 2 Advertisement in countries all over the world have many different uses and appeals to viewers. Advertisements can be used to prove a point about something, convince a consumer to purchase a product, or in this case, urge people to vaccinate themselves and their children. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) successfully uses all of the four rhetorical appeals in both of the advertisements chosen and urges parents and families to get vaccination in order to be better protected from sometimes fatal illness. One of the top priorities of the CDC is to protect the public from various illnesses. The CDC, a government-funded organization, spends millions of dollars on the research and development of vaccines every year. The success of this organization and extensive amounts of research done on vaccinations makes it a credible source, and appeals to ethos. In both of my images, the CDC logo is clearly displayed in a bold color so that it stands out in comparison to the rest of the advertisements. When people recognize the logo, they trust what it advertised because the CDC is a trusted organization. The CDC appeals to logos in both images I have chosen as well. Logos is far more present in the first image than the second, mainly because a plethora of facts are on the advertisement in varying fonts to get the attention. All of the facts drive the reader to realize the difference MacMillan 2 that vaccinations can make and shares facts that support the vaccination of children in order to protect them from communicable preventable disease. The second advertisement has less text and facts, but still appeals to logos through one of the statements on the advertisement reading: yourself and your loved This makes the viewer think that one of the best ways to protect their loved ones is to make sure that they are vaccinated. Pathos is present in the first image through the use of a picture of a doctor and a happy baby. The advertisement mainly focuses on vaccinating children, so using a smiling baby being attended by a doctor gives people a sense of relief and trust that the baby is and will be healthy. The second image uses family to emotionally appeal to the viewer. Pictured is three generations of a family, with the words yourself and your loved in bold print. This shows viewers that one of the best ways to protect the people you love by making sure their vaccinations are up to date. Kairos is effectively used in the first advertisement because it tells the exact times that parents need to vaccinate their children. Providing the ages that children should be vaccinated shows parents that the need for current and timely vaccinations is very important. A website is also provided as a reference for the it viewer. In the second image, the phrase, wait. is written in bold text to stand out. It makes people realize that the time to vaccinate is now as opposed to later, and that it is important to keep your vaccinations up to date. Rhetorical fallacies, as defined by Purdue Owl are, errors in reasoning that will undermine the logic of your (Weber 2013). The use of these fallacies occurs in a lot of the advertisements that we see, and are sometimes hard to detect. Oftentimes, the viewer is not even aware that they have been subject to fallacy, and believe exactly the information posted. The first advertisement I chose does not seem to represent any fallacies. The second, however, does MacMillan 3 display some of the ad populum fallacy. The second image reads: yourself and your loved ones. wait, This leads viewers to the conclusion that the best way to protect your family and the ones you love is to get them vaccinated. While this may be true in some aspects, vaccination is not the only way to show your loved ones that you care for them and want to protect them. In conclusion, the CDC effectively uses advertisements in many different ways to get the viewer to believe that vaccinations are not only necessary, but almost considered mandatory if you want to completely protect your children and loved ones. Every day, the CDC works to find more vaccinations and cures to illnesses, with a long term goal of eventually making sure that everyone, whether they be in poverty in America or struggling in another country, has access to affordable or free vaccinations in order to stop the spread of preventable illness. MacMillan 4 Weber, Ryan, and Allen Brizee. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: Logic in Argumentative Writing. Purdue Owl, 11 Mar. 2013. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/659/03/>. Image 1: https://www.cdc.gov/pneumococcal/drug-resistance.html Image 2: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/adults/for-patients/adults-all.html