Guimaraes 1 Henrique Bevilacqua Guimaraes Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 02/20/2017 Sugary drinks and obesity Obesity has become a big issue in the United States over the years, now found to be the daily struggle of more than one third of American adults, according to the Center of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The main concern around this topic is the health implications associated with the condition, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, stroke and some types of cancers. Additionally, a lot of capital is spent annually in medical care due to obesity problem, 147 billion US dollars was the medical cost in 2008 (CDC). That is a huge problem for the country and something should be done to minimalize the problem. One of the main causes of obesity is the large and excessive consumption of calories in the American daily diet. The daily consumption of sugary drinks contributes to the increase of extra calories in a diet. The average amount of calories in a sugary drink (which includes sodas, energy drinks, sports drinks, fruit punch, lemonades, among others) is 150 calories, according to Harvard School of Public Health. Free refills become a facilitator in the immoderate consumption of these beverages. It leads to the research question does the free refill of sugar drinks contribute to the obesity rates in the United States? Guimaraes 2 Annotated Bibliography Bray, G. A., and B. M. Popkin. Calorie-Sweetened Beverages And Fructose: What Have We Learned 10 Years  Pediatric Obesity 4 (2013): 242. Academic OneFile. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. The sugar consumption has seriously increased over the years in America and in the world. One type of sugar that has been worrying a lot of nutritionists is High Fructose corned syrup(HFCS), that is a sweetener made from corn. Those sugars are founded in a lot of sugar drinks and sodas. This study, by George Bray and Marry Popkin, states why the HFCS is bad for health and that can relate to a lot of health diseases. Those beverages that contain HFCS are contributing to the obesity epidemic, consuming it can lead to metabolic syndrome and the appearance of a non- alcoholic fatty liver disease. Moreover, incredible results were found in this research, that if the intakes of sugary drinks are reduced in a period of 6 moths to 2 years, less weight will be gained. The article is relevant to the topic because it proves that if the amount of soft drinks consumed by Americans is reduced, it will decrease how much body fat mass is obtained by theirs body. One way to possible reduce the overall consumption of it is by banning the free refill of soda. Additionally, the authors have some credibility, George Bray is a medical doctor that have been doing research for the past 40 years specifically in obesity and in diabetes, now he is a Boyd professor at the university Pennington Biomedical Research Center of Louisiana State University, while Barry Popkin is a Nutrition Professor at North Carolina. Guimaraes 3 Chen, Liwei, et al. Reduction In Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Is Associated With Weight Loss: The PREMIER  American Journal Of Clinical Nutrition AJN 5 (2009): AGRIS. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Obesity and the consumption of liquid calories has increased together in the US population, but there are only a few strong scientific evidences that prove that one is the consequence of the other. This study by Liwei Chen had the goal to provide more evidences to the field. In this study, they observed 810 adults (25-79 years) in a period of 18 months, with the objective to determine what are the effects by changing the number of liquid calories. The results were positive, reduction in liquid calorie intake of100 kcal/d was associated with a 0.3-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.2-kg weight loss at 18 mo. A reduction in SSB intake of 1 serving/d was associated with a 0.5-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.7-kg weight loss at 18 (Chen 6). Moreover, Chen states that a reduction in liquid calories intakes gives more results than the same reduction in solid calories. When drinking, there mastication, therefore, less pancreatic exocrine and endocrine responses. In conclusion, this study supports policies that would reduce the overall consumption of liquid calories. This article is relevant to the topic because it shows why it is important to limit the consumption liquid calories, in specific sugar drinks beverages. Also, it demonstrates that liquids are more problematic than the solid foods. It is a credible source, it was published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, that is considered as one of the top 100 most influential journals in Biology and Medicine over the last 100 years. Also, one of the author is Director of the Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology and Clinical Research in the School of medicine and public Health at Hopkins. Guimaraes 4 Fletcher, Jason M., David Frisvold, and Nathan Tefft. Can Soft Drink Taxes Reduce Population  Contemporary Economic Policy 28.1 (2010): 23-35. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Over the past 50 years, the per capita soft drink consumption increased 500%. It is stated that Obesity is caused by each small number of calories that is increased in our consumption, that later it accumulate. Expenses with medical cost regarding to Obesity is bigger than alcohol and cigarettes. With the objective of reducing the consumption of soft drinks, taxes are added to the total price of the product. Approximately two-thirds of all the states in the US includes some sort of tax in the drinks, that can be excise taxes, sales taxes. This article does an empirical examination of the effectives of the taxation of sugar drinks. The findings in the research showed that for each percentage point increase in the state soft drink tax rate, the BMI would decrease 0.003 points. This Article point a solution to the obesity epidemic, increasing the price of the soft drink, less of it would be bought, therefore the weight of the population would reduce. It differs from the other sources, because not only state the cause of obesity, but also gives how to minimalize it. It is a credible source, Fletcher is an Assistant professor of the School of public Health of the Yale University. Frisvolt and tefft are Assistant professor of the Department of Economics, one from the Emory University and the other from Bates College. Ludwig, David S, Karen E Peterson, and Steven L Gortmaker. Relation Between Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Drinks And Childhood Obesity: A Prospective, Observational  Lancet 357.9255 (2001): 505. Academic Search Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Guimaraes 5 A study has been done to see the relationship between consumption of sugar drinks and obesity in kids. A total of 548 students were analyzed for the period of one year and seven months to see if those drinks was having a significant effect on changing the body of the kids. The results were positive according to what was expected, the chances of being obese increases for each serving that was intake, also the body mass index (BMI) of the children was raised per each serving consumed. Analyzing the findings, the consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks has a big impact on the childhood obesity. This article has a study that was done in 1995 to 1997, being published in 2001. Even being an old study it still has some verdicts facts that can be used in the argument of future papers. It is relevant to the topic for showing what are the effects of sugar drinks in the body, increasing the BMI. Even being a study that was done in school children (7-11 years) it can easy relates to adult obesity. The authors have some significant credibility, Ludwig is pediatrician and a researcher at Children Hospital Boston and a professor in Harvard Medical School. While Karen has ScD in Nutrition at Harvard School of Public Health. Pan, An, and Frank B. Hu. Effects of Carbohydrates on Satiety: Differences between Liquid and Solid  Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care 14.4 (2011): 385- 90. Web. 30 Jan 2017 Appetite is a major factor when it comes to food intake regulation, it is clear and simple: the more you feel hungry, the more you eat. The article by Frank Hu and An Pan explains how liquid carbohydrates differs from solid carbohydrates, analyzing a series of studies. The liquid carbohydrates, especially sugary drinks, are known for producing less satiety than solid Guimaraes 6 carbohydrates. Even though the body receiving great intake of calories, the feeling of hunger go away and the individual proceeds to consume more calories, which eventually, and in most cases, leads to an unbalanced nutrition. In simpler words, the article argues that, when consuming a sugary drink, for instance, the lack of a feeling of satiation causes people to continue to eat, even though the body has already absorbed enough calories. The article is relevant to the topic as it clearly states how sugar drinks are an easy path to obesity, demonstrates that it only gives extra calories to the body and shows credible and empirical evidence of such. In addition, it is very credible as one of the authors is from the United States Department of Nutrition, which entails great knowledge in the field. Furthermore, his co-writer is a renowned scholar from Harvard School of Public Health. Wang, Y Claire, and Seanna M Vine. Caloric Effect Of A 16-Ounce (473-Ml) Portion-Size Cap On Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Served In  American Journal Of Clinical Nutrition 2 (2013): AGRIS. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. In June 2012, it was proposed a policy in New York City to restrict all sugary beverages sold in restaurants to a size of 16 oz (473ml) or less. Normally, the large size is 32 oz (946 ml, 316 kcal). This article analyzes what would be the result if this policy got applied. An average teen consumes 301 calories per day in Sugar drinks and adult consume 203 calories. Results of this study shows that if the policy got accepted, teenager would consume 57.6 less calories, while the adult would consume 62.6 less (Wang 1). Moreover, it states that most of the large drinks of 16 oz are founded in restaurant of fast food. Guimaraes 7 This article is relevant to the research question because it shows that the prohibition of free-refill of sugar drinks can be a possible way to make Americans less fat just like the prohibition of bigger size than 16 oz. It also shows logos that can be used to support the argument. It differs from the others sources because it clearly discusses one intervention made to reduce the obesity epidemic. The authors are credible, Claire Wang is a decision scientist that earned his ScD in Harvard School of Public Health, she has done research in the topic of obesity and cardiovascular disease prevention using mathematical models. While Seanna Vine is a researcher at Columbia Mailman School of Public Health.