Nguyen 1 Alan Nguyen Emil Smith Composition 1 February 1 st , 2017 Effects of Medical Marijuana on Children with Seizures Medical marijuana has been a huge controversial issue for many years throughout the United States. Although the use of marijuana for medical purposes has not been a new phenomenon, with new knowledge and new medical techniques, many contemplate that medical marijuana is a miracle drug that could aid with multitudes of ailments. Medical marijuana has been around since 2900 BC. The earliest use of medical marijuana is speculated to have been used to Chinese Emperor Fu His. Emperor Fu is credited as one of the most popular emperors in the history of China and many scholars theorize he was a fan of marijuana as he used to Chinese word Ma in Chinese is cannabis, thus solidifying the popularity of medical marijuana as a popular medicine to fill yin and yang. One of the many ailments medical marijuana helps are seizures. In many cases, medical marijuana has been able to stop the seizures completely. Many of those who dabbled in using medical marijuana have been able to stay seizure free, while others have a reduction in the amount of seizures they get. This is because the CBD (cannabidiol) has a profound effect on epilepsy. Does medical marijuana truly aid children who suffer from seizures? Many experiments have been conducted and results have varied from every spectrum. Nguyen 2 Soloman, D. (2016, February). Put to the test: how a clinical trial in Fort Worth could lead the FDA to approve medical marijuana for patients who desperately need the drug: children debilitating epilepsy. Retrieved February 17, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=23f30207-a534-4f2c-a552- 49e7118ede76%40sessionmgr4008&vid=0&hid=4205&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=edsgcl.443368164&db=edsgao Medical marijuana meant to be used to treat children with epilepsy was very heavily guarded on the way to Fort Worth. Those possessing the drug had to go through many checkpoints until the drug arrived at a special clinic at Children. Just this one was essential to marijuana advocates, however, without FDA approval, companies will have a hard time trying to make any claims about the potential of their products that contain THC. Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is a huge component of marijuana and is the main chemical responsible for the many psychological effects that take place. Scientists have noted how THC has a similar effect on the body like naturally made cannabinoid chemicals. Humans cannabinoid receptors are attached to thinking, memory, and pleasure. Instead of cannabinoid being attached to the receptors, THC attaches instead. This causes more intense feelings compared to natural cannabinoid chemicals. Furthermore, Children is participating in one of the only FDA approved trials of using medical marijuana to help treat children who suffer from debilitating forms of epilepsy. This is important as it tells citizens the government is somewhat interested in medical marijuana and would like to research it more in order to come into a concrete conclusion. Companies are eagerly waiting for the FDA to approve medical marijuana as it will give them a chance to engage in the market to make a profit and this would also help consumers Nguyen 3 because there will be competition in the business, thus reducing the probability of a monopoly. However, the research conducted at is inconclusive and needs further testing. The article provides an FDA approved study that is being conducted to aid children who suffer from a severe form of epilepsy. This is huge as there many FDA approved studies including medical marijuana in their program. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is a huge federal agency under the US Department of Health and Human Services. Congress has even given them the power to enforce the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. With the federal government giving large focus and responsibilities in the FDA, there are many qualified personnel and their opinion has recently been concerning medical marijuana. The FDA is a huge organization with huge credibility as it is the largest public health organization in the United States. The use of medical marijuana in their research provides advocates with inspiration. Furthermore, the transfer of a FDA approved study to a public hospital will present my essay with an intricate case of one of the view instances when the government is aiding scientific research on human subjects. If the study has some conclusive evidence of medical marijuana helping children with epilepsy, this could serve as an example where the government has been witness to an incredible discovery in the form of medical marijuana. Smeltz, A. (2016, June 1). Pennsylvania youth could have medical marijuana by this summer. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Retrieved February 17, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=1106cc30-f8fb-42af-a47c- c5c71c66dac6%40sessionmgr4009&hid=4205&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=edsgcl.453900189&db=edsgbe Children in Pennsylvania could have access to medical marijuana much sooner than adults in the state. Health secretary Karen Murphy wants to help families whose children that are Nguyen 4 deemed in the battle to legalize medical marijuana to treat epilepsy. State officials are accelerating access for children whose families need the medical marijuana and the state law was signed by Governor Tom Wolf on April 17, 2016. Although the Department of Health only has temporary rules and regulations, many law makers hope to finalize permanent rules by the next year or two. The criteria for those who will take part in the accelerated project are minors with one of the serious illnesses the law pertains to; one of these illnesses is epilepsy in children. Many consider the major reason for the children to have access to medical marijuana quickly before others is their day to day life being challenged. Soon, the caretakers will be able to receive an identification card in order to legally obtain medical marijuana to help their seizures. Although many believe the drug will aid children who suffer from severe forms of epilepsy, scientists preview that there may be some risks due to the undeveloped brain of a child. Many doctors and professionals believe medical value is overexaggerated and there is just not enough research or evidence for the drug. If there is such huge risks, they believe further testing has to be conducted and the last choice is to give an unknown drug to children. Nevertheless, many families take the risks due to the potential effect of helping their child. The article presents a case where a state is trusting in the health benefits of medical marijuana in order to help their citizens. What makes this case different is the state of Pennsylvania rushing the use of medical marijuana to aid children who suffer to epilepsy. Laws have been passed in order to enable the caretaker to be able to obtain an identification card for the child. Karen Murphy, state health secretary in Pennsylvania is very credible as she holds a huge position of health secretary in a state. She believes the accelerated process of enable children to obtain medical marijuana to treat their epilepsy is the main priority in Pennsylvania. The article shows that the state has tested medical marijuana and believes there are health Nguyen 5 benefits in its use and thus, are attempting to use it on children who need it the most. On the other side of the spectrum however, many doctors such as Dr. Deitrick, an OB-GYM at Jefferson Hospital believes there may be benefits in the use of medical marijuana, but using the drug on a young, developing brain can cause many problems later in life and there is always a theoretical risk because there has not been conclusive evidence. Rollins, J. A. (2014). Pot for Tots: Children and Medical Marijuana. Pediatric Nursing,40(2), 59-60. Retrieved February 17, 2017, from http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=1&sid=ba495c6a-ee13-4c2d-820f- ce5a1cf0b9b0%40sessionmgr103&hid=111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#A N=95718116&db=eue Although the use of medical marijuana can be very beneficial to children who suffer from some form of epilepsy, there are many who can misuse the system in order to legally obtain marijuana for their own profit. Although many truly use medical marijuana to aid their child with epilepsy, some use the legally obtained marijuana in order to create edibles. The edibles can be curated towards children, and many do consume the edibles. This presents a huge controversy as it negates the purpose of using medical marijuana to treat illnesses. Although there are many who would abuse the system, there are children who truly need the medical marijuana and use it for their own benefit to treat their epilepsy. The children who need the medical marijuana tend to obtain it legally with an identification card, but those who misuse the system can still legally obtain medical marijuana using the same procedures. Nevertheless, like with any drug, many will misuse the drug and try to make quick cash by selling it to those who will pay. Even a prescription cannot stop it. Many look at the positive side and see that medical marijuana cards Nguyen 6 increased from 2000 to 60,000 in a span of a decade. All those who newly received a medical marijuana card can benefit from the drug in treating children who suffer from epilepsy. The article creates an instance where the system of legally of obtaining medical marijuana can cause drastic measures. The use of not using medical marijuana to treat epilepsy, but instead for own profit can cause many law makers to decline the push for medical marijuana. The article presents many examples of how one may misuse medical marijuana and this can influence many who either support or not support it. If lawmakers decide to not push for the legalization of medical marijuana, how can there be conclusive evidence of medical marijuana aiding children. In order to test this claim, Dr. Wang, a leading doctor who is skeptical in the use of medical marijuana and the potential effects it has on society decided to conduct a study in the use of medical marijuana in young children. The study includes patients younger than twelve and they were studied for six years. His conclusion was that most who abused medical marijuana had serious respiratory insufficiency and lethargy. Dr.Wangs experiment concludes that the use of medical marijuana can have major side effects if used incorrectly and the legalization of medical marijuana will only aid in many who will have severe reactions in using the drug. Dr. conclusion adds a perspective in the research question as a potential con of children using medical marijuana. Jaffe, S., & Klein, M. (2010). Medical Marijuana and Adolescent Treatment. American Journal on Addictions,19(5), 460-461. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=21e40ccc-8475-497e-8c4e- 7c76aa367df3%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4205&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=64503094&db=aph Nguyen 7 With the legalization of marijuana in California, there has been a substantial increase in the number of medical marijuana prescriptions and dispensaries. Many however, have major concerns about the increase in medical marijuana and how it pertains to children. Research has provided that marijuana has a huge negative impact on memory, learning, and attention. These three attributes are essential for a child to succeed in school and anything that can be detrimental to them can cause major repercussions later in the future. Steven Jaffe, who has his MD from Emory University, conducted a survey to seven hundred California children to view if they have suffered or benefited from the use of medical marijuana. He asked seven important questions to each patient in order to review their thoughts on the drug. When asked if medical marijuana was being harmful to them, 94% said no and furthermore, 77% believe marijuana is more beneficial than the prescription drugs they have been using previously. The majority (90%) believe medical marijuana is becoming more available, which is true as California legalized medical marijuana. However, the major discovery that Jaffe made was when he asked adolescents about how medical marijuana has affected their cognitive skills, about 67% said they had short term memory loss and 70% described that they had a major loss of motivation while using the drug. In conclusion of his study, Jaffe found 69% of his participants believe that the use of medical marijuana has caused more problems. The journal written by Steven Jaffe, has huge credibility as he received an MD from Emory University and his study was approved by an Institutional Review Board. He has all the credentials and permission anyone could ask for to conduct a survey into the effects medical marijuana has had on adolescents. The state in which he conducted his survey (California) has a broad history of being lenient in using medical marijuana for research to aid the ill. It is widely believed medical marijuana helps children, but not many take into the account of how the Nguyen 8 children feel while using the drug. The number and symptoms of seizures could be reduced, but could other health concerns rise? The survey Dr.Jaffe conducted demonstrates that many of the youth believe the drug has helped with their epilepsy and the availability of the drug has helped with their epilepsy by providing a much more available basis to obtain the drug. Sounds great for adolescents who need medical marijuana to aid their epilepsy, but there are other problems that may arise. Does medical marijuana truly aid children who suffer from epilepsy? Sure, they may aid the epilepsy, but short term memory loss and loss of motivation do not aid the child. Especially since these two attributes are so important for school. Lorber, L. (2005). Law, Ethics, And Gender: Gonzales v Raich: The US supreme consideration captured the public policy debate about the medical use of marijuana. In Gender Medicine ,2(3), 124-130. Retrieved February 18, 2017, from http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=55e11b77-eb80-41fe-8961- 3e29333bc22b%40sessionmgr104&vid=0&hid=111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=S1550857905800403&db=edselp The fight for the legalization of medical marijuana came to a halt on June 2005. Advocated took a huge blow when the US Supreme Court voted 6 to 3 that Congress should regular and even ban the medical use of marijuana even if state laws were passed legalizing the drug. Federal law takes precedent over state law and the US Supreme Court is the final court in which one can present their case to. The Supreme Court believed the use of medical marijuana can exhibit drug abuse and unnecessary violence. The prime example of federal law having precedent over state law is the cases of Diane Monson and Angel Raich. Both women were from California, but their experiences with federal agents were vastly different. Both used the drug to treat their own symptoms but also to help children who suffer from epilepsy. In 2002, federal Nguyen 9 drug agents raided home and after a three-hour standoff, the agents decided to confiscate six of her marijuana plants that she was using to aid her chronic back pain and those who have other problems, such as seizures. The federal agents used the plea that Monson violated the federal Controlled Substance Act (CSA) and thus had reason to confiscate her marijuana plants. In case however, federal agents did not raid her property, but she knew there was the potential of a raid. Raich suffered from an uncontrollable seizure disorder and needed the medical marijuana as other medications were having no effect on her. The Supreme Court has a large amount of credentials as they are the judicial branch in the United States. Each justice is carefully chosen and can serve for life. They oversee many national cases that can be detrimental to the United States. The credentials to be a Supreme Court justice is immense as the potential justice has to be nominated by a President, then confirmed by the Senate. The President and Senate does not just choose a recently graduated law student, but typically somebody in their mid-forties to and they must have an extensive career as a lawyer or served as a judge. Many of the justices have also been educated Ivy League Universities and top tier law schools. Once the case of if medical marijuana can aid those, including children of ailments such as seizures was presented, the Supreme Court took careful consideration into the aspects of the drug. They reviewed the pros and cons of the drug and how it can impact the United States as a whole. Their conclusion was that medical marijuana is not beneficial to those who need it, including children who suffer from seizures. The benefits of using medical marijuana to treat children is evident, but to the eyes of the law, there are none. Does the Supreme Court have the best intention of those who need the drug or is there conclusion correct and there is no benefit of using the drug? Nguyen 10 Knopf, A. (2004). Marijuana may make some seizures worse. Marijuana may make some seizures worse,16(33), 1st ser., 7-7. Retrieved February 18, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=4&sid=97ef48e6-bd13-4875-926e- afda6a374694%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4205&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=edsgcl.121404234&db=edsgao There has been great debate on the credibility of many of the experiments that have been conducted by many doctors and researchers that are skeptical of medical marijuana aiding those who suffer from seizures. A study on the use of medical marijuana to treat seizures was conducted at the University of Saskatchewan. Although a synthetic version of THC was able to suppress seizures in rats, as reported by many, scientists conducting the study found the use of THC caused an increase of convulsions in the temporal lobe. Dr. Michael Corcoran stated that when injected with THC more than once, over a period of days the seizures actually got worse for the lab rats. The results projected by the scientists at the University of Saskatchewan directly contradict previous research that medical marijuana and synthetic forms of it can reduce seizures and a plethora of other ailments. If there is a contradiction between experiments, this means the experiments that either side conducted is skewed. There was huge bias or there was a margin of error during both of the experiments. If there is such huge mystery on the state of THC and the effects it has on seizures in children, there has to be further research in order to determine if medical marijuana is truly able to aid those who suffer from seizures. The conclusion that researches came to was does the effects of a drug that is tested on a rat truly predict whether the drug will aid or harm a human? Dr. Michael Corcoran, a professor at The University of Saskatchewan that specializes in anatomy and cell biology was the lead researcher during the experiment to test the effects of Nguyen 11 medical marijuana on seizures. He has large credentials as a doctor from a huge university and is a figure head in the community as a professor in the university. His research into using THC and the effects it has on seizures is very intriguing as it is one of the only experiments that have contradicted experiments that have provided the medical field with benefits of using medical marijuana to aid those who suffer from seizures. Before testing drugs on humans, it is imperative to test the drug on rats prior to humans. Dr. Corocan did just did and found out that medical marijuana does not help those with seizures, but may actually induce more seizures and cause those who take the drugs to become worse. Does medical marijuana truly aid children who suffer from seizures? According to Dr.Corocan and his research, no. Medical marijuana has the potential to cause more seizures according to his research.