Student 1 Student Dr Thornton ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Slowing Down the Penny Pennies have long been in debate on whether to keep them in circulation or not. In other words, should the United States Government continue producing pennies? Results of either decision will impact the economy by either saving government funds or costing government even more spending. The decision may also affect the citizens of the United States in an identical manner: either saving money or spending more money. Citizens to Retire the U.S Penny (CRP) feels like the penny should be eradicated as they feel like the penny has lost its face value. However, Americans for Common Cents (ACC) defend the penny by emphasizing on the historical impact and its tribute to president Abraham Lincoln. This debate has been going on for multiple years, and has never reached a true conclusion. To end the debate on whether pennies should be in circulation or not, the opposing stakeholders Americans for Common Cents and Citizens to Retire the U.S Penny should collaborate to reduce the production of pennies to minimize the production loss of pennies, which can be implemented by their similar targeted audience, similar influences with lobbyists and congressional workers, and their passion for the penny. CRP works to eliminate the penny. Their main goal is to educate people, including lobbyists and congressional workers about the benefits of removing the penny from circulation. CRP uses general facts to help promote and support their penny eliminating motive. One common fact is that they claim nothing can be purchased for a single penny. This is true, as Student 2 anything in stores is worth far more than a single penny. Most of the time, the cheapest items to buy are around 89 cents. own website states that current cost of a single penny is 1.7 cents. The U.S spent almost $132 million to produce less than $50 million of circulating currency. This data is supported by the lengthy 2014 Annual Mint Report (Peterson). In the article Federal Reserve Seeks Congressional Study of Penny Elimination by Suzanna Andrews, Theodore E. Allison had stated that pennies are eliminated, a result would be the rounding of prices, either rounding up or down. However, the effect would not be drastic or long lasting. (Federal In an article titled The Great Penny Elimination, Kevin McManus describes a day in Canada as amazing. One day, stores and restaurants refused to accept pennies. Due to this event, all of the vendors rounded prices up or down to the nearest nickel (McManus). This suggests that a rounding bill is possible. From the article Waiting For Change, Josh Sanburn makes the argument that nearly two-thirds of all in-store purchases are made with debit or credit cards. For this reason, it becomes difficult for the penny to sustain its face value (Sanburn). Research done by Robert Whaples in the article Time to Eliminate the Penny from the U.S. Coinage System: New Evidence shows that would have essentially no effect on consumers or sellers as a group, if these transactions are indicative. The is effectively zero. There are lots of data tables in the article to support his claim. Another article titled Research Supports Eliminating Penny emphasizes the claim made by Robert Whaples, breaking down his research into an easier understanding (Barrett). ACC works to keep the penny in circulation. They aim to educate people, including lobbyists and congressional workers about the significance of the penny. ACC uses a variety of poll statistics and reports conducted by various organizations, such as A Gallup Organization and Opinion Research Corporation (ACC web). However, most of the information presented is not Student 3 properly cited or have links to the reports. ACC claims that a poll conducted by the ACC showed that 68% of people surveyed favored in keeping the penny in circulation (Two-Thirds). In the article titled Pennies, Pricing, and Rounding: Is All the Relevant Analysis in? by Raymond E. Lombra, Lombra discusses how there is very little credible evidence to any benefits of eliminating the penny. Lombra also briefly states how research has no evidence to support his claim, and calls it (Relevant). In a brief statement made by Mark Weller, Weller claims that low-denomination coin helps keep prices in check. If we get rid of the penny, cash transactions would be rounded to the nearest nickel, making goods and services more expensive as companies would round up to maximize profits (NO). ACC is backed by Jarden Zinc, a multi-billion-dollar company that is the primary resource of the blank disks used to create pennies. Jarden Zinc has lobbyists to defend their position on the penny. There is obvious incompatibility between the ACC and CRP. ACC favors of keeping the penny, while CRP favors for removing the penny. There have been numerous laws and legislations written to eliminate the penny. These laws include a rounding tax that would force every price to end in either a 5 or a 0, making the use of the penny occasional if you run out of nickels. However, these legislations were never passed due to lobbyist influence, from ACC and Jarden Zinc, and some congress members who deemed the proposals to be unconstitutional. A resolution has never been found, and the penny debate still exists to this day. A common theme between these two stakeholders, is that they are both passionate about pennies, despite having different perspectives. They also both target the same population, essentially lobbyists and congress workers. A compromise is very possible between these two stakeholders. One option is to have any congressional representatives and lobbyists who support the CRP is to propose a bill aiming to slow down the production of pennies. In other words, writing a bill with a proposal to Student 4 produce less pennies overall. With this option, the government will spend less money producing fewer pennies, effectively accomplishing the goals of the CRP. The United States mint would not lose as much money producing pennies. This partially accomplishes the goal of the CRP, which is to eliminate the penny. Likewise, ACC would have to abide by the compromise as well. ACC would need to work with Jarden Zinc to agree to the compromise. Since Jarden Zinc is the only provider of blank zinc disks to manufacture the pennies, perhaps Jarden Zinc could make a sacrifice to sell less zinc disks to the United States Mint. This cuts the profits from selling the blank zinc disks. Also part of the compromise, lobbyists who are backed by Jarden Zinc would have to agree to tone down the production of pennies, meaning to collaborate with those who are in favor or eradicating the penny. The compromise benefits both the ACC and Jarden Zinc. Since pennies are not eliminated, the ACC is not at a complete loss and Jarden Zinc still makes some profit from selling Zinc to the United States Mint, at a lesser amount however. To implement this compromise, this is heavily reliant on Congress. Lobbyists and Congressional workers from both sides of the issue must work together and create a true agreement. If the proposed compromise is what both sides agree on, then it must be written by policymakers, and must go through the American Legislative System for laws to be passed. The bill would possibly go through many revisions by the House or the Senate. By the time the bill reaches the final stages, the bill would have to have not been vetoed by the president. At this point, the bill may not state what was originally intended. It may have become a completely different bill, with completely different policies and a completely different title compared to the original. Also, the passing of the bill does not happen overnight. This process is extremely long, and may take many months to complete. Student 5 There have been many laws and bills that have proposed the idea of eliminating the penny upfront, but have never made it into official law due to lobbyists and congressional workers. This proves that the compromise is feasible to achieve, only if both sides give and sacrifice a little bit. Would the lower production of pennies affect life how it already is? How would rounding prices affect the everyday life of citizens? Hopefully Jarden Zinc can make the effort to go through with this compromise. Despite the company losing profits from the Zinc disks alone, they can still make up for loss profits through the companies of Yankee Candle and Rubbermaid. (WC: 1418) Student 6 Works Cited (ACC web) Weller, Mark. Americans for Common Cents, Americans for Common Cents, 2013, www.pennies.org/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. (Barrett) Barrett, Maggie. Research Supports Eliminating Research Supports Eliminating Penny, Maggie Barrett, 18 July 2006, www.wfu.edu/wfunews/2006/2006.07.18.w.html. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. (Ferderal Reserve) Andrews, Suzanna M. Federal Reserve Seeks Congressional Study of Penny  American Banker, 1981, p. 2. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.1879277&site=eds-live. (Gore) Gore, Jeff. Can You Buy with a Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, 2013, www.retirethepenny.org/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. (McManus) McManus, Kevin. The Great Penny  Industrial Engineer, no. 9, 2013 p.16.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?d irect=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.345105854&site=eds-live Student 7 (NO) WELLER, MARK.  Junior Scholastic, vol. 118, no. 8, 08 Feb. 2016, p. 23. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edo&AN=112611378&site=eds-live. (Peterson) Peterson, Richard A. Annual 2014 ANNUAL REPORT, 2015, Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. (Relevant) Lombra, Raymond E. Pennies, Pricing, and Rounding: Is All the Relevant Analysis  Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, Winter2007, pp. 147-152. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=b uh&AN=24488860&site=eds-live. (Sanburn) SANBURN, JOSH. Waiting for  Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 04 Feb. 2013, pp. 36-40. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=a2h&AN=85504546&site=eds-live. (Two-Thirds) Weller, Mark. than Two-Thirds of Americans Still Favor Keeping the Americans for Common Cents, Americans for Common Cents, 2014, www.pennies.org/index.php/penny-news/134-more-than-two-thirds-of-americans favor-keeping-the-penny. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Student 8 (Whaples) Whaples, Robert. Time to Eliminate the Penny from the U.S. Coinage System: New  Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, Winter2007, pp. 139-146. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=buh&AN=24488859&site=eds-live.