1 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING Project 1: Medicinal Pricing Daniel C. DeJesus University of South Florida 2 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING Medicinal Pricing Health care and cost of medicine has been an issue that has plagued the U.S. back to at the least the late The U.S. is one of the most powerful countries in the world, but the medical systems that have been in place are lackluster and far behind other areas of the world like Europe and the neighbor Canada. The purpose of this research project is to shed light on lingering problems with the cost of medicine in the U.S. and ideas from other countries that have worked well for them and could possibly work well in the America. The privatization of medicine has gone in a completely different direction than most successful countries in the world, countries in Europe opt for socialized medicine, they regulate drug prices to make them more affordable while in America big pharmaceutical companies are free to set the price however they so choose. America has a long history of issues with big business, which all too often does not care about anything except making money, sacrificing the health to make money. Many people argue the medical industry should not be driven by profit as it creates a conflict of interest between actually helping people and making money off people who need the medicine. America needs to regulate the medical industry to make life saving medicine affordable by all and not cost an arm and a leg to live. This research project will focus on medicinal pricing in the United States of America, Europe, and Canada, in a compare and contrast format. The topic is medicinal pricing, the concept is economy and finance, and the research question is how medicinal pricing affects economy and finance in America, Europe, and Canada and which system or characteristics of a system are better and for what reasons? 3 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING Annotated Bibliography Golec, J., & Vernon, J. A. (2010). Financial Effects of Pharmaceutical Price Regulation on R&D Spending by EU versus US Firms. Pharmacoeconomics, 28(8), 615-628. This source articulates the effects of price regulation on research and development (R&D) spending in the U.S. and Europe. The article discusses how price regulations in Europe created lower cost prescription medication for consumers, over the 19 years pharmaceutical firms have produced about 46 additional new medicines if they had maintained their R&D spending (Golec, p.627) and created 1680 jobs in the industry. the US adopted EU-type price controls, we estimate that 117 fewer medicines would have been  (Golec, p. 627) and 4368 jobs would not have been created. The figures discussed in the past two sentences show if we were to regulate drug pricing in America, we would diminish productivity of new medicines and new jobs. The article shows in the time frame of 1986-2004 the tighter regulation of prices in the pharmaceutical industry in Europe has led to less production of newer medicines, fewer jobs created, but prices were stagnant in comparison to the U.S., The U.S. has produced more new medicines, created more jobs, but prices for the medication has gone up by 50%. The article relates to the research question because it is directly comparing and contrasting R&D in relation to drug pricing to R&D in relation to drug pricing. Joseph Golec is a credible author in the article because he has a PhD in economics and has published 170 peer-reviewed journals. John A. Vernon is a reputable author in the article because he has a PhD in economics and published over 200 peer reviewed academic journals. 4 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING Tinsley, H. a. (2004). Prescriptions without Borders: America Looks to Canada for Answers to Solve the Prescription Drug Pricing Predicament in the U.S., But Is Importation Really the Solution?. Hamline Journal Of Public Law & Policy, 25(2), 437-479. This article discusses and explains many things in detail about the predicament during the Bush presidential era of medicinal pricing exceeding the capabilities to purchase it. The source goes into detail on why prices are so high because it is a free market system without regulations and the drastically high numbers are for grossing enough money to progress further and expand on itself. pharmaceutical companies are driven to make money and expand their business; this creates the issue with price continually going up to the point where few can actually afford to purchase the medication but the price cannot be lowered or R&D will be slowed down and thus creating fewer new medicines. The main concern it addresses is importation of medicine at a cheaper price, the author discusses legal ramifications to large-scale importation and how this affects the businesses creating medicine. The article relates to the research question because it addresses the reasoning behind drug prices being so high in America and why prices are lower in Canada; also, it addresses the idea of importation of medicine for a lower cost and how that affects the economy. The author is credible because this is a peer reviewed academic journal. Hooper, C. L., & Henderson, D. R. (2016). Want cheaper drugs? More competition, not more government coercion, would greatly benefit consumers. Regulation, (1), 20. 5 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING The article discusses why the prices of drugs are so high and elaborates on the process by which a drug is created and made legal to sell commercially. The article addresses underlying problems with the testing, because it is so difficult to create an approved drug. The authors point out other countries take advantage of the drugs being made in America, since America has to do all the research and work to create the drug and pass the test to be legalized then other countries piggy back off of that and import the drug. Instead of trying to create their own drugs, if there were more companies creating drugs the market would be more competitive, thus prices would go down since there is competition in the market. The article elaborates on some companies that have taken advantage of the current system to drive up prices, where a few competitors will deliberately charge huge amounts so people are coerced into buying a cheaper but still overpriced product because there is nowhere else to obtain the product. This article relates to the research question because it addresses the issue of why drug prices need to be high for growth but also companies taking advantage of the market not being regulated by the government. The authors are credible because this is a peer reviewed academic journal. MCGUIRE, J., JABON, E. N., & FASERUK, A. (2014). FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS OF ORPHAN DRUGS THE CANADIAN ECONOMY IN PERSPECTIVE. Journal Of Financial Management & Analysis, 27(1), 1-13. The article discusses the effect of orphan drugs (drugs used to treat rare diseases) on the economy and the pharmaceutical industry. Rare diseases affect about five in every 100,000 6 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING people on average and therefore do not have a large market economy so the pharmaceutical companies may have to charge a substantially higher price for the product because there are fewer buyers. The problems with charging a larger portion of money for these medications is most of these diseases are life threatening, therefore these people need the medicine to live, on top of the fact most of the diseases are genetic and half of the people affected by these diseases are children. It does not seem fair to charge an obscene amount of money to a child in need of the drug to simply survive, but if there is no way for the companies to make money from developing these drugs they would not make them. There should be some halfway point where people are able to pay a reasonable amount for the medication and companies can still make money, this would most likely require government involvement in some way. This article is a good way of explaining why some drug prices are so high and why there may need to be some government intervention in the field. This article relates to the research question because it elaborates on aspects of the industry that pretty much require government involvement to work in favor, with so few people buying a product the company must charge more to make their money back at the least, but the people buying the medication need it to live but cannot afford it on a regular basis. The authors are credible because this is an academic journal and it is peer reviewed. Financial hardship linked to medication underuse. (2014). Medical Economics, (8), 36. The article is about a survey of about 10,000 chronically ill adult patients in 2014 by A. Berkowitz, MD, division of general internal medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical (Medical Economics, p. 1). The purpose of the survey was to ee 7 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING how many adults could not afford food, medication, or both. The survey found 1 in 3 patients have trouble affording food, medication, or (Medical Economics, p. 1), they surveyors looked at 9,696 chronically ill adults, found that 23.4% of the chronically ill study participants reported cost-related medication underuse, and 11% reported food insecurity as (Medical Economics, p. 1) Underuse of medicine occurs when a patient is living in poverty and is unable to afford their medication on a regular basis, along with the possible inability to acquire food. The prospect of people who cannot acquire food and medicine are just outrageous and should not be happening in a first world country let alone one of the richest countries in the world. Part of the problem causing these people to ration medicine and go without food is how the drug industry is not regulated in terms of pricing of the products, this issue is non-existent in other first world countries with regulated drug industry. This article relates to the research question because people underusing medication and possibly going without food is a consequence of lack of regulation in the pharmaceutical industry. I was unable to find the author of the article but the article comes from a peer reviewed academic journal that writes about similar topics and has been doing so since 1998. Kindig, D. A., Seplaki, C. L., & Libby, D. L. (2002). Death rate variation in US subpopulations. Bulletin Of The World Health Organization, 80(1), 9-15. 8 DeJesus Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING The article discusses a study done on mortality rates in America from 1990 to 1992, the article looks at certain groups of people, geographical locations, gender, education, and income per capita. The article focuses on certain ethnic groups of people when discussing the mortality rates because they are the most affected, the next category with the highest mortality rate is people whom did not graduate high school and lower income per capita. The two categories that are the highest in mortality are shown the standardized coefficients, we see that the variables with the largest relative association with mortality arc African-American ethnicity) (0.44) and adults with less than high school education (King, p. 10) difference between geographical areas of one percentage point in Black population is associated with an average increase of 3.32 deaths per 100,000 population; and for adults with less than high school education, a difference of one percentage point is associated with an average increase of 3,17 deaths per 100,000 population, all else being People who did not graduate high school are associated with poverty because they did not get a good education they cannot get a good job, those who live in poverty would not be able to afford medication if they need it because of how expensive and unregulated the drug market is. This article relates to the research question because it shows mortality rates are higher among those who are impoverished, therefore when they die due to inability to acquire medication it is a direct consequence of unregulated high drug prices. David a. Kindig is a reputable author in this article because he has an MD and a PhD and has published nearly 200 peer reviewed academic journals in the field. Christopher L. Seplaki is a credible author in the article because he has a PhD and has published over 150 peer reviewed academic journals. Donald L. Libby is a credible author in the article because he has published 19 peer reviewed academic journals.