Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Creating a Safer, Cleaner, More Affordable Energy In this day of age, everything produced is supposed to be better than the last, cheaper for consumers, and friendlier to the environment. However, when it comes to something as common as electricity, many people do not even think twice about it. While most people are aware of the other options in providing energy, they are either completely against it, or against change. Yet, everyone wants a cleaner environment, and better bang for their buck. The typical form of electricity, known by most people, is the grid system. A very active stakeholder on this form of electricity is the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), who not only enforce this grid system but also strive to make it better. On the other hand, Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), is a stakeholder who focusing mainly on the broadening of solar energy and the use of solar panels. When it comes to how to create electricity there are many different forms including, but not limited to, solar energy and a grid system, two types that are seemingly always at war. However, the stakeholders, Solar Energy Industries Association, and Edison Electric Institute, who share a common mission statement of wanting a safer, cleaner, more affordable energy, can come together and provide the best type of energy by directing their funds into research and an energy hybrid. On one side of this topic, the SEIA is the main contributor of solar energy in the United States They are currently working with one thousand member companies to help promote clean, affordable solar energy throughout the states, as well as trying to expand the Student 2 market and strengthen the industry Some of the main goals for SEIA is producing a cleaner, more affordable way to produce energy. According to Chris Leaman, energy is one of fastest growing (Leaman). SEIA states on their website that energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source available, and the U.S. has some of the richest solar resources in the This statement is also backed up in Eric article by saying, panels are the most prevalent alternative source of electrical power, with various types of these panels being used for residential and commercial applications around the (Storey). That means that anyone could start using solar energy in their daily life. Everyone wants to help make a change and better our economy and environment. However, no one wants to put in the time, effort, or money. What most people are not aware of is that the benefits of implementing solar energy go far beyond just how much electricity is produced. The number of jobs created from the solar energy is outstanding and escalating. solar industry currently employs more Americans than Apple, Google, Facebook, and Twitter (Leaman). The total comes out to about thirty-one thousand jobs in the United States alone (Leaman). In addition to the amount of jobs created from solar energy, there are many environmental and financial benefits as well. By installing solar panels, consumers can save thousands of dollars annually on electric bills, (Storey) as well as be able to sell back any unused energy to electricity companies for credit or profit (Leaman). Environmentally there are few downfalls to implementing solar energy into everyday life. Per Leaman, only than .0005% of the Earth needs to be covered with solar energy systems to power the entire (Leaman). That is roughly ten square miles of area. Concurrently, using solar energy can lead to a cleaner Student 3 environment and a healthier economy (Childress) which is exactly what stakeholders such as SEIA are working towards. On the other side of this issue, EEI focuses on the expansion of the typical type of electricity thought of today. This is better known as the grid system. EEI has dozens of electric companies and hundreds of industry suppliers internationally They also provide electricity for over two hundred and twenty million Americans and employ more than one million people Their mission is to provide a reliable, affordable, and clean to Americans Within the past couple of decades, there is the introduction of a different type of grid system, called the Smart Grid (Slayton). According to Lawrence Makovich in his article on the Smart Grid system, implementation of a smart grid system will enable the widespread use of renewable energy sources, allow more-distributed electricity generation, and help reduce carbon (Makovich). Slayton also talks about the Smart Grid system and she makes a very good point that anyone living in this generation can relate to. electrical grid powers smartphones, smart homes, and smart cars. Yet the grid itself is not so smart. Most electrical grids cannot manage the intermittency of renewable energy sources like solar and wind, so they must rely heavily on fossil (Slayton). With that being said, the new Smart Grid design is supposed to increase efficiency economically (Slayton) as well as some other things that EEI is working towards. Many people throughout the world, especially America, has become very dependent on electricity. Allan Mazur discusses the three main electrical grids in the United States. There is the Eastern and Western Interconnections as well as a smaller one located in Texas (Mazur). These grids supply power to all the continental United States as well as some parts of Canada. Due to this, if there were to be some type of power outage, it could and would cause a Student 4 widespread blackout (Mazur). This makes this system very dangerous and unpredictable. By starting to use the new Smart Grid system, the way electricity is used every day can become safer and cleaner to use. Both SEIA and EEI have very similar, if not identical missions of wanting to provide a better, safer, cleaner, more affordable type of energy. Solar energy and the typical grid system are great ways to provide electricity, but they both have their faults about them. in the 21st century, electricity is not a convenience, it is a (Childress). Both stakeholders agree with this claim made by Vincent Childress, but the way in which the world decides to go about it is what matters. Childress also states that recently passed the United States as the leading emitter of greenhouse (Childress). It is apparent that something needs to change. These two stakeholders -and many more just like them- could compromise their differences and collaborate to promote not only a cheaper form of energy but one that does not hurt the world in which we live. Most solutions are simple but require some work. Both stakeholders could take money received through funding and installations and use it towards research in finding what will work best for their preferred forms of energy emission. In addition, they could manufacture and sell a grid tied solar panel. With this hybrid, they could produce energy that is not only safer for consumers to use, but cleaner for the environment. Different types of this hybrid could be constructed so it could be used in not only residential areas but for commercial use as well. The only fall back of this could be the price. However, the amount of money that would be saved annually would make up the difference in the price that it is to buy this system. Even though SEIA and EEI have different views on how people should get their electricity, they share the same goals on what their systems should do. If these stakeholders come together, they not only could make ground breaking research on how to improve upon forming electricity Student 5 but also create a hybrid system that will provide safe, clean, affordable energy. Even more so, other forms of energy could come together to, such as wind and solar, or hydro and wind. The possibilities are completely unlimited, someone just needs to take the first step to making it happen. (WC: 1322) Student 6 Works Cited Solar Energy Industries Association, Web. 3 Mar. 2017, http://www.seia.org/about. Edison Electric Institute, Web. 3 Mar. 2017, http://www.eei.org/about/Pages/default.aspx. Childress, Vincent W. Energy Decisions: Is Solar Power the  Technology Engineering Teacher, vol. 70, no. 5, Feb. 2011, pp. 9-14. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=aph&AN=57631838&site=eds-live. Leaman, Chris. The Benefits of Solar  Renewable Energy Focus, vol. 16, no. 5/6, Dec. 2015, pp. 113-115. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ref.2015.10.002. Makovich, Lawrence J. The Smart Grid Separating Perception from  Issues in Science & Technology, vol. 27, no. 3, Spring2011, pp. 61-70. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=aph&AN=60272410&site=eds-live. Mazur, Allan and Todd Metcalfe. Three Electric Grids: Are Efficiency and Reliability Functions of Grid  Electric Power Systems Research, vol. 89, Aug. 2012, pp. 191-195. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.epsr.2012.03.005. Slayton, Rebecca. Secure Green: Digital Utopianism and the Challenge of Making the Electrical Grid Information & Culture, vol. 48, no. 4, 2013, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/43737372.  Solar  Solar Energy Industries Association, Web. 3 Mar. 2017, http://www.seia.org/policy/distributed-solar Accessed 19 Jan. 2017. Student 7 Storey, Eric B. Solar Panel Projects: Does It Pay to  Journal of Property Management, vol. 77, no. 6, Nov/Dec2012, pp. 46-50. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=bah&AN=83439388&site=eds-live.