Kelley 1 Jen Kelley Adam Carter English Composition 28 February 2017 Persuading People for Cochlear Implants Some children are born deaf or hard of hearing; however, there has been a miraculous and quickly advancing technology created for them: cochlear implants. Cochlear implants are a device that allows a person to sense sound According to the FDA, currently 70,400 people in the U.S with cochlear implants (Duncan). However, controversy revolving around them; therefore, in order to persuade people toward cochlear implants, Alexander Graham Bell Association of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (AG Bell) uses images and videos. This paper will discuss a specific video and image most representative of their views. On YouTube, a video of positive cochlear implant experiences families has had narrated by a mother with a son who is deaf. Furthermore, they have an image online with a mother and son smiling because the son can finally hear, thus exemplifying their views. Therefore, the use of rhetorical appeals in AG images online and their YouTube videos help them solidify that cochlear implants are in the best interest for a child in order for the child to prosper in society. AG Bell is a non-profit organization created in the with the goal of enhancing listening and spoken language in children. The association was created by Alexander Graham Bell, who is well known for patenting the first telephone Life of Alexander Graham They strive to provide as many opportunities for people with hearing loss. For example, a wider social group and opening up the job market for them. Along with this, they highlight the Kelley 2 importance of a child getting cochlear implants as soon as possible to increase the effectiveness of it Statement: Cochlear Today, the association is still going strong persuading parents who have children born with hearing loss to invest in cochlear implants for the abundance of benefits. The rhetorical appeal pathos orients the audience to feel certain emotions, and through facial expressions, body gestures, and real life stories, AG Bell accomplishes this. First, in one of their ads, there is a mother and son touching noses smiling. A smile indicates a bond, and in this image, the smile reveals happiness that the mother can finally hear her son speak. Then, the touching of foreheads and noses indicates closeness between the two. Furthermore, over the picture it says, my deaf son heard me call his name. He spoke the words love Words are arbitrary; however, the words love paired with the smile and the touching signifies a bond between the mother, the son, and the audience. The video has the similar effect of uplifting the mood as well. The mother in the video talks about how much more her son has been able to accomplish after getting cochlear implants, like participating in the spelling bee. In AG mission statement, it highlights the idea that cochlear implants make independence achievable for children deaf or hard of hearing Statement: Cochlear The video reflects this independence by the child going to the spelling bee. At the end of the video the child says, just feels good, when facing what seems like such a big mountain, to have AG Bell stand with you and stand behind The standing behind you could signify that when the child feels like he or she may fall, AG Bell will be there to pick him or her up. Then the mountain is a metaphor for the battle of hearing loss. Ultimately, AG use of pathos makes the audience feel inspired by the technology been created. Kelley 3 In order to create a sense of immediacy and timeliness for early intervention, AG Bell uses the rhetorical appeal kairos in their video and image. Over the image it says, my deaf son heard me call his The word signifies a feeling of acting now. Furthermore, in the video the mother says, was of the essence with the What she means by this is that speech and language are developed early on in childhood. One example of this is the results of a study done that confirmed that deaf children involved in an early intervention language program did just as well on language tests as hearing children (Moeller). Therefore, it marks AG values stated in their mission statement that early intervention is in the best interest for the child Statement: Cochlear By using kairos, AG Bell ultimately displays their view that if a parent act it will put the child at risk to falling behind. Along with this sense of immediacy, an audience needs to trust the information he or she is receiving when viewing ads and videos; therefore, AG Bell uses the rhetorical appeal ethos to do this. First, on the image it says their website in the bottom and it ends in This internet address ending is for non-profit organizations, which gives them more credibility Domain Another use of ethos is the name of the organization, which is displayed in both the video and the image. Alexander Graham Bell is well-established, and knowing he created the organization makes the audience believe the information more. Lastly, the video uses a real life story told by a mother explaining her gratefulness for AG Bell. This makes the viewer believe in the power of cochlear implants because it just actors reading off of a script. By having ethos incorporated into their images and videos, it makes their views seem more credible for the audience. Finally, AG Bell uses logos to persuade the viewers in logical ways. For example, they Kelley 4 have facts in the video like, the U.S., more than 12,000 babies are born each year with hearing They are backing up their argument for the importance of getting cochlear implants so that the child limited in terms of what he or she can do. By using facts to back up their argument, using logic to explain their claims. Then, at the bottom of the image in a small font it says that one can find out how to help deaf children by following the link. The link is their website which has an abundance of information, which appeals to logos. Although there are some logos used in this image and video, they rely on it heavily. However, having that fact in the video helps the viewer see how prevalent hearing loss is for babies. AG Bell want all parents to consider getting cochlear implants for their child born deaf of hard of hearing; therefore, hitting all of the rhetorical appeals is an effective use of persuasion. There are many things a person misses out on without hearing. For instance, hearing a dog bark, identifying sounds in an environment, and hearing voices. Although there are technologies that are made specifically for this like phone amplifiers, the response effort to do anything is more difficult for people who communicate with the majority society. AG Bell wants parents to choose the correct path for their deaf or hard of hearing child, so they use emotional, logical, timely, and credible ads as acts of persuasion. Kelley 5 Works Cited Duncan, Jill. Parental Readiness for Cochlear Implant  Cochlear Implants International 10.S1 (2009): 38-42. Web. The Life of Alexander Graham  The Life of Alexander Graham Bell AG Bell Listening and Spoken Language. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Moeller. Early Intervention Improves Language in Deaf  Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter 16.10 (2000). Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in  Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in Children AG Bell Listening and Spoken Language. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.  YouTube. YouTube, 06 Oct. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Understanding Domain  LEARN THE NET: Understanding Domain Names. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Kelley 6 www.agbell.org