Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Homelessness: Finding the Balance Between Differing Viewpoints The topic of homelessness is a serious one that has been controversial throughout the whole world, and specifically the United States. It is concerning fact that there are 564,708 individuals living in the United States that are homeless, as of January 2015 Care and Homeless: Foundation Ways on how to reduce or end homelessness has differed among many different individuals, and also many stakeholders. An important stakeholder that exists, concerning homelessness, is the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative (THHI), who believe that homelessness should be reduced through the use of dedicated volunteers and partners. A different stakeholder that believes a different approach than the first stakeholder is the Weingart Center, for they believe that homelessness should be reduced through investments by individuals, and also through programs and services that directly help the homeless. Although these stakeholders differ in their approaches towards reducing/ending homelessness, the compromise of combining their strategies through their similar goals, mindsets, and dedication towards reducing/ending homelessness. The first stakeholder presented, THHI, carries strong goals towards reducing/ending homelessness. They were established in 1986 with an intended vision to improve the treatment of homeless individuals and through several methods of reducing/ending homelessness. Some of these methods entail bringing forth dedicated volunteers and partners to help in the fight to reduce or help end homelessness. The history of this stakeholder has been very successful in Student 2 combining efforts from the community and also with willing partners, to help towards their goal. Since the establishment of this organization, the THHI has grown in size and efforts, including the increase in number of partners involved in helping to achieve their goal Hillsborough Homeless method towards the issue of combating the spread of homelessness is effective because are leaders in producing innovative and collaborative solutions to the challenge of (Lisa A. Baker, Jill Elliott, Julie Williams Mitchell, and Mark Thiele 10). THHI is strongly dedicated in reducing/ending homelessness, and it is evident through their efforts in the community. Their intended vision not only makes them an important stakeholder towards the issue of homeless, but it also presents an interesting take on this issue. It is stated that through their efforts, the of homeless people in Hillsborough decreased by 5.9% between 2015 and Hillsborough Homeless Another stakeholder with a different view on reducing/ending homelessness is the Weingart Center. This organization was established in the early 1980s, when widespread homeless was very prevalent in the city of Los Angeles, California. It was created with the primary goal or objective to reduce/end homelessness through summoning individuals to make investments to aid the homeless, as well as through programs and services that directly help the homeless. They believe that individuals should not just donate, but should instead make investments towards helping homeless individuals. Since first opening up, the Weingart Center has become increasingly more innovative and larger in size It is said that through programs and services that help the homeless, it not only helps them financially, but it also helps them emotionally The New Approach: The Emergence of a Better Way to Address ) Student 3 Although these two stakeholders carry different views towards reducing/ending homelessness, this can be resolved by having these stakeholders both use programs and services that directly help the homeless through the use of volunteers. This helps to support THHI because they strongly believe in the use of volunteers towards helping with the issue of homelessness. Also, this proposed compromise also supports the view of the Weingart Center because they value the method of providing programs and services that aid the homeless directly. This would be an effective method because both stakeholders have similar goals towards reducing/ending homelessness, have similar hard-working mindsets, and also extreme dedication towards this issue. This proposed compromise would be effective and successful because these efforts would [the get themselves off the streets and back into New Approach: The Emergence of a Better Way to Address There are several steps that need to be taken, in order for this compromise to work between the two stakeholders. First, the stakeholders must address this situation with each other and their beliefs on how to reduce/end homelessness. Following this step, both stakeholders should slowly incorporate the use of the other method on reducing/ending homelessness. By doing so, this would be practical and also effective in allowing the stakeholders to come and meet in the middle of their methods. Instead of quickly incorporating the methods of each stakeholder into the it is more effective to do it gradually because it will help reduce chaos and distress in either organization. The Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative and the Weingart Center clearly have different methods concerning reducing/ending homelessness in the United States. The Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative believes in the use of dedicated volunteers and also local partners to help towards their goal. In contrast, the Weingart Center supports the method of Student 4 investments by willing individuals, as well as programs and services that directly help the homeless. Although these stakeholders have differing methods on reducing/ending homelessness, a proposed compromise would be through the use of volunteers to provide programs and services to the homeless. This would be effective due to their shared goals, mindsets, and dedication towards ending/reducing homelessness. These stakeholders value helping the homeless every day; however, a question that could be asked is: do most individuals even think about helping a homeless individual every if they notice one on the side of the street? Student 5 Works Cited Guerrero, Erick G., Benjamin Henwood, and Suzanne L. Wenzel. Service Integration to Reduce Homelessness in Los Angeles County: Multiple Stakeholder  Human Service Organizations Management, Leadership & Governance 38.1 (2014): 44-54. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Health Care and Homelessness: Foundation  Health Affairs 35.3 (2016): 544-45. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Curtis, Marah, Hope Corman, Kelly Noonan, and Nancy Reichman. Life Shocks and  (2011): n. pag. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. The New Approach: The Emergence of a Better Way to Address  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Baker, Lisa A., Jill Elliott, Julie Williams Mitchell, and Mark Thiele. MANY PATHS, ONE DESTINATION--New Opportunities and Directions for Ending Homelessness: Part One of a Two-Part  Ed. Sylvia Gimenez. Journal of Housing & Development (2016): 6-15. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Brown, Molly. Opening More Doors to End Homelessness Through a Shared Housing  Psychiatric Services 67.10 (2016): 1161. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://thhi.org/>. Homeless Services in Los  Weingart Center for the Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.