Alkazemi 1 Hasan Alkazemi Instructor: Mark J Nusspickel ENC1101.019 January 30 th , 2017 Annotated bibliography Over the years, many women went through discreet abortions performed by un-qualified individuals in unsafe environments which contains high risks and could lead to death in some cases. Although alternatives are available to offer contraceptives, but they do not have the ability to eliminate the issue completely. Therefore, on one angle easy accessibility to abortion is a good way of taking care of health which in some countries is the right prospective such as India where they practice it over many years. However, on another, angle abortion can highly affect the economy mostly in the developing countries as it requires a lot of financial sources to be able to provide the procedure which causes many economical issues. Furthermore, politics have always indulged in the case of abortion affecting the decision of whether one should commit it or not. Also, it is a matter of ethics within some consciences to take an innocent life away. This establishes my research question, who has the right to decide whether women should have total and easy access to abortion or it shall be illegal and considered harmful and risky for women. Therefore, a point of controversy evolving around whether a woman should be obliged to carry a life force growing within her or having the option of aborting the pregnancy. Alkazemi 2 Ananat, Elizabeth Oltmans, et al. AND The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 91, no. 1, 2009, pp. The study sets its basis on the on the future setting resulting from abortion. Ultimately, the study concludes that with easy access to abortion, the statistics have increased of college graduations, fewer use of welfare, and fewer the chances of being a single parent. The research highlights the decision made in the 1970s about legalizing abortion marks a sociological transition eventually leading to drop the numbers of births. As the results before hand brought unwanted conclusions. The unwanted born children not only faced difficulties growing up as children, but also, as adolescents as a result. This study relates to the economical matter of abortion more likely to be the cause of determination. the statistical significance of our findings depends on the particular outcome under consideration, it is robust to the choice of instrument, and the pattern is clear: when abortion costs are lowered, cohort outcomes (Oltmans, 136). This study correlates around my research question as it presents an economical methodology as the determiner of abortion. Numerical and graphical evidence varied in this source viewing the long run of each choice with the accommodated conclusions. In addition, the study was published in an academic peer-reviewed journal (JSTOR) serving as a global archive system. Also, the author is an associate professor at sand ford school of public policy and economics in Duke University. She obtained a B.A. in political economy and mathematics at Williams College in 1999, a degree in public policy from the Ford School at the University of Michigan in 2001, and a Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2006. She also published many of her work in the recent years in her fields. Alkazemi 3 Erdman, Johana N. The Politics of Global Abortion  Brown Journal of World Affairs (2016): 39-57. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The main focus of this article is the women movement against political parties concerning the option of abortion defending their right to decide. Looking at a different perspective, the author further explains abortion as a matter of an individuals own privacy and the decision of being a parent or not. Moreover, the author used Europe as an example to illustrate the political ways of dealing with the issue on a global level stating this day, the European Court of Human Rights refuses to engage in the abstract review of abortion laws and has never stated whether the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees a right to (Erdman 39). In other words, there is no full support for abortion, yet they guarantee rights as individuals seeing that as most beneficial right variably protects a physical and mental integrity, as well as her personal autonomy and (Erdman 39). This article connects to my research question relating to the study, women should be granted the right in the choice of abortion and further supports it as for the well-being of women health and clears is as their private family matter. The study was submitted to a peer reviewed scholarly journal (Brown Journal of World Affairs) which consist of many scholars and qualified academics and it is seemingly valid because of the fact that the author has a great experience in this field as the author have conducted many other works which have been published in different global journals concerning the same topic. Additionally, the author has many affiliations and obtained many awards such as MacBain Chair in Health Law and Policy, Schulich School of Law, Dalhousie University. Alkazemi 4 Grimes, David A., et al. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  The Lancet 368.9550 (2006): 1908-1919. This article focuses on the important aspects about why abortion should be legitimized illustrating statistics and examples of other cultures and countries to support the issue. For instance, according to the book to safe abortion improves health, and vice versa, as documented in Romania during the regime of President Nicolae (David 1908). Also, the practices of abortion in idea which is ongoing for several decades. As these countries admitting such actions, others have taken different paths with the case of abortion which is considerably unsafe and mostly executed in the developing countries, statics from the article records all unsafe abortions (97%) are in developing countries. An estimated 68,000 women die as a result, and millions more have complications important causes of death include hemorrhages, infection, and (David 1908). All these effects can be concluded from abortion such as internal bleeding or loss of blood in general, contamination of any kind to the body parts, and possibly a poisonous infection. This source represents numerical evidence to support the idea of legitimizing abortion and sees best in that option because of medical concerns all health. Additionally, it is credible due to the fact that most of the authors have gained a PhD degree in their fields of work and some obtained a MD offering them different views within their expertise. Besides, he went to one of the best schools as he is a Harvard university. In addition, this is a scholarly up-to-date peer-reviewed article and surely not the first as the author has published around 400 peer- reviewed articles in different aspects of his field. Furthermore, a considerate work has been put in to support the data with statistics with joint efforts from different parts of the world such as Alkazemi 5 Nigeria, India, Switzerland, Argentina, and USA. Yet, he also has shared his knowledge and research methods to individuals in Kenya, Ethiopia, India, Bangladesh, and Egypt. Johansson, Annika, et al. Involvement In Abortion In  Studies In Family Planning 4 (1998): 400. Academic OneFile. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The study relies on the involvement of men in abortion procedures in one of the most successful spots to go through abortion in the world Vietnam which also has the highest rates of the procedure. In an interview conducted within the study, it shows that both women and men agreed that the man is the main decision-maker despite cases that includes women going through abortion without letting their husbands know. Although abortion can seem immoral, yet, some consider family settings and the weight of responsibilities that will add. Thus, the man is seen as the controlling in that decision as quoted father is the pillar of the (Annika, 406). The author highlights the importance of the culture role in decision-making. In some cultures, family is seen as a blood-bond that has a spiritual connectivity between its members living, dead, or unborn. On the other hand, cultures such as Buddhism considerate abortion as a very sinful act at a certain era. The authorities indicate that number as a risk on health as noted total induced abortion rate is reported at 2.5 per woman, among the highest in the (Annika, 402). Due to these factors, efforts has been put in place to provide condoms through clinics and contraceptive pills in other cases. This study connects to my research question mainly in abortion decision-making involving men as main deciding agent. In addition, how men conceive this responsibility must be known and also the study promotes this kind of indulgent. Yet, with more clarity in correlation to the family especially the wives not to be seen as a matter of equality but more important factors such as Alkazemi 6 health. And this study seems valid due to the fact that it was published in an academic peer- reviewed journal (JSTOR) which presents a dependable online archive. Additionally, the authors have put a considerate amount of effort in variety of fields connected to abortion such as public health, sociology, and medicine. The study clearly presents statistical data to provide legitimacy Millar, Erica. Choices and Grievable Lives: The Anti-Abortion Influence in Defending the Abortion Experience in Australia Since the (2016). Web. 6 Feb. 2017. The article revolves around the anti-movement of abortion in the beginning of its history for different reasons. First, abortion may cause many health problems and death in some cases. In addition, it is viewed as morally wrong for women to do such act. However, the emphasis of the movement not only focus on the lost life in process but also the major concerns on health. Moreover, it was deemed as grief of unhappiness and regret. Also, describing abortion as physical harm more than psychological harm. Consequently, the main message approaches on the foetocentric grief to seek out sympathy and emotions in taking the decision. Reciting the author is highly significant that depictions of foetocentric grief have increased the more women have been addressed as subjects of choice and capacity rather than bearers of a maternal (Millar 196-213). Therefore, the foetocentric grief illustrates the position of women as mothers in matter of fact to take a decision of taking away a blameless soul that has done no mistake. The article illustrates reasons of anti-abortion covering different perspectives and culture views that affect the decision making of abortion. This study seems reliable because it was published in Alkazemi 7 a peer-reviewed journal. Furthermore, the author has gained a Ph.D. in women and gender awards in Australia. In addition, the author has multiple publications and books in the same field. Weeden, L. Darnell. The problematic right to abortion from a natural law  The Indonesian Journal of International & Comparative Law: Socio-Political Perspectives, Oct. 2015, p. 803+. This research approaches the topic of abortion from a political perspective. Defining abortion as a matter of privacy while denying the right of freedom causes conflict to the matter. However, in doing so the states are taking in consideration to guarantee the good health to the mother and her unborn child. The author states is knowledge by a woman who has had an abortion that by terminating her pregnancy she has denied a child the potential of birth that creates a foreseeable risk of substantial emotional (Darnell 112). Also, foreseeing the unborn child at the moment of pregnancy is counted a part of the family even in a womb as the moment of conception the child touches the soul and the family in general. In addition, from a law perspective a right of privacy develop an unfair law. This Study takes a path of political conscious and law perspective to validate the argument against abortion. The study was published in a peer-reviewed academic journal. Also, the author has a great deal of experience in which he is a professor of law. Author has contributed many publications in the field giving him enormous knowledge for the issue. Also, the journal is known globally rather than locally and usually used to discuss matters of law connecting people of knowledge to seek different prospective concerning legal-issues, as well as, issues that has an affect on the outside world such as abortion with scientific views and analysis to prove any argument. Moreover, these prospective may be trust-worthy and unbiased by political views. Alkazemi 8 .