Merchan !1 Maria Merchan Professor Emil Smith Composition I 19 February 2017 What are the opinions regarding plus size modeling? Do you know how much hard work it takes for a person to be a plus size model? Plus size modeling for women start at size 8 US. You would have never imagined that a woman sized 8 is considered a specially when the average US woman is between 12-14 and weighs 164 pounds. (University of Texas, Even though they are considered plus sized models, they still have to work hard in order to meet the expectations and requirements of the fashion industry. This hard work involves the same hard work as the have to do, such as eating healthy or having a diet, as well as exercising, maintaining a flawless skin, etc. The paragraphs will discuss the opinions of models, retailers and consumers. This paper poses the following question: What are the opinions regarding plus size modeling? The paragraphs below analyze the standards, inclusion/representation and the work of plus sized models. Peters, Lauren Downing. Pose And The Plus-Size Body In Vogue ,  Fashion Theory: The Journal Of Dress, Body & Culture 21.2 (2017): 175-199. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This article intends to explain fashion as something that has to do only with image, body, text and attire, this article also analyzes the way in which Vogue tries to make what is considered the fat female thin enough to be capable of being shown in the magazine. Even though including plus sized models in the magazine pages was historically different, this article Merchan !2 tries to focus in on the crucial role of the of the traditional fat body. It explains how the is something that is up to the notions of the people that manage advertising, and it can disturb the building of identity. The article was written within the last 10 years, so it meets part of the requirements for the project. It is a relevant article for the topic because it discusses plus size fashion, which can help answer some of the research question. It is also an ethnographic study, therefore it is a first person source, the author saw and then wrote about it. The author did interviews with the models and she saw what their work looked like when no-one else was watching. In one interview the author conducted, the fashion industry told her wanted to integrate plus-size fashion into high , which is a big set for plus size modeling. The author is credible because she has a PhD in fashion studies as well as the article is published in a journal so that gives credibility to the article. Lastly, the article shows cons of the plus size modeling issues, which helps answer some of the research question. Czerniawski, Amanda M. Disciplining Corpulence: The Case Of Plus-Size Fashion  Journal Of Contemporary Ethnography 41.2 (2012): 127-153. Criminal Justice Abstracts. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This is a ethnographic study and the author of this article focuses the performance of plus-size models and also investigates about the aesthetics process that is behind every model. The author used her observations and also the interviews that she made to the participants about the process of the aesthetics job, to get to the conclusion that even plus-sized models develop their body according to the demands of the fashion industry. Even though they are plus size models there are still demands of the fashion industry, such as a certain weigh and height, as well Merchan !3 as a certain body type, and also a flawless skin. The actions of these models are part of a aesthetics process which involves emotional and physical work. In consequence of this, their bodies are still that have to be under auto-control and discipline, because of the demands of the fashion industry. The author of this article concluded that instead of promoting a new the fashion industry is promoting a idealization of perfect The article supports my pros and cons, it talks about how plus sized modeling was historically significant but then it shifts its focus to saying that their body still needs to be to be in the magazine, this helps answer my research question. The author of this article is credible because she has a PhD as well as a masters in sociology which can relate to how plus size modeling affects society. The author wrote this article in a different perspective, she looked back at something that happened and then wrote about it. Lastly, this article was written recently, therefore it meets the requirements of the assignment as well as it relevant for the project because it can help answer part of the research question. Berry, Bonnie. Beauty Bias : Discrimination And Social Power. n.p.: Westport, Conn. : Praeger Publishers, 2007., 2007. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This is a book written by Bonnie Berry, which talks about the traditional biases that exist in the world based on appearances. The author discusses the effects that beauty standards have on women, some of the effects she explains is the effects on health which has to do with people trying to look like models and the effects on workplace. She has two chapters that discuss the plus size industry, specifically the sizes of plus size mannequins, which are a little too unrealistic because of how thin they are to be considered plus sized. Also she says that there has been improvements in the fashion industry for Lastly she explains that her Merchan !4 main point is to remind people that physical features are only fake markers that are created by society. The book supports some of the points of my thesis, it talks about the beauty standards that exist in women and also about how we have been improving the acceptance of appearance and that we will eventually be better. It is credible source because it is a published book and the author is also credible because she has a PhD in sociology. This source is relevant since it was published 10 years ago and it mentions history. This source also shows how plus size modeling has changed throughout history. You Are What You Wear: How Plus-Size Fashion Figures In Fat Identity  Fashion Theory 1 (2014): 45. SwePub. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 This article discusses the ways in which plus-sized modeling has affected the fashion industry and society, as well as discussing how the fashion-industry rejects and ignores It also explains that plus sized people have less options for clothing or other things which makes them have a conflict with their identity. This means the fashion industry has a huge role when it comes to determining someones self-identity. Lastly this article mentions ways in which fat women that are trying to build their identity, involve themselves into plus size fashion. This article is very useful for my paper because it discusses and explains many ways in which the fashion industry and plus size modeling affect women. In addition it expires the cons of plus size modeling which can help me when writing my paper. This article is a very credible source because it is published in a journal called Fashion Theory as well as the author is credible since she has taught about fashion and its history and in addition she has a PhD in fashion studies. Also, the source was published in 2014, therefore it is relevant. Merchan !5 Pasquarelli, Adrianne. Plus Sizes A Fashion  New York Business 25.22 (2009): 1-7. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 15 Feb. 2017. This is a newspaper article that discusses the changes of plus size fashion lines during the recession, specifically in summer of 2009. The article informs the readers that stores are dropping or reducing the plus size lines. It shows how insignificant plus size is to fashion industry, and how they did not care about loosing plus size customers, that is shown through this quote worry about losing these customers later  says Andrew Jassin. Also plus size magazines started to disappear from the market, because the industry wanted to get rid of plus size since it was what brought them more expenses. As stated by a famous plus size model, a size category not being satisfied, and the [plus One of the reasons why this article is beneficial for my paper is because it uses direct statements from people from the fashion industry. The article discusses the different opinions within the fashion industry, from both retailers and models. This is a credible source because it is a published article in a famous newspaper. Most plus size clothes are sold online, this might be because plus sized people do not feel comfortable shopping in stores. Because it was written in a newspaper in 2009, it shows the opinion of people in that time and they can be compared to the opinions nowadays. Silverman, Dick. Body And Image: The Challenge Of Plus  WWD 2009: Academic OneFile. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the stigma that fashion industry is causing around plus sized people, because the retailers do not want to portray plus sizes instead they just focus on athletic images. The article also mentions the location of plus size sectors in stores, it discusses that most of the Merchan !6 plus size sectors are hidden or located in a corner of the store. It also highlights four famous icons and their struggles. What the fashion industry does not notice is that consumers want to see more models like them, diverse. This is a credible source because it is a published journal article and it uses statistics from studies. The article is beneficial for the paper because it discusses the opinions of consumers and the fashion industry. It shows the different views that the fashion industry and consumers have, the fashion industry does not really care about plus size but consumers and models do care. The article also discusses that the fashion industry should care about plus sizes because the market is big. Also famous icons give their opinion on the topic, which can support the thesis of the paper.