Nick Cerelli Professor Jackson English Comp 1 1/29/17 Animal Captivity Over the years, there have been many thoughts on animal captivity and if more beneficial to animals or humans. Animal rights is a heavily debated topic, and the importance of the issue depends on what humans feel is right for the animals and for themselves. Many people would consider captivating animals as long as there is good reasoning in doing so. There are various reasons for animal captivity, some of the biggest being behavior testing and maintenance of endangered species. Even though there are a good amount of advantages that can come from these practices, there is a fairly good amount of disadvantages, like neglecting captive animals and when released, having survival issues. But the main question is, is it worth keeping animals captive in human hands? After many different predictions on this well discussed subject, there have been many studies on animals and if actually beneficial to the animals to be kept within human control. After reading over an article on a study with house mice, the study showed how raising animals to increase population in a certain species can be very beneficial when trying to predict how going to behave in different surroundings. The results were very effective and can potentially help other species adjust to changing surroundings. However, after the process the animals sometimes have trouble adjusting to new environments. For an example, animals tend to be more stressed and troubled after being released from a non- danger zone (human captivity). This article is credible because it is a study done by a professional researchers the Centre for Sustainable Ecosystem Solutions, School of Biological Sciences and University of Wollongong, Australia. This study was published in a peer reviewed academic journal called Applied Animal Behaviour Science. It shows how captive breeding programs can prevent species from going extinct but it also effects their behavior to the point where they struggle to adapt to different surroundings when released. But is sacrificing a few to potentially help many more worth it? Jones, Stephanie K. Courtney, Adam J. Munn, and Phillip G. Byrne. Research Paper: Effects Of Captivity On House Mice Behaviour In A Novel Environment: Implications For Conservation  Applied Animal Behaviour Science (2017): ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Even though there are many good purposes for keeping animals captive, there are also some down falls. For an example, the serious problem for the Hawaiian crow. After a lot of research on the endangered specie, there has been reasoning on why these captive crows can never be released into the wild again. The Hawaiian crow is near extinct and almost no way to save them from reproducing in the wild. The only living Hawaiian crows are in captivity by professional researchers, which is three pairs kept captive. Little did they know, the problem they tried to solve, actually hindered the species from developing to their true potential. The Hawaiian crow originated with five major calls to help them communicate with other crows, (1) alarm (2) territorial broadcast (3) aggression (4) submission (5) courtship. However, since the captive crows have never needed these calls in a captive area due to culture change, the crow never developed three of these calls. These calls are very important to the crows from survival in the wild. This study is credible because of the three researchers that performed this study on the crows. The three researchers were in the department of biology at the University of Hawaii. This article was also peer reviewed by other professionals in animal behavior association. Tanimoto, Ann M., et al. Changes In Vocal Repertoire Of The Hawaiian Crow, Corvus Hawaiiensis, From Past Wild To Current Captive  Animal Behaviour 123.(2017): 427-432. PsycINFO. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. So is it worth keeping animals kept captive in human hands? After reading the two articles on studies done by professionals, I feel there is a good amount of benefits such as research done that can help out the animals. Although, the entertainment side of the topic, can be a bit shady for bigger animals with less range to move around and are only used for entertainment purposes. All in all, if the animal is being kept captive for different beneficial purposes, then the sacrifice for the specie may be well worth it. Never the less, without any benefits to the animals, I would not support.