Student 1 Student Professor Rine ENC 1102 1 March 2017 What Are Consumers Buying? A widely controversial topic in crazy world is the safety and regulation of genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. Genetically modified organisms can be defined as being through biotechnology and genetic engineering and basically involve genetic modifications in which genetic material is added or removed to alter the genetic structure of the (Watts 1) These products have unnatural traits given to them that are created in a lab to help the organism survive at a higher rate so that the yield produced is larger than the natural version of the organism. Unfortunately, this can sometimes come with some unwanted side effects. The modified products are used all over the world and people have yet to come to an agreement as to if they are safe to utilize now and in the future. GMOs are highly controversial because they are not required to be labeled by food companies where GMOfreeUSA.org believes that they can be very dangerous to health while factsaboutGMOs.org thinks they are perfectly safe. The two have views that seem incompatible, however a compromise of creating a bill that forces food companies to label the abundance of GMOs in their food can be implemented because it informs the public more about GMOs, regulates the products, and does not completely remove them from the country. The first stakeholder using the website GMOfreeUSA.org and has a belief that GMOs have horrible side effects to both health of the environment. They say that have led to Student 2 massive increases in toxic agricultural chemical use in the USA since their introduction in the mid-1990s, winding up in most of our precious waterways and leading to significant environmental pollution and (Philpott 19) Some genetically modified crops have gained the ability to fight off pests, disrupting the food chains of an ecosystem. This stakeholder believes that if the nation does not remove GMOs from the farms now, a point will be reached where the crops cannot be contained and nature will crumble before eyes. They also believe that GMOs have horrible health effects to humans. An example of these negative side effects would be having roundup residue, toxin insecticides and the possibility of E. coli in genetically modified corn where natural corn has nothing to worry about. The purpose of this website is to inform the public more about GMOs with the hope of gaining their support on removing these products from our country. They think that companies who do not label their foods to include GMOs are scamming the buyers and should be held accountable for their actions. FactsaboutGMOs.org is the second stakeholder and has almost completely opposite views on GMOs to the first stakeholder. They believe that use of genetically modified (GM) ingredients is not only safe for people and our planet, but also has a number of important (factsaboutGMOs.org) One of their goals is the same as my first stakeholder, where they want to inform the public about GMOs but to let people know why they are safe. The reason they believe these products are safe is because studies by U.S. Food & Drug Administration, . . . the World Health Organization, . . . and the National Academy of Sciences, have found genetically modified food ingredients are safe and there are no negative health effects associated with their (factsaboutGMOs.org) Student 3 They also discuss in the homepage of their website how GMOs have been around for decades and make food more affordable by increasing the yield of crops and using less fertilizers. This stakeholder wants GMOs to one day feed all the hungry and believes GMOs should not be regulated or banned in the USA. These two stakeholders have never been able to form a compromise because of how adverse their views are, where the first stakeholder finds GMOs horrible and second second stakeholder finds them completely fine. They both have loads of evidence to back up why they have the views that they do. The first stakeholder uses statements completed after a study by CAPE, the Canadian Association of Physicians for the Environment, saying has grave concerns about the environmental release of genetically modified (GM) crops and products; we call for the immediate suspension of all such (CAPE) to further promote their view. FactsaboutGMOs.org, the second stakeholder uses a study published by the Genetically Literacy project to provide proof for their stance. This study concludes with Considering the size of the dataset, it can reasonably be said that the debate over the impact of GE feed on animal health is closed: there is zero extraordinary (Entine 1) Both studies have opposite data conclusions and leave the audience confused as to which side should they side with. In order to form a reasonable compromise between these polar stakeholder, a common ground must be found. The biggest goal that they both indicate is that they want the public to be educated on genetically modified organisms, which is why both of their websites have so many facts to read. The sad truth is that the general public really know much about the organisms, and without knowledge their opinion does not mean much. Each goal from educating the public about GMOs is that they will take their stance, that GMOs are either Student 4 dangerous or perfectly safe, but a middle ground must be found. This middle ground is where a compromise will be made, so that GMOs are not removed from our nation completely, but regulated more until scientists know more about them. The compromise proposed is that food companies should be allowed to continue to use and sell GMOs to consumers, but must be required by law to label the indication of GMOs inside their product. This compromise will work because it appeals to both stakeholders in some sort of way. GMOfreeUSA.org will be satisfied with this because it creates the first step in a path of regulating GMOs so that one day they may be removed all together if future studies indicate more dangers. This also lets the consumers know exactly what is inside their food, which will educate them more to understand exactly what these organisms are. The second stakeholder, factsaboutGMOs.org will approve of this compromise because it does not make any drastic changes that effects the use of GMOs in products, it simply just lets buyers know that they are there. This stakeholder will also be happy knowing that the public knows more about GMOs to hopefully understand that they are not so dangerous. The compromise is valid because it has already been suggested by countless organizations, such as the American Public Health Association, which quotes, that APHA declare its support that any food product containing genetically modified organisms be so (APHA) Since this compromise has been discussed in the past, it would not be that difficult to bring it to the table again in hopes of a different outcome. The way this compromise would come into effect for the USA would only be if Congress passes a bill. This means that the stakeholders need to put their differences aside and see their bigger goal of educating the public about GMOs to create a bill worthy of being passed. If this Student 5 were to happen, both stakeholders would benefit and the topic of GMOs in the food would seem a bit less mysterious. Student 6 Works Cited American Public Health Association. Support of the Labeling of Genetically Modified  AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. American Public Health Association, 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Canadian Association of Physicians for the Environment. Position Statement on  Physicians for the Environment. Canadian Association of Physicians for the Environment, 28 Aug. 2014. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Entine, John. 29-year study of trillions of meals shows GE crops do not harm food-producing animals,  Genetic Literacy Project. Genetic Literacy Project, 16 Sept. 2014. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. GMO Free USA. Free GMO Free USA, 2017, http://gmofreeusa.org Web. Accessed 01 March 2017. Husic, Diane White, et al. Genetically Modified Organisms and  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89474201&site=eds-live. Web. 01 March 2017 The Facts About  The Facts About GMO. The Grocery Manufacturers Association, n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. <https://factsaboutgmos.org/>. Student 7 Poltronieri, Palmiro and Yiguo Hong. Applied Plant Genomics and Biotechnology. Sawston, Cambridge : Woodhead Publishing is an imprint of Elsevier, 2015. Woodhead Publishing series in biomedicine: number 72. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.034200449&site=eds-live. Web. 01 March 2017 Philpott, Tom. How GMOs Unleashed a Pesticide  Mother Jones. Mother Jones, 03 Oct. 2012. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.