Jenkins 1 Jarek Jenkins Mark Nusspickel ENC 1101 January 29, 2017 How the Introduction of Renewable Energy Will Affect Fuel/Energy Costs in the Future As the world is exhausting its oil reserves, it is becoming increasingly expensive to keep the production of fossil fuels. More environmental resources are becoming prevalent as a result. However, it is unknown if that means the influx of renewable energy marks the end of traditional fossil fuels being used due to the reduced cost of clean energy. This poses the question; how will the introduction of renewable energy will affect fuel and energy costs in the future? It is entirely possible that fossil fuels remain the staple resource because it may be difficult to switch fuels after using oil for the last century and a half even if clean energy is smarter economically. AMIN, ADNAN Z. How Renewable Energy Can Be  UN Chronicle 52.3 (2015): 8-11. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The article started off by saying how important renewable energy is becoming in world and the benefits they bring. For example, clean energy such as solar and wind power are being increasingly used to reduce financing costs and to offset fossil fuel emissions in our atmosphere. The author also stressed that renewable energy technologies bring more jobs, reduce pollution, and requires less water which would be extremely important to developing countries. In 2005, only 43 countries had even invested in renewable power, and now that number is up to 164 as of September, of 2015 (Amin 8). This trend showed that clean energy was getting Jenkins 2 increasingly more competitive with conventional sources of energy. However, the author believed many countries moved at too slow a pace to keep up with non-renewable energy. In the article, it shows that since solar PV modules prices have gone down 75-80% and the cost of utility electricity has fallen by half since 2009. This sparked an investment in solar power for common households. Overall the price for delivering solar power in these units was about $0.08 per kilowatt-hour compared to a price of $0.045-0.14 per kilowatt-hour for fossil fuel (Amin 11). It relates to the source by adding in the fact that biomass, geothermal, and hydropower prices have been steady while oil continuously rises as demand goes up. However, offshore wind power is still generally more expensive than fuel powered generators. Nevertheless, this still suggests that soon clean energy will overtake fossil fuels due to a significantly cheaper cost. Adnan Amin is credible because the information was presented to the UN in order to help developing countries and to curb greenhouse gasses. The UN has been conferencing about various methods to reduce carbon particles in the atmosphere which backs credibility. As an UN associate, he is aware of the problems the world faces in terms of carbon in our atmosphere so that knowledge qualifies him to speak on the matter. With this information, they created the Paris Agreement in 2016. Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In western Utility Resource  The Electricity Journal 1 (2005): SciTech Connect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The journal begins by stating that as of 2005, renewable energy markets have been growing exponentially in part by federal tax incentives and rising state renewable energy standards. State renewable portfolio standards motivated 45% of the 4,300 MW of wind power installed in the US from 2001 through 2004, while the state renewable energy funds supported an additional Jenkins 3 15% (Bolinger Utility Research The article then discusses the plan that the twelve major renewable energy utility companies have for incorporating new energy methods in the portfolio. It then has an overview of the cost for new power and the technology to see if it is worth implementing. Finally, it reviews the cost of fossil fuel and compares the trade off to that of wind power and decides that renewable energy has a chance to grow rapidly in the western United States. According to the journal, in 2005 renewable energy prices were hard to gauge because it all depended on the region and the tax the state came with. In terms of the research question, most portfolios agreed that the cost difference too drastic whether to switch to one or the other. However, when they accounted for future regulations they realized fossil fuel may far outweigh the cost of natural energy. Mark Bolinger concluded that risks of each source of energy needed to be assessed further, especially natural gas because at the time they did not know the risks it could come with. The journal is credible because the author gives detailed stats that he backs with graphs and charts that he researched as a research associate for UC-Berkeley. At the end of the journal he lists his sources where he attained the information and it is backed by the Lawrence Berkeley National Library at the University of California in Berkeley. The University of California has invested in large-scale renewable energy methods so it gives Mark Bolinger direct experience in the subject. Jenkins 4 ATKINS, MARTIN. Choice  TCE: The Chemical Engineer 899 (2016): 24-29. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Due to the signing of the Paris Agreement in April of 2016, many countries are developing sector specific plans to fund renewable resource options. The main goal of the agreement was to curb greenhouse emissions because of the impacts global warming was having on the environment. The problem is smaller countries such as New Zealand have a harder time finding alternative energy sources since the size of their country limits them. New Zealand has to rely on hydro power which accounts for 50-80% of the electricity, but the weakness of this is low storage capacity (Atkins 25). It is predicted, regardless of the Paris Agreement, countries like New Zealand may be forced to use fossil fuels which could escalate the price since their other resource options are limited. However, New Zealand is researching ways to use geothermal gases, which could eliminate the problem altogether. Martin Atkins is a chemical engineer currently working at the energy research center on the University of Waikato in New Zealand which qualifies him to speak on the matter. Research included other articles on development and sustainability on the economics of renewable energy and minimizing carbon emissions. Being a chemical engineer puts him in line with this field of work so he is qualified to speak on the matter. All of this information is connected to the question by explaining the relationship of the cost of the addition of new renewable energy systems opposed to fossil fuel systems. To satisfy the Paris agreement, New Zealand and similar countries would have to cut fossil emissions by 90% which would force billions into green energy (Atkins 24). The article states its possible for an economy to collapse due to a rapid change in allocated funds, especially with something as important as electricity. Martin Atkins Jenkins 5 believes more research of the various tradeoffs need to be observed before massive shifts of energy reform for economic purposes (Atkins 29). Klugman, Nadav. Current Conflicts In U.S. Electric Transmission Planning, Cost Allocation And Renewable Energy Policies: More Heat Than  Electricity Journal 10 (2010): SciTech Connect. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Nadav Klugman believed the price difference will be extremely hard to predict because it would all depend on the importance in priority it would rank against the rest of the problems. He also wanted more consistency in the process of how which transmission systems are chosen so a market end up with multiple systems. Third, he wanted cost responsibility to be considered based on broad groupings of projects, even if broad cost allocation is rejected to keep it inexpensive or else the project would be filled with unnecessary costs (Klugman Allocation and Renewable Energy An appropriate balance is needed to have a seamless transition to not disturb the existing structure. This source is credible because the author, Nadav Klugman, is a banking and finance associate in Project Finance. He represents various lenders, borrowers, and energy providers in order to provide funding for infrastructure. sources are also made by scholars that work for energy companies such as ERCOT and AESO. The journal relates to the question by showing the steps economically to fund renewable energy. For example, companies have to swim through transmission tariffs, public funding, and environmental standards to name a few. Cities with a poor financial standing may opt to stand pat with fossil fuel to avoid the many steps even if it costs more in the long run. Jenkins 6 Festel, Gunter, et al. Modelling Production Cost Scenarios For Biofuels And Fossil Fuels In  Journal Of Cleaner Production 66. (2014): 242-253. ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Currently there is tax advantages for using renewable energy in Europe so biofuels are becoming more competitive with fossil fuels in market shares. Comparing the cost of different biofuels with fossil fuels is difficult because it would rely on factors such as population growth, price index of agricultural products, growth in world per capita, and change in energy consumption per capita. The results show that second generation biofuels are most likely to achieve competitive production costs mid to long-term when taking into account the effects from technological learning and production scale size as well as crude oil price estimates between and per barrel between 2015 and 2020 (Festel 244). In all crude oil price scenarios, bioethanol from plant raw materials as well as biodiesel from waste are associated with high cost saving potential which enables them to outperform fossil fuels and first generation biofuels. Gunter Festel is credible because he is an environmental scientist and works in the Department of Management, Technology, and Economics at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland. He understands the economics involved in various energy extraction methods and is familiar with the technology required. In addition, he has pulled information from nearby countries such as, the Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW) in Mannheim, Germany and the Institute of Molecular Biosciences at Goethe-University in Frankfurt, Germany. This information relates to the research question by showing that the depletion of fossil fuels is causing competition with clean energy to spike. As the reserves are exhausted, prices are expected to double, possibly triple which forces countries to experiment with using Jenkins 7 renewable resources. Biofuels are expected to be much more cost controlled while also being 100% replaceable (Festel 248). Rosen, Marc A. Energy, Environmental, Health And Cost Benefits Of Cogeneration From Fossil Fuels And Nuclear Energy Using The Electrical Utility Facilities Of A  Energy For Sustainable Development 13. (2009): 43-51. ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Ontario has a plan for using cogeneration which means making thermal and electrical energy simultaneously. Currently Ontario uses nuclear and fossil fuel plants to do this, however they want a more cost effective and cleaner method. They propose to use biothermal plants instead of fossil fuel to drastically reduce cost and make the air in Canada cleaner. It is estimated this method will improve efficiency by 80% to 90% since the biothermal plants will require less input energy than the fossil fuel plant. This would also drive cost down 30% at the same time (Rosen 43). Marc Rosen is credible because he reports to the University of Ontario Institute of Technology. The results of his research was validated by the University in 2006, 2007, and 2008. Furthermore, he is also supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada which aims to promote and support discovery research. This relates to the question by showing Ontario and other regions with similar energy systems would benefit from working with the regional electrical utilities in providing clean energy in order to drive down future cost (Rosen 49). It would provide economic benefits for the province and its electrical utility, and substitute fossil fuels with more environmental friendly alternatives. Canada aims to reduce greenhouse gases over their country and this would help improving their air quality.