Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 1 March 2017 Making it to the Top In the world, there are many different power sources that extend from the use of renewable to nonrenewable resources for creating electrical power across the globe. When mankind learned about coal, the potential the resource had was infinite and could be used for many things. It ranged from power plants to power our cities or manmade machines used for transportation. Today, this source has been proven to not be infinite and now people are looking for a future power source to replace natural resources such as coal. This leads to both of our stakeholders and what their business involves. SEIA (Solar Energy Industries Association) is a solar energy company that is looking to become the biggest company in their industry (SEIA). The solar energy industry is trying to remove natural resources being used to produce power to help the environment and find a longer-term power source. Arch Coal Inc. is a coal company that is close to being top leader in their industry of producing coal for the publics use and consumption (Arch). The coal industry is providing more power for less currency for users which they are using to become the top power source. Both goals are to remove each other from the future power source race and gain control of the power source industry. The incompatibility of these two companies are known, but both have reason to work their goals out and find a compromise with each other. The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of the future power source can be implemented Student 2 through both having interest to be global leaders in their industry, both have concerns with becoming environmentally friendly, and both need technological advances to move forward. SEIA is a solar company primary goal is to protect and expand the solar industry at a federal and state level. The solar industry is rapidly growing in the U.S and SEIA is trying to become the leader in that movement. They provide training in installation and use of solar energy and the business in selling solar panels for the personal and business levels. claim about the future power source is the earth is running out of natural resources solar energy is a renewable power source, is pollution free, and helps the environment. Based on SunShot data, if solar energy produced 30% of the U. power, then there would be a 11% reduction of national power sector emissions (natural resource use) of greenhouse gases Environmental and Public Health Also, the sun produces infinite energy and solar technology can harness this energy and convert it to electrical power (Weatherhead 2). Both these sources support claim of solar energy being renewable, helping the environment, and reducing pollution when in use. Arch Coal Inc. is a coal company primary goal is to be the global leader in the coal industry and create long-term stakeholder value. Their claim is coal technologies continue to improve air quality, and natural gas reserves are increasingly difficult to reach, so coal is a viable option because it is plentiful. Technological advances in the coal industry are occurring around the world, but especially China since most their power comes from coal. End-of-pipe control technologies that are to be installed in China power sectors over the next 20 years are predicted to reduce carbon emissions and pollution in local areas around their country (Yang). to 2005 level, the carbon emission per unit of GDP will be reduced by in (Yang). This supports Arch Coal claim that coal technologies continue to improve air quality and Student 3 lower pollution in local environments. Also, flexible CCS (carbon capture, storage) is being studied by researchers to see whether benefits of decreased emissions occur during the coal- firing process. European Union intends to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to below 1990 levels by (Van der Wijk 2). CCS with solvent Solvent storage reduces the energy penalty with 70% for up to 2-h full load (Van der Wijk 3). This is saying that if flexible CCS is installed in power plants, greenhouse gas emissions would reduce to 70% for a 2-hour operation. Van der research shows that coal power plants are becoming more environmentally friendly with their greenhouse emission process which is reducing pollution rates in their country. Even though Arch Coal Inc. and SEIA have different viewpoints and are incompatible, there is always a compromise that can be found which could benefit them both. They both have interest in becoming global leaders in their industry, becoming environmentally friendly, and need technological research and advances to move forward. The compromise between these two stakeholders are they both become the leading companies in their industry but not become the only power source a country uses. 1980, electricity and coal consumption in the US have both increased over 70%, while renewables have grown to just 2.4% of total net (Stephen). Right now, the percentage difference is too extreme for companies like the stakeholders to compromise and make a solution. The compromise between these two stakeholders are they both become leaders in their industries without removing other competition from other power sources because a country be run on one power source. they need to make commitments hours or even days in advance, which means if they know exactly how much energy they can count on from solar renewable Student 4 energy, then they need to continue to have backup forms of as coal, nuclear, and natural the (Weatherhead 19) Weatherhead was explaining that companies or individual people in the world rely on one specific power source but need more than one. Also, Benjamin Sovacool, director of the Danish Center for Energy Technology, says that we need to keep multiple power industries alive to keep companies afloat and influence innovation and technological advancements (Sovacool 5). This shows that countries around the world need more than one power source to sustain daily life. Although there are viable compromises proposed between these two stakeholders, there are reasons as to why they come to an agreement. Both power industries had benefits and downsides that make them either reliable or not reliable. The solar industry right now is more economically friendly than the coal industry which makes them a viable candidate for future power source use. On the other hand, the coal industry in for affordable to power countries and gives off more energy per unit than other types of power sources. Because of these differences, the stakeholders could not compromise since each power source is not advanced enough to become the only power source. Overall, the stakeholders share interests, concerns, and needs which show that a compromise can be made between the two. primary goal of protecting and expanding the solar industry at a federal and state level can be reached in time. Also, Arch Coal goal of becoming the global leader in the coal industry and create long-term stakeholder value can be reached. In the future, when more technological advances occur in each industry, there will be a chance the stakeholders can compromise and co-exist with powering the world with energy efficiently and equally. (W.C 1213) Student 5 Work Cited Arch Coal, Inc. Welcome to  ArchCoal.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., 01 Mar. 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Sovacool, Benjamin K. Reviewing, Reforming, and Rethinking Global Energy Subsidies: Towards a Political Economy Research  Ecological Economics, vol. 135, 01 May 2017, pp. 150-163. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ecolecon.2016.12.009. Stephen, McCauley and Jiusto Scott. Assessing Sustainability Transition in the US Electrical Power  Sustainability, Vol 2, Iss 2, Pp 551-575 (2010), no. 2, 2010, p. 551. EBSCOhost, doi:10.3390/su2020551. The Environmental and Public Health Benefits of Achieving High Penetrations of Solar Energy in the United  Energy, 2016, p. 472. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.energy.2016.07.068. Van der Wijk, Pieter Cornelis, et al. Benefits of Coal-Fired Power Generation with Flexible CCS in a Future Northwest European Power System with Large Scale Wind  International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control, vol. 28, 01 Sept. 2014, pp. 216-233. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ijggc.2014.06.014. Weatherhead, Elizabeth c.1 and Christopher T. M.2 Clark. Solar Renewable  Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, vol. 98, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 1922.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib. usf.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=gft&AN=120758413&site=eds-live. Student 6 Yang, Xi and Fei Teng. Full Length Article: The Air Quality Co-Benefit of Coal Control Strategy in  Resources, Conservation & Recycling, 08 Aug. 2016. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.resconrec.2016.08.011.