Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 5 March, 2017 The Two Sides of the Wind Power To better understand the consequences of the wind power is necessary to understand how it works. The primary energy used in this process is the kinect of the wind and converted in a mechanical energy of the blades, these blades are coupled in an electric generator responsible to convert the mechanical energy to electricity. With regard to this explanation, it is important to note two main things, the first one is that in any moment was cited about any fossil fuels what makes the Wind Power into a renewable and clean energy, by the other side the spin of blades makes a lot of birds as victims. Looking for the end of the use of fossil fuels, Terra-Gen focus on create plants of renewable energy including wind, solar and geothermal power plants and it is responsible for the creation of more than 2,000 MWs of renewable energy and wants to expand your work even more (www.terra-gen.com 2017). Looking for the conservancy of birds and the best for the environment, American Bird Conservancy wants to diminish the rate of deaths in the birds population supporting the renewable energies but looking for a better regulation of it (www.abc.org 2017). The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of Terra-Gen and American Bird Conservancy with the environment can be a solution for this problem and can be implemented through cooperation between then, the use of the society and government, always looking to the best for the society. According to Paul Breeze, the wind power energy rose from 0.2%, in 2000 to 2.3% in 2012, making it the second most important renewable generation source of energy after hydropower Student 2 (Breeze 1). By contrast, the number of birds death increased rapidly the last decade and the main reason is the collision between them and the blades from the turbines responsible for the generation of electricity turning collision into the biggest reason of death in United States (Drewitt 237). Based on the assumption that both want to solve the problem, they should work together, researching and analyzing forms of prevent birds death and keep expanding the number of wind power farms. But, in another way is not easy to conciliate the best option for the environment with the profit that Terra-Gen needs to earn from its activities and that is the main reason why they are still not working together. According to Harangazo, there are two way which organizations and corporations can relate with each other, confrontation and cooperation, both bring benefits but the cooperation is always the better choice to society (Harangazo 37). An example of this, is that American Birds Conservancy looked for a petition to protect migratory birds from the negative impacts of wind energy on late 2011 (www.abc.org 2017). Instead of attitudes like that, the organization could look for a cooperation with not only Terra-Gen, but all the wind power companies and work with them to find best locations to install their turbines. In an effort to preserve the environment, one of the goals of Terra-Gen, it should accept the cooperation, adopting even more the idea of being ecofriendly and helping to sell its idea of doing a cleaner environment. There are many ways this cooperation could work, but all of them depend of both parts to be compromised with the goal, to diminish the number of birds dead by collision with blades. In the first of them, American Bird Conservancy should take front of the company decisions showing to Terra-Gen there are better places to install turbines and places where the negative effects of the wind power will generate less impact to the environment and birds than the place where Terra- Gen intend to install. In this case, America Bird Conservancy should invest yours founds in research to find good places for wind power farms and create a data base in case that do not agree Student 3 with a decision of a company. One problem in this scenario is that as a non-profit organization, sometimes will not have founds enough for a deep research. As a result of that, another solution can work, in this second scenario, the company will be responsible to look for some good economically options to install the wind powers turbines and present these options to the American Bird Conservancy who will analyze them pointing to Terra-Gen the best option for the environment. In both scenarios, can be noticed that with no cooperation between both stakeholders is not possible to get the best solution because of that, Terra-Gen should recognize the importance of the conservancy of the birds and trust in the organization decisions, and the American Bird Conservancy needs to understand that Terra-Gen is a company and besides work for the good of environment, its main goal is earning money. In addition to that is importance to notice that the wind power problem is an important contemporary concern for the society, not only because the birds death, but mainly because it came as a solution to another bigger problem, the use of fossil fuels (Cole 128). Besides that, there are another goods consequences of the wind power that does not goes against the American Birds Conservancy goals and was not cited before. These advantages are not related to the environment but with the society, besides that is not possible to calculate the good of the wind power not including this to the equation. For example: it is an inexhaustible source of energy, creation of jobs, investments in poor areas, reduce the dependence of another sources (Quick 63). Because of these many advantages the government can be an important mediator between both stakeholders. And the best way to be this mediator is not looking for law and rules trying to avoid the expanding of the wind power as American Birds Conservancy tried and happened before sometimes (Lilley 15). In spite of that, the best way of make it work is financing the American Birds Conservancy research to find the best economically and environmentally places to install the Student 4 turbines or exempting Terra-Gen from taxes if they choose a place suggested and approved by the organization. As time goes by, the government influential can be even bigger and they can start to look for them on data base and only permit the companies to open new wind power farms at these places, supporting them economically if needed to. Another good form of influence can be investing on research in technology areas looking for turbines that do not kill as much as the actual turbines does. All things considered, the wind power is really important for the good of the environment, avoiding the burn of fossil fuels or others dangerous sources of energy, like nuclear. However, as every energy source it has their negative consequences, in this case the death of many birds. Anyway, the good news is that as discussed all long the paper if the two stakeholders (Terra-Gen and American Bird Conservancy) cooperate with each other they can make it work because both shares the goal of improve the environment, even though having different goals because the company also looked for profit. Another important fact discussed along the paper is how the government can help with it, looking for the good of the country and society. (WC: 1216) Student 5 Works Cited Cole, Scott G. Wind Power Compensation Is Not for the Birds: An Opinion from an Environmental  Restoration Ecology. Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 16 Feb. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lilley, Meredith B., and Jeremy Firestone. Wind Power, Wildlife, and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act: A Way  Environmental Law, 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. and Gyula Zilahy. Cooperation between Business and Non-governmental Organizations to Promote Sustainable  Journal of Cleaner Production, 21 Sept. 2012. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Breeze, Paul. Wind Power Generation by Paul Breeze - Read  Elsevier, 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Drewitt, Allan L., and Rowena H.W. Langston. Collision Effects of Wind-power Generators and Other Obstacles on  Blackwell Publishing Inc, 28 June 2008. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Quick, Matthew, and Jane Law. Exploring the Socioeconomic Composition of Wind Farm Communities in Ontario: Implications for Wind Farm Planning and  University of Waterloo, 1 Dec. 2016. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. ABC (American Bird Conservancy). N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Terra-Gen. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.