Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Arts of the Future In schools today, there are many classes being taught such as but not limited to: mathematics, sciences, English courses, and social studies. A major part of curriculum within schools all across the country and even the world are the arts. The arts have been a large part of year after year. From art classes to music classes and so much more. In recent years, advocates of the arts in school are having to take a stand due to the fact that the government is implementing budget cuts in schools all around the country. Other than pay cuts and faculty cuts, the presence of the arts is being directly affected. This leads to the two stakeholders being discussed and what they stand for. The Arts Action Fund is a website that is dedicated to keeping the arts in schools. Rheg is a website that is against keeping the arts in school. Both goals are to affect the arts within todays curriculum for schools across the country. The incompatibility of these two stakeholders are apparent, but have reason to work out their goals and find a compromise with one another. Although the point of views from each of the two stakeholders seem to be incompatible, the compromise of the future of the arts in schools can be implemented through their common interest in the future of the arts in schools, and the well-being of the country in the near and distant future. The Arts Action Fund is a website whose primary goal is to gather advocates for the arts to ensure that the arts are kept in schools. The government has begun to implement budget cuts within country wide over the past few years and the arts are being directly affected. The Student 2 Arts Action Fund is trying to prevent the government from discontinuing the funding of the arts completely. The Arts Action Fund provides three reasons supporting the arts in schools and why they are important. Students with an arts rich education have shown to have higher better scores on standardized reading and math tests, and lower dropout rates. According to a study done by the Student Attitude Inventory (SAI), addition to the significant changes in attitude towards school, family, and self, none of the 50 students dropped out or failed the ninth In addition to the study conducted by SAI, involved in art or music throughout high school had average exceeding 3.0, as compared to students with no art or music classes averaging GPAs below (Whisman and Hixson). Both of these sources support The Arts Action claim that students involved in the arts in school have proven to have lower dropout rates and higher than those students who are not involved in the arts in school. Rheg is a website whose primary goal is to remove the arts from being taught in schools. Their claim is that art can be powerful to a harmful extent and distract students from the primary goal at hand. Many classroom teachers view the arts as distraction to students causing them to diverge from the real and important learning that is the main and required business of education (Fowler). The information provided by Fowler in this source supports claim that the arts in school can be a distraction to students in fulfilling the ultimate goal at hand. Even though The Arts Action Fund and Rheg have different and incompatible viewpoints, there is almost always a compromise that can be proposed that would satisfy each of the two stakeholders. They both have the common interest in the well-being of the future of the country. The future of the country relies on the productivity of the current younglings in school and the future generations. The compromise between the two stakeholders is that instead of removing the arts from schools, art can become implemented within the core subjects such as Student 3 mathematics and social studies and the arts as individual classes can be phased out of the curriculum. shows that classes that achieve better results in national exams share a cross- curricular integration of all subjects. It seems unfair that only a small proportion of students receive such teaching. Teaching and expecting from students only basic skills and memorising leads away from creativity. Classes that accustom students to creative thinking involve the teacher assisting students to create, research, present and arrive at conclusions. Students need to become familiar with exible thinking and with looking at things not only as they are but as they could (Brezovnik 18). Brezovnik was saying that students who have not been involved in a form of art do not have the flexibility or creative way of thinking than the student who is or has been involved in a form of art. If art is implemented within the teachings of most, if not all, classes, students will be able to come to conclusions and solve problems or answer questions with a more creative point of view or by thinking outside of the box. While there are capable forms of compromise between the two stakeholders, there are reasons as to why they have not come to an agreeable compromise. is implausible to suppose that the arts can be as effective a means of teaching an academic subject as is direct teaching of that subject. And thus, when we justify the arts by their secondary, utilitarian value, the arts may prove to have fewer payoffs than academics. Arts educators should never allow the arts to be justified wholly or even primarily in terms of what the arts can do for mathematics or reading. The arts must be justified in terms of what the arts can teach that no other subject can (Hetland and Winner 3). Student 4 There are aspects of art which cannot be taught just by incorporating arts within the teachings of other the subjects. Due to this very important reason, the two stakeholders have not been able to reach a valid compromise that would benefit them both and it is unclear whether they ever will. In a nutshell, the two stakeholders share common interests, concerns, and needs which make it apparent that a workable compromise can be made between The Arts Action Fund and Rheg. The Arts Action primary goal of keeping the arts in school can be reached in due time. In addition, goal of removing the arts as an isolated class can also be reached. In the future, when more research has been conducted and the two stakeholders clearly establish each of the issues they see with the problem at hand and address each and every one there is a possibility that a compromise that The Arts Action Fund and Rheg can come to and agree upon with one another. Student 5 Works Cited Anja, Brezovnik. The Benefits of Fine Art Integration into Mathematics in Primary  Center for Educational Policy Studies Journal, Vol 5, Iss 3, Pp 11-32 (2015), no. 3, 2015, p. 11. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsdoj&AN=edsdoj.86537ab0ee424fcf85a84a85d28b7ccc&site=eds- live. Lois Hetland & Ellen Winner (2001) The Arts and Academic Achievement: What the Evidence Shows, Arts Education Policy Review, 102:5, 3-6, DOI: 10.1080/10632910109600008 Fowler, Charles. Strong Arts, Strong Schools: The Promising Potential and Shortsighted Disregard of the Arts in American Schooling. New York: Oxford UP, 2001. Print. Rosal, ML, et al. Keeping Students in School: An Art Therapy Program to Benefit Ninth-Grade  Art Therapy: Journal of the American Art Therapy Association, vol. 14, no. 1, Mar. 1997, pp. 30-36. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cin20&AN=107033717&site=eds-live. Sowden, Paul T., et al. Improvisation Facilitates Divergent Thinking and Creativity: Realizing a Benefit of Primary School Arts  Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity, and the Arts, vol. 9, no. 2, May 2015, pp. 128-138. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/aca0000018. Whisman S. A., Hixson N. K. (2012). A cohort study of arts participation and academic performance. Charleston, WV: West Virginia Department of Education, Division of Curriculum and Instructional Services, Office of Research.