Reynolds 1 Phoenix Reynolds Sarah Basil ENC 1102 26 February 2017 CASAA: Awareness for Tobacco Harm Reduction When attempting to capture and attention, using rhetorical appeals can grab the attention wanted without the viewer even knowing. By using ethos, pathos, logos, and combining the four in any way, can give a simple photo or graphic more depth and more for the audience to analyze. An example would be of the organization CASAA (Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives) and the images they use in their public service announcements. Their goal is to educate the public about Tobacco Harm per their website The reason for this organization is because certain government organizations are in line to strictly regulate and even outlaw certain tobacco harm reduction methods; especially electronic cigarettes or Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems or ENDS devices. The non-for-profit organization uses the power of social media and Public Service Announcements (PSA) to gather consumers to advocate for the use of ENDS devices (electronic cigarettes). In their efforts, they tie in strong appeals to the rhetorical devices and it gives the audience something to really think about. The photos used in their PSA #1 and PSA #3 stick out more with the combinations; and each one utilizes a different combination of the rhetorical devices. By using these appeals, CASAA is explaining their views on tobacco harm reduction in a way anyone can understand. Using these strategies can make an audience ruminate about the topic, and helps convey the desired message from the organization. Reynolds 2 Through public service announcements, CASAA expressed their feelings and positions on tobacco harm reduction. The image that is tied to their third PSA from 2014, they use a photograph of a car accident with the airbags deployed. The statement on the image to the general public is asking if we would not take away car accident harm airbags, then why would we take away harm reduction for smokers; like ENDS devices. This is an appeal to logos, because logically speaking, airbags are extremely important to preventing injuries in car crashes. Individuals asked if airbags should be removed from cars would generally say There is a red filter over the photo, which is an appeal to pathos; or emotions. The deep red color creates an eerie and serious feeling, and the emphasis on the airbags is apparent. The emphasis on the airbags creates a focal point in the image, while the words going down the photo drags the attention across the image. The appeal to ethos and kairos are not as apparent in this image. The ethos appeal is within the credibility of the organization; which has been around since 2009 and has been fighting for the right to use ENDS devices since, and the statements made within the PSA. The appeal to kairos with this image is the time of the publication, which was around the time the FDA was brewing up their early drafts of their regulations; much like most of the published by CASAA. The first PSA from CASAA in 2013 includes an image of a hand holding a cigarette and a claim that 6.2% of US smokers will quit this Public Service This means the other 93.6% had continued the statistic is followed up by asking if we should just tell the other forty-three million smokers to just continue smoking. This question asked creates an appeal to logos and pathos in a way; it gets the audience wondering about that number. Forty-three million smokers in 2013 alone, and the fact that the FDA was and still is on their way to outlawing tobacco harm reduction device? Reynolds 3 That alone is quite daunting, and chances are, people seeing the image most likely know a smoker who has tried and failed quitting; or someone who has used ENDS to quit or currently does use them. Today, seeing a cigarette in a hand is so normal, we do not even think twice about it. Also, in appeal to ethos, the numbers used in this PSA were from the Center of Disease Control or the CDC. The CDC is a credible government source when statistics such as the numbers of smokers is presented, as they are responsible for such statistics in the US. To appeal to kairos, the image uses a timeline for the number of smokers is a year, and this shows an extended period where only 6.2% of smokers were able to quit with the current resources. Over time, this number has grown, and that is most likely due to more options being on the market; like ENDS devices. One study put in the journal from the Society for the Study of Addiction (SSA) presented that e-cigarettes seem to be more effective in reducing symptoms of nicotine withdrawal then do first-generation (Lechner). This further backs up the facts that ENDS can and have worked, and can continue to work, given the support received from CASAA in their fight for ENDS devices works. CASAA has always and will continue to support themselves along with other organizations in the journey of keeping products and other harm reduction methods available, affordable, and This statement proves their overall appeal to ethos, even outside of their and shows that they care about advocating for these policies. The main line on each of the PSA photos is tobacco harm reduction and this also is an appeal to ethos. With their rich and powerful images, CASAA appeals to each of the four rhetorical pathos, logos, and kairos. The image from PSA #1 is simple, but appeals to all four rhetorical appeals, and the image from PSA #3 appeals strongly to two of the four and still includes the other two rhetorical Reynolds 4 appeals. CASAA even presents a page explaining electronic cigarettes, the different generations, their basic chemistry, why they are important to have on the market with other nicotine replacement therapy methods, and a plethora of other information apart from the PSA photos. Electronic The photos serve the purpose of appealing to a visual audience and utilizing rhetoric to capture the general population, and with the four appeals, they can pull in a wide variety of individuals. Conclusively, images that utilize the four rhetorical appeals drive a deeper meaning than those which do not. Appealing to ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos is a key factor in pulling in an audience to listen to your message. By appealing to those, as well as flowing an image in an appealing way, and providing information about the organization, groups like CASAA can gain the audience they desire. This is shown by the appeal to ethos their organization and their contain; they are a credible source in the tobacco harm reduction industry. Images such as the ones from PSA #1 and PSA #3 show this by voicing the thoughts. Should we take away harm reduction for car accidents? Should we tell forty-three million smokers to continue smoking each year? These are appeals to pathos, and they can make an audience seriously think of the topic presented. This has been a successful tactic, especially in PSA messages. Reynolds 5 Works Cited Electronic CASAA. Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives, 23 Aug. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. About  CASAA. N.p., 14 Nov. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Public Service CASAA. N.p., 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Public Service Announcement CASAA. N.p., 16 June 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Lechner, William V., Ellen Meier, Josh Wiener L., DeMond Grant M., Jenna Gilmore, Matt Judah R., Adam Mills C., and Theodore Wagener L. Comparative Efficacy of First- versus Second- generation Electronic Cigarettes in Reducing Symptoms of Nicotine Society for the Study of Addiction., 5 Mar. 2015.