EVANS: 1 Colton Evans Nusspickel ENC 1101 1/30/17 Games and Crime The video game industry is more popular now than ever before in its history. However, with the relatively new fame comes some unexpected scrutiny. Over the past two decades there has been an increasing debate on what to do about the violent crime problem in America, despite crime consistently going down since the early 1990s. Specifically there has been much debate on how to curb gun violence in America. The video game industry has been critic ized for the gratuitous violence in some of its more popular video games like of or Theft In the mentioned video games, the player is awarded more points or unlockables for committing more acts of violence. Because the games normalize and desensitize young minds to violence causing them to be more likely to commit violent acts, some experts say that this increasing popularity in these video games is causing our youth to become more violent. Other experts say that video game violence has nothing to do with causing kids or anybody that plays video games to commit violent acts. Some experts claim that these violent video games can help develop better morality in children that play them, which begs the question. Do Violent Video games have any effect on the U.S Crime rate? EVANS: 2 DeCamp, Whitney. Impersonal Agencies Of Communication: Comparing The Effects Of Video Games And Other Risk Factors On  Psychology Of Popular Media Culture 4.4 (2015): 296-304. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This first source talks about how many studies that claim violent video games cause youth to act more violent are inherently flawed and at times, completely unscientific. The author Dr. Whitney DeCamp cites some studies that used reactions to violence after being exposed to violent video games to prove that violent video games cause more acts of violence in youth that play them. She then goes on to say that an indifferent reaction to violence after exposure to violent video games does not prove that these children will commit actual violent acts. The same studies also had some experiments where there was no control group of children present in the study, even though a control group is a basic element in a scientific experiment. DeCamp uses this as evidence that many of these studies have confirmation bias. This article shows that many scientific studies on the effects of violent video games on the development of violent behavior on children have very little credibility. This is du to the fact that many of them do not have control groups to compare with results of the experiment or have blatant confirmation bias. Because of this lack of credibility, it can be unreasonable to assume that violent video games are the cause of any increase in crime or violent behavior. DeCamp conducted his own study where he too more than six thousand eighth grade students from Delaware to study the effects of violent video games on their behavior. He had a control group and an experimental group for girls, boys, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and children on free or reduced lunch. His study found that there is no increase in violent behavior when violent video games are introduced to these children. DeCamp has a Ph.D. in Criminology, so he knows how criminals think and how a person transforms from a law-abiding citizen to a criminal. EVANS: 3 Krantz, Andrew, et al. Violent Video Games Exposed: A Blow By Blow Account Of Senseless Violence In  Journal Of Psychology 151.1 (2017): 76-87. SPORTDiscus. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source talks about the psychological effects on the brain after prolonged exposure to violent. This journal claims that prolonged exposure to video games causes children to be desensitized to violence, have decreasing levels of empathy, and are more likely to commit violent acts. This source also claims that most parents are unaware of how to know if a video game is appropriate for their child to play. This journal also claims that there are few rating systems to let parents know what content is contained in a particular video game. This journal also claims that the rating systems for video games that are in place do a poor job at rating the game, causing parents and children that want the game to be confused about the appropriateness of the game. This study also shows that the rating system is very lenient when it comes to violence in video games citing that of T rated (for teens 13 and up) games encourage players to commit violent acts in the The article also cites that 25% of M rated (17 and older only) contain graphic violence and substance The article also claims that this proliferation of violence, profanity, and substance abuse in M rated games are still harmful due to the still developing young adult mind. This article shows that even experts in the field of psychology can be subjected to publication or confirmation bias. This article also shows that many of these experiment results do not show that kids are more violent after playing violent videogames. They only show that kids are only more conditioned to violence and now have a reaction to it. This experiment like others relies on a slippery-slope argument to say that desensitization leads to increase in violence. This article Michele Knox, one of the authors of this article has a Ph.D. in Psychology EVANS: 4 and has had extensive research in psychological experiments involving video games. The rest of the authors all have in Psychology. Frithjof, Thomas Bliesener, and Stefanie Luthman. Hostile And Hardened? An Experimental Study On (De-)Sensitization To Violence And Suffering Through Playing Video  Swiss Journal Of Psychology / Schweizerische Zeitschrift Psychologie / Revue Suisse De Psychologie 67.1 (2008): 41-50. PsycARTICLES. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. This article detailing a study by Stefanie Luthman, Frithjof and Thomas Bliesener, they test a hypothesis of whether or not Person (FPS) violent video games lead to desensitization to violence and/or an increase in cardiovascular action. They tested the hypothesis with an experiment with only 42 men spending 20 minutes playing either extremely violent FPS game or a milder FPS, and after are shown unpleasant and aggressive pictures and their reactions are recorded. Their heart rate and respirations are also recorded during their playing time. The study found that there is no difference in the judgments of emotional responses to the pictures from any of the participants. During play, there were increases in heart rate and respirations in situations of high violence that occur in the video game. EVANS: 5 This article shows that exposure to violent video games, specifically have no real change in a emotional behavior for better or worse. This research also shows that players have no change in reaction physiologically to intense situations in the video game. Frithjof Staude-Muller is a researcher for the institute of psychology at the University of Kiel, who is currently working on his Ph.D. Dr. Thomas Bliesener is the head of the psychology department at the University of Kiel and has over ten years of experience doing psychology research. Stefanie Luffman hows an MSc and a Ph.D in psychology at the University of Kiel. EVANS: 6 Ferguson, Christopher. The Good, The Bad And The Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review Of Positive And Negative Effects Of Violent Video  Psychiatric Quarterly 78.4 (2007): 309-316. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. This article acknowledges that the video game industry has become highly politicized as a result of concern between supposed correlations between playing violent video games and increasing violent behavior. This article also addresses that many studies have publication bias in regards to their experiment results and therefore skews the data that was found by said experiment to favor the hypothesis. This article also addresses the lack of attention drawn to the increase of visuospatial cognition with playing video games for an extended period of time. Visuospatial cognition is a skill that empowers us to observe and interact with our visual world, It includes things like hand-eye coordination. The purpose of this experiment was to prove that video games increase visuospatial cognition, to see if they have any effect in regards to aggressive behavior, and try to eliminate as much bias as possible. The study found absolutely no effect in regards to an increase in aggressive behavior, a significant increase in visuospatial cognition, and all without confirmation or publication bias. This scientific study has confronted that videogame violence has become a highly-politicized issue, and seeks an answer to whether or not video games cause an increase in violent behavior and whether or not it can be physically beneficial to the person playing it. This article also observes that many experiments are conducted to confirm whoever is conducting the experiment political narrative. Christopher Fergusson currently hold a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Central Florida, and EVANS: 7 an MS in developmental psychology from Florida International University. He also has clinical experience working with children in the juvenile justice system. Fournis, and Nidal Nabhan Abou. Violence, Crime, And Violent Video Games: Is There A  Psychiatric Times 31.9 (2014): 1-4. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This journal article addresses that the worry of violent video games impacting behavior is justified, but there is not enough evidence to support that violent video games cause an increase in antisocial or aggressive behavior. The authors cite studies that say there is a direct correlation between playing violent video games and an increase in violent behavior. However, the authors also state that there might be many factors that lead to an increase in violent behavior, not just exposure to one stimuli for a temporary period of time. The article also cites that people are more likely to become more violent by being exposed to violent television, with the rational that television violence looks and feels more realistic to observers than in video games. The journal also cites that an increase in playing violent video games leads to a decrease in criminality. This Journal shows that although a lot of the hysteria surrounding video games is justified, they jury is still out on whether or not video games cause an increase in violent behavior. However, there is overwhelming evidence that violent video games do not increase criminality. In fact, studies show the opposite. Although there were some psychopaths that cited video games were the cause of their mass murder, there is no evidence to support that. Also, many psychopaths often try to assert blame to other people or things to justify or excuse their actions, often making it seem their actions had to be done or were inevitable. Fournis and Nidal Nabhan Abou have MDs in Psychiatry. EVANS: 8 Hourigan, Benjamin. The Moral Code Of Grand Theft Auto  Institute Of Public Affairs Review 60.3 (2008): 20-22. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article addresses the artistic aspect of violent video games like Grand Theft Auto (GTA). Benjamin Hourigan argues that the media ignores the artistic value of these particular video games and just dismisses them as immoral or awful. However, GTA and other games have more value than meets the eye. The media reports that you can pay for a service then later murder her in the game, but they fail to tell the public that the game force anybody to do that. GTA often depicts organized crime and crime in general as disgusting and awful, not desirable. Much of the plot of the game is taking down a drug kingpin, not profiting from one. The game confronts players with realistic moral choices and comments on American society as a whole. Yet, much of the mainstream news outlets depict the video game industry as an industry conspiring against the young minds of America. In reality these are artists/entrepreneurs trying to make their art come to life. The violence contained in their product (if any) is part of their art, just like the over-the-top violence in Quintin Tarrrantino and Martin Scorsese movies is stylized and artistic. However, those people are praised by the media for their excellent work, while companies like Rockstar are ridiculed. He also argues that GTA is a reflection of the real world and its cruelties and its vagueness. In fantasy, there is the good guy and the bad guy, but in the real world those lines are blurred with morally questionable people. He argues that there is really no true good or bad person, and GTA reflects that. The player if he/she wants can be a morally upstanding citizen, or a total crook. A choice everyone has to make in real life. This article proves that most of the hysteria about video games causing crime is either nonsense or just unjustified rhetoric, and has no hard evidence to support their claims. Benjamin Hourigan is not a scientist that has a Ph.D. or MD, but he is a novelist and an editor that can put an artistic perspective on the video game industry. EVANS: 9