Alexa Groat Groat 2 March 2017 Jarad Fennell Comp 2 1 Tattoos in the Professional Medical Field For all of Americas history, tattoos have been looked down upon and have prevented some from getting jobs, and even hindered their credibility. These pictures are evidence that a skin does not make up their ability or credibility in professional positions. The focus in these two photographs is that the medical professionals are both covered in tattoos, but the fact of how well they do their job is not affected. These photographs use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to relay their point to the audience. Before getting in depth about the different appeals that are used in these photographs, it is important to understand how tattoos are viewed and perceived by a lot of society. The stigmatism against tattoos creates the culture of looking down on tattoos and denying respect. It is common for people to believe that those with tattoos are lazy and uncommitted and all around not as qualified or dedicated as those with no inked skin. Although the solution of simply not caring what others think of you is realistic all the way up until it comes to employment. Tattoos propose large barriers when it comes to job hunting; employers often turn down or discriminate against body art. The objective of these photographs are to prove that one can be successful with or without visible tattoos. Dr. David Ores, pictured in the first photograph, is an extremely famous dermatologic surgeon. Ironically, he is a tattoo removal professional, while covered in ink. He is dedicating his life to help those who have trouble finding jobs or are worried about their future due to the tattoos that they have. Although he removes tattoos for a living, he still stands as living proof that tattoos do not prohibit success. Especially when it comes to professions in the Alexa Groat Groat 2 March 2017 Jarad Fennell Comp 2 2 medical field, tattoos are looked down on tremendously. Dermatology has a lot to do with being in the medical field and being a credible source in that field; skin health is just as important as any other health and a doctor should be as healthy as they can be under their own control. Although, tattoos may not be deemed unhealthy, for some society has suggested that they are. Doctors and other medical professionals are held to an even higher standard; the expectation of clean, professional, and precise characteristics always match with the presumed characteristics of those with tattoos. This to say that people with tattoos do not meet those expectations, but with the societal inputs it always clear what the difference is between fact and stereotype. These two pictures prove that the standards and visual expectations are beatable. The rhetorical appeals in these photographs are presented to help present the purpose. Ethos is displayed in both images, but in different ways. In the first image, the doctor is first looked at in just his professional form. All that is seen is his uniform and the medical equipment that surrounds him, this creates the essence of credibility in his skill and qualifications. Then, in the picture next to that, he is in the same environment, but he is wearing his normal clothes. His same pose and facial expression, along with being in the same environment, is visually appealing because it shows us that he is still the same, whether you can see his tattoos or not. This appeals to ethos even more; the feeling of conflicting views makes us think but it also shows that there is no reason to feel conflicted. In the second photograph, the appeal of ethos is more straightforward. The doctor in the second picture is showing visible tattoos, in this she is showing that she does not have to hind her skin to show her worth. In the two photographs ethos Alexa Groat Groat 2 March 2017 Jarad Fennell Comp 2 3 is a large part of what makes them so affective. Credibility is something that is especially looked for in occupations in the medical field, making the credibility in these pictures so relevant. Additionally, these pictures appeal to pathos. Our emotions are interacted with when we see that these people are doctors. As humans, doctors are very involved in our lives, whether we see them consistently or sporadically, we still want to have access to the best doctors, and most trustworthy and reliable doctors. With the first picture, we see the doctor, who looks very trustworthy and reliable, and then we see him as a normal person but our opinions on him change because of the feelings we made when we first saw him. The second picture give us much to go on other than the fact that there is a doctor with tattoos, this makes the opinion making a little harder, but still seeing the stethoscope and scrubs makes one feel a connection to this doctor. The pathos appeal is one that may not be obvious right away but is still affective. Logos is an obvious appeal in these photographs. In both pictures, the doctors are dressed in professional attire and have medical equipment. These things appeal to the logic and reason of the audience. The logos appeals are what ties the meaning of the photographs together, without it the audience would not know the point or the angle that they are coming from. The little background that we have about the doctor in the first photograph also give us more clarity and evidence that the man in the first picture is a professional and well known surgeon. Knowing this helps us see reasoning and fact in him being a hardworking and dedicated person, regardless of his tattoos. The logos in these photographs tie together the ideas of tattoos being just as qualified to actually seeing them be just as qualified. Alexa Groat Groat 2 March 2017 Jarad Fennell Comp 2 4 Kairos is an appeal that is less heard of but just as important. The appeal that comes with these photographs have not as much to do with urgency, but more to do with reaching a goal. The goal is obvious once it is clear that the photographs are of medical professionals with their equipment. They are here to help people and to the best job that they can do. They have been train intensively to do the job that they do and the goal is to save lives and keep everyone as healthy as possible. This appeal is very affective because the goal of every doctor is the same, regardless of the tattoos they do or have. It creates the sense of having a single purpose and the audience barely has a chance to even notice the tattoos before they identify that they are looking at doctors and that the goal of the doctors is to help. The goal is the main focus in this appeal, disregarding the tattoos to help realize that they do not make a difference. These two images have similar affects, they both display all four appeals in similar and different ways. The most important thing that these pictures do is show that it does not make a difference if a skin is covered in tattoos or not, the work ethic and credibility is still not determined by the skin of the person. After taking a deeper look into the pictures, we see hardworking, caring, and dedicated people, rather than hardworking, caring, and dedicated people with tattoos. Alexa Groat Groat 2 March 2017 Jarad Fennell Comp 2 5 Alexa Groat Groat 2 March 2017 Jarad Fennell Comp 2 6 Works Cited Ivanova, Irina, and Buck Ennis. For Dr. David Ores, Tats Not All,  New York Business. N.p., 27 Oct. 2013. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Linkov, Nikolay. How Tattoos in the Workplace Affect Healthcare  AIMS EDUCATION. N.p., 14 May 2016. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Schierhorn, Carolyn. Is the World Ready for Tattooed, Pierced  The DO. N.p., 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.