Student Student 1 Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Tackling mental illness, what should be done? The first stakeholder in this project is the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, they are an organization that seek to educate the world about the depth of mental illness and the ways it can be treated and helped. They talk about how serious mental illness can be and the affects it has. Their website offers information about treatments like medications, support groups, or even just the love and support from your community. The second stake holder is a website titled believe in mental illness, do this man seeks to disclaim the mental illness category. He believes that mental illness is a title that society puts on suffering to somehow normalize it. What he does believe in though is natural human suffering, he believes suffering is one category. That is normal to experience the full depth of suffering and the madness and pain that it brings. The ADAA seeks to educate on mental illness and the treatments to help fix these problems, the believe in mental illness, do website seeks to tell people that mental illness is a hoax, it is natural human suffering. The compromise between these two organizations can be implemented through the agreement that suffering and pain do exist, whether a label is put on it or not and the ways that you can come about treating this suffering is through the love and support of your community and those around you. They can agree that one of the biggest factors in the getting better process of a dark place in is that you need attention and encouragement from all or any part of your life. The mission of the ADAA is over Anxiety and They have many advertisements on this website as well as many links that support this mission. In this way, they are attempting to fully capture the attention of those who are struggling or a family or friend of those who Student 2 are struggling. By providing these articles and links to help centers, groups, and treatments that as many people take advantage of their resources and programs that look to help and boost up those that are struggling. In the journal of Social Science and Medicine, it speaks about how mental illness is one of the most prominent forms of suffering which backs up the claims of this stakeholder. It explains how there are many tools and options to help those who are suffering, which this website offers links and numbers to the many resources they offer (Yang, Lui, Sullivan, & Shengdong,2016.) In the book, Mental illness: a homecare guide, a brief part of this book explains home remedies for helping and guiding those who experience mental illness. Things like home health care and programs for the family of those who are experience this difficult time of suffering. Which is also a big part of this goal. As well as tending to the one that is suffering, the family who is helping is also important (Lacy, 1989.) Their credibility was established with articles written by real life people who have gone through their programs and articles from doctors supporting their treatment claims, which helps promote the help they are trying to provide to so many people. Their main goal is to educate as many people as possible on the realness of mental illness and how much it can affect you and the people around you. They seek to understand mental illness and the workings and causes as well as show other their findings. In the journal, International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, it speaks about how the medical community actively seeks to understand the mind as well as mindfulness. Your mind is molded by biology as well as the environment you live in. Different factors affect mind differently but yet we are all suffering in a semi same way. This looks to explain and explore that as well as the Anxiety and Depression Association of America seeks to explain the same. (Shonin & Gordon, 2016) The mission of the website titled believe in mental illness, do seeks to demote mental illness and promote natural human suffering. Not necessarily promote, but say that the title mental illness is just a titled when in all reality, we are all suffering in our individual ways but its natural Student 3 and okay to let it run its course. He speaks about letting suffering run its course and experiencing the emotional roller coaster that comes along with it. In the article, Capture: Unraveling the Mystery of Mental Suffering, it backs up the claims of this stakeholder. It speaks about a concept of nature and it should be able to run its course because something positive just might come out of it, even if it a natural way to feel and something to endure. (Lieberman, 2016) He talks about his own experiences about the suffering and brief madness he experienced during this time. He speaks about how it was natural and the only that should be administered during times of suffering is the love and support from his family, friends, and community. In the book, Mental illness: opposing viewpoints, his beliefs of mental illness not being a reality are expressed here as well. This book talks about how mental illness is too broadly defined to be a real thing. Also, with mental illness being such a broad topic people confuse the real-life suffering of some with just unusual behavior. In society, both fall under the category of mental illness. (Barbour, 1995) He also believes that your physicality has a play in your mental suffering, you can give yourself treatment for suffering if you keep up with your physical health. An Article in the Kirkus Reviews adds to this claim as well. In this article, it states how attached your physical and mental beings are and that if you take care of one, you take care of the other. It talks about how people seek natural remedies for their mental sufferings and a big part of that is your physical upkeeping and healthy rejuvenation of your mind. Health, Naturally: The Family Guide to Holistic Care for a Healthy Mind and 2010.) The credibility of this website comes from articles that are linked that support his claims. articles opposing as well as agreeing with him, he also opens his website up to comments from the public and has acquired quite the following. As well as creating this website discussing his beliefs, one of his main goals is to go out to the public and try to educate as many people as he can about his cause/belief. Student 4 These two stakeholders are very similar in their wants and needs but are very different in the purpose and goal of their organizations. They both want so badly to educate about their causes and want to spread the word to as many people as they possibly can. The way a common ground has come about is the fact that they both believe in suffering. Whether there is a label on it or not they agree that people experience mental/emotional pain and something needs to happen to help these people get better and not drown in their own despair. The one factor that these two stakeholders have in coming is the idea of love and support from people helping pain. Its talked about multiple times in both sites how a community can come together and focus their efforts on one being to help them get out of their mental suffering. It just have to be a community, it could be one person, a loved one or friend. Just one person who cares can cure someone of their grief. The reason these two stakeholders come to a compromise in the past is because it has always been a hard subject in society as well as among scholars. always been either or, never the fact that they can agree that maybe they both have valid points and that both underlying reasons are the same. People are blinded with the label of mental illness and whether real, never really just the fact that a person is suffering and there are little things you and other can do to help that person in any way that they need. The ADAA is an organization that seeks to educate the world on the seriousness of mental illness and what treatments and programs are out there that can help with this. The website believe in mental illness, do seeks to take down the title of mental illness and spread the word that there is only natural human suffering and no need for labels like mental illness. Those these two are so different, there is a compromise that can come between them. They can agree that one of the biggest (W.C 1497) Student 5 Works Cited Barbour, W. (1995). Mental illness: opposing viewpoints. San Diego, CA: Greenhaven Press This goes into the second stakeholder, this backs up his claims of mental illness being false. This too has opposing viewpoints. Lieberman, J. (2016). Capture: Unraveling the Mystery of Mental Suffering. Library journal, 141(5), 125 This backs up the claims of the second stakeholder. He believes in the natural suffering and it running its course with all that it endures. Lacy, S. (1989). Mental illness: a homecare guide. Chichester, New York: John Wiley & Sons. This brings in the home remedies for suffering that the second stakeholder expresses an interest in. Mental Health, Naturally: The Family Guide to Holistic Care for a Healthy Mind and Body. (2010). Kirkus Reviews, 78(18), 8. This article is about family oriented treatments for mental health issues which ties into the love/care treatment both stakeholders are trying to convey as a treatment. +Shonin, Edo, & Gordon, W. (2016). The Mechanisms of Mindfulness in the Treatment of Mental Illness and Addiction. International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, 14(5), 6, 844. This backs up the claims of the first stakeholder, they have a lot of the same treatment plans expressed. +Yang, Q., Lui, S., Sullivan, D., & Shengdong, P. (2016). Interpreting suffering from illness: The role of culture and repressive suffering construal. Social Science & Medicine, 160, factors in the getting better process of a dark place in is that you need attention and encouragement from all or any part of your life.