Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 The developed conflict between having and not having art program in schools in the recent years there has been a common dispute between allowing art programs to participate in schools. The issue causes uprising in families and educators throughout the nation as schools as well as companies fight over the idea of whether art programs should be included in schools. The problem between the different sides of this argument is that the main outcome of the dilemma is influenced by the credibility of the stakeholder. A problem like this is easily influenced through the credibility of a stakeholder due to being of a public dilemma. The outcome of the arts programs in schools have varied and created different sides considering the future of these programs attempting to find a proper fair solution to both sides. In the argument of the first stakeholder, there is persistent motion in fighting against the removal of arts programs in schools. They have plenty of reason as to why it should stay and have explained, proven, and pushed the topic as much as they have already. The stakeholder in this position holds three separate main factors in their leading argument. One, he implementation of art programs in schools creates a possibility and agenda for a regular school student to become a more wholesome student and person all around. Students who focus on school work may end up being somewhat lop-sided if not exposed or properly exposed to more creative activities to partake in. On the contrary, students who participate in fine arts programs in schools prove to achieve higher levels. With the extra focus of fine arts, education becomes a bit more balanced and well done. indicates that the fine arts can provide a unique avenue for reaching challenging students with principles of brain-based (Lutfi) Two, art programs in schools creates a sense of creativity and escape to students. Students may not get the opportunity to experience different art forms if an art program is not implemented in school. schools are at the other extreme of the dull, boring, and rigid learning milieus in which students are the passive recipients of (Lutfi) Giving a student an art program can possibly be giving them a hobby or lifestyle or even possibly a career that can, in turn, end in many outcomes. Three, students participating in art programs can experience a new form of environment and discipline. Depending on how the program is run, students can learn more than just art but how to develop, work, and polish skills. Students can take art programs as a new opportunity to learn how to master skills. The stakeholder and people in support of the fight against removing art schools hold valid arguments and have used these arguments to make there way to where they are. Within the goal of the second primary stakeholder in this dilemma lies a complete counter to the first stakeholder. This counter is obviously wanting to remove art programs in schools. The stakeholder and the people who support the removal of art in schools hold two main arguments. One, that an art program is mainly a wasteful distraction to students. Results of students who participate in art programs agree with this claim by the stakeholder. showed that the non-distracted group was more efficient, and that the musical distractions affected most of the students with higher intellectual (Engel 1) Some students are shown to be very counter productive when taking up art as they are distracted by their new skill whether it be painting or playing an instrument. to the arts may generate excitement and be entertaining, but it does not nurture the development of skills, knowledge, and (Hanley 5). Second, the stakeholder explains that the budgeting for art programs is overall to expensive. Many forms of art programs, whether it be drama, music, or general art, have high costs. painting and sketching equipment by itself is high priced let alone music instruments and cost of performance in drama. Then there is the factor of having equipment locked up or stolen. Either way both are expensive. When concerning both stakeholders, there are certain common grounds found between the two. In the end, both stakeholders are looking for the betterment of the student. Although they argue for giving or taking something from the student, both stakeholder believe their arguments to be for the better of the student. This is because both stakeholder share the main concern of the outcome and development in the student. They both share the idea that they want students to be raised and grown in the best way possible. Both stakeholders both also share a need of the rising productivity of the student. The two stakeholders cannot hold their argument without arguing the productivity and development of the student. Without this factor, there is no argument and both aides are just irrelevant. If a compromise were to be proposed between the two stakeholders, the easiest solution would be to limit art education in schools. In the dilemma, the outcome ends in either students getting art programs or students not getting art programs. In this compromise, both stakeholders are getting a little of what they want but giving a little of what they want. Because both stakeholders hold arguments that completely contradict each other in outcome, this is the only realistic possible thought outcome. As well as limiting the programs, there can also be a different form of system and agenda. Through a different, limited program, an art program can be provided; however, it will follow more of counters to the second stakeholders arguments. With this, the different program will include more education and productivity based work as well as finding cheaper solutions to art materials. Between the two stakeholders argument, a solution, being a new and limited art program can be implemented to follow the arguments of both stakeholders. This can happen after proper management and effort. This program can be implemented in the near future if worked out properly. Generally planned out, this would take a well made presentation and explanation of the system, sponsorship, and a school to accept the program. Once this is done, the program can be tested in schools and if results properly satisfy both stakeholders then this program can be considered a solution to the two stakeholders dilemma. This program, if worked out and properly run, would satisfy a stakeholder who wants to keep school art programs in school as well as satisfy a stakeholder who wants the exact opposite. This leaves the the idea of what the system actually holds; what is being taught and how being taught. There are still possibility of other solutions. Differences can still be solved in an equal manner with the constant changing school format. The factor still lies that the way the world works is has a big involvement in this dilemma. The system of society may change to where fine arts is a more dominant factor and more necessary in schools. Or the society system may change to the world becoming a place where fine arts is completely unwanted and unnecessary.In the end this currently unknown system holds the satisfaction of both stakeholders main argument making both arguments eventually invalid. (Word Count: 1200) Works Cited Lutfi, Ghazwan. Whole Brain Learning: The Fine Arts with Students at  ProQuest. ProQuest, 2016. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <http://search.proquest.com/docview/214192698?pq origsite=gscholar>. Engel, Alvin. The Effect of Musical Distraction Upon the Performance Efficiency of  The Journal of Educational Research 56.1 (1962): n. pag. Tandfonline. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Hanley, Betty. The Good, the Bad, and the Partnerships in Canadian Elementary  Arts Education Policy Review 104.6 (2003): 11-20. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Holcomb, Sabrina. Arts  NEA. National Education Association, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nea.org/home/10630.htm>. Writer, Leaf Group. Negatives of Music in  Synonym. Synonym, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://classroom.synonym.com/negatives-music-school-8136295.html>.