Greathouse, 1 Caroline Greathouse Dennis Composition II Section 3 February 26, 2017 An Analysis of Visual Rhetoric Concerning Sexual Education in the United States According to the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, nearly 20 million people have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). In spite of this, nearly 50% of adults younger than 45 years of age were never tested for any STD besides HIV/AIDS. These alarming statistics suggest that the information regarding and access to sexual health in the United States is unbalanced. There are two groups that are working to create their own standard of sexual education in an effort to improve these figures. One of the groups is Advocates for Youth. They aim to provide access to accurate and comprehensive information regarding sexual health for adolescents (Advocates for Youth). Ascend is the other group and they encourage abstinence education (We Ascend). In order to gain support for their methods of sexual health education, Ascend and Advocates for Youth both use compelling visual advertisements that utilize a myriad of rhetoric techniques. Ascend uses an infographic to relay information regarding abstinence education and its benefits. Advocates for Youth utilizes a compelling image and more subtle persuasion to promote comprehensive sex education. Ascend was founded in 2007 and was formerly known as the National Abstinence Education Association (Ascend). Since then, the organization has raised nearly $500 million to support sexual risk avoidance (SRA) programs. These programs are not only but teach a holistic view of sex and sexual health (NAEA). The distinction is that abstinence is considered the best method to avoiding sexual risk and this is told to the students Greathouse, 2 more than anything else. Ascend is led by Valerie Huber, who has worked in the SRA field across the nation by training sex educators and lobbying in Washington, D.C. (Ascend). This organization operates on the national level with their most senior staff communicating with the Ohio Department of Health; the Administration of Children and Families; and even the Federal Department of Health and Human Services (Ascend). In fact, their headquarters are located right next to the White House in D.C. on Pennsylvania Avenue NW. Overall, the group Ascend works to promote abstinence on a national level through lobbying, training sex educators, and widespread networking. The organization believes that adolescents are better prepared for their futures with they do not participate in pre-matrimonial sexual activity. Greathouse, 3 The infographic above is from an Ascend publication highlighting some recent research involving sexual health education. It contains three of the four main rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, and pathos. There is no kairos present in the infographic. To begin, the main source of ethos is found in the bottom right corner of the image in the Ascend logo. Their symbol, name, and motto are found and provide credibility to the infographic. It was clearly made to represent Ascend and its goals. Furthermore, the inclusion of source information, author, and name of the research study also contributes to the ethos of this advertisement. To continue, now focus on logos and pathos. The infographic relies heavily on logos. The pie chart and accompanying text out of 4 Americans want the primary sex ed. message to give teens practical skills to wait for logically appeals to viewers who are perhaps undecided on their stance on sexual education by stating that 77% of Americans are on the side of Ascend. This chart also weakens the argument of opposing sides by suggesting that they only have 23% popular support. The right side of the chart focuses on money and provides statistics on the spending for sexual health education. The white diagonal dashed line separating the two financial statistics suggests that there is a great disparity between the opinion of people and the actuality of how money is spent, which is then confirmed by the facts themselves. The use of green colors emphasizes this focus on money, which is a powerful element of logos because logically, money should be spent how people want it to be spent. Further building on the financial focus are the images of dollar bills and coins, which interest people and provides context before the statistics are even read. Finally, there is very few appeals to pathos. The main appeal to pathos is the shock generated from reading the statistics provided. This shock is intentional and the infographic utilizes it to generate support for the SRA field, which Ascend Greathouse, 4 leads. Overall, the infographic uses many rhetorical appeals, mostly logos, to persuade the viewer to support the SRA field. However, Advocates for Youth does not support the SRA field. In fact, their views are completely opposed to this. The organization has operated in the field of informing adolescents of their reproductive and sexual health for over three decades (Advocates for Youth). It is led by Debra Hauser, who has worked for the organization for over twenty years. According to Advocates for Youth, 95% of people have sex before they are married. Instead of trying to convince more teens to wait for marriage, Advocates for Youth prepares their students with risk- reducing strategies and resources. For example, in 2016 alone, the group distributed 1,200,000 condoms on college campuses (Advocates for Youth). Their annual expenses last year totaled nearly seven million dollars. The group is in Washington, D.C. as well. Advocates for Youth uses the 3-R approach to sexual education: Rights. Respect. Responsibility. This summarizes all the global and local programs that they sponsor, with the common goal of empowering youths to take charge of their health without societal backlash. Greathouse, 5 To continue, the picture above represents the views of Advocates for Youth, even though it is not directly from them. In the image, the condom is a clear symbol for sexual education, which is an appeal of logos. The paper cutout figures are both boys, which is implied from the lack of skirts/dresses typically used to symbolize girls. From these two elements, an inference can be drawn regarding homosexual youth and sexual education. Combining this inference with the background on Advocates for Youth, this ad asserts that the organization is supportive of comprehensive sexual education, including topics that pertain more to homosexuals than to teens in general. The light blue color is an appeal to pathos as it is soothing, calming, and comforting. The cutout figures are equal in size, suggesting that Advocates for Youth is a group that talks with adolescents, not down to them. The smooth lines of the cutouts suggest that the organization is not focused on strictness but instead on being helpful and friendly. There are no elements of ethos or kairos in this image. To conclude, the state of sexual education in the United States is unbalanced. There are two groups that work on the national level to improve sexual education and restore balance. These groups, Ascend and Advocates for Youth, are at odds with one another. Ascend fights for abstinence education while Advocates for Youth believes in promoting the sexual health rights of teens and their access to information and resources. Both organizations use visual rhetoric in their ads to gain support. Given the topic, it is difficult to include an appeal to kairos in these ads but the other three (ethos, logos, pathos) are present in their ads. Ascend uses statistics and figures to convince people to rethink their position on a topic and support abstinence education. Advocates for Youth has a more simple approach that is open to interpretation from the viewer, but all with the goal to increase support for comprehensive sexual health education. Greathouse, 6 Works Cited Advocates for Youth. Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., 2008. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Ascend. Sexual Risk Avoidance Works. Publication. Washington, D.C: Ascend, 2016. Print. Borg, Evelyn . WHY MALTA NEEDS TO UP ITS SEX  Eve.com.mt. Eve.com.mt, n.d. Web. Only an image was used from this article.  We Ascend. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://weascend.org/>. NAEA - National Abstinence Education  NAEA - National Abstinence Education Association - FAQs. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.abstinenceassociation.org/faqs/index.html>. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.siecus.org/index.cfm>.