Student 1 Student ENC 1102 Dr. Thornton 5 March 2017 One Way or Another According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, the diagnosis of depression has increased within the past few years. On average about 15 million people (6.7 percent of the population) suffer from major depressive disorder and roughly 3.3 million people (1.5 percent of the population) suffer from persistent depressive disorder yearly (Facts). The treatment of depression has been a battle amongst medical officials because there is no specific way to completely cure depression. The University of South Counseling Center and the Clearview Center both are determined to help treat depression, however their methodology varies. This paper will evaluate the methods used to treat depression and decide how working towards a similar goal can be beneficial to their patients. The University of South Florida Counseling goal is to relieve the effects of depression through group counseling and meditation. The Counseling Centers methods of treatment include the use of group therapy in order to make connections between the depressed community in order to help stop the feeling of isolation and loneliness. Also the use of meditation to distress and calm oneself to live an overall happier life helps alleviate the feeling of depression (Counseling Center). It has been studied that the use of group therapy or significantly helps the treatment process. Student 2 According to various studies, it is proven that depressed people when participating in group therapy it is extremely difficult to not relate with other patients who are suffering in the same ways that they are (Eidelson). The familiarity to the depression and the similarities between the thoughts and experiences people the groups allows for a safe environment for the patients and helps enforce the likeliness of overcoming the depressive thoughts in their minds. Using the method of meditation as a de-stressor also helps overcome the negative thoughts. It has been discovered that meditation may be beneficial for patients with a history of depression because it is a systematic method of enhancing attentional awareness and it also found that the patients who practice meditation are less susceptible to mood swings and typically are relieved from thinking and (Ramel1). Unlike the University of South Florida Counseling Center, the primary goal of the Clearview Center is to diffuse the idea that depression exists and uses medicine to help of depression. The Clearview Center primarily treats bipolar disorder, multiple personality disorders and anxiety (Why Choose). Depression is treated at the Clearview Center, however depression is categorized as an effect from other mental illnesses and is not treated, as own illness. The Clearview Center uses anti-depressants and rehabilitation centers in order to begin the treatment process. The rehabilitation centers include day, weekend, and permanent stays at their facilities in order to work with all the patients needs. There has been controversy between the use of anti-depressants and the negative effects it could have on a patient. to psychologists, the patients using antidepressants no return bouts of the Student 3 after taking the medication for more than three years (Bower). It has also been found that at least half of the patients treated using anti-depressants have not reported any negative side effects or increased risks of suicide (Facts). According to the statistics surrounding the use of antidepressants the average person (roughly 11 million taking antidepressants have seen a decrease in visitations to hospitals. Less than a third of people taking one antidepressant drug have visited a mental health professional in the past year. Less than a half of those taking multiple antidepressant medications have seen a mental health professional in the past year (NCHS). With these statistics to support them, the Clearview Center has seen a significant decrease in depressive thoughts and feelings within their patients. Although both the University of South Florida Counseling Center and the Clearview Center share the common goal of treating depression, they both have held strong in the way both of the centers practice their treatments. When arguing about the effectiveness of either treatment both stakeholders must be able to list the pros and the cons of all methods being used. Both of the treatment centers use a form of group therapy in order to enable their patients to connect with other patients to open up and speak about their problems and feelings that they are experiencing while suffering from depression. In addition to both incorporating some sort of group therapy, both stakeholders are concerned with the overall well being of the patients. That is why both have an anonymous referral services as well as private sessions. The needs that both of the stakeholders share are the need to build comfortable environments for the patients as well as a safe environment in order to maintain credibility and be able to help their patients to the best of their ability. . Maintaining credibility among the public will help Student 4 increase the amount of people with depression to seek the help they need in order to overcome this illness. It is found that two out of three people suffering with depression do not actively seek nor receive proper (Hotline). In order to achieve the shared goal between both stakeholders, some solutions that have been offered are the use of both treatments depending on the severity of the depression and the person. Due to the ability of putting mind over matter and the medical field no solution has been found. Both stakeholders can compromise by agreeing to use the methods of group therapy and natural remedies such as meditation as well as allowing the lower dosages of the anti-depressants to alleviate the depression. Both would have to agree when it is absolutely necessary to use anti-depressants because of the high risks associated with the medicine. This compromise to combine both methods and use them according to the severity of the patient would benefit both stakeholders in different ways. The University of South Florida Counseling Center would benefit by allowing the same digression and the ability to treat their patients in the same fashion just allowing the help of the medical field. The Clearview Center would benefit also by allowing the center to operate in the same way, just with lower dosages of medicine and making the second stakeholder acknowledge the reality of depression as its own illness and not a side effect of another illness. By compromising it expands the treatment that the patients will be getting and improving the overall depression and hopefully will help cure them to the best of both the ability. The compromise can be implemented by explaining at the beginning of the new treatments that various treatments will be tested in order to benefit the patient. By allowing the patients to have the knowledge of this change builds trust and complete Student 5 understanding of what they are signing up for. However both stakeholders must acknowledge the pros and cons of both methods in order to successfully attempt to combine both treatments. The centers must wait for results through trial and error to decide which method of depression treatment is the most beneficial to every individual patient. When the world comes together change can be made. (Word Count: 1210) Student 6 Work Cited B. Bower. Therapy Gets Science News, vol. 140, no. 25/26, 1991, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/3976080. Counseling  Counseling Center University of South Florida. University of South Florida, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.usf.edu/student- affairs/counseling-center/>. EIDELSON, JUDY IWENS. GROUP THERAPY FOR DEPRESSION: AND International Journal of Mental Health, vol. 13, no. 3/4, 1984, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/41344361. Facts &  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/about-adaa/press-room/facts- statistics>. Hotline  Depression Statistics - Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. ression>. NCHS Data Brief, No.  October 2011. Ramel1, W., Goldin, P.R., Carmona, P.E. et al. Cognitive Therapy and Research (2004) 28: 433. Why Choose Clearview Center for Depression  Clearview Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Feb. 2017.