Last Name ! 1 Name Name Course Date Depression Depression refers to the state of low mood that can significantly impact a life negatively to the extent that the individual has no control over their feelings and emotions. It drastically destroys a sense of well-being and robes them of the ability to make wise decisions. It is a mental condition that sometimes refers to the common cold of psychiatry (American Psychiatric Association.; American Psychiatric Association Dsm-5 n.p). This expression means that it is common, and in mild forms but certain cases, it can be so severe, thus, preoccupying a patient to the point of taking their life. This condition has drawn a lot of concerns due to the extent at which the society struggles with it. Like other illnesses, depression has since received the much attention it deserves. The moods can be attributed to various psychiatric syndromes such as depressive disorder, but it could also be, as a result, of regular and temporary response towards daily life events (Papageorgiou, Hannah, and Justin n.p). It is the repeat of these responses that ultimately trigger detrimental medical effects. Due to these findings, people have either ignored this mental illness or have taken up the challenge to contain it. The quality of life is of great vitality, not only to an individual but also to the entire society. Depression if not treated in time progresses and renders a person useless with a downgraded life. It is a life-threatening condition that requires urgency and quick response so Last Name ! 2 that it can be contained. What is important is to identify what causes depression, prevent them rather than cure, what are the effects that come with depression, whether at an individual level, the pharmaceutical company and to the general population. Moreover, what the consequences of depression are and most of all is how they can treat it (Moragne 4). It is the gravity of these concerns that has either seen the illness prevented or not. The world faces this problem, individuals lacking social circles, psychomotor disturbances, efficient persons, and hopeless people with low self-esteem. There is a lack of concentration and motivation and people that consistently commit suicide. These are dangerous signs and symptoms of depression that should be taken seriously. They culminate into situations that are irreversible and difficult to treat. It is, therefore, important that causes of depression remain conspicuous in aiding the identification of the preventive measure toward dealing with it. There is no single cause of depression. The causes could be environmental, physical and genetic reasons that might trigger it. However, there exist commonly known causes. For example, there are chemicals in the brain that are regulators of mood like dopamine. When people fail to balance the quantity they take, then the body is at risk of depression. One cause of the disorder that could be debatable is whether it is due to genetics. It has been found that it runs in families and so people who have such relatives are at a higher risk of developing the disorder. However, this has not been the case, hence creating the assumption that there could be multiple genes working together to create depression. Some people are born with a depressive way of thinking. They, thus, blame themselves for the negative things that happen to them. Substance-induced depression could be the most prevalent in the world today. When individuals abuse certain drugs, Last Name ! 3 for instance, alcohol, prescription painkillers and illicit drugs like cocaine, they can exacerbate the condition. The most common cause of depression are the environmental factors that depend on the daily events that shape the life of an individual. They include loss of a job, loss of a loved one, relationship trauma and lack of a social cycle (Tolson, Joanne, and Irene, n.p). These factors, if not handled well, can cause depression. Opponents of this issue may argue that depression, being a typical life event, may not have significant effects and consequences. However, research shows that this mental disorder can go a long way in causing destructive effects not only to an individual. It can cause impairment to an ability to enjoy life and live it to the fullest. The effects include minor ones like lack of appetite to major ones like headaches, sexual dysfunction, decreased immune system, family, and marital issues, rejection and ultimately death. The number of people diagnosed with depression keeps escalating. Consequently, the effects on the population are taking over the world. Thus, it has ceased to be an problem anymore. It affects everyone either in one way or another. For instance, the pharmaceutical companies face blames for some of the causes of depression in the society today. The focus remains to iron the issues whether by evaluating the substance in their products that are responsible for this or not. Many argue that depression relates to other diseases and illnesses. Heart disease dominates this least with a higher correlation. Patients with myocardial infarction (MI) show depression as a significant and independent predictor of death. Heart disease being a fatal illness, it means that people should watch out for any symptoms of depression due to its fatality. Anti- depression drugs taken during a heart condition have not been effective at all. Some say that this Last Name ! 4 condition is mostly serious in children because the people mostly ignore the signs thereby leading to death. Stroke is also related to depression. It has been shown that after suffering a severe stroke, one is vulnerable to depression and that the particular site of the brain may influence a mood disorder. Therefore, the problems posed by disability may compound a fatal neuropsychiatric impact on an individual. Thus, one can deduce that physical illness and inability increases the chances of getting depressed hence rendering an individual vulnerable to other traumatizing events like death. Research has also shown that there exists a relation between depression severity and level of treatment. The study confirms the phenomenon to take about 35.5% of 50.3 % in developed countries. However, it remains prevalent in less developed countries with the percentage being 76.3 to 85.4% and Mike 3). Furthermore, those who believe that depression is not a serious disorder but reactions to normal life events can argue that no professional treatment. However, they may not be aware that a prolonged depressed mood, especially when it is combined with many other symptoms may lead to a psychiatric condition. This argument shows that depression requires treatment and it they should never take it for granted. Other scholars have confirmed that depression lifetime prevalence 10% to 15% and Mike 3). This view is more reason to seek treatment for depression instead of ignoring it. Others believe that prevention is better than cure and that a stitch in time saves nine. Therefore, it would be much beneficial to an individual and the entire society to first work on preventing any causes of depression instead of grappling with ways to treat an extreme situation. However, depression can be due to other factors beyond their control like some daily events, but people watch out for these events lest they prolong and lead to medical conditions that are Last Name ! 5 beyond rectification. In as much as individuals empathize with those opposed to this idea that depression is a serious mental case, research statistics and findings still advise that it is as serious as it sounds. In conclusion, it is right and beyond reasonable doubt that depression is a life and threatening mental condition. It requires quick action and proper care preferably prevention rather than treatment. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Last Name ! 6 ! ! ! ! Works Cited Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: American Psychiatric Association.; American Psychiatric Association Dsm-5, 2013. Papageorgiou, Costas, Hannah Goring, and Justin Haslam. Coping with Depression: A Guide to What Works for Patients, Carers, and Professionals. Oneworld Publications, 2011. Moragne, Wendy. Depression. Twenty-First Century Books, 2011. Jean-Pierre, Mike Brile. The increasing burden of depression. Neuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment, 2011, 7(Suppl Tolson, D, Joanne Booth, and Irene Schofield. Evidence Informed Nursing with Older People. Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.