Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Advantages of Solar Energy Humans are always for ways to improve the world in any way possible. One major problem we have faced for a long time is finding an efficient and environmentally clean source of energy. Solar energy has come up as one solution to this problem but it proven to be good enough to use for the whole world to be using. Many organizations are working to encourage people to start using solar energy with the use of images and other sorts of propaganda. One of these companies, Solar Energy Industries Association, have a lot of great facts and information about solar energy and how it is the best source for the earth to use. On their website, they have two different images with similar messages that are used to encourage people to start using solar energy. The Solar Energy Industries Association has a great website with a lot of information that claims that solar energy is the cleanest and best source of energy for the earth. One specific picture on their website is of a beautiful two story house with solar panels covering the roof of the house. The house looks nice with a lot of sun light and no pollution. The second image the SEIA included was of a field in Hawaii in what looks like a field in un civilized area with a lot of solar panels. The images show two different types of places both with solar panels. They may be very different but they share a common message which is that solar energy can be obtained anywhere that receives sun light. This is a very big advantage that solar energy has over all other Student 2 options of sources, that anyone has access to the sun. Solar energy can stop big energy corporations from charging their clients hundreds of dollars a week to power their homes and businesses. One major point that is always talked about the energy sources is their impact with the environment. This is showing how clean and safe solar energy is for the earth. One major problem on the earth is pollution which a lot comes from power sources. With solar energy, the earth would not suffer like it has with other energy sources. The pictures show beautiful sceneries with no pollution coming from the solar panels. Another big thing that is brought up with these two pictures is that they anyone can have access to solar panels. The picture of the home with the panels is convincing the viewers that they too can have solar panels and produce their own energy for their homes. The second picture of the solar panels on the field looks to be a set up owned by a corporation which is collecting sun light energy to then sell to their customers. This is showing how solar energy can be used by anyone. The installation of solar panels is not cheap so these fields of solar panels show how people can still pay for power in their homes and the energy they are receiving is not hurting the earth. The main reason solar energy has not become a popular source of energy in the United States is the manufacturing and installation costs but these things are looking to be fixed, U.S. solar market faces both challenges and opportunities; the industry is working to scale up the production of solar technology, and drive down manufacturing and installation (SEIA). Once these setbacks are resolved, solar energy should make a good impact on the energy supplies, homes will start having roofs covered with solar panels and fields will start to be covered with the panels. Student 3 Images have a lot of power when they are being used to influence people. A lot of things go into shooting images for propaganda. The content of the picture, the lighting, color, and many other things are all in play when people take a picture. The pictures posted by the Solar Energy Industries Association were very well shot and show a lot of different things that support solar energy. Solar energy is in the process of becoming the number one source of energy for the earth. Being able to take the suns heat and use it to power our TV, fridge, car, and other appliances will have a big impact on the world. The industry is not just advancing but a race to see who will be the first to have harness this power which will be shared with the world. As it says on the website Solar Energy Industries Association, energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source available, and the U.S. has some of the richest solar resources in the (SEIA). The website shows a lot of good useful information that is there to influence the viewers to start using solar energy. The two images on the website do a great job to show many advantages of using solar panels to collect the heat and use it to power the world. Solar Energy has a lot of great advantages over other types of energy sources, and a lot of these advantages are shown on the images in the website. Solar energy has been around for a very long time. The industry is advancing very quickly as they are close to find an efficient and cheaper way for people to have access to this technology. In the end, these two pictures are different and similar in many ways. They show different places and different environments with one common thing, the solar panels. This simply proves that solar panels have the power to change the world and make it better for everyone who is and will be living in it. (WC:1002) Student 4 Image 1: http://www.seia.org/about/solar-energy Image 2: http://www.seia.org/about/solar-energy Student 5 Works Cited Solar  SEIA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.seia.org/about/solar-energy>. Solar Training, Solar PV Training, Solar Installer Training, Solar Energy  Solar Training - Solar Installer Training - Solar PV Installation Training - Solar Energy Courses - Renewable Energy Education - NABCEP - Solar Energy International (SEI). N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.