Student ! 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Mending More Than Just a Mental Illness If the ADAA and the opposing organization come together and create an agreement to educate the public about depression, then they will be able to come to a compromise. After researching the issues that depression can cause, we see that there are deeper issues than meets the eye. Opposing sides will argue that depression is only a fad and figure of the imagination. Arguments stir from the rise in depression in the last several years. Some blame social media for the uprise. While most of us are well informed on the side affects and long lasting mental issues, certain sides do not see what we see. The ADAA is an organization that advocates for open arms and help when battling depression. In order to find a common ground for these two extremes, we must first educate the public on depression. If people are misinformed or uneducated, they are not able to take an educated stance on the situation. According to Janet Street Porter for the Daily Mail, misery movement has rapidly gathered is the latest must-have accessory is a big dose of Their primary goal is to convince their reading audience that depression is a fake emotion expressed by overly privileged individuals who value the wrong things in life. When observing this quote, it is obvious to the reader that depression is seen as the latest trend, instead of the latest issue. The author of this piece seems to believe that if you are considered in poverty or the lower class, there is no possible chance that you can be depressed. The ignorance and uneducated vibe that Student ! 2 comes from this article is what proves that the ADAA is one of many organizations that will benefit society as a whole. After reviewing the website, it is easy to see that they are an organization built upon the idea of helping out the people who need it most. The primary goal of the ADAA is to inform the public about how and where to seek help. Their location or condition makes no difference to the people working behind the ADAA. The professionally train therapists, as listed on their website, are ready to provide aid at a moments notice. Seeing that depression and anxiety usually go hand in hand, they are willing to adhere to every accommodation a client or patient may have. When reviewing the visuals on the website, we see things like bright colors and open hands to symbolize positivity and help. By offering their services in a variety of places, as well as services from the internet at the convenience of your home, it is obvious to see that they will stop at nothing to overcome mental illnesses as a whole. In the United States, suicide is the 10th leading cause of death. (CDC 2015) The statistics are alarmingly high. Depression leads to suicide. If a depressed individual is not able to seek out professional help, that is when it gets out of hand. The ADAA is a nonprofit organization that takes donations in order to keep the site and services up and running. When reviewing the website, they have support groups and testimonies that people who have been hesitant to try this can review. For example, an individual can post a scenario anonymously and receive advice from a professional. Seeking help can be extremely nerve racking at first as most say, so this online conversation can help to open up a depressed individual. Susan K. Gurley is the executive director of the ADAA. Her overly qualified background makes her a perfect representation of the company. Student ! 3 In order to create a general compromise between organizations who believe depression is a fad and organizations who devote their time to helping these people, they must first create an educational/ informational session to exchange reasoning. I believe that being open to hearing both sides will create the best outcome. Being able to be face to face will create a better atmosphere for both parties. The ADAA would be able to convince the second party that depression is a real issue that people of all economical backgrounds can face. If the ADAA and the opposing organization come together and create an agreement to educate the public about depression, then they will be able to compose a compromise. They both share the common interest in the mental illness known as depression. Although they stand on different sides of the issue I believe that they would both be able to collaborate and some sort of common ground. The opposing side is also concerned with how much money is spent toward depressed patients. If the ADAA could explain to them how they only take donations, it might change their view on health care and depression. Both parties have to have some kind of support from their audience. The ADAA relies on their audience for aid and to keep depressed people involved in their website. Without these few allies, they would fail as an organization. The opposing view must rely on people to read their articles and published pages on their take on depression. If they were to lose their audience, they would not have the support needed to continue writing about depression. If the two could collaborate the audiences in order to educate both sides, it would better inform society of the help available. The two stakeholders could take their differences to make a compromise and decrease the number of depression cases leading to suicide. Preventatives and tactics for coping with stress can be to both audiences. The proposal of educating both sides will the stakeholder because they will be able to advertise their services. By having a larger audience, they will be able to have more clients and donations to increase their widespread aid. The second stakeholder will because they will be able to see that not all health care funds go to things like this. They would be able to become educated on depression as Student ! 4 well. Both stakeholders will be able to learn things from one another, and then hopefully join together to create a thriving environment for depression victims. In conclusion, both stakeholders will be able to mutually each other. Through the educational factor that stakeholder one can provide, stakeholder two can be persuaded in the right direction. The two stakeholders can create a compromise that will mutually not only themselves, but the lives of the people who are dealing with depression. The spread of knowledge between the two stakeholders will give them both an edge that they were lacking before. Seeing the people suffering from depression be able to seek aid without being seen in negative light will provide enrichment for society in general. This could be a start to building a bridge for not only mental illness, but other religions and sexualities. Exemplifying that people are there for one another is detrimental to success. In the near future I hope to witness the merge of these two stakeholders in order to improve the quality of life for victims of depression. Mental illness like this one are only to be perceived as something that needs improvement, instead of someone seeking attention. (1200) Student ! 5 Proposed Source List America, M. H. (2014, March 13). Depression. Retrieved January 18, 2017 Bianchi,Renzo, et al. and depression:Label-Related Stigma, Help-seeking and Syndrome Psychiatry Research, vol. 245, 30 Nov. 2016, pp. 91-98. EBSCOhost. Doi:10.1016/i.psychres.2016.08.025. Boerema, Anke M., et al. of Help-Seeking Behavior in Depression: A Cross- Sectional BMC Psychiatry, vol. 16, 23 Mar. 2016, pp. 1- 9.EBSCOhost.doi:10.1186/s12888-016-0790-0. Bram, Lisa. About  About ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. Depression :Living with Depression. [San Fransisco, California, : Kanopy Streaming, 2014., 2014.EBSCOhost. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx Morton, J.L. Welcome to Color  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web.