Name 1 Student Instructor ENC 1102 March 5, 2017 How to Achieve the Sustainability Sustainability is one of the principal issues of the current political, social and economic sphere. In many forums, people talk about sustainable development, having government policies that support sustainability, and ensuring that the present generation can leave the world livable for posterity. One of the ways the issue of sustainability has cropped up is the recycling of as many things as people can from paper, plastics and glass. This is meant to ensure that as little of natural resources as possible undergo unsustainable exploitation. One of the major recycling areas is the area of paper recycling, which the organization Paper Recycles which espouses recycling of all paper. On the other hand, the Livestrong.com argues that the paper recycling, while ostensibly a good idea, has its negative effects and instead people should look for other ways of controlling waste rather than recycling of paper. However, in spite of these differing perspectives, the stakeholders can get a compromise by modifying their positions to arrive at paper recycling that is less harmful. Paper Recycles organization is an organization in the US whose major aim is to encourage the recycling of the paper so as to avoid the making of virgin paper. The ultimate need for this is to reduce the need for the logging of trees in vulnerable areas and increase sustainability in the paper business (Paper Recycles). Among its methods, the organization uses its website to provide information on its website that people who have an interest in the recycling of paper to get up-to-date information that can assist them in starting or improving their paper Name 2 recycling efforts (Paper Recycles). It has also led in case studies on some of the paper recycling programs in the US, while it has also engaged many people through social media and encouraged them to take up paper recycling (Paper Recycles). According to its website, this has to lead to double the paper rates from 1990 (Paper Recycles). On the other hand, the Livestrong website is which an official partner of the Livestrong Foundation. The Foundation has a focus on helping these living with cancer live well and happily (Bauer). The website carried a story on its website on its Lifestyle/Greenliving parts of its website arguing that, while the common wisdom is that paper recycling has advantages and almost zero drawbacks, this might not be the case (Bauer). It put a case against the paper recycling based on its drawbacks such as release of dangerous effluents and the use of fossil fuels (Bauer). The article argues that the better opinion would be to cut paper usage in the first place. One has to note that the views of the two bodies, in different circumstances, would not be far off. The difference in their opinions about recycling comes from the fact that one takes a more moderate view of the issue, while the other seems to be more extreme in its views. Paperrecycling.org realizes that people will continue to use paper. Thus, recycling is better than continued logging (Laurijssen 1212). However, the author of the article in the Lifestyle/Greenliving section of the Livestrong.com website seems to have a more extreme view of the issue (Bauer). The article rejects the recycling view while giving its disadvantages and seeks to have the more radical view of simply restricting the usage of their paper, rather than usage and then having to worry about recycling later (Bauer). Some experts agree with this view (Reid and Perez-Garcia 80). Consequently, the fundamental difference between the two issues is Name 3 not that they have diametrically opposed views on the issue, but that they have different levels of moderation in the issue. From the discussions in the preceding paragraph, several issues seem to be apparent. First, the issue of contention is not about whether or not recycling should to materialize, but if operative as a procedure at all. For instance, the article in Livestrong.com explains that while recycling saves trees and energy, it is also a disordered practice that consumes caustic  and produces harmful byproducts and  (Bauer). Thus, there is a mutual point that the process could work to be the best interest of everyone if there was a focus on the using chemicals that were less harmful and a reduction in the number and harmfulness of the effluents. Thus, the two state holders can find common ground in that recycling saves trees, and energy, two issues that are essential for sustainability, which is the ultimate goal of the two organizations. In the grand scheme of things, it seems that these two organizations have the same goal that is the saving of trees and the encouragement of behavior that ensures there is sustainability. In this regard, the two stakeholders can compromise about the efficiency of the recycling process. So that this can happen, the Livestrong.com should consider modifying its position on the recycling of paper, as long as it can be done in safer ways. There has to be a realization that while most organizations are digitalizing their operations and reducing the need for paper, current technological constraints means that the use of paper will continue to the near future especially in areas like hospitals (Dykstra, et al. 158). From this perspective, it seems that to use recycled paper might be better than using virgin paper, which would encourage the cutting down of trees and lead to more deforestation (Villanueva and Wenzel S29). On the other hand, Recyclepaper.com should seek to encourage paper recycling that ensures that there a minimal Name 4 volume of dangerous effluents. The modalities of implementing such a solution might not be hard. There will be minimal resources that are needed, at least on the part of the two stakeholders as all they have to do is to change their perspectives on the issue, and thus, influence the rest of the market. The compromise will be workable for several reasons. First, the two bodies are not in fundamental disagreement, but only their approaches differ. The modification of their positions at a middle ground is thus possible. It is apparent to both parties that in the current time, the more workable solution is encouraging paper recycling so as to prevent tree logging. The long-term plan of going paperless will take a long time to accomplish (Dykstra, et al. 158). Thirdly, as technology evolves, paper recycling might use less harmful methods and thus produces less harmful effluents (Villanueva and Wenzel S30). Consequently, this solution fits both parties. The two stakeholders have varied views on the issues of paper recycling the modification of their positions can lead to a safer recycling which would fit both sides. One can glean this from the fact that both parties, while they disagree on the method of doing it, are both for sustainability in the paper use and the logging of trees. The less the paper used, the less the number of trees cut and thus, more sustainability. Paperrecycles.com presumes that more recycling will lead to better outcomes while the article in Livestrong presumes that a better outcome would be going paperless as even recycling has its disadvantages such as dangerous effluents and the use of fossil fuels in the process. (WC:1192) Name 5 Works Cited Bauer, Mary. How Does Recycling Paper Affect the  Livestrong.com, 22 June 2015, www.livestrong.com/article/185626-how-does-recycling-paper-affect-the- environment/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Dykstra, Richard H., et al. Persistent Paper: The Myth of  AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings, vol. 2009, 2009, pp. 158-162, NCBI. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2815440/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Laurijssen, Jobien, et al. Paper and biomass for energy?: The impact of paper recycling on energy and CO2  Resources, conservation and recycling 54.12 (2010): 1208- 1218. Miner, Reid, and John Perez-Garcia. The greenhouse gas and carbon profile of the global forest products  Forest Products Journal 57.10 (2007): 80. Paper Recycles.  Paper Recycles, 2013, www.paperrecycles.org/home. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Villanueva, Alejandro, and Henrik Wenzel. Paper incineration or landfilling? A review of existing life cycle  Waste management 27.8 (2007): S29-S46.