Rios 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2016 Psychiatric Treatment for Mental Illness Mental illness is a problem that our society faces every single day. With there being a serious stigma and a lack of understanding the issue as a whole, it is difficult for somebody who suffers from a mental illness to get any better. Treatment options are currently available to treat mental illness. Though most of what we have have been proven to be effective, there are some that some say are not effective. In particular, psychiatric treatment is a treatment that causes different opinions in the community. Stakeholder One, named the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, claims that psychiatric treatment has been proven to improve the lives of those with a mental illness while Stakeholder Two, named The Antipsychiatry Coalition, states that psychaitric treatment can lead to detrimental life long effects. The American Psychiatric Association defines Psychiatry as branch of medicine focused on the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental, emotional and behavioral Psychiatrist is defined as psychiatrist is a medical doctor (an M.D. or D.O.) who specializes in mental health, including substance use disorders. Psychiatrists are qualified to assess both the mental and physical aspects of psychological (American Psychiatric Association). Many people go seek a psychiatric help when they feel as if they are facing long term or sudden problems that distort reality. Psychiatrist do similar things that therapist, but they can diagnose and prescribe medicine to treat these illnesses. Rios 2 Founded in 1979, the ADAA is an nonprofit organization dedicated to the prevention, treatment, and cure of anxiety, depressive, obsessive-compulsive, and trauma-related disorders through education, practice, and (ADAA). This association focuses on the improvement of lives for those who suffer from mental illness. The organizations primary goal is provide helpful guidance and understanding of anxiety and depression. It provides treatment options and support for those who suffer from these mental illnesses. It also works to reduce the stigma surrounding these illnesses. One of their focuses is to find new treatment options while also embracing options that are currently available. The ADAA believes that psychiatric treatment is proven to be very effective to treat mental illness. They believe that with the right psychiatrist, it is easy to have a successful treatment. This association has conducted multiple extensive research on this topic. They found that psychiatric treatment really was effective in treating mental illness. Also, many of the founders and doctors on the website are either a psychiatrist or the are part of a psychaitric association. People like Helen Blair Simpson, Peter Roy Byrne, and Abby J. Fyer are have a background in psychaitry which makes their claims a lot more reliable. Also, the president of the website, named, Karen Cassiday, PhD, works at The Anxiety Treatment Center, and studied at Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Sciences and allows information about psychaitric help on the website which means that she supports this claim. This relevant since she has spent almost her whole life studying this topic Stakeholder Two, named The Antipsychiatry Coalition, is a volunteer group consisting of people who feel we have been harmed by psychiatry - and of our supporters. We created this website to warn you of the harm routinely inflicted on those who receive psychiatric Rios 3  and to promote the democratic ideal of liberty for all law-abiding people that has been abandoned in the U.S.A., Canada, and other supposedly democratic (The Antipsychiatry Coalition). This is a group of people who have personally been through psychiatric treatment that have been effective in a long term aspect. Through their experience, they have first hand experience on what psychiatric help can do to people. On the website, you can commoningly see people explaining how uneffective psychiatric treatment is. Some even say that it made their life worse than it was previous to the treatment. Rae Unzicker, one of the creators and writers for the website, wrote a poem To Be a Mental Patient. This poem summarizes his experience with psychiatric treatment in a psychiatric facility. He uses figurative language to give the poem a sadder tone. This makes their claim a more personable and relatable feel to it making it more acceptable. Though they have differences, they still have some similarities. They are both interested in finding the best treatment options for those individuals who have a mental illness. This can be seen in their efforts to let their stance be heard by the public. They are both concerned about not being able to help those who are looking for help. They want to make sure that they have the right information so those who are looking for help can get the right information. They both need people to spread awareness on their stance so they can be heard by more people. A compromise they could be practical is that they focus their time on finding new alternative treatment options that are better than the ones that are currently in place. By doing this, they are able to find something new that they both could agree on. This benefits the second stakeholder because it allows them to help more people who are seeking something new. This benefits the seconds stakeholder by allowing them to not focus as much on psychiatric help but Rios 4 instead focus on the new information coming to light. This benefits both stakeholders by allowing them to keep an open mind on new treatment route. In a practical setting, this compromise would allow the public to be more aware of the new treatment options while also educating them on how they can help their family, close relatives, and friends who may have a mental illness and have tried current treatment options that have not work. To conclude, Stakeholder One, which is the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, has a favorable opinion about psychiatric treatment and recommends this treatment route to some people. Stakeholder Two on the other hand believes that psychiatric treatment is bad and can cause long term effects. The Antipsychiatry Coalition does not recommend this as a treatment option. They can both agree that they want the best for those seeking information on mental illness or seeking help. As for a compromise, they should come up with a new treatment option, that way those who cannot find the right treatment options can go seek new help. (1052) Rios 5 Work Cited Ahrens, Christine, Jana Frey, William H. Knoedler, and Suzanne C. Sean-Burke. Effect of PACT on Inpatient Psychiatric Treatment for Adolescents With Severe Mental Illness: A Preliminary  Services . Psychiatric Services, Nov. 2007. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. American Psychiatry Association . APA. n.d. Web 26 Feb. 2017. Cassiday, Karen. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  and Depression Association of America . Adaa, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Coleman, Karen J., Christine Stewart, Beth E. Waitzfelder, John E. Zeber, and Leo S. Morales. Racial-Ethnic Differences in Psychiatric Diagnoses and Treatment Across 11 Health Care Systems in the Mental Health Research  Services . Psychiatric Services, 1 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ilic, Marie. Belittled, Avoided, Ignored, Denied: Assessing Forms and Consequences of Stigma Experiences of People With Mental  and Applied Social Psychology . Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Jan. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Theriault, Francois L., and Ian Colman. Resistance to Seeking Treatment for Mental Illness How Others Can  Blogger Resistance to Seeking Treatment for Mental Illness How Others Can Help Comments . Springer, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Unzicker, Rae. The Antipsychiatry  Antipsychiatry Coalition . The Antipsychiatry Coalition, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.