Gott 1 Jordan Gott Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 29 February 2017 Attractive Appeals of Advertisements Every year millions of children die because they lack the proper nutrition, clean water, or medical treatment. Luckily there are many organizations throughout the world dedicated to helping these kids. One example is Save the Children Fund which is an English based organization that focuses in relief efforts, medical support, and the advocation of rights for children (Savethechildren.org). They are a non-profit organization that is not funded by the government and thus relies on donations from the public. Despite being based out of England, the organization advertises its message throughout the world through a multitude of media from the internet to billboard to magazine articles. Two online advertisements the company has produced aim to encourage the public to assist in their efforts but what deferentiates these images are the rhetorical strategies they use to achieve this goal. This first image (Image 1) presents multiple rhetorical strategies in order to appeal to their audience. First, and probably the most obvious, is pathos or the emotional appeal of this advertisement (Gorman 78). The crying child can pull on heart, especially a mother or someone with a baby sibling however perhaps this is not always so effective due to the simple overuse of this tactic. Almost every emotional advertisement seems to present some kind of distraught child and this excessiveness has almost numbed the public to feeling any sympathy. Of course everyone feels the drive to assist a child in need but modern culture seems to overuse that which could make this technique unsuccessful. Despite this because of how young the baby Gott 2 is and how intense her distressed expression is, where one can almost hear her cries and feel her pain, this ad cuts just deep enough to touch the modern and desensitized soul. Another prominent appeal in this advertisemnet is kairos or a time sensitive issue that calls the audience to action immediately. This can be found in the text of the image where it states that the child is so sick he could die before one could get to work. This is effective because it will appeal to anyone with a job, which are most people, and they will know first hand how short of a time this is. This could also fall under the pathos category as being told a tiny baby can die as one is going about their normal daily routine is heart breaking and will call anyone to donate immediately. The second aspect of this apeal would be in the description where it states a baby like the one that is portrayed dies every six minutes which almost implies the longer one waits the more children they are letting die. This ticking clock Save the Children forces on every person who sees this ad would cause anyone to donate in order to relieve this anxiety and guilt. An aspect very effective about this ad is the fact they are aware of our cellphone-centered lives and provide a text line in which everyone has immediate access to. Almost everyone has a cellphone, and could quite possibly be viewing this ad on one, so considering how convienient it is to answer this call for action its almost hard not to donate. The second advertisement (Image 2) contains its own share of rhetorical appeals, the most prominent of them being ethos. This image presents four different movie stars/actors from America and Canada: Meg Ryan, Alexander Ludwig, Adrian Brody and Jeremy Renner. The pros of this technique is that these are all very famous and well known actors who have a respectable reputation and have works ranging from the to as recent as last year so if the one viewing the ad has ever watched movies, it is highly likely they will recognize at least one of them as opposed to many other advertisements who only portray one. The reputations of these Gott 3 actors would appeal to the masses and could heavily influence the audience on their decision to support this organization however this transitions to a limitation of this technique. The audience must know these actors and more importantly like or respect them, granted these celebrities have played big roles in huge block busters but the appeal of this ad is limited to movie fanatics alone and does not present figures from other interest such as sports or singing. Pathos in this image is more difficult to identify but that does not make it any less effective. The stern solemn faces they all firmly share seems to hold them at a stance of superiority and almost beckons one to join them in their quest to help children across the globe. How one presents themselves is key to influencing ones perception of them and if the audience can percieve these celebrities as strong and dedicated to their cause then perhaps the masses can be even coerced into following them. Another factor to take into account is the dark tone of this image from the black outfits on the black background. This could symbolize mourning the loss of children who are dying througout the world every minute and even if this is not the message taken by all audience members it is universally understood to be a sign of sadness or depression which can be understood by any audience and weigh on their emotions. Despite the advertisements strong appeal of ethos and pathos, its fatal flaw which compromises its effectiveness is how vague and undescriptive it is leaving the audience unclear on what the actual purpose of the image was or what it was asking them to do. First off the name of the organization is not even on the image nor what the goal is. How can an audience help a company or do what the organization is asking of them if they are not told what to do? Another aspect this image leaves the audience guessing about is the rings on the hands of these celebrities which is not obvious but is actually the center point of the advertisement. On the insides of these rings, that was created by a luxury jeweler, the logo and name of Save the Gott 4 Children Organization is engraved which has partnered with the company who designs and sells these rings so that 100% of the profit made by these rings goes towards the efforts for assisting children. This is a great promotional idea for both the jeweler and the organization to increase popularity and sales/profits however how would anyone know with prior knowledge or going out of their way to research the advertisement. Poverty and insufficient child care is a global issue that every country is trying to combat whether it be for a third-nation or a problem in their own back yard (Porter and Craig 387). These ads are so important because throughout the modern culture where citizens are so busy, and to an extent spoiled, easy to forget about the over looked and underprivileged ones who lack a voice. These ads are the one chance for a voice to reach the masses and that is why they must be effective at persuading their audience to help. If these strategies fail to send their message to the public then they would carry on their day unaware of those suffering and as a result nothing would change for them. Gott 5 Works Cited Gorman, Heather. Persuading through Pathos: Appeals to the Emotions in  Restoration Quarterly, vol. 54, no. 2, 2012, pp. 77-90. EBSCOhost. Web. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017 Official USA  Save the Children. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. Porter, Doug and David Craig. The Third Way and the Third World: Poverty Reduction and Social Inclusion in the Rise of  Review of International Political Economy, no. 2, 2004, p. 387. EBSCOhost. Web. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017 Image 1 https://www.pinterest.com/pin/14946328135 6850218/ Image 2 https://www.luxurydaily.com/bulgari- socially-documents-charitable-gala-to-spur- interest-in-cause/