Honorat 1 Gianny Honorat Martha Heiser Enc1102-068 1 March 2017 Is a Smoke Worth it? The Food and Drug Administration is in charge of protecting the public health by making sure human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical devices are safe, efficient and secure for consumption (what we do). The FDA is also in charge of regulating the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of tobacco products, along with reducing tobacco use by minors. In order to reduce tobacco, use the FDA has launched a number of public education campaigns, such as The Real Cost Fresh Empire, and This Free Life (Public health education). These campaign aims at to help educate the public, especially the youth, about the dangers of regulated tobacco products. The FDA aims to reduce the amount of young smokers by launching public health campaigns that uses rhetorical appeals to steer their audience away from tobacco products. The Real Cost is the first federally funded U.S. youth tobacco education campaign set on changing the minds, attitudes, and behaviors among youth who are supportive of smoking or who have already started smoking. According to the FDA campaign has prevented nearly 350,000 youth aged 11 to 18 nationwide from (The real cost campaign). One of the campaign ads used to do this shows a picture of yellow stained teeth with the caption smile smoking may stain your with the subscript give it to you straight. You can make your own decisions. Know the real cost of tobacco This ad mostly targets anyone who likes to smile or take pictures. Based on the context of this picture it targets anyone who Honorat 2 values a nice smile, but mostly teens. For example, social media such as snapchat, Instagram and twitter encourages pictures. When people take pictures they usually smile and a white smile is something important for taking a good picture. Society today values a bright and white smile. There are many teeth whitening products, toothpastes and even gum that promote clean and white teeth. Because society and the youth in particular values white and nice teeth they use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos and pathos to appeal to their audience. For example, they appeal to the younger emotions by targeting something they value. They show the detrimental effects tobacco use could have on a person and uses their credibility as the FDA to deliver that message. They also use logic by showing the effects of tobacco. Tobacco actually damages the teeth and they use that information to reason with their audience. A study was done on this campaign and according to the study the researchers noted that participants who reported recall of The Real Cost slogan (n = 588), just over half (52%) reported a more negative attitude toward tobacco products after seeing or hearing the (Li-Ling). This data shows that the campaign they are running actually has an effect on the people who are viewing it. The Real Cost campaign targets the younger audience through the use of emotional and logical appeal while The Fresh Empire campaign targets the youth by using the faces of a younger audience in order to relate to Fresh  is first public education campaign designed to prevent and reduce tobacco use among at-risk multicultural youth ages 12- 17 who identify with hip-hop culture, specifically African American, Hispanic, and Asian American/ Pacific Islander (Fresh empire campaign). One of the campaign ads released by Fresh Empire is one that shows a young boy twisting his arm similarly to what hip hop dancer do with the caption get it twisted tobacco This campaign mainly targets youth who identify with the hip-hop crowd. This article uses young people ethos to appeal to help Honorat 3 audiences relate to other young non-smokers as a way of telling the younger audience that it is cool to not smoke. The advertisement also uses pathos by using a pun as a comedic gesture to also entertain and draw in their audience. A study was done by the department of economics at the University of Toledo on estimating peer effects in adolescent smoking behavior. Cheryl Alexander a researcher that helped conduct the experiment said findings indicate that peer effects are important determinants of smoking and could be used as a potential policy tool to reduce smoking rates among (Ali 407). The idea for the campaign must have been based off of this assumption. Smoking is often associated with being cool and because of it many start smoking, but if the same concept is used to tell teenagers not to smoke then it will work just as well. They promote ads that allow teenagers to relate to people their age who do not smoke but who are also cool in the hip hop community. It Also uses logos by presenting the audience with facts informing them of the reasons why smoking is bad. This ad also appeals to the credibility of the FDA because it was created and founded by the FDA. This ad also uses different forms of social media to reach audience. The advertisement has the hashtag #freshempire. Hashtags are keywords used for specific topics or trends on twitter. Anything could be made into a hashtag and because teenagers often use them a lot this attracts them to the ad. In conclusion, both ads created by the FDA aimed at reducing the number of young smokers by using rhetorical appeals such as pathos and logos. Based on the information above the campaigns are working. The FDA might have targeted a younger audience because it might have been easier to convince someone who has not been engaging in smoking rather than someone who has spent years smoking. Another reason why they targeted a younger audience might be because if they can convince youths not to smoke now then they probably will not turn Honorat 4 into adults that smoke. The message of in both of the ads is to stop smoking and to become tobacco free. Although they both target a younger audience they use different approaches to accomplish their goal. Smoking can cause different health problems within the human body like lung cancer, bad breath, yellow teeth, and other side effects from using tobacco. The job of the FDA is to promote health and one of the ways to promote health is to prevent people from smoking. Honorat 5 Work cited Ali, Mir M. and Debra S. Dwyer. Estimating Peer Effects in Adolescent Smoking Behavior: A Longitudinal  Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 45, no. 4, Oct. 2009, pp. 402- 408. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2009.02.004. Li-Ling, Huang, et al. Impact of the Real Cost Campaign on Recall, Attitudes, and Risk Perceptions about Tobacco Use: A National  International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, Vol 14, Iss 1, P 42 (2017), no. 1, 2017, p. 42. EBSCOhost, doi:10.3390/ijerph14010042. Products, Center For Tobacco. Public Health  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Tobacco Products, 24 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Products, Center For Tobacco. Fresh Empire  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Tobacco Products, 11 Feb. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Products, Center For Tobacco. The Real Cost  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Tobacco Products, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. What We  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. https://scontent.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885- https://www.fda.gov/ucm/groups/fdagov-public/documents/image/ucm481238.png