Diana Cisneros Professor Kevin Ip ENC 1102 27 January 2017 The Harm of Keeping Killer Whales Captive Since its inception in 1987, the Whale and Dolphin Conservation has championed for the rights of marine cetaceans. The conservation charity persuaded Virgin Airlines to halt their sale of holiday packages to SeaWorld. The WDC also wishes to abolish whale and dolphin hunting, especially in countries like Japan and Norway. Currently, the WDC finds itself focused on SeaWorld and its captive marine cetaceans. Advocating for both the release of dolphins and killer whales, the WDC wishes to create a marine mammal sanctuary where orcas can spend the rest of their lives. Two images found on their website cite facts and strongly discourage the captivity of killer whales. By using statistics and impacting diction in the two photographs, the WDC appeals to logos and pathos to inform their audience of the harm captivity has on killer whales. Animal welfare groups wish to free animals from zoos and aquariums because to them it is simply inhumane. The WDC also agrees with the inhumane part, but freeing captive whales and dolphins is more than that. Scientific fact has placed killer whale intelligence close to that of humans. The WDC wants to fight for the rights of these animals who could possibly be smarter than we think they are. Along with other whale and dolphin conservation groups, the WDC strongly believes in The Declaration of Rights for Marine Cetaceans. Using these rights, the WDC works with governments and corporations to deter the harm and captivity brought to marine cetaceans. Their mission is to inform the public about these marine cetaceans and highlight the beauty these animals possess. In the recent years, the WDC has focused their energy on SeaWorld and their use of captive orcas for theatrical shows. Prior to the Blackfish controversy, the only people in uproar were animal rights groups. The documentary reached a large audience and many people boycotted the park. The WDC used this to convince companies like Virgin Airlines to boycott the theme park and in 2016, SeaWorld announced the end of their breeding program and theatrical killer whale shows. Wild cetaceans are just as important to the charity and they make it a priority to advocate for the protection of the oceans these creatures inhabit. To make their mission clearer, the WDC creates infographics and images highlight the plight of captive whales. In image one, the WDC uses illustrations and numbers to appeal to logos. Killer whales have been victims of captivity since 1961. Captivity kills familial bonds and forces whales from different pods to come together in a swimming pool. On the top right corner, a graph depicts the ages at which young killer whales were taken from their pods. The WDC blames financial greed for these separations. The diction also used to describe the graph try to reach at the heartstrings. The age data collected show a bleak picture, as most whales were collected at around the ages of one to two years. Per the WDC, is passed down to younger individuals from their in pods. This knowledge is unique to the pod, as are their calls and hunting techniques (WDC). At two years, a whale remembers enough and when thrown into a group of other whales, it can lead to stress. Not to mention that 92% of killer whales failed to survive past 25 years. In the wild, an orca can live up to 70 years. Demonstrating the suffering of killer whales using figures and statistics in this first photo allows the WDC to challenge SeaWorld and their many claims about orcas. the first image is not just an appeal to logos, but to pathos as well. The death of so many orcas by the hands of a corporate group claiming to care about the large creatures tells a different story. The WDC does not let up on their attack of the theme park. Right at the center of the imagine, on an orange background, the WDC hits hard at SeaWorld and all the people who believe SeaWorld is protecting marine animals. An estimated five cents from every ticket sold goes to actual marine conservation. Via the One Green Planet website, only .0006% of $1.4 billion annual revenue goes to marine conservation. That totals to about $900,000 (Henn). SeaWorld runs on a platform that advocates for the wellbeing and conservation of animals, but neglects to use its money for such purposes. One of most infamous killer whales, Tilikum, was taken from his pod at two years. The second image from the WDC is a timeline that chronicles the life of the killer whale. The image appeals to pathos and utilizes strong diction to appeal to the emotions of the viewer. Tilikum was not just taken from his mother, but away from her side. The title of the timeline as well evokes strong diction to chronicle the life of a killer whale who only knew suffering for most of his life. The timeline not only has the viewer feeling sympathetic towards Tilikum, but for his three victims. Killer whales in the wild do not attack humans, but numerous incidents with killer whales attacking humans in captivity are abundant. Few wanted to label Tilikum as a monster after the death of Brancheau. Tim Zimmermann, a co-writer of the documentary Blackfish, believes Tilikum wanted the public to his reality included separation from his pod, confinement, attacks by other whales while in captivity, and chronic illness (Howard). This whale had a documentary created about his life. It was a tale about a sort of decent into madness caused by captivity. It was a reminder that these creatures are apex predators and not some cuddly creatures that should perform tricks, or be confined to a tank. Image two paints a picture of a killer whale that decided to bite back in a literal and figurative sense. Some claim that such incidents happen when you interact with predators, but there are others who claim Tilikum was aware of his actions. He knew he was drowning his trainers. He had no intention of eating them, and maybe no intention of harming them, but he did. There was an evolution to character that stemmed from the beginnings of his captivity and the WDC wishes to demonstrate such an evolution using pathos. The timeline is a story of a killer whale who only knew suffering. An image can convey emotions and empathy if used the right way. The WDC wants to keep its followers and the public informed on what really happens to captive killer whales. The two images use the persuasion techniques of logos and pathos, appealing to logic and emotions. Both images include strong diction. The first employs more facts and statistics than the second, but both force the viewer to think and ask if keeping killer whales in captivity is safe for them or the people in charge of training or caring for them. The mission is to protect these marine cetaceans and these images form a depressing image of the life killer whales live under corporatist aquariums and theme parks. Works Cited 1. Henn, Corrine. Does Conservation Justify Captivity? Examining Efforts to Improve Their  One Green Planet. N.p., 14 Apr. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/seaworld-does-conservation-justify- captivity/. 2. Howard, Brian Clark. Why Tilikum, Killer Orca, Was  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 6 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2017/01/tilikum-seaworld-orca-killer-whale-dies/>. 3. Facts About  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://us.whales.org/wdc-in-action/facts-about-orcas>.