Daddario 1 Mathieu Daddario Kevin Ip ENC 1102 2/12/2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The Humane Society of the United States has so many different goals that they stand up for. The one they really strive for is the protection of animals and the giving of animals rights. Based on the two pictures provided by the Humane Society of the United States they provide a lot of information on which the group stands for. First off I will give you some background information on the Humane Society of the United States. The Humane Society of the United States is a nonprofit organization, there goal according to their website is that they are large-scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife (HSUS). They try and save animals who are being mistreated in places like puppy mills as well as animals who are being neglected. They helped more than a hundred thousand animals a year. They are basically the voice of the animals, because the animals speak. The first picture originates from a Fox News article, where dogs were being rescued from a South Korean dog (Fox). 14 out of 200 dogs were being shipped to Tampa Bay to be rehabilitated and saved from being eaten. Society of Tampa Bay Chief executive officer Sherry Silk, said in a press release announcing the rescue. are here to help animals in need, no matter where they come (Fox). The picture shows that there are a large group of dogs horded up and put into cages with many other dogs in them, making it look extremely Daddario 2 cramped. Now the stakeholder used this picture to evoke emotion through pathos, they also use it because it also has a lot of logos in it. To start off the picture lets analyze the pathos. Pathos is the emotional impact of something. Now the first thing we see is that there are dogs locked up in a cage, to be more specific there are 5 medium sized dogs in one cage. Now the cage itself is big enough for one large dog or two medium size dogs. So the fact that they smushed 5 medium size dog makes the audience feel very worried for the health of these dogs do to the fact that it is somewhat of an abusive way to cage the animal. The next big emotion the audience feels is sadness, due to the looks of the dogs faces. The eyes look sad and watery, which makes the audience think that these dogs have seen some terrible stuff in their lives. Which in turn makes the audience feel for the safety and health. The logos of the picture has to do with a couple of things, first is the fact that these five dogs share one bowl of water. The fact that the water is split up between 5 dogs shows that these dogs are not being cared for very well. Also the bowl with water in it is almost empty, again making the audience logically think that these animals are not being treated right. The second thing is that the cage the dogs are in are all rusted and dirty looking, as well as it is hovering above the ground which looks like there is poop all on the ground. So because the cages are all rusted the dogs have a chance of getting cuts and even getting diseases such as tetanus. The dirtiness of the cages makes the dogs more susceptible to different diseases. The poop on the ground shows that the dogs do not get out of the cage and are basically prisoners in these cages. Which again means that these dogs have a higher chance of getting diseases. The logos of all that makes the audience feel that these dogs are abused and are probably in bad health. That is why the Humane Society of the United States appeals to this picture because they can use it as an Daddario 3 example of animals being abused and having no rights. Which is why their organization exists, to save and protect animals and give animals rights. The second picture originates from eBay, it is part of the charity section, which allows people who sell their stuff on eBay to give a percentage of their earnings to charities. Just so happen that the Humane Society of the United States was on there. This picture main way of getting you is through pathos and ethos. It gives the audience its pathos in a couple of different ways. One way is how the dog looks at the woman who is apart of the Humane Society of the United States. The dog has very sad, glossy eyes, making the audience feel that this dog has been through some very troubling things. Then the kiss he is giving the lady shows that he is grateful for the lady for saving him. Which makes the audience feel like they should help their cause by donating their money so that more animals can be saved. Another thing that has pathos is the fact that the picture has a black box of text with white letters saying, A HERO FOR ANIMALS Join the fight against animal cruelty The black text box in the middle of this happy scene appeals to the feelings because it acts like shock value. The happy moment is disrupted by some bold text asking people to help out these animals. Which makes the people feel like they should help out these animals by donating. The picture has some instances where it has an impact on the audience through ethos. One part of the picture has to do with the dog kissing the lady with a Humane Society of the United States shirt on. The dog that is kissing this lady is looking very thankful, which puts into the mind that the Humane Society of the United States are really trying to help animals. Another big thing has to do with the text box on the left of the picture. It is telling people to help the HSUS out because they are fighting against all types of animal cruelty. From where the picture comes from has shows that they are asking for donations to help these dogs, Daddario 4 and that they are a nonprofit organization. According to Charity Navigator Humane Society of the United States uses 77.6% of its total expenses is spent on programs and services (Charity Navigator). In conclusion, the Humane Society of the United States relate to these images by different reasons. The first picture because it deals with the fact of animals being abused and is heavily using pathos to get to the audience. The second picture has to do with ethos and making the organization seem very accountable, and compare themselves to heroes. But they all represent the Humane Society of the United States by showing that their goal is to protect all animals and give them rights. Daddario 5 Daddario 6 Work Cited FOX13news. Dogs, Rescued from in Korea, Headed to  FOX13news. N.p., 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rating for The Humane Society of the United  Charity Navigator. N.p., 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Humane Society of the United States: The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. BE A HERO FOR ANIMALS. N.d. EBay. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dogs, Rescued from in Korea, Headed to Tampa. N.d. FOX13. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.