Wylie 1 Andrew Wylie Prof. Gottlieb Comp II 25 Feb 2017 Feminism Currently, there is much debate to the central question, both of the genders There are several different answers to this question, but one specific group has their own set of beliefs and ways of viewing it. Feminist.org is a popular feminist organization that fights against the inequality of women. Feminists, as a whole, fight for the economic, and social equality for (Feminist.org/aboutus). Feminists believe that women are disadvantaged in society and look to change the way they are looked at in certain aspects. With many pressing issues such as the wage gap and sexual assault, women feel they are oppressed and therefore, associate themselves with feminism in order to change this reality. These women feel they are immediately disadvantaged simply for being a woman. However, feminists do not just simply state they are feminists and continue to do nothing in order to fix what they see as a society. Many of these women represent themselves in all sorts of activism such as the March. There are all sorts of protests from women, and men as well, demanding things like pay for equal These women want to fix the ugly reality they feel they are currently living in. Initially, there are many issues that feminists have been fighting for decades. One such issue would be the controversial wage gap. According to the National Center for Women and Policing, the US Census Bureau has confirmed the existence of this wage gap Finds US Gender Wage Gap The cents to every argument though, is left up to much debate. In fact, according to Forbes, the number is more around 93 cents for every dollar. Wylie 2 The wage gap is more so an earnings gap until such as position, hours work, and major are Awful Truth Behind the Gender Pay When all these factors are taken into account, educated women working full time were paid an unexplained 7% less than their male Awful Truth Behind the Gender Pay This of course is unacceptable in the eyes of the general public, as pay should not be discriminated against just for being a woman. However, much debate remains on whether or not the wage gap even exists. Another issue that women feel they are vastly oppressed in is the area of sexual assault. Sexual assault, of course, occurs between both genders, however, women are disproportionately the victims of these sex crimes. According to an expert source on sexual assault, every one in six victims of sexual assault is a woman Yet, with how common these crimes are, only six out of one thousand perpetrators end up serving time for their crimes Sexual assault is unacceptable and feminists want these people to pay for their crimes. These are the disadvantages and acts of oppression that women, and specifically feminists, look to change. Indeed, in the first image, it is not clear what Feminist.org is trying to promote. First off, the message is definitely one of unification and empowerment. There is a lot of symbolism involved in this image. Just by the use of all three characters putting their fists into the air together, it is evident these women are try to against something. In this case, they are fighting the The patriarchy is a system of government controlled by men, where men are mainly the ones allowed to succeed. This form of governmental power excludes most women from moving up in society. This is a fundamental belief of feminists. However, the color scheme is also something to look at. The colors (or lack thereof) are bland and only in black and white. This was done purposely in order to signify that everyone could be (and should be) Wylie 3 involved in or identify as a feminist. The reason this image lacks color is to imply that feminism is for everyone. It is not clear what gender these characters even are, further forwarding the message that feminism is inclusive, regardless of race, gender, class, etc. What makes this image reputable, though, is that it comes from a quite respectable feminist source. This organization provides evidence for most of their claims and seems to be fighting for what is right. Because this image gives the narrative that women are disadvantaged in society, and feminists are fighting in order to gain equality to men, that puts in the mind that these women are of good character and is doing the right thing. This adds more ethos to the image. These women make the audience think they are merely fighting for what is right, so they are seen as more reputable and trustworthy. Furthermore, Pathos also has a strong role in this image. In the actual image, the characters are clearly angry about something. It is evident they do not look happy, as seen by their glaring eyes and their angry faces. Also, it looks as though they are shouting at someone or something. It is possible that the characters in the image are protesting. Obviously, the emotions that this image is trying to get people to feel is anger. The image wants people to be angry about what is going on. Anger is not the only emotion, however, also empowerment. It is likely they want people to feel positive that change is coming. The image speaks of uniting and fighting together. Though it is not written anywhere on the picture, it looks like an invitation for other women and men to join them in their fight. Another significant factor of the image to be considered, is logos. Although there are no statistics, facts, and numbers in this image, that does not mean that it lacks logos. Although logos is much harder to find, there are a few examples. In this first image they are presenting a logical message. With their fists in the air and all of the women standing side by side with angry looks on their faces, it could be assumed that they are protesting or fighting for something. prThese people in this image are fighting for the equality of Wylie 4 women. Also important, is the rhetorical device of Kairos. Kairos is vitally important in this image because feminism is largely talked about currently. There is much debate to whether feminism is even necessary, but one thing is for sure, feminism is very relevant right now. With many issues like sexual assault and the wage gap making their rounds in public discussions and debate, this image has definitely captured a hot topic. In the second image, the purpose is slightly different than the first one. In the second image, it clearly shows people upset about something. In this image, their anger is much more on the surface, and not hidden as it was in the first image. Obviously they are upset about something and are making no secret about it. When taking a deeper look into the image, these women are fighting, what they see as the on This is evident by their signs. Clearly these feminists feel there is a huge disadvantage to being a woman, and feel somehow wronged. It seems that they are looking to achieve some sort of equality. The overall purpose of this image is to show passionate women (or feminists) fighting for the vast inequality they feel that woman are faced with. Also, the ethos in this image is about the same as it was for the first image. Again, this picture comes from a respectable feminist source that accurately reports claims by backing them up with evidence. Also, because of including signs such as the ones that say, the war on it makes it seem like these women are fighting for what is right. In a way, they are putting rights in the binary of: You are either for feminism (or for rights) or you are against feminism (and therefore against rights). These women are fighting to stop the war on women, implying that anyone who opposes them is for the on This speaks to the seemingly good character of these women, giving them ethos. Moreover, pathos also plays a big part in this picture. Clearly, the image is made to get you all riled up and excited. But beyond that, it is made to get you angry like the first image. Wylie 5 These women are out and protesting the inequality they feel they face, while, in the first one, the anger was much subtler. Also, the image wants you to feel connected with these people. There are a variety of different people in this image, of all sorts of genders and races. These women want you to feel like you have something in common with these people. The same message of unification in the first image is seen here again from these women. Something else that stands out is the color used in this image. There is a bright pink color used throughout the picture in order to grab the attention. The reason this picture was used instead of any other picture of protestors was because of the bright colors. The bright pink is made to initially grab your focus. Then, once you are looking at the image, you will then see the signs and the message these women are trying to push. Lastly, logos is just as scarce here as it was in the first image. The logical message being presented here is that: There is a war on women, therefore we must fight it. This message could be understood without even knowing the source from which this picture came from. Based purely on the signs alone, the message in support of feminism would be obvious. Something also evident in this picture, is Kairos. Feminism is a controversial topic currently and this image has captured that controversy. Feminist.org has used this image at the appropriate time in order to push their message. In conclusion, both images, though from the same feminist source, proved to push their narrative in different ways. One image showed the symbolic, passive aggressive way to fight the which the other showed the blunt protests of feminists. Both showed women and men standing up against the inequality they feel that women (mainly) face, and they achieved this effectively. Wylie 6 Wylie 7 Wylie 8 Works Cited Feminist Majority Foundation. Feminist.org. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Statistics RAINN. (2016). Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Finds US Gender Wage Gap Feminist Majority Foundation Blog. 7 Oct. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Awful Truth Behind the Gender Pay Forbes. Forbes Magazine. 7 April 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017