Jay Patel Composition 2 February 25, 2017 Professor Ryan Gun Control Gun control has been an issue for many years now and the signs of its bearing show any means of stopping anytime soon. Pro-gun control has been an ever-growing stakeholder with a mission to make guns more controlled and distributed less readily. Both images that I have chosen for pro-gun control introduce the idea that the country with the most guns also has the most gun related violence. The two images represent the stakeholders overall mission because they show a visual representation of how the more associated a population is with guns the more gun violence that follows. The pro-gun control stakeholder has been around for many years, but recently with a rise in school shootings and other gun related tragedies it has become a new topic of interest. What the stakeholder is trying to accomplish is not a full ban on guns but something that can make guns harder to acquire and gun laws to be a lot stricter. Many of the people who support pro-gun control have experienced firsthand on the damage gun violence can do to life and they friends and family; Therefore have a very prominent stance on why they are so demanding on changes to be made to the current laws. When questioned about the 2 nd Amendment and its statement on how guns should be given to the public, one who supports gun control stands to state the 2 nd Amendment calls for a and not guns for anyone who desires. Not to mention, a study of shooting victims in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania found that if you are carrying a gun you are far likelier to get shot and killed than those who are unarmed (NewScientist.com). The two images that I am showcasing for the pro-gun control stakeholder have very strong meanings behind them because they make people realize how the amount of guns people have is directly correlated with gun violence. In relevance to rhetorical appeals I do not believe that either one of my images had appeal to ethos because there was no credibility showcased in either images such as citations. Both images appeal to pathos because they directly affect emotions for people because gun violence is related to a lot of negative connotations such as death, which can bring up a lot of emotions for many people. For instance, if there was someone viewing the images who had firsthand experience with gun violence they would immediately have that memory restored which can bring back a lot of emotions. In appeal to logos, I also believe both my images appeal because they bring out logic to reason between the correlation how of many guns are available to the population and how much gun violence the population produces. The two images showcase the same correlation which is a very prominent topic of many pro-gun control supporters as well. Lastly, I believe both my images appeal to Kairos because it introduces an idea to the reader of how things could possibly be different if guns were less relevant, thus reducing the rates of gun violence. Overall, relating the two images to rhetorical appeals allows the reader to dissect the two images a lot more than most people who just give each picture a mere glance. Consequently, what the pro-gun control stakeholder is trying to accomplish is a cut down on the guns available to the general public. They strive to make guns a lot harder to acquire and for a substantial increase in background checks. Not to mention, laws dealing with guns and how they need to be carried and where they can be carried need to become a lot stricter to provide safety for the public. Many of the supporters are also striving to create a gun limit policy as well which limits the amounts of guns a person can own. All things considered, there have already been many movements for gun control such as a lot more background checks and denying people who simply want guns just to have them which is looked as extremely unnecessary for gun control supporters. Presumably, the stakeholder in general has had many great leaps of success in the past years and shows no means of slowing down anytime soon. They are striving to protect the public from gun violence by any means in which they can. The next steps for the stakeholder include becoming on top of the National Rifle Association (NRA) which stands to protect the rights of gun owners and allow them to keep their weapons. With an upper hand against the NRA the stakeholder can become a prominent force in the nation and can start making substantial changes in laws, but this may take time because it requires a lot of action from Senate. On the bright side, after the Orlando shooting tables have turned for the stakeholder and many opinions and outlooks have changed after such a catastrophic event; People began to realize how easy it is for someone to just walk into a public area and start a killing spree which really brought fear into many lives after realizing how many people can do such damage because so many people have access to guns nowadays. Overall, the stakeholder is simply trying to protect the general public, and with some more time I believe it will soon begin to make vast and astute changes in gun laws and gun possession. Works Cited Carrying a Gun Increases Risk of Getting Shot and  New Scientist. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Gun Control -  Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted in the United States? N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. 10 Arguments For and Against Gun  The Financial Word. N.p., 20 Jan. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Image 1 Image 2