Fiallo 1 Joshua Fiallo Professor De Carion ENC 1102 28 February 2017 Do College Athletes Get Their Fair Share? The National College Players Association (NCPA) believes that student athletes should be paid outside of scholarship money - if they bring profit to their Universities. The governing body of College athletics, the NCAA, believes that paying student athletes would be an infringement on the culture of college athletics, amateurism, and would deter student athletes focus from their studies to strictly their sports. In order to fight for a rule change by the NCAA, the NCPA released two images onto their website. These two images released by the NCPA use rhetorical appeals, particularly pathos, in order to gain support in their fight to bring about rule changes by the NCAA. Established in 1906, the NCAA has served as the governing body of college athletics, and has represented pursuit of excellence in both academics and (NCAA.com). The NCAA believes in amateurism, not paying their athletes, to keep college athletics and while keeping the minds of student athletes on academics over sport. A big reason the NCAA believes school should come first is because, for the majority of sports, less than 3% of college athletes go pro (gcic.peachtree.edu). Being that a vast majority of athletes sports careers end their senior year of college, the NCAA believes that school should come first so their athletes can go on to be successful in the world if their athletic careers do not go pro. In order for school to come first, best for schools to have limited scholarship money in the opinion of the NCAA. This provides incentive for athletes, especially those who are not superior on the playing Fiallo 2 field, to work hard and receive an academic scholarship, opposed to their sport being the main focus. The National College Players Association is an organization ran by ex-college athletes, whose main goal is to protect the rights of student athletes, and act in the best interests. (ncpanow.org). One of their biggest issues they hold stake in is paying student athletes, and pursuing for a NCAA rule change allowing schools to allocate more money to providing scholarships. College athletes put in hours of hard work for their athletic programs, in some cases enough hours to be equivalent to working a full time job. Working hours like that, the NCPA believes that these athletes should at least have the opportunity to receive more than just a free education from their schools, and at the very least, schools should be allowed to give out more scholarship money, allowing more athletes to go to school for free. According to an article published in the Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal, NCAA and its member institutions reportedly earn upwards of $11 billion per (Jorgensen, 3). With numbers like that, the NCPA is puzzled as to why schools cannot give out scholarships to more athletes if the money is there, and believes that through the use of rhetorical appeal in images they release, be able to convince more people to think the same way. To start off, both of the images released by NCPA makes their biggest rhetorical appeal to pathos, making the consumers of the images feel bad for the college athletes. The first image depicts a singular thief stealing the money from college athletes. This symbolizes that just one organization, the NCAA, is robbing the college athletes out of the money that they earn. Placing the thief robbing a locker room adds to the appeal to pathos even more, showing that is indeed the athletes themselves who are being stolen from the most by the NCAA. The second image is Fiallo 3 more straightforward with its appeal to pathos, showing two athletes pulling an expensive car which represents the NCAA. The image sends the message that Athletes do all of the hard, dirty work in order to make the Universities, and the NCAA rich. Adding the quotations from the players simply adds background information to show consumers who really familiar with college athletics exactly how much they receive from their universities, with the goal of them taking the side of the NCPA. The images also appeal to ethos, especially in the first image. Though it state a source, the first image uses a statistic to get their point across stating the The number is so large that it catches the eyes of consumers, making them want to find out more, and if true. The consumers on the website then want to read the entirety of the article that the image sits a-top off on the website, which then states that the statistic is true, and that the NCAA makes upwards of 6 Billion dollars a year themselves, not even including what the universities profit off of college athletes. The second image makes a slight appeal to ethos when the athlete on the left lists all of the things that he cannot receive. Out of all four rhetorical appeals, the images appeal to logos the least, if at all. However, both images make subtle appeals to Kairos inciting the consumers of the images to act fast. The first image depicts a thief stealing money from college athletes. Using this approach, it gives consumers the feel that they need to act now, as in real life call the cops if you saw somebody stealing money, especially 6 billion worth. This will convince people to join the fight against the NCAA now, not later. The second images also appeals to Kairos, showing people who see it that if they act fast then college athletes will eventually start to burn out. Getting little in return for their hard work, it gives the feel that eventually college athletics will start to phase out. Fiallo 4 In conclusion, the NCPA aims to gain support in their fight to force the NCAA into rule changes that would allow college athletes earn extra scholarships, or even be paid. The images looked to pull their consumers in through rhetorical appeals, and did so successfully, particularly using pathos, and successful in doing so. Fiallo 5 Works Cited: Official Site of the NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/. Career Information Georgia Career Information Center, www.gcic.peachnet.edu/. About NCPA National College Players Association, www.ncpanow.org/about. Jorgensen, Amber. Why Collegiate Athletes could have the NCAA singing a different  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 33.2 (2015): 367-420. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wolverton, Brad. The Myth of the Sports  Chronicle of Higher Education 25 Nov. 2016: A12. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gaines, Cork. Shows How Little of College Sports Revenues Goes to The Business Insider, Business Insider, 24 Sept. 2014, www.businessinsider.com/college- sports-revenue-athlete-scholarships-2014-9. Worsnop, Richard. College Sports: Will Reform Efforts Help Or Hurt Student  CQ Researcher 4.32 (1994): 745. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Fiallo 6