Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Providing Mental Health Care to the Homeless All over the United States of America are individuals facing debilitating hardships. Two very prominent issues are ones which have been stigmatized nearing the point of becoming taboo topics of discussion. Homelessness and mental illnesses are both very sensitive subjects which many professionals are working to solve, but at this point to no avail. Hundreds of thousands of people suffer from homelessness each night (Castellow et. al, 675). Even more vast numbers of people suffer from mental illnesses, many of whom suffer silently. Much of the public either do not understand the issues at hand, or are unaware of actions they can take to alleviate a portion of the human suffering which takes place here on our homeland. It is common knowledge that mental illness and homelessness often have strong correlation, yet because the two are not synonymous, it is difficult for any one organization to dedicate due attention to both issues. Thus, multiple organizations have sprung up across the nation, focusing on either homelessness or mental illnesses, but not both. If two of these organizations were to put their goals of human wellness at the forefront of their efforts, a collaborative effort would greatly benefit the thousands of people suffering from either homelessness or mental illnesses, and in many cases both. The National Alliance to End Homelessness (NAEH) is a nationally recognized organization whose primary goal is to end homelessness, as stated by their title. The President of the alliance, Nan Roman, states publicly on their website that homelessness is an unnecessary Student 2 evil that we, as people, can solve through knowledge, expertise, and public and political will to implement solutions. By noting the necessity of public and political will to implement solutions, Roman draws attention to the numerous times bills which held potential to improve the homeless situation were introduced to Congress and not passed. Sociologists Jennifer Christian and Alexandra Howson mention one of the bills in their publication, Homelessness. The bill was titled the America Home and was introduced to the 108 th and 109 th Congress by the National Coalition for the Homeless. The America Home Act to bring the issue of homelessness front and center to the public and policy arena, and through a raft of initiatives to secure not only entitlements to housing, income, health, and civil rights, but also establish the basic human need of shelter as an entitlement for all (Christian, Howson). The Bring America Home Act is but one example of the unwillingness to contribute to the solution of homelessness. Of equal importance is the concern of mental illness in not only the homeless but in all civilians. One largely recognized organization in this matter is the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI). NAMI is dedicated to providing support and eliminating the stigma of mental illnesses. NAMI states that there are a multitude of mental illnesses which can affect millions of Americans. On their website, NAMI states proper treatment, people can realize their full potential, cope with the stresses of life, work productively and meaningfully contribute to the is a phrase that has been difficult for many psychiatrists to define. Seeing as there is no one foolproof approach to mental illnesses, many doctors have tampered with the best ways to discern what psychiatric rehabilitation truly is. In his editorial entitled Student 3 Rehabilitation and Dr. William A. Anthony refers to the United States Psychiatric Rehabilitation definition of psychiatric rehabilitation as follows: rehabilitation promotes recovery, full community integration, and improved quality of life for persons who have been diagnosed with any mental health condition that seriously impairs their ability to lead meaningful lives. Psychiatric rehabilitation services are collaborative, person directed, and individualized. These services are an essential element of the health care and human services spectrum, and should be evidence-based. They focus on helping individuals develop skills and access resources needed to increase their capacity to be successful and satisfied in the living, working, learning, and social environments of their choice (p. A lengthy definition such as this one is necessary when handling a matter of variety, such as mental illnesses. As is apparent from the definition, rehabilitation is a multi-faceted approach, and the overall goal of the process is an improvement of life for the mentally ill. NAEH and NAMI differ widely on their actual subject matter. Their missions, however, are but a throw apart. Both of these organizations dedicate their work to the betterment of society and lives of those who compose it. NAEH is primarily concerned with providing homes for those who are lacking them, while NAMI is driven to provide assistance and support for those who suffer from the ailments in their own minds. These two issues commonly go hand in hand, leaving a necessity to combine the issues in search of unified solution. There is a program in existence that aims to do just that. An article found on Abt webpage entitled Reports Explore Medicaid Role in Helping describes permanent supportive housing as housing for formerly homeless people with disabilities and chronic health conditions to support housing stabilization, maximum levels of self-sufficiency, Student 4 and an overall better quality of The issue this program faces is the same obstacle for most beneficial programs: a lack of funding. As may be apparent from the title of the Abt article, some supporters have proposed allotting a portion of Medicaid funds to improve permanent supportive housing. While this method may yield high results, the proposition may take years before being approved. During the meantime, measures must be taken to expedite improvement of the housing. The best way to accomplish anything on a large scale is to begin locally. In many cities, the homeless population grows closer to downtown areas. Seeing as many people see the homeless population as a nuisance of sorts, or a threat to the public due to the common presence of mental illness, downtown businesses and establishments are likely to be the most ready to alleviate the issue. One thing to consider are the types of establishments located in downtown areas. Commonly, places like libraries, hospitals, police departments, city buildings, restaurants, courthouses, etcetera make up what can be considered a downtown area. These businesses are all prime candidates to solicit support from. Most helpful would be police stations and hospitals. Because of the frequent homeless traffic in both of these places, they are most likely to be the highest reaping factors. Hospitals and police departments both generate revenue from every patient and citizen they deal with. Local chapters of NAMI and NAEH are to arrange to meet with the directors of the local hospitals and sheriffs or leading officers and present them with statistics and projected decline of the homeless issue in the area based on the success of the permanent supportive housing. After gaining the attention of whom it may concern, propose that the revenue that is being earned in these establishments off of the vagrant population be circulated to the permanent supportive housing program. This will allow more immediate funding for PSH and consequently will minimize homeless people on the streets and provide psychiatric rehabilitation and mental health care to those in need. By improving the program, Student 5 hundreds of thousands of lives will be improved and opportunity for these people becomes plausible. Rather than allow society to keep pouring tax dollars into the community to eliminate or criminalize the homeless, the money will be directed towards solving the problem. (WC:1358) Student 6 Works Cited Anthony, William A., and Marianne D. Farkas. A Primer on the Psychiatric Rehabilitation Process. Boston, MA: Center for Psychiatric Rehabilitation, 2009. Boston University, 2009. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. Christian, Jennifer; Howson, Alexandra. Research Starters: Sociology, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ers&AN=89185530&site=eds-live. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. National Alliance on Mental Illness. www.nami.org. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Alliance to End Homelessness. National Alliance to End Homelessness. www.endhomelessness.org. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Coalition for the National Coalition for the Homeless. N.p., 12 Jan. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.