Masut 1 Samantha Masut Professor J. Josue ENC 1102 2 March 2017 End Animal Research According to PETA, each year more than 100 million mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, and killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics testing. (Peta.org) PETA or People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is the largest animal rights organization in the world, helping to protect animals from cruelty all around the world. PETA has become popular through its use of campaigns, billboards, propaganda, and visual rhetoric. The purpose of these images is to stimulate emotion and make people aware of the effects of experimentation and research on innocent animals. The images display horrible consequences of testing on animals and encouragement by PETA to end animal experimentation for the better. To begin, PETA was founded in 1980 and is an international nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to establishing and defending the rights of all animals worldwide. (Peta.org) Since 1980, PETA has campaigned to establish a global society in which humans consider the needs of what Henry Beston, noted American writer and naturalist of the mid-20 th century, so beautifully called other (Peta.org) PETA focuses on four main areas in which the greatest number of animals suffer for the longest periods of time. (Peta.org) This would include factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade Masut 2 and the entertainment industry. Since 1980 when they first started the organization, PETA members have achieved many large milestones. For example, in 1984, PETA closed down a Texas slaughterhouse operation in which 30,000 horses were trucked in and left to starve in frozen fields without shelter. (Peta.org) Another example includes fast food companies such as McDonalds and Burger King agreeing to make basic animal welfare improvements for farmed animals. They have saved a variety of different animals from pigs to monkeys to foxes in a variety of different states and countries due to their effective use of rhetorical appeal and push for equality of animals, guilting people into seeing the horrific state that animals end up in for cosmetics, treatments, and cures. . use of influential photos, billboards, and campaigns and persuasive rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and kairos, has helped them achieve major accomplishments throughout the span of 30 years. Both images display ethos or the way of establishing trust with his or her reader (Lane et al. 21). On the first image, logo is displayed in the top right corner giving credibility to the organization itself. If one were to doubt credibility, they could search website and find their list of achievements over the past few decades, proving that they are trustworthy and a serious organization. On the second image, logo is also displayed in the bottom right hand corner underneath another logo, giving PETA double credibility by being associated and trusted by another animal protection organization. In addition, this photo includes a website link at the bottom, allowing full access to another one of their websites and additional proof towards their credibility. Masut 3 The next rhetorical appeal used by both images is pathos, which pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward emotion (Lane et al. 22). In the first image, pathos is most obvious in the form of the kitten with medical gear on its head. The kitten appears unhappy and in distress. One of its eyes is bigger than the other, creating a possible side effect to the medical equipment and testing on what appears to be the brain. This could stimulate emotions such as sadness, anger and frustration with scientists and animal testing. Because people love animals, any image or picture of an animal being hurt will make the audience feel bad for the animals and want to help. In addition, PETA uses the phrase you call it you can get away with in big, bold, white letters making it obvious to the audience that animal testing for medical research is practically murdering the animals used. The use of the color white makes a bold statement across the black background of the image, making an emphasis on the words and making it more noticeable to the audience. In the second image, PETA exhibits a young girl with black and red bruising and cuts along her face, holding smoking lipstick. This appeals to pathos because as a human, instantly seeing another human with such cuts and bruising, especially a young girl, will make the audience feel bad and want to help her. In addition, the use of the smoking lipstick appeals to young girls and women who use cosmetics and makeup, advertising that by using most cosmetics, they are contributing to the experimenting on animals for makeup products. The phrasing on this image says it was only tested on your pets! But imagine if it was on This phrase gets the audiences attention because it is also in bold white lettering across a black background, and starts with the big, capital letters in hooking the audience into reading the rest of the phrase. The second part of the phrase personally attacks the Masut 4 audience leaving them to feel like they owe the animals being tested on. The specific part of the phrase was makes the audience feel guilty and selfish, and obligated to do something. Kairos, pertaining to the right place and the right time, is the third and final rhetorical appeal used in both images (Lane et al. 25). According to Rhetorical Really Matters, connecting a or response to a particular deadline or goal, the writer creates urgency and Kairos is portrayed in the first image by telling the audience to to a better This phrasing gives a subtle sense of urgency to help the animals by switching to another way other than animal testing to find cures and answers or else they are basically contributing to murder. The second image appeals to kairos because it asks the audience to help PETA stop animal testing now, and the word now assesses a time and also a sense of urgency. Kairos gives the audience a purpose by asking them to do something in a specific amount of time, and the audience responds positively and quickly to these requests. PETA has been trying to convince the world against animal testing for many years, and is still contributing to its end today. Through their persistant use of campaigns, images, and visuals, and their successful use of rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and kairos, they have influenced many audiences against animal experimentation. afraid to make the difficult comparisons, say the unpopular thing, or point out the uncomfortable truth, if it means that animals will (Peta.org) Masut 5 Masut 6 Work Cited Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. 1.1 The Rhetorical  Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. N. pag. MyReviewers. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. <http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters>. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/>.  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/milestones/>. Uncompromising Stands on Animal  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/>.