Francisco 1 David Francisco Andrew D. Carion ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Visual Issues on Immigration The controversy between whether to allow immigration is something that has yet to be resolved. Both sides have vailed reasons to their cause and its through speeches and debates they try to resolve the issue. On the contrary, organizations sometimes use visuals to influence people into their argument. Undocumedia use images from their social media pages to raise awareness of the issues and current issues happening. Undocumedia is an organization that believes people should have the opportunity to stay in the US and have contributed to the country. Their mission is be a resource to the immigrant community throughout the (Official Website). While this may not be a specific goal, their main argument is to help the younger generation to strive for success with passing acts that allow them to stay in the US and have an education. The three founders came from a Hispanic background therefore are greatly motivated to help these people. The two images used in their social media is one that has a child smiling and the other is of a young woman who seems to be standing in protest. While the sources from the first image is used by multiple organizations like Undocumedia, it is one that demonstrates what Undocumedia argues for. The visuals used by Undocumedia contains a concentration of pathos from the child used and logos from the woman facial expressions making it logical of how she feels. Ethos shown from the artist who drew the art and the kairos of when should the actions be taken. These alone can be broken in depth to see the bigger picture of what Undocumedia stands for. Francisco 2 This first image was used by Undocumedia on their social media page and has been an influence by other organizations that support this images ideas. The artist was Shepard Fairey who also a series of posters supporting Barack 2008 candidacy for President of the United States, including the iconic  (Beer). While he illustrates political images, he creates art on controversial topic such as this image of a young child smiling. Undocumedia used this image because Fairey uses his images to show his argument with the topic in which in this case is the same as the organizations. From this background of who made the art it is secure to say that this would have credibility. Logically this image can immediately be a way to emotional influence the audience but that is not the only thing. Anyone who views this image knows the reason behind this image because of the words and what ethnicity this child is. However, this image also hides things that no one would notice because it was purposely made that way. Little can be said about how it demonstrates logos but the hat stating are is something everyone knows yet people remember because of the stereotypes. Beside this logical appeal there seem to be evidence of logos in the image. The main appeal to this image is pathos from the color to the symbols representing the side on the issue of immigration. The first main part is the child who is smiling. The first question that may come to mind is why choose the age of a child? Simple explanation is because Francisco 3 the artist wanted to show who is affect by the issue which is the future generation. His smiling shows his optimism about the topic believing that everything will go well. While it may not be evident what he may be thinking, the other option could be his inability to know the controversy showing an innocent person being affected by the choices of America. The colors of red and blue shows the anger and sadness of the topic giving the setting of the image. Some symbols of roses and butterflies gives the viewer a sense of life and love. The butterflies symbolize life meaning that a life being decided on and love from the roses shows peace for America. There are also handcuffs from his wrist that has been broken which can be a sign that people will not be oppressed and argue for their rights. While these are hypothesis on the images it may be right from any viewpoint. With the whole controversy having history, it is no surprise that kairos is evident in the image. The first evidence is from the large text stating not one more deportation which means that it must stop now. One thing that make this influential is that there is no date or time and it straight forward. It also covers majority of immigrants not just the Hispanic community which makes it more of a stronger saying. This image follows Undocumedia belief that the community be suppressed by those who discriminate. Undocumedia may not had created this image but their arguments link with what the image is trying to illustrate. Francisco 4 Coming from the social media of Undocumedia, this photo was taken by a similar group called Stand with Standing Rock which was a protest on the construction of the wall that the president of America wanted to establish. The credibility behind this image clear since it is biased on the situation therefore it is not as reliable. However, the other context on the image are apparent. There is not enough information to give an elaborate background on the image but rhetorical analysis can allow viewers see the message and reason Undocumedia decided to use the image on their social media. Although it seems there could be no logo in this image the fact that protest would occur with this current situation is something that logical. Maybe the facial expression of the woman looking tired or sad from what America has become, hidden. It is evident that the woman is protesting for immigration and against the construction of the wall. There is also indication that she alone in the protest as more people in the background are near her maybe not holding signs but may be there to support her and others who believe in her views. The reason for such a high use of pathos would be because of the amount of people being affected by this which goes against our morals. Somehow this provides with little amount of pathos, the expression, and the signs indication that even through arguments they may not with their argument over the topic. This brings a guilty feeling even though it was the Francisco 5 countries decision. A huge amount of guilt can influence the viewer to feel sorrow and sympathy for the protesters. Simple to see the kairos in this image as the words again state when they want the action to occur. In this case its more of a reoccurring phenomenon where the next generation will also protest and act on the situation. It sorts of follows the whole concept of may have won the battle but not the where there is still hope for them. This means they are patient and faithful on the next generation to take care of the wall and destroy it using a powerful message to fear in the future. Overall both images used is linked with Undocumedia argument on the controversy of immigration. With both images, having used a plethora of pathos and minimal uses of ethos and logos it was influential to side with them on the topic. Both kairos were surprisingly shocking because one was a direct indication that the time to take action was currently the other one relied over time it would occur or that it was inevitable. Francisco 6 Works Cited Beer, Jeff. Shepard Fairey: Obey Obama. The endorsement as a striking poster . Creativity Online. (2008). http://adage.com/article/behind-the-work/shepard- fairey-obey-obama/124743/ Yerena, Ernesto. One More https://obeygiant.com/not-one-more/ Stand with Standing Rock. your wall but my generation will tear it Instagram (February 18). https://www.instagram.com/p/BQqY-wrD2-z/?taken-by=birdsofprogress