Munoz 1 Marcos Munoz Professor Alison Missler Enc 1102 03 March 2017 Project 2 intermediate The National Park Foundation is one of the stakeholders in this argument. The National Park Foundation helps the National Park Service in terms of getting the National Parks more well known and also raising money for them. The National Park Foundation uses advertisements to portray a visual concern to people that are unaware of the problem of the national parks. Using visual rhetoric helps portray a lot of thing to people without having any words just from the picture. Through these two advertisement pictures presented, ethos, pathos, logos and kairos presented. Ethos, pathos and logos are often used in advertisements to convey the message more than just writing a message. Using emotions and using logic to convey a message is better to get attention and persuade them to join the cause or movement. In the image with skylines, there is not really much ethos. The credibility is seen on this photo could be from the National Park Foundation logo and the come down to earth message underneath. The National Park Foundation logo could be used as a source of credibility because Munoz 2 a lot of people are already familiar with the national park service which is close to the National Park Foundation. Pathos can easily be seen here in the photo with skylines because of the saying on the advertisement and also the picture of the mountain with the sunset in the background of the photo. The saying there were skylines, there were implies that before building skylines, there were mountain ridge skylines. This shows that the beauty behind real skylines are in the mountains and nature, not in man made buildings. Also, the scenery in the background the sun setting or rising also shows the beauty of mountain skylines. Seeing the beauty of natural skylines pulls on emotional strings and makes them more inclined to want to become a part of the cause and help protect the environment from unnatural things such as drilling for oil, or fracking for natural gases. In this photo with the mountain skylines, there is logos being used with what is said on the advertisement. there were skylines, there were This appeals to both ethos and logos, but is mostly logos. When reading this saying, it makes the reader think about what this advertisement is really about. Saying before there were skylines, there were skylines implies that there were natural skylines before manmade skylines and that natural skylines are more beautiful than manmade skylines. People thinking about this beauty would make them want to take more action towards this cause in supporting the National Park Foundation and fighting against any destruction the park or environment around the park. Munoz 3 Kairos is being used in this photo of the skyline because it pulls at the emotional strings and uses logic to persuade people to take action against destruction in national parks. Even though it does not specifically say that people should go out and help the cause, people seeing the message sent on the advertisement would make them want to go out and do something about it. In the other photo with the different national monuments, the ethos in this photo or what makes it credible would the different national monument in the advertisement and also the logo of the National Park Foundation. Having nationally recognized monuments on the advertisements would make people think that it is more credible while also having their own recognized logo. Having nationally recognized parks and monuments with the letters of park over them, make it more credible compared to not having nationally known places and monuments. Pathos is being used too in this picture because it shows the different national monuments which could have people see how beautiful they are and would get attention. Using the emotional tactics on advertisements would make people more inclined to do something about the advertisement they see. Logos is present in the photo because it shows four different national monuments and places and it has each letter of park placed on each photo of the national park or monument. Seeing the Mount Rushmore heads and Statue of Liberty with the letters of park over them gives some logical reasoning behind the advertisement because it would be logical to take care of the national parks and places through the National Park Foundation. Also, when people see the Munoz 4 statue of liberty and mount rushmore, they correlate those nationally recognized monuments with logic because they each represent something important in american history. Kairos is evident in this advertisement because all ethos, logos, pathos are in the advertisement. Having all of these rhetorics in the advertisement helps with having people want to take action against national park destruction or having the environment around the property being destroyed too. People seeing the advertisement would want to take action because of the appeals. In both of these photos, visual rhetoric is presented to try and persuade the audience in some way to do something about national parks. Ethos is shown in both photos because of the logo on both of the advertisements and also seeing the national monuments would make it more credible to some because they would associate credibility with the national monuments. Pathos is more prevalent than the rest of the visual rhetorics, especially in the photo with the skylines because of the scenery presented in the background of the advertisement with the mountain skyline and sunset. In the other photo, it shows four different national monuments and places that have people see the beauty of national parks and have them see that working towards saving our national parks are worth it. Logos is not really shown in these advertisements as much as the other rhetorics but it is still there. Logos is there in the photo with skylines because of the saying before there were skylines there were skylines and in the other photo because of the national monuments and parks having the word park on it. Having the nationally recognized monuments and places also generally would grab attention and have them want to take action. Munoz 5 Kairos brings together all of these visual rhetoric to have people want to make a difference and take action to help protect these nationally preserved places. Munoz 6 Works cited Campaigns &  Park Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. What We Do (U.S. National Park  Parks Service . U.S. Department of the Interior, n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017.