Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 1 The Incidence of Drug Abuse and Non-Stimulant Treatment in ADHD Grace Lougheed The University of South Florida DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 2 The Incidence of Drug Abuse and Non-Stimulant Treatment in ADHD Attention Deficit Disorder, previously known as Hyperkinetic Reaction of Childhood until 1980, affects more than 3 million people in the United States each year. ADD is three times more likely in boys than girls, and is the most commonly studied and diagnosed mental disorder in children and adolescents, although some still doubt the disorder even exists considering that the exact cause is unknown. The symptoms of ADD on average begin around age six and are characterized by problems paying attention, excessive activity, or difficulty controlling inappropriate behavior. There is no known treatment for ADD, but management options include counseling, lifestyle changes and medications. Stimulant medication is of the most commonly prescribed by physicians due to its ability to improve persistence and task performance. One of the most controversial issues of stimulant medication is whether the widespread use to treat children with attention deficit disorder increases the risk of substance abuse in adulthood. Studies show that children and adolescents with ADD or ADHD are more likely to misuse alcohol, tobacco, and other illicit substances compared to children without the disorder. So, the question is, is there less of a chance for someone with ADD to become a substance abuser if they take stimulant medication when young? DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 3 Annotated Bibliography Breyer, J. L., Lee, S., Winters, K. C., August, G. J., & Realmuto, G. M. (2014). A longitudinal study of childhood ADHD and substance dependence disorders in early adulthood. Psychology Of Addictive Behaviors, 28(1), 238-246. doi:10.1037/a0035664 ADHD is associated with several psychosocial problems such as employment problems, criminal behavior, and lower academic achievement. Adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder are more prone to begin using drugs at an early age, and their use tends to be more chronic. They have a much shorter gap between onset of use and the development of a substance use disorder (SUD). This study focuses on the background literature pertaining to alcohol, marijuana, and tobacco. The researchers in this study examine whether the course of ADHD status during the ages 18 to 22 years old are associated with higher rates of substance dependence disorders if they have been prescribed stimulant medication. This analysis relates to the research question because it compares three groups of young adults, (1) those with no history of childhood ADHD, (2) individuals with childhood ADHD that persisted into adulthood, and (3) those with childhood ADHD who no longer have it as adults. This article was published by the American Psychological Association. All the authors that took part in writing this are from the University of Minnesota Medical School and are very qualified and knowledgeable on this topic. Knopf, A. (2016). Earlier initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in adolescence. Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter, 32(7), 3-4. doi:10.1002/cbl.30138 DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 4 In the article, researchers used a survey of high school seniors with ADHD from 2004-2014 to test whether the age of treatment onset, duration, and type of medication affected substance use. 3,539 of the students were prescribed stimulant medications, and the other 1,332 students were prescribed only non-stimulant medications. The prescription stimulant medication therapy was measured by asking respondents if they had ever taken a prescription stimulant medication under a supervision for ADHD. Non-stimulant medication therapy was measured by asking respondents if they had ever taken a non-stimulant prescription medication under supervision. The study concluded that delays in treatment, shortened treatment, and the use of non-stimulant medications all resulted in an increase of substance abuse in adolescence. This source relates to the research question because it shows that while it is known that ADHD itself puts children at an increased risk for substance abuse, over the past few decades, prescription stimulant use for ADHD has increased significantly in the United States. The evidence in this article shows that it is still an ongoing examination of whether medication to treat Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder are linked to substance misuse during adolescence. This study was led by Timothy Wilens, M.D., of Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University, who has conducted research into the link between ADHD, substance abuse, and ADHD medications for years showing consistently that it is untreated ADHD that leads to substance use, not the stimulant medications when used properly. Kollins, S. H., & Greenhill, L. (2006). Evidence base for the use of stimulant medication in preschool children with ADHD. Infants & Young Children, (2). 132 The source states that attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder is being recognized as an increasingly valid disorder in preschool-aged children. ADHD symptoms cause significant impairment at home, school, and social functions in the preschool-age group. This report DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 summarizes previous studies on the pharmacological treatment young children with ADHD with stimulant medications. It also gives an overview of the Preschool ADHD Treatment Study (PATS) and provides recommendations for clinicians seeing preschool children with this disorder. The two authors of this report decode previous articles on stimulant treatment for children with ADHD, and give us their insight on the studies conducted by researchers and the outcomes of those. It relates to the research question because they are giving us all the outcomes on the previous tests examined in this field and inform us of all the other possible treatments available if parents find that these results are not what they were hoping for. The qualified doctors that participated in this report, Scott H. Kollins, Ph.D., from the Department of Psychiatry at Duke University Medical Center, and Laurence Greenhill, M.D., New York State Psychiatric Institute at Columbia University, are experts in the psychiatric field and are more than trusted to provide us with the important knowledge that they have been researching for years. Nora D. Volkow, M. a., & James M. Swanson, P. a. (2008). Does Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Adulthood?. American Journal Of Psychiatry: Official Journal Of The American Psychiatric Association, (5), 553. doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2008.08020237 In this article, Volkow and Swanson discuss the controversial topic of whether the use of stimulant medications to treat children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder increases the risk of substance abuse in adulthood. They claim that part of the concern is that stimulant medications share with drug abuse the ability to increase dopamine concentration. The doctors also give information on clinical evidence from observational studies on this topic. DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 6 This source relates to the research question because it informs us of the human epidemiological studies that have shown that the earlier an individual is exposed to substances with abuse potential, the greater the risk of drug abuse and dependence there is in adulthood. On the other hand, the opposite perspective has also been proposed. Stimulant treatment in children with ADHD may reduce the risk of later substance abuse. Volkow and Swanson evaluated studies on both sides of the argument and found that there still is not a good enough understanding of the natural history of the disorder or time. Nora Volkow, M.D., and James Swanson, Ph.D., have both won multiple awards for their research and conducted their own studies and have done countless articles on this questionable issue therefore they are more than qualified to inform others who are interested in this topic as well. Wilson, J. J. (2007). ADHD and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Treatment. American Journal On Addictions, 165-13. doi: 10.1080/10550490601082734 This article mentions that some investigators have questioned whether stimulant treatment itself could promote substance abuse, while others have argued that such treatment reduces substance abuse. Jeffrey Wilson conducted a longitudinal study of 147 young adults with ADHD followed since childhood in which patients with adolescent and adult ADHD predicted higher drug-related activities compared to the control group. The relationship between ADHD and substance use disorders (SUD) appears to be primarily mediated by conduct disorder. It is possible that attention deficit or behavioral impulsivity could interfere with an determination of the long-term consequences of drug use; hence, long-term consequences may be ignored in favor of immediate satisfaction. DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 7 This article informs us that adolescents and adults with SUD often demonstrate symptoms of inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity. These core symptoms of ADHD may contribute to the development of substance use disorders, therefore relating to the research question. ADHD predicts an earlier age of substance abuse onset, and a more rapid transition from use to abuse and dependence correlates with a longer duration of substance use disorder. SUD is most often present first during adolescence and young adulthood. The source shows that although ADHD alone increases the risk of developing SUD, this risk is substantially enhanced when conduct disorder is also present. The author of this article, Jeffrey Wilson, has an M.D. from Columbia University and works at the New York State Psychiatric Institute. Zheng, C., Lichtenstein, P., Halldner, L., B., Serlachius, E., Fazel, S., & ... Larsson, H. (2014). Stimulant ADHD medication and risk for substance abuse. Journal Of Child Psychology & Psychiatry, 55(8), 878-885. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12164 In this discussion, these doctors talk about how there are persistent concerns of long-term effects of stimulant ADHD medication on the development of substance abuse. They conducted a study of individuals born between 1960 and 1998 who were diagnosed with ADHD, 26,249 of which were men and 12,504 of which were women. They investigated the association between stimulant medication in 2006 and substance abuse during 2009 which concluded results that the ADHD stimulant medication was not associated with increased rate of substance abuse. In fact, according to (Zheng et al., 2014) it was %31 lower in 2009 than 2006 (para. 1). They also discovered that the longer the duration of time on the medication, the lower the rate of substance abuse. The sources in this article tell us that stimulant medications are the most commonly used pharmacological treatments for ADHD. One reason for the persistent concern for substance DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 8 abuse derives from the fact that stimulant medications increase dopamine concentration in the brain. They concluded that the decision to prescribe stimulant ADHD treatment should, as in all clinical practice, take into account the individual facts and potential effects. All 8 of the well- known, qualified doctors that took part in this discussion have medical degrees from places all over the globe and have joined together on this study to be able to inform more people about the issue of stimulant medication and its effect on substance abuse.