Student Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Treating Severe Depression Depression is a serious mental affliction that affects countless Americans on a daily basis. It has many causes and can vary in its level of severity from person to person. Some people might experience depression that is mild and easily treatable through counseling over numerous sessions with a trusted therapist. On the less severe end of the spectrum one may be able to go about their daily tasks and live a normal life. However there are those who suffer from a more severe level of depression that hinders their ability to cope with events in their lives and ultimately impacts their quality of life in a negative way overall. People who suffer from extreme depression are more prone to having suicidal thoughts, committing acts of self-harm, and in some cases actually committing the act of suicide. This form of depression is known as major depressive disorder and affects an estimate of 15 million American adults according to genesight.com. Intense symptoms caused by this disorder make treatment quite difficult. The affects of depression not only impact the lives of those afflicted with it, but their families and friends as well. If a loved one commits suicide the people left behind may be stricken with grief and possibly blame themselves. There are numerous ways to treat depression. One method is scheduled appointments with a therapist. An ulterior method is the use of anti-depressant drugs such as Zoloft, Lexapro, Seroxat, or Cipralex. Two stakeholders have taken a stand in the never-ending battle against major depressive Student disorder, although their ideas about the ideal treatment of the disorder clash. On one hand there is HelpGuide.org. HelpGuide.org is an organization dedicated to treating depression through the use of therapy and providing self-help information and guides that can be easily accessed on the Internet free of charge. It is their belief that given the right tools anyone can take steps to free themselves from the overwhelming grip of depression and learn how to better cope with negative events in their lives. On the other hand there is U.S. Pharmacy. This is an organization that believes that there are some cases of major depressive disorder that are resistant to therapy and requires the use of a strong antidepressant known as ketamine. Both of these stakeholders are determined to treat major depressive disorder, but they differ in their beliefs regarding the proper treatment for this disorder. One believes that medication is the answer while the other seeks to treat major depressive disorder through therapy and guidance. Perhaps neither of these stakeholders have the right answer, but certainly they could accomplish more through collaboration than they can apart. Andrew J. Hvizdos represents the U.S. Pharmacy stakeholder regarding the treatment of major depressive disorder in his article titled Use of Ketamine in The Acute Management of which he published on November 17, 2016. In this article Andrew J. Hvizdos goes in depth on what ketamine is and how it treats not only major depressive disorder, but also its affects on symptoms of the disorder including feelings of helplessness, worthlessness, and thoughts of suicide. According to Hvizdos is a derivative of phencyclidine, with anesthetic, analgesic, and amnestic He explains that Ketamine works by targeting the N-methyl-d- aspartate (NMDA) receptor and acts as an antagonist. It is a relatively safe drug since the Student FDA has approved its use for sedation during surgical procedures and general anesthesia (Hvizdos). However it is known to cause dissociative effects and is classed as a Schedule 3 controlled substance (Hvizdos). The article goes on to give examples of different studies in which, ketamine was used to treat major depressive disorder. The first study was conducted by Berman et al in the year 2000. This was a placebo- controlled, crossover trial evaluating the use a single dose of 0.5 mg/kg ketamine over 40 minutes in eight patients with recurrent unipolar major (Hvizdos). The purpose of the experiment was to see if the participants would show a decrease in depressive symptoms by the time they had their follow up in three days. When the participants came back for their follow up the four of eight that received actual ketamine treatment showed significant decreases in all major depressive disorder symptoms (Berman). Of the four participants that took the placebo instead of actual ketamine only one participant showed a decrease in major depressive disorder symptoms (Berman). Despite the decrease in depressive symptoms through the infusion of ketamine a problem still persisted. who showed mood improvement on ketamine returned to baseline levels 1 to 2 weeks after (Berman). As for its effects on thoughts of suicide in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder a study was conducted by DiazGranados et al. 33 patients were instructed to refrain from taking medication for two weeks prior to ketamine infusion. percent of patients had a lifetime history of suicidal ideation, 30% with a previous suicide attempt. There was significant improvement in all suicide scales following (DiazGranados). Unfortunately without repeat infusions these patients also relapsed back to their baseline levels and currently experiments are still being conducted to assess the long term effects on the Student human body experiencing serial infusions of ketamine. In some cases of serial infusion patients develop a tolerance to the beneficial effects of the drug. This leads to the next point addressed by Andrew J. Hvizdos, which is the potential for abuse of the drug. Over the years Ketamine has emerged in a negative light as a mainstream club drug. Users of ketamine increase their doses over time as their bodies build up immunity to its effects. Morgan et al studied the long-term effects of ketamine in addicts and determined that they developed cognitive impairments in short- and long-term memory, and someone who is mildly and distinctly dissociated in their day-to-day (Morgan). It also must be noted that the FDA has not approved the use of ketamine to treat major depressive disorder (Hvizdos). However this stakeholder believes that through more research pharmacists can eventually find the perfect dosage and regimen to effectively treat major depressive disorder. Unlike the previous stakeholder HelpGuide.org believes drugs are not an effective way of treating major depressive disorder. HelpGuide.org was founded in the memory of Morgan Segal. Morgan was prescribed anti-depressant drugs along with therapy to treat her depression, however it proved to be an ineffective treatment method and she committed suicide at age 23. mother Jeanne Segal is the cofounder of HelpGuide.org and the organization takes an approach to therapy that relies on self-help tools rather than anti-depressant drugs. Their website provides 250 articles, rich media, interactive quizzes and other resources covering 31 (HelpGuide.org). The organization provides these tools for people afflicted with major depressive disorder to better understand their disorder and educate themselves on ways to make gradual improvements. Student These two stakeholders have yet to compromise on a concrete treatment for major depressive disorder. HelpGuide.org believes drugs are an ineffective method of treating the disorder at least until more research has been conducted. U.S. Pharmacy believes that Ketamine is more effective than self-help tools because it has been proven in numerous studies to decrease the symptoms of major depressive disorder. Although ketamine can has a significant short-term impact on patients with major depressive disorder there still has not been enough research to determine a proper regimen. The self-help tools provided on HelpGuide.org are a nice gesture but people with this disorder often lack the motivation to seek out such tools and use them effectively. After considering both sides I have determined that a more effective treatment method would be to start a patient off with a small dosage of ketamine to slightly improve the overall mood and then introduce the patient to the self-help tools on HelpGuide.org. With a small dosage of ketamine the patient may be more willing to utilize the self-help resources, and eventually rely solely on HelpGuide.org and possibly a therapist to treat the disorder. (Word Count: 1328) Student Work Cited Andrew J. Hvizdos, PharmD, MBA, The Use of Ketamine in the Acute Management of  U.S. Pharmacist. N.p., 17 Nov. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.  HelpGuide.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Zarate, Carlos A., Jr. A Randomized Trial of an N-methyl-D-aspartate Antagonist in Treatment- Resistant Major  Archives of General Psychiatry. American Medical Association, 01 Aug. 2006. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.