Dyal 1 Shawn Dyal Gottlieb ENC 1102 23 February 2017 College Athletes Wanting to Be Paid and Have Rights The idea of paying college athletes in not a new concept. This problem has been occurring for a few years with the growing discrepancy between the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and student-athletes, especially with college football players. College football players generate a majority of the money that the NCAA makes games and merchandise. College athletes as a whole generate around $11 billion for the NCAA and college football players make the most of the $11 billion Vs. The major issue here is that the NCAA views the college sports as an amateur sport and by their guidelines, requires that players are not to be paid College athletes, particularly football players, think that they deserve rights and payment for all the money they generate for the NCAA and their respective universities. College football players use various advertising techniques to elicit their argument. Today, college football players believe that they are being mistreated and that there should be a change, which can be implied from the images. The two images show how college football players feel through the visual rhetoric in both images College football players argue for the idea that they should receive payment and rights which is seen through the two images below. For example, the logic that is implied in figure 1 shows an old man, which represents universities, holding a piggy bank, which represents NCAA profits, walking away from football players who believe they are entitled to the profits. The man representing the universities is seen telling the players that they already know the rules, the rule Dyal 2 being that they only carry the pigskin. This idea leads to the players thinking that this means the players should receive the profits. Footballs have been referred to as pigskin, this idea also being seen with a piggy bank, this implies that the football players should be holding onto pigskin which would be the piggy bank. This shows the logic seen from football players thinking they deserve to be paid. The idea of payment is also seen with money spilling out of the piggy bank which represents NCAA profits, spilling out, shows that there is extra money that could be used to pay the players. In figure two, the logic in the image is seen with how the players are being treated. They are rowing a boat, the boat representing the NCAA, and the captain of the boat representing the coach. The coach is reminding the players what their right is, their rights being to make the NCAA money. The players are working for the NCAA and their only right is to make money for the NCAA. The players are not receiving credit. This idea can be compared to Christopher Columbus discovering America in that, the coach is Columbus who receives most of the credit for the actions. And the NCAA is Spain. The players who are rowing the boat are like the crew of the ship, their only goal is to row the boat, they did all the hard work but do not receive credit. Their only right is to work to benefit a higher authority. The two figures relate in that both show how players are treated unfairly in that they do not receive any money that they make for the NCAA through the direct lead of the coaches from the universities. With logic seen in both images, the credibility backs the logic in the two images. The credibility in figure one is seen with the NCAA and universities being clearly defined with labels on the respective symbol. The credibility of the players being football players is seen with them wearing the respective football equipment and being seen as a team with more than one player standing together in shock of what the universities say to the players. The credibility in figure two is similar to figure one. The NCAA is clearly defined as being the ship, the ship is who is benefiting the most while Dyal 3 the players put in the work. The captain of the ship, which represents a football coach, is implied as being the leader of the men rowing the boat because the men rowing the boats are wearing football helmets, further supporting the idea they are football players, meaning the captain the ship is the coach. The two images relate in that both enhance the credibility of what the images are trying to show, the unfair treatment that college football players receive, through the direct labeling of each party in the images or the implied representation of the party, which is seen through what is said or being worn. The two images show how college football players are not being treated fairly. Both images have a sense of timing to them which adds importance to both figures below as well as the authors purpose to create an emotion from the audience who views the images. The emotions that the first figure is trying to evoke in the viewer is that the universities and NCAA are criminals, in the idea that they are taking money from football players when they are the one who make the money. The authors intentions are to sympathize with the players in figure one because the players receiving any money, especially when there seems to be enough money to be paid to them from the money spilling out of the piggy bank, representing excess NCAA profits. In figure two, the main intentions of the image are also to sympathize with the football players. The audience is supposed to feel sorry for the football players. The football players are seen as the power and strength of the boat while not receiving any rights for all the work they are doing. They are not treated fairly even though they put in all the hard work that is needed to make the NCAA prosper, this being seen with keeping the boat moving. The audience is supposed to feel bad for the players because they are not treated fairly and make the NCAA seen as the enemy because they do not treat the players with the respect they deserve for making the NCAA money. Both images relate with the main intentions in making the audience feel sorry for the players Dyal 4 while making the NCAA and the universities seen as the enemy who does not treat the players with fairness. The images below provide the ability to show that there is an opportune moment for the players to benefit. Both images come months before the rejection was made for the idea of Northwestern Football players wanting to unionize Rejects Northwestern Football Union The dates of both images being in articles in April (figure 1) and May (figure 2) of 2015, with the decision being made in August of 2015 as seen with the dates of the respective article titles. The importance that now is the time to act on something is seen with the heightened push to show that the NCAA and universities are not fair to their players in that there is excess money, seen with money falling from the piggy bank in figure one, that could be used to pay football players. This image is creating an urgency to benefit the players in hopes of them being paid. Figure two, being made before August of 2015 shows how football players have been the power house that fuels the NCAA with the work done. The work being done leads to the NCAA benefiting monetarily, but the work also being done without rights to the players. The importance of time in this image is that the players have the perfect time to change course to benefit them but the problem is they do not have rights that could help them make a change. However, figure two also shows that players are in a continuous problem with working for the NCAA and not receiving rights with the image of the boat being rowed but the destination is not in sight, implying that the problem of players not being paid or having rights is continuous. Both images relate to the idea that there is an opportune time to make a change with being created in hopes that a change to benefit them would occur, however that did not happen. Both images relate to each other in the present in that there is still time to act to make a change to benefit them so that they can receive payment and also gain rights. However, as mentioned before, the second Dyal 5 image implies that this is an ongoing problem that does not have the solution being in the near future. In conclusion, the two images below are meant to show how college football players are not receiving payment and rights for the money that they generate for the NCAA, when there is an excess amount of money, NCAA profits, that can be used to pay football players. This is also seen with players having their rights taken from them by being told what their main right is to do, which is to make the NCAA money. Both represent the idea that college football players are having things taken from them, whether it is money or rights. What is seen in the images was created through the authors use of different visual rhetoric techniques that all favor the players and create a negative portrayal of the NCAA and universities. Dyal 6 Figure 1 https://comm398oblogproject.wordpress.com/ Figure 2 http://wwhspawprint.com/445/opinion/add-a-story-to-your-site/ Dyal 7 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. NCAA, 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism>. Anderson. Football players rowing a boat and being told what to do by the coach, who is the captain of the boat. Digital image. Should College Athletes Be Paid? N.p., 30 Mar. 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 20. <http://wwhspawprint.com/445/opinion/add-a-story-to-your- site/#prettyPhoto>. Reos , Adam. Political Comic: Paying Athletes . Digital image. Paying College Athletes. N.p., 15 Apr. 2015. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. <https://comm398oblogproject.wordpress.com/>. Sheetz A. Student-Athletes vs. NCAA. Brooklyn Law Review [serial on the (2016, Winter2016), [cited February 26, 81(2): 865-894. Available from: Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Strauss, Ben. N.L.R.B. Rejects Northwestern Football Union  The New York Times. The New York Times, 17 Aug. 2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/18/sports/ncaafootball/nlrb-says-northwestern- football-players-cannot-unionize.html>.