Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Tackling Depression In contrast to the past, depression has become a more widely known illness that has gradually improved in attempts to overcome it. Those who dwell on their sickness are bursting with emotions that such an individual should not have to grip or suffer through. You review the stupidities and failures of your life and punish yourself for crimes known and unknown, while all the time you beg yourself for peace (Rowe, 2003). But, the ways in which we choose to approach these elements reflect the unfolding of human knowledge in this expanding area of clinical care and research (Epidemiology, Symptomatology, and Diagnosis). Various treatments have become universal but there are so many different approaches to fixing this solution. One stakeholder involved in this issue was HealthGuide and their perspective is to provide various coping styles and techniques that are more therapeutical and improves on the mental health. This organization encourage a positive mindset to overcome depression. A stakeholder with an opposing standpoint is Pick The Brain: Grow Yourself, and their objective is to offer numerous exercise options and healthy food choices that can positively impact a victim of depression with persuasion of a healthier lifestyle. Organizing these techniques will provide a more physical aspect to destroying this illness. Taking the differences into consideration, the first stakeholder introduced a more mental way to treat your depression while the second stakeholder used a more healthy and physical perspective. But with the same goal of treating patients with Student 2 depression, they could come to a concession by promoting victims of depression to have a healthier and more optimistic mentality. Focusing on one aspect of this issue, HealthGuide was established in 2012 as a California nonprofit public benefit corporation dedicated to charitable and educational purposes Our Non-Profit Their years of service and collaboration with Harvard proves its reliability and dependability for victims of depression seeking any unknown tactics that could benefit their well-being and rid this sickening disease. This stakeholder argues that the best possible solutions to treating depression are using therapeutical sessions and encouraging optimistic thoughts and behaviors. Their belief is that the mind is deeply intricated with depression and to form a strong mentality would be very beneficial. The typical ideational content of depressed patients was characterized by themes of low self-esteem, self-blame, overwhelming responsibilities, and desires to escape. It is important for the patient to discover the distortions in her thinking by tracking spontaneous thoughts associated with certain moods and/or situations. (Beck, 1963). Numerous of psychologists can agree that depression is derived from a combination of poor thought process and mental aspects and therapy that positively enhances the outlook is the most vital outcome for treating this disorder. In contrast, another stakeholder opposes a separate viewpoint from that of HelpGuide. I recently discovered a stakeholder named Pick The Brain: Grow Yourself whose main objective Student 3 is to assimilate exercise and healthy food choices into those affected with depressions. With over 200 bloggers from around the world contributing content, PTB is not only a great passion project but has truly become a powerful global voice and brand in the self-improvement space, being read in over 35 countries daily (Falconer, 2008). Unlike the first stakeholder debated, relating to more mental strategies for treating depression, this stakeholder deliberates the more physical tactics one can enquire to build a healthier and more stable lifestyle. Additionally, after conducting a study in the 1980s of over 80 different cases, a few significant findings were discovered linking exercise and depression. Exercise was a beneficial antidepressant both immediately and over the long term. The greater the length of the exercise program and the larger the total number of exercise sessions, the greater the decrease in depression with exercise (North, McCullagh, Tran, 1990). Strictly focusing on health improves the body and mood of any individual, but specifically one with depression. Overall, the point attempting to be considered to subdue this disease is to improve health by taking a jog in the morning, or going for a swim, while also accumulating any fruits and veggies instead of late-night ice cream. Making small changes in a lifestyle could make quite the difference. Fortunately, HelpGuide and Pick The Brain are both making it a priority to help any victim unfortunate enough to be suffering from depression. While the first stakeholder is focusing more on enhancing the mind with a more constructive mindset and participating in therapeutical sessions, the other stakeholder merely sets its heart on the health benefits that exercise and a well-nourished diet can obtain. Clearly, the two stakeholders oppose views on more successful, but it is evident that both stakeholders avoid the practical notion of over- the-counter medications and expensive surgeries. Ultimately, with depression becoming more Student 4 widely-shared across the nation, it is vital to develop a compromise between these two conflicting organizations that will aid in addressing matters that fail to be resolved and guiding these victims towards a better future and a new start. Pursuing a government-funded camp for depressed individuals that could benefit the objectives of both stakeholders, could possibly be an effective route to diminishing the negative effects of depression. Obviously, both sides having to give a little in order to negotiate, HelpGuide can intricate more outside time and healthier food choices and Pick The Brain can promote more positivity in their outlooks can result in a successful change. Avoiding the topic of the technique and any statistics of which procedure is easier achieved, a camp to help those with depression using two successful campaigns could easily decrease the amount of depression around the world. A week-long camp of about 50 individuals (male or female) including counselors, nutritionists, and exercise trainers would all reside there for about seven days. It will be promoted by small talk-sessions every day with a professional counselor and being surrounded by those with similar emotions that could assist in distinguishing the feeling of Also, what will be included are plenty of healthy meals and snacks that boost energy and a few, short exercise sessions about three times daily to keep movement flowing and minds off any negativity. Pursuing this constant routine for seven days could develop into a habit which would help promote an optimistic mentality along with a healthier lifestyle. Enforcing connections between peers and professional helpers will assist in always having the proper guidance and motivation to build a better future. Therefore, satisfying both stakeholders and those that pursued a camp based off self-improvement could be the start of an amended life for several that help build friendships, escape reality, and upgrade well-being and mental health. Student 5 Although HealthGuide and Pick The Brain do obtain some differences in perspectives of treatments of depression, with enough efforts from each party, a well improvised plan could be integrated in society that gratifies both purposes from each organization. With adequate dedication and the drive to help, the quantity of people affected by depression could easily be lessened and future diagnosis could be halted. If a compromise does evolve into a successful method, individuals can develop new hope for their sick loved ones and for the world around them as depression could drop immaculately and self-improvement could be more widely encouraged. (WC: 1206) Student 6 Proposed Source List Gilson, Mark. Chapter 8  Overcoming Depression : A Cognitive Therapy Approach. 2009. 127-52. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lewis, Bradley. Depression Integrating Science, Culture, and Humanities. Hoboken: Taylor and Francis, 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hays, Kate F. Overcoming Inertia: Exercise and Depression. Washington, DC. American Psychological Association, 2004. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Schwartz, Thomas L., and Timothy J. Petersen. Depression Treatment Strategies and Management. New York: Taylor & Francis, 2006. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Keen, Ernest. Depression: Self-consciousness, Pretending, and Guilt. Westport, CT: Praeger, 2002. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Rowe, Dorothy. Depression: The Way out of Your Prison. Hove: Brunner-Routledge, 2003. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Falconer, Erin. Pick the Brain Motivation and Self Improvement, 22 Nov. 2006. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Smith, Melinda. Coping with  Coping with Depression: Self-Help Tips to Deal with and Overcome Depression. Robert Segal, 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.