Wilson 1 Mary Wilson Instructor Alison Missler ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Analyzing Images on Lowering the Drinking Age in America The images for this project are provided by the National Youth Rights Association (NYRA). NYRA is an organization that focuses on the civil and human rights of young people in the United (NYRA). Because they are so driven to protect rights, their position in the drinking age debate is to lower it to the age of eighteen. The first image is of a soldier with the catch phrase enough to go to war? Old enough to go to the along with another phrase on the bottom that says the drinking age The second image is the logo for NYRA, it has a fire symbol with a bird going through it. While these images are very different, through rhetorical appeals, they move to support one common goal which is to lower the drinking age to eighteen. In the first image, ethos is used by showing a picture of a soldier. Most soldiers are considered trustworthy and friendly in the fight for freedom in the United States. Because of their reputation, the artist can use the image of the soldier to convince people to listen and trust what the soldier says. In the second image, the entire picture is ethos because it is the organization logo. Because of the reputation to fight for youth rights, the picture is representing how credible the organization is. For the first image, ethos is the weakest appeal working towards it, however, for the second image, ethos is the whole point. The image itself is a logo making it the actual thing that gives the organization credibility. It is how people recognize the organization and that is why the ethos in image two is so important. Wilson 2 Image one uses the rhetorical appeal logos to almost force logic onto those who view this image. The text saying enough to go to war? Old enough to go to the is appealing to the sense of logic that if one is a legal adult, they should be able to legally drink. In Richard article, Debate continues 25 years after drinking age increase, Webster goes on to quote a local bar owner named Earl Bernhardt by saying a shame. You got a guy coming back who fought over in Afghanistan and 20 years old and we sell him a beer. In Louisiana at 18 you can vote, get married, enter into legal contract. You can do anything but get a (Webster 1). This argument is the most popular among those who argue for the drinking age to be lowered because it makes the most sense. Logic is the key component in this picture because, as the picture argues, if one can go to war and volunteer to die for this country, they should be able to go to the bar. On the other hand, the closest image two gets to logos is the fact that it itself is a logo. Therefore, logos is the most important appeal in image one due to logic being the main focus of the image, whereas image two is not relevant to logos whatsoever. Pathos is another appeal that is used greatly in image one. The image uses the soldier and the city behind him with smoke as a way to touch the heart. War can sometimes be a touchy subject, therefore, the image uses pathos to help the view sympathize with the soldier that can sign up to die but cannot drink legally. To further analyze, the image of the soldier can be interpreted as him coming back from a war with mental issues, only to not be able to legally drink. While alcohol may not be the best way to relieve stress, it is very possible that that soldier is fresh out of war and just wants a drink. While underage, the soldier may result to illegal actions and may even binge drink. According to Henry article, Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among Youths?, Wechsler argues of the dangers of binge drinking saying Wilson 3 in binge drinking have been observed among young adults aged 21-24 years in the past decade, but drinking among those aged 18-20 years has remained stable during the time (Wechsler 2). Because of the emotional connection the image has, as well as the facts supporting it, image one is showing pathos in a big way by connecting the military to the drinking age debate. As for image two, the blue bird flying through the fire represents the freedom felt by young people when given the opportunity. That freedom can personally impact people making this an appeal to pathos. Both images take pathos to fight for the freedom and responsibility necessary to achieve the drinking age to be lowered to eighteen. Though kairos is the least known rhetorical appeal, the call to action is very important for image one because it explicitly says in the image the drinking age Besides the clear written text, the image is also set in a time of war making the timeliness very important. Kairos in this image is obvious and works towards lowering the drinking age in a very blunt way. The image clearly and openly states to lower the drinking age, making the call to action immediate. For image two, there is no kairos that is as blunt as image one. However, the acronym means something. The National Youth Rights Association represents freedom. Therefore when someone sees this logo, they should feel a call to action to do something to support the rights of youth. Therefore, both images use kairos to get the point across that lowering the drinking age to eighteen is a good idea. For these two images, the National Youth Rights Association (NYRA) has done so much to promote lowering the drinking age to eighteen. Between the logic that legal age should mean alcohol legal age, to the emotions surrounding the idea of war, to even the credibility of a logo. These ideas support one common goal to lower the drinking age to eighteen to give the youth more rights and responsibilities that they deserve. Image blunt call to action is the perfect Wilson 4 example of what this country needs to get freedoms back for the youth of America. Image two uses ethos to become a worldwide recognized brand in hopes to promote freedom. With these two images, NYRA is on a good path to a strong and free future in America. Wilson 5 Work Cited National Youth Rights Association. the drinking NYRA, http://www.youthrights.org/issues/drinking-age/. Web. 24 Jan 2017. Webster, Richard. Debate continues 25 years after drinking age  New Orleans CityBusiness 2009: General OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among  American Journal Of Public Health 100.6 (2010): 986-992. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.