Mical 1 Miroslaw Mical Mark J Nusspickel English Composition 16 February 2017 And They Stop Coming The European Union currently faces a challenge created by itself on rampant and uncontrolled immigration. As tempers flare from both sides the natives and newcomers; attitudes and emotions have changed in the last decades. Immigration impacts Europe heavily, economically and socially because of the influx of cheap labour. With the new surge of conflicts in Middle East, many refugees are escaping to Europe. The rise of anti-immigration parties being the dominant effect of the rampant immigration. Leading to the question how is immigration changing Europe today and how has it changed from the past decade. Ackleson, Jason. of Immigration in International Studies Review, vol. 7, no. 4, 2005, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/3699689. This magazine entry was an article that covered a very popular topic at the time; the entry of the ten new states to the European Union in 2004. The article covers the fears of the prior to the enlargement EU constituents to the new immigration policies that will come to surface, and the rise of parties who fear for that the policies will bring. The benefits to this enlargement would be to create a unified market between Europe using one currency. The author Mical 2 foreshadows that social alienation from the natives and a poor economic background will lead to further conflicts. Another important foreshadowing that is coming true in the present is that the stagnant economies of Europe are not creating enough jobs for the new immigrants from other continents. Jason Ackelson who has a PhD in political science, wrote this entry in 2005, which offers light to the political side of the research question. Ackleson has written many documents dealing with immigration, even with some concerning the United States and its southern neighbor. The document is a well thought out discussion between the trending topic of the European Union enlarging itself with ten new countries. Bridges, Sarah, and Simona Mateut. Should They Stay Or Should They Go? Attitudes Towards Immigration In  Scottish Journal Of Political Economy 61.4 (2014): 397-429. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. This journal, published in September 2014, considers the factors that shape the attitudes in Europe toward immigration and lists examples on the current ideologies of natives and the newcomers. The journal judges the weight that economic and non-economic factors shape on how immigration is viewed by citizens of a country. During a recession, as scarce jobs leave both natives and migrants to compete for jobs, a negative attitude is formed against immigration. The journal mentions in the article how the race and ethnicity is also a major factor on how the natives treat the arriving immigrants. The article goes into great detail using data from various other sources and data from government agencies. Mical 3 Dr Simona Mateur, with a PhD in financial economics, wrote the journal in 2014, assisted by Saras Bridges, who has a PhD in psychology, in 2014. The journal entry cites uses many sources of data some from social projects to government agencies. The short journal entry of just thirty pages conveys the economical reason and non-economical reasons on how do the attitudes toward immigration by Europe which sheds light on how Europe is affected by immigration. Dancygier, Rafaela M. and Conflict in Europe . New York: Cambridge UP, 2010. Cambridge Studies in Comparative Politics. Collection . Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The book overall focuses on Great Britain due to postcolonial migrants which started migrating back to Great Britain in the 1990s, and also covers other European countries to describe the wide spectrum on the conflicts of migrants against the natives..The book tries to explain the why, where, and when does immigration lead to conflict in Europe. The book splits immigrant conflict into two parts; immigrant-native and immigrant-state conflict. The first, being conflict with the indigenous populace, and the latter being against state actors, such as the police. The book by Rafaela Dancygier started as a dissertation for a doctorate in political science at Yale University, who with the help of all her friends and colleagues to create this scholarly work. The book as it was created was overviewed by many scholars such as the senior editor of political science at Cambridge, Lewis Bateman. The book, published in 2010, is relative very good material to cover 2000-2009 to help see the difference in the current decade immigration to the previous, and see how the change is affecting Europe now. Mical 4 Matthews, Owen. Beyond Brexit: Populist Backlash Against Immigration and Globalization; The decision by British voters to leave the EU is unlikely to be the last anti-establishment uprising in the  Newsweek 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. The online article is a short summary of the new face in Europe about fighting the rise in populism. It speaks on about the differing countries which either want to be broken into smaller parts like Scotland from the U.K. The article also covers how more countries want to leave the European Union. The article shortly briefs over on how every aspect of political, media, and businessmen, have neglected the issue of populism and let it fester. Mistrust is growing within Europe and the people in U.K. were the first to jump of the sinking ship that is the European Union. The conclusion summarises that the referendum vote of Brexit is a small event foreshadowing a huge crisis that E.U. will have to deal with or fall. Owen Matthew is a historian and journalist. Matthew has traveled all over Europe as a reporter to places such as Turkey and Syria. Newsweek is a premier news magazine that is also online, covering latest news. The article had to pass through many experienced editors before making it into the newspaper. With this article being published in 2016, this is the most current news on the European attitude to immigration, which will help me answer the research question because of its recentness. Mical 5 Meuleman, Bart. Changing Attitudes toward Immigration in Europe, A Dynamic Group Conflict Theory  www.sciencedirect.com. Elsevier Inc, Sept. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The academic journal covers immigration in Europe prior from 2000 to 2005, that even then the rise of anti-immigration parties was having an impact on policy making of sovereign European powers. The author broadly states that little research has been done to study the evolution of immigration in Europe because of methodological difficulties. The article covers the studies of the reaction of the native populations to newcomers using Europe as a broad test subject. The document visualizes how different European countries react to immigrants, based off the data from the European Social Survey (ESS.) The ESS is taken annually by small samples from ten major cities of each country. Meuleman Bart is a professor of sociology at the university of Leuven, Belgium. He has written multiple research papers on the subject of immigration and its effect. His current project in integration policies relate to economic and cultural threat The document Attitudes toward Immigration in is an analyses and discussion of social data used from numerous credible sources and covering a short explanation of the statistical tools and formulas that he was using. This document pertains to my question of how is Europe affected by immigration, because this document covers exactly the change in mindset by the natives of Europe as a whole. Troianovski, A. (2016, Jun 17). anti-immigration parties see opening to weaken EU bonds; with recent electoral gains and looming, far-right parties are teaming up to Mical 6 push common Wall Street Journal (Online) Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1797588044?accountid=14745 The article is short report on the rise of anti-immigration parties within Europe, especially Germany for the past five years. With the influx of immigrants primarily from Muslim countries, refuges or not, the European Union keeps inviting into Europe without the input of the individual countries in under the European A German patriot loves what Germany once was, he loves what Germany could be, but he cries over the state in which Germany now finds  said Marcus Pretzel, a member of anti-immigration party. The article also includes other names such as Marine Le Pen, describing her wish of having a in which individual countries could pick and choose which elements of European integration they want to participate in while having more control over immigration and other This attitude to the new anti-immigration is a part to answering on how has immigration changed and is changing Europe. Anton Troianovski is a reporter for the Wall Street Journal, and has worked with the Russian Associated Press. The article is a discussion of testimonies from different political figures from across Europe. Troianovski has written many journal entries for the Wall Street Journal ranging from telecommunication, real estate, and economics.