Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Reusing Food to Reduce Food Waste Food is an everyday necessity that people need in order to survive. However, waste nearly half of all food produced- more than one billion tons annually- yet nearly one billion global citizens go (Finn, 992). Food waste is an important issue to both organizations like Food Forward and companies like Darden Restaurants. Food Forward is a non-profit organization that collects fresh produce from markets and wholesale markets. Whereas, Darden Restaurants is a large restaurant chain that tries to prevent food waste and reuse the food that could be otherwise a waste. Both these stakeholders are actively involved in their communities to reduce the large amounts of food being wasted annually. However, if Food Forward can expand from only collecting produce from markets to also receiving from Darden Restaurants they both can come together to prevent more food waste. Food Forward manages to rescue about 300,000 pounds of otherwise discarded produce each week and they donate to hunger relief groups (food forward). This organization focuses on reducing as much food waste in the 8 counties they service in Southern California by rescuing produce before it gets wasted. In order to achieve their goal, they accept volunteers who want to aid in their mission and help out the cause. Food Forward started off in 2008 by collecting from neighborhoods and backyards that contain citrus trees to assure any unused produce was going to good use. Over the years they expanded and were able to expand from the Student 2 neighborhoods to markets. Now they mainly focus on collecting produce from markets and wholesale markets. Collections take place after the markets have closed, without these collections there would be an unimaginable amount of edible food thrown away. When produce is thrown away it starts to rot and lets out gasses that can be detrimental to our environment. gases (GHGs) have been steadily rising every (Omar,159) this is mostly because of the amount of food in our landfills that lets off all types of greenhouse gases. Food Forward realizes that produce is often overlooked and tossed out when it can be used to feed those in their community. Not only does Food Forward reduce food waste in landfills that impact significantly reduces the amount of pollution from the gasses food lets off. Darden Restaurants is a large food chain all over America whose number one goal is guest satisfaction at every one of their branches. Along with providing good food and authentic hospitality, they reduce and reuse food to prevent food waste. This company consists of Olive Garden, Long Horn Steakhouse, Eddie 52, Yard Ale, Capital Grille, and Bahama Breeze. uses advance forecasting systems and manages the distribution of food to our (Darden Digest). This method works well at preventing excessive purchasing of food to all 7 of their branches. In addition, a few years ago they came up with Darden Harvest. Darden Harvest is intended as another food waste prevention method, with their primary goal of donating all of the unused food to hunger relief organizations. Whenever there is leftover food at the end of a night they prep, package, and call the hunger relief organizations to pick up their donation. has become the first chain to have all its restaurants participating in the (Santich, A1). Another contribution is with the partnership between Darden Restaurants and Organic Matters. All of restaurant chains donate food scraps off of Student 3 guests plates and their trimmings after they prep food so that Organic Matters can turn it into dog food. Darden Restaurants represents an entire industry that Food Forward could be collecting from. If Food Forward expanded to restaurants they can collect unused produce. Although Darden Restaurants is taking all the appropriate steps, they do not have a plan in place specifically for produce. In regards to the Darden Harvest where they donate to hunger relief programs that mainly consists of unused prepped food that gets cooked specifically for the organizations to distribute. So what happens to any leftover produce? It gets thrown away. This is where a company such as Food Forward can partner up with Darden Restaurants to retrieve any of the produce that often goes unused. Food Forward and Darden Restaurants share a common goal to reduce food waste. They both try to do everything they can to minimize the amount of wasted food and maximize the amount of people they can feed. If Food Forward partners up with Darden Restaurants they can reach out to their affiliated branches and collect a larger amount of produce for their organization. Food Forward benefits by collecting more food and being able to donate to more hunger relief organizations to feed people in their community. Darden Restaurants can benefit from partnering up with Food Forward because they do not donate produce, they only donate meals and scraps. Darden Restaurants can rely on Food Forward to collect all of their unused produce from all of their different branches and be sure that the produce is being put to better use than in the garbage. These organizations are trying to do everything they can to prevent food waste and they can only get so far without each other. Food Forward has only ever collected produce from their community either through neighborhoods or markets. While Darden has many food waste Student 4 reducing plans in place where they lack is in produce collection. By these companies partnering up they would help each other in their overall goal of food waste prevention. In working together these companies can make a bigger difference in their communities in the issue of food waste. Word Count: 940 Student 5 Works Cited Darden Digest. Can a restaurant company eliminate food waste? https://www.darden.com/blog/can-a-restaurant-company-eliminate-food-waste. 2014 March 18. Accessed 2017 February 15. Food Forward. https://foodforward.org/. Accessed 27 January 2017. Finn, Steven M. Our Food: Minimizing Waste and Optimizing Zygon: Journal of Region & Science, vol. 49, no. 4, December 2014, pp992-1008. EBSCOhost, doi:10.111/zygo.12131 Omar, Hecham M. and Sohrab Rohani. of CO2 from Landfill Gas with Landfill Leachate Using Absorption Process. Journal of Greenhouse Gas vol.58, March 2017, pp 159-168. EBSCOhost, doi10.1016/j.ijggc2017.01.011 Santich, Kate. Florida restaurants directing unused food to those in http://infoweb.newsbank.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/resources/doc/nb/news/14F59CA4632 FCF0?p=AWNB 2014 July 27 Accessed 2017 February 15.