H o l l i m a n 1 Aaris Holliman EBC 1102/070 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Professor William Drugan 26 February 2017 selected two images to analyze and better explain the point of view of teachers in Florida when it comes to standardized testing. Both images are political cartoons, one was drawn by an artist at University of Baltimore, Maryland County (UMBC) and the other was drawn by an editorial cartoonist by the name of Chris Obrion. I look at both of these cartoons as very poignant; one shows the overall stress of every party involved, while the other shows the outlooks of teachers at grade-school levels, but professors in colleges as well. The main rhetorical appeals I see in these two images are pathos and kairos. In the political cartoon drawn by Chris Obrion, it displays a student taking a test on the far-right side of the image and he is in a classroom setting. As the image is panned from left to right, it shows a teacher standing on a desk behind the student, standing on a desk behind the teacher there is a man with written on his shirt to represent the school administration, and standing on the desk behind the man representing the administration is a woman with written on a clipboard holding in her hand. Each party represented in this cartoon is saying something in a speech bubble, has sweat dripping down their face, and is frowning. also drawn with large, overly stressed eyes and the cartoon was drawn in color. This is one of the reasons I noticed the pathos appeal in this cartoon, the colors and the depiction of stress in each of the faces and bodies. Not only are the eyes drawn large with small pupils, but the man that is representing the administration has both of his arms up and his fingers pointed one pointed towards the back of the teacher and one on his chin. It appears that the adults on the desks behind the student are being used as an example of the pressure that all ends H o l l i m a n 2 up boiling down to the student. Another example of pathos that I noticed are the phrases in each of the speech bubbles, using phrases like pressure, and biggie, can be seen as a type of persuasion by trying to soften the pressure being put on the student. The other use of rhetorical appeals that stood out to me was the use of Kairos because of all of the exclamation marks used in the speech bubbles, the fact that all of the words are written in all capitals. In the last speech bubble, the teacher is saying to the student: PROBLEM 9! YOU KNOW PROBLEM 9! RELAX! the words in this speech bubble are a larger font than the other two and the last word is a larger font size and has an extra exclamation point to show urgency. All of these factors can show urgency, as well as the on the paper that is written in red and all capitals. Urgency is a form of timeliness because it causes a person to rush and act irrationally at times depending on the situation at hand. The second political cartoon chosen for this analyzation of rhetorical appeals was drawn by a student at UMBC. It shows two scenarios: in the top scene, there are three students with square shaped heads and frowns on their faces lined up in front of what seems to be a sign with a square hole in it that says STANDARDIZED on the top of it above the square. Holding the sign up is a man with glasses saying NEEDS TO FIT and there is a student who also has a square head and a frown on his face going through the square shaped hole. The top scene is labelled HIGH SCHOOL and all the words in this political cartoon are written in all capitals. The bottom scene is labelled COLLEGE and it shows two students with square shaped heads, frowns on their faces, and bags under their eyes possibly to show age. These students are standing one behind the other in front of what looks like a sign with a circle hole in it that is being held up by a woman wearing glasses that reads and she is saying to the students WANT YOU TO BE and she has a briefcase sitting next to her on the ground which could mean that she is a college professor or a career woman. The lack of color is the first piece of the cartoon that made me come to realize the appeal to pathos. Lack of color and use of gray, black, and white is a perfect way to tug at the heart strings because it shows distress and sadness. Neutral colors show a feeling H o l l i m a n 3 of hopelessness almost. The black and gray shading in the background seem to be mostly used to draw attention to the words. All of the sadness and stress in this political cartoon is pinpointed at the students to show their struggles with standardized testing as they begin their matriculation through the higher education of their choosing. The hole in the top scene is square shaped to show that everyone has to pass the standardized tests to move on, it also seems to be a play on the child-like toy for infants where there is a block with different shaped holes for the child to try and fit the appropriate shapes through to help them learn their shapes. All of the students having square heads would help them to fit through and move on to the next grade and repeat the cycle, but then they get to the obstacle of trying to do well once they pass graduation from their high school and they see that there are no standardized tests in college. It focuses more on grasping and understanding the information that is being presented to them than being tested on it. In college, students are truly shown what the phrase do not define really means the grade you got on that test stop you from succeeding. You can succeed in any way that suits you personally, not only as a student, but as a person as well. Students that go their whole grade school career being told to fit in this box, this collection of data that they are told they have to match with their scores. The students looking at the circular hole look like they have no idea what to do and how to fit through that hole, when in reality they just need the corners from the rigid curriculum they were made to follow chiseled down. Political cartoons are the perfect medium to depict different sides of controversial topics. It is a way for artists to depict all of the emotion and thoughts behind the way people think and explain why they think or feel the way they do. The two images that I selected one, one by Chris Obrion and one by a student at UMBC, depicts pathos all throughout the cartoons. From the colors, or lack thereof, to the words and phrases and the fonts attached to them. Kairos was also depicted in the cartoon drawn and illustrated by Chris Obrion in Virginia by his use of exclamation points. Altogether, I found that pathos is the quickest appeal to visual rhetoric that can be spotted because immediate emotion. Whatever emotion you feel as soon as you see a photo or an image of any kind is what grabs your attention most of the time. H o l l i m a n 4 Works Cited Cartoon credited to Chris Obrion, Roanoke Times, 2009 H o l l i m a n 5 Cartoon credited to Kevin Kallaugher, Artist-in-Residence, 2007 Du285. 285 Social Justice in Visual  285 Social Justice in Visual Culture. Tumblr, 05 Apr. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://du285.tumblr.com/post/115528301714/a-very-perceptive-political- cartoon-on-high-stakes>.