Conner Cavin Anastasia J. Khawaja, MS ENC 1101 February 11, 2017 How has gender equality changed throughout time, and has it gotten better or worse? Gender equality. Two small, yet very meaningful words. Gender, everybody is associated, everybody has this in common. Equality, this on the other hand, is what we all do not have in common. The argument of whether there is any sort of equality within genders has gone on for centuries. Some people believe that different genders deserve to be all equal. While others believe that all genders deserve the same treatment, respect, and view. Over the years, the view on gender equality has changed very drastically from where it used to be. It has gotten better at certain levels, but has gotten drastically worse at others. Many scholars have argued this topic for years. Have times changed or have they just become so normal that people even notice when it is right in front of them? Along with the idea of gender equality, you could also pull in the idea of sexism, those terms pretty much go hand in hand. Although times have changed and the view has gotten slightly better, most sources will all agree that the equality levels between men and women are at drastically different. Equality has definitely changed over the years, but how? Coontz, Stephanie. Why Gender Equality  The New York Times. The New York Times, 16 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. This article is about the reasons why equality with women kind of took a pause. Things seemed to be going well and then all of a sudden it just kind of stopped and has gone down hill from there. The author states that In 1963, most Americans did not yet believe that gender equality was possible or even  (Coontz, Stephanie. Why Gender Equality  The New York Times. The New York Times, 16 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.). This is basically saying that there was a certain time when people never would have thought about equality being a thing when it comes to gender. So it is possible that because of the halt, people now-a-days may believe that exact same thing. This author is a well and developed writer for the New York Times. She has written multiple articles and is a quite popular publisher. She is a professor of family history at Evergreen State College and is also the author of Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique and American Women at the Dawn of the She is very well known for her writings on feminism and gender equality. Doan, Mitchell. How has equality between men and women changed over time?  Play The Man Not The Game . N.p., 23 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The author of this article, Mitchell Doan, uses facts to call out what is really happening with the idea of gender equality. He uses current events and up to date conversations to rely the message of how equality throughout society does not hold up when it comes to gender. Mitchell K. Doan is not new when it comes to writing articles that face current social issues. He has written multiple articles that call out society and the wrongs that are going on in it. This article brings up the ideas of how the view of equality has changed between men and women throughout time. The author talks about the fact that rights have obviously increased over time and how women are becoming more independent and in control. The author also brings up the book The Great  and how it is a great example of how women were viewed as lesser to men back in the 1920s, and so on into the years. Women are gaining strength and equality in daily life and are becoming known as more powerful and in charge. This article brings up the point that recently, in the past year, the first women ever was hired to work as a full time coach for the NFL. Equality has become a huge topic again with recent events, and people need to be more aware of the social problems that are going on around them. Elwer, Sofia, Harryson, Lisa, Bolin, Malin, and Hammarstrom, Anne. Patterns of Gender Equality at Workplaces and Psychological  PLOS. Ed. Sten H. Vermund. N.p., 9 Jan. 2013. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. The authors of this article come together to show how gender equality and the way it is pushed upon/kept away from people in the workplace relate to psychological distress. Sofia Elwer and Lisa Harryson are the two writers who worked equally and contributed to writing the original article, and then Malin Bolin and Anne Hammarstrom worked together to add their own thoughts and comments on the topic of gender equality. Then, editor Sten H. Vermund went through and edited the thoughts and comments of the writers. The two main authors of this article, SE and LH are both well qualified when it comes to this topic as they both are family medicine and department of public health and clinical medicine graduates from Umea University in Sweden. This article brings up the ideas of gender equality in the workplace and how it contributes to psychological distress. Their main and leading argument is that All over the world the labour market is strongly gender segregated, leaving women and men exposed to different work environments in different occupations (horizontal segregation) and hierarchical positions (vertical segregation), with consequences for and health  (Sofia Elwer, Lisa Harryson, Malin Bolin, and Anne Hammarstrom. Patterns of Gender Equality at Workplaces and Psychological  PLOS. Ed. Sten H. Vermund. N.p., 9 Jan. 2013. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.). This is a very strong leading argument, and throughout the article they give multiple examples and details on the effect of gender equality/lack of gender equality in the workplace on psychological destress of women, and even some men. Gadiesh, Orit, and Coffman, Julie. Why Workplace Equality Initiatives Helping  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 5 Feb. 2010. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. The authors of this article have a long credit when it comes to writing about the topic of gender equality. Orit Gadiesh is the chairman of Bain & Company, while Julie Coffman is a partner and chair of Global Leadership Council. These two come together to write a very powerful and fact proving article about how women are affected by the ideas of how to fix equality in the workplace. This article also begins with a very strong and powerful statement, Companies say they treat men and women equally but in reality, they  (Orit Gadiesh, and Julie Coffman. Why Workplace Equality Initiatives Helping  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 5 Feb. 2010. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.). This obviously is a very true statement, but it is also something that a lot of writers just flat out say. This article focuses a lot on how people just used to women being in higher power, and how people then probably never get the chance to see that because they never allow women to higher up positions due to that fact. They raise their power because they used to it and think they are strong , but then in turn have no way to actually get used to it because they are then never in charge/lead positions. Ruiz, Rebecca. This is what 20 years of gender equality progress looks  Mashable. Mashable, 09 Mar. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. This page is full of videos, graphs, and text information about women and the inequalities that they have faced throughout time. The featured video called Not There  is a statement showing all the things women are not included in, including the video itself. This article basically just points out all the ways women are unequal to men in daily life, work, and many other aspects. Something as little as the statement Women have unequal internet  (Ruiz, Rebecca. This is what 20 years of gender equality progress looks  Mashable. Mashable, 09 Mar. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.), to 1 in 3 women suffers physical or sexual  (Ruiz, Rebecca. This is what 20 years of gender equality progress looks  Mashable. Mashable, 09 Mar. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.). This article points out very serious social inequalities that people need to know about. The author, Rebecca Ruiz is a very experienced writer when it comes to gender, sexuality, and inequality. Before becoming a journalist, she was a reporter and editor for NBC News Digital, a special reports project director at The American Prospect, and staff writer at Forbes. She also has a B.A. from Sarah Lawrence College and a Masters in Journalism form U.C. Berkeley. Pape, Fiona. 80 moments that shaped the world:  80 moments that shaped the world: equality British Council. N.p., 03 Dec. 2014 . Web. 26 Feb. 2017. This article, unlike most of the other ones, celebrates women equality and how it has shaped the world. Like stated in the title, it lists eighty ways equality has shaped the world and all of its great moments. She states Over the past 80 years, a lot more has changed for women in many countries, especially in terms of employment rules, reproductive rights, and anti- harassment laws. suffrage marks a watershed moment for equality in many  (Pape, Fiona. 80 moments that shaped the world:  80 moments that shaped the world: equality British Council. N.p., 03 Dec. 2014 . Web. 26 Feb. 2017.). She points out how suffrage has marked the country and how it has shaped the making of our country. This author, Fiona Pape is a well-known (being as she wrties about issues that usually be talked about, but one hundred percent need to be talked about) writer. She is very into the idea of social equality, and she has very strong feelings and opinions on social situations that most people would be afraid to write about, which is one of the reasons why she writes about them. All sources: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/17/opinion/sunday/why-gender-equality-stalled.html https://playthemannotthegame.wordpress.com/2016/01/23/how-has-equality-between-men-and- women-changed-over-time/ http://mashable.com/2015/03/09/gender-equality-study/#Y6KNFlp3pqqK https://www.britishcouncil.org/voices-magazine/80-moments-shaped-world-womens-equality Peer Reviewed http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0053246 https://hbr.org/2010/02/why-women-still-arent-equals-i