MUNIM 1 Student: Bader Munim Instructor: Anastasia J. Khawaja Class: Composition I Date: Feb 26, 2017 The impact of immigrants on the United States community The United States is the land of the immigrant. This land is the land of all the people who came to make their dreams come true. Currently, next generations of immigrants are residing here who call America their home. Historically, the major wave of immigrants came before independence during the colonial era. African slaves arrived in the US against their will. After the end of slavery, they became the part of slavery-free United States as free citizens, and how immigration started in America. After historical perspective, this paper will further focus on the motives behind the immigration, which these reasons change time to time. In the process of immigration not only do immigrants take advantage, but Americans also use these immigrants for economic development as well as culture diversity. Another part of the paper will discuss the positive impacts of immigration on the society of the United States. Lastly, effects of immigration on the US with future perspective will be the point of discussion. The point of inquiry will close with some suggestions about better immigration policy in America. Therefore the paper will discuss the impact of immigrants on economic development and culture diversity. MUNIM 2 Bibliography Portes, Alejandro. Rumbaut. America: A University of California Press, 4 TH edition 2014. Alejandro Portes and Rumbaut are prominent Cuban-American sociologists. Alejandro is currently chair of the department of sociology at Princeton University and a member of the National Academy of Science. Fourth and updated edition of Immigrant America: A Portrait is a comprehensive and current overview of immigrants all over the America in a single volume. The prominent thing that caused this book used for the project is the latest data available. This edition published in 2014 that is three years back so it could be used to take a detailed look on current facts and figures of immigrants in America. On the other hand, another advantage of this book is that it provides not only the economic aspect like other books referred earlier. It provides economic, religious and linguistic aspects of immigration. The religious aspect is also a prominent part of this book that is why it has been chosen as the part of the paper. This book is related to the paper in an interesting way; like in introduction it is prominently written that our project will cover all aspects of immigration through facts and figures. This book can help to give latest data on immigrants. However, it is missing the religious and linguistic point that is not covered by earlier books. This book also helps the paper by identifying the ways of how immigration can have a real effect on the U.S community and why it is positive to have immigrants in the United States. MUNIM 3 Coan, M, Peter. a Better Life: New Immigrants in Their Own Words from Ellis Island to the Prometheus Books, 2011. Peter M. Coan is an author from Cleveland, Ohio. He has written both fiction and non- fiction books on different topics. He is currently the principal owner of Coan Books. He has written this book. It is a known fact that America is the country with the most immigrants. Many immigrants from different nations around the world try to enter the US illegally and have failed. This book answers the question about why so many immigrants tried and are still trying to get into the US. On the other hand, this book provides the oral history of these immigrants in their words. From common immigrants to celebrities that chose America as their home this book has all of their stories era by era. Live interviews are necessary for this paper because this book can help fill the gap of these interviews in this project. Immigrants from all walks of life describe their story from historical background to current situation. This book could be helpful because it provides a significant role in historical perspective and discussion of the foreign people living in America for centuries. Further, it can also help to understand the driving forces for migration from place to a strange land. In short, this book can provide a significant reference in all its entirely. Charles, Hirschman. Impact of Immigration on American Society: Looking Backward to the Future Europaische Revue, 2007. Charles Hirschman is Boeing International Professor at the Department of Sociology and the Daniel J. Evans School of Public Affairs, Washington University. His paper has three parts. First is about the history of immigration throughout before the independence. It also discusses how first immigrants came to the United States and how they become the citizens after some MUNIM 4 time. Further, it elaborates the need for people to choose the United States as their state. The second part is about the lessons from the 20th century. The 20th century was the century when the United States become a real power, and world observed its power in world wars. More people came to the United States in the 20th century. Third and last part is about future of immigrants in the United States. It shows both negative as well as the positive perspective of American society about immigration. This book will make the paper stronger by providing necessary information about the concept America as a new It also provides an insight in the era that has most immigrants than any other era. The reference will help build the historical perspective of U.S. The future perspective of the United States in last part of the book will give a way of creating the conclusion for this paper. Lastly, as the book has both negative and positive aspects of immigration, this will become a balanced analysis for paper. Shapiro, Robert. Impact of Immigration and Immigration Reform on the Wages of American 2010. Written by Dr. Robert J. Shapiro, a former Undersecretary of Commerce in the Clinton Administration, as a publication of research institute related to policy making this book aims to solve issues from both sides of the immigrants and native Americans. It basically focuses on five aspects. First is demographics of immigration population, this part clarifies the ratio of different states from where these immigrants came from. Second is the misconception about the undocumented immigrants. This part will prove the state of total legal and illegal immigrants and their effects on the U.S society. The third is the impact of immigrants on American wages. This part will directly deal with the impact of immigration on American people. Fourth is the pathway MUNIM 5 that will lead undocumented immigrants to a legal status. Fifth and last is the other effect of immigration on the economy. As the economy is like a backbone in any country so this book will help the paper in identifying the impacts of immigrants on American economy and impact of personal life economically. Further, the issue of illegal immigrants will also be taken into account by this book. With analysis, the impact of these illegal immigrants either positive or negative will also be included. In last, this book will help form an economic perspective of conclusion at the last of paper. Fix, Michael. the Future: US Immigrant Integration Migration Policy Institute, Washington, DC, 2007. Michael Fix is Vice President at Migration Policy Institute and he has written many books on the topic of migration and integration policy in America. During his lifetime, he has worked in a variety of policy institutes. In his book, he is trying to define the concept of integration with the perspective of American policy makers. This book further debates over why integration might be the center of American immigration reforms. The author also provides evidence of ongoing integration process with second generations of immigrants. In last, this book concludes with the key elements of integration and how these elements will help to secure the future of America and immigrants. This book is important because it provides information on how immigrants affect the U.S community into it addresses the American integration policy and how immigrants have mixed with Americans over the time. Immigrants who migrated centuries ago now their next generations are an integral part of the American economy. What lacks in the policies of American government and how they can give better facilities to both legal and temporary MUNIM 6 immigrants. This book will also help in building the conclusion with a futuristic perspective of immigration in the United States. Zolberg, R, Aristide. Nation by Design: Immigration Policy in the Fashioning of Harvard University Press, 2006. Professor Aristide R. Zolberg was one of the leading voices on the politics, history, and ethics of immigration. Zolberg served as Walter A. Eberstadt Professor of Politics and University in Exile Professor Emeritus at The New School for Social Research. A Nation by Design is a book about immigration policy of America and how this immigration policy has created America in a positive way. According to this book, immigration policy of America has always welcomed foreigners in the time of need. But, the main point in this book is that how economic development and culture diversity have taken advantage of this situation. So, most importantly this book has shown that America has a free policy for immigrants and at the same time, immigrants have a bright role in making America what America is today. book will play a significant part in the paper. On the social Information and economic aspects will be drawn from his book but unlike before referred. This book focuses on the part of the positive impact that immigrants have left in America. The book provides an example for successful scientists in the United States and it are very useful because my paper focuses on successful immigrants. The book shows people whose families are living in America for a very long time feel like foreigners, so they work hard for the prosperity of America, and that addresses positive society impact of immigrants on the United States community. This book also will help to build the argument of this paper.