Abdulrahman Alharbi 2/11/2017 ENC1101 Annotated Bibliography Human & Environment The future is what concern a lot of people in this world. Some of them have positive look and some of them A lot of invention has created thro the time to make life easier but does it make the environment better? quantities chemicals have been released into the environment since World War since then and human are trying to search for alternatives to save their planet like reducing the use of chemicals productions. People needs to insure for themselves a better future with a better technology that is helpful for environment and not the Unfortunately many invention do massive harm to the environment. environmental environmental modifications might become a greater cause of global species Tilman). example air pollution, it caused by burning fossil fuel and can spread quickly and affects life and bring a serious disease and a lot of it came from factories. Some companies tried to change their way of production to be more helpful for the environment, so they start to produce a green things helpful for the environment but for some reasons not a lot of people are interested in. Maybe because of these products are expensive or people just care if helpful or not to the environment. people have to think carefully about what is good or bad for the environment. For example, if we use a plastic bags is going to be hard and expensive to recycle it and if we use a paper bag we are just killing more trees instead of saving it. To insure a better future we have to know first how to get there without causing any harm to the environment. Colborn, T, F S vom Saal, and A M Soto. Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and Health Perspectives 101.5 (1993): Print. In the article Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and it describe the how much amount of chemical had been on earth since war world II and how these chemical effect us until this day. It describe how these chemicals affects not just us but even the next generation. The article is related to the topic because is show how the development in that time was affecting us now like in War World II, when US developed a nuclear bomb and dropped it on Japanese, there some sign still appear until today and that is prove that some of the action that caused by human many years ago are affecting us today. In that time no one think that these types of action may hurt us today and that make us think if we are doing any thing now my hurt us in the future. Kampa, Marilena, and Elias Castanas. Human health effects of air  pollution 151.2 (2008): 362-367. In the this article, the author Marilena talks about the amount of chemicals that spread out in the air and how could that affects health. She also talks about how in the last century, the spread of fossil fuels in the has change the air composition and causes pollution like carbon dioxide CO2 which affects the health and expose him with serious diseases like heart disease and lung cancer and also she mentioned how these chemicals takes long time to disintegration. This article is an example of one of the print on the environment. This article provide some of chemicals pollution that may cause shorting life and killing the environment. The article talks about air pollution and something that spread quickly and affects people fast. This article gonna help me to get the attention because like I said the article is about air pollution something that can reach people at their home or school and affects even if people were miles away from the pollution. Mayrand, Karel. The Environment in 2025: News Flash, Direct from the  Huffington Post . TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. In This article the author Karel Mayrand is talking about how the environment would be in 2025 future and how people are concerned about the environment and how the world would change to better after some countries are switching now to clean energy. Scientist through the time are looking for other kinds of energy and inviting more things, by looking to the history we could predict how or future will be. This article is show how people are concerned about environment and try to make some changes in their life. The article is important because unlike the previous articles this one have positive site. it is shown that some countries are working to have a clean environment. Many countries that were affected because of war or something else are now have better environment than befor. Sharpe, Richard M., and D. Stewart Irvine. How strong is the evidence of a link between environmental chemicals and adverse effects on human reproductive  British Medical Journal 328.7437 (2004): 447. The author Richard M in his article strong is the evidence of a link between environmental chemicals and adverse effects on human reproductive he is talking about a survey that show the public suspect about the chemicals that released in the environment and how affected our health and how also related to the world diseases. In this article the author explain how harm can the chemicals be and how the small amount of it can cause a dangerous injury or leads to death. This article is explaining that a lot of people have have suspect that what is causing diseases in this time is manmade. This article is similar to environmental They both agree that what happen now to the environment and people is because of human experience but in this article it focuses on chemical experience. relevant to my topic and I consider it another proof that if people be careful on their experiment they could create more dangerous diseases that could affects not just life but the planet as well. Tilman, David, and Clarence Lehman. Human-caused environmental change: impacts on plant diversity and  of the National Academy of Sciences 98.10 (2001): 5433-5440. The article environmental it talks about how humans are the reason for all the changes that happen to the environment and it depend on them if they want to these changes cause any extinction to any living creatures. In addition this article explaining to us that the changes that humans cussed it take long time to affect us, so if we feel it our children will. This article is similar to the first article. They both blamed humans for the changes that happen to the environment and both agree that the changes that we do take long time to affect us. The article explain to us how humans are responsible for the changes that happen to the environment also the risk the could happen if we act to this changes. Vogl, Gregory J. Information Technology, Science and  Future of the World: Positive or Negative? Information technology, science and education for a better world - Gregory J. Vogl (www.gregvogl.net) . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The author Gregory J in his article talks about the positive and the negatives things about what changes happened in environment and technology since 1960 until now like the development of cars, homes, technology and the way peoples think. By gathering the information we could see how the world developed and brought with it pollution. This article is related to all the previous ones. it show some inventions that are not helpful and helpful to the environment. also In this article it show how some invention that the people created since 1960 are the reason for the reason for earth changes and also the article is showing to us a timeline when the changes start until this day and when people are started to work to reduce these changes.