Anand 1 Dhruv Anand Bob Botkin ENC 1102 26 February, 2017 Trophy hunting have been very popular and famous since ages. Trophy hunting is a wild game for human recreation. People treats the animal or part of the animal as a trophy and usually display it to represent the success. All the matured and endangered animals are killed in trophy hunting. It has more consequences over benefits. For the trophy hunters, lives of animals have just become a recreational activity or a symbol of bravery which is not fair as hunting of endangered animals affects the whole eco system. The stakeholders are in favor of banning only trophy hunting of endangered animals because it is not possible to ban hunting for every reason as hunting have provided a lot of employment opportunities since last decade and people are living with the help of hunting. There are also some species of animal like deer which need to be hunt as the population of deer increases very rapidly. The stakeholders in this case are wildlife conservation organizations like U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. They are spreading word against trophy hunting and want to ban hunting trophies with the help of protest. Number of people are supporting them by coming out in large protests with different boards because support of people other than organizations is important as it will make government to apply some strict rules and laws against trophy hunting. the late nineteenth century, elite hunters, recognized that trophy hunting would lead to the extinction of many wildlife species and unsustainable exploitation of forests and other natural (Simon 2). This proves that the problem of trophy hunting has been creating Anand 2 problem since a very long time now and it is the time to stop before it is going to affect all our natural resources and extinction of animal species as all the species plays a vital role in maintaining the balance of the ecosystem. Trophy hunting has just another recreational activity for some people. It just gives people an experience and motivates them to treat it do as a competition because people are winning dead animal body parts which are so called trophies for them. The consequences of the trophy hunting have been recognized by the people from a long period of time now but no one took any action against it but since the last decade there are some wildlife conservation organizations which understands the consequences of it and started working to ban trophy hunting. Smith states that death resonated with the American public to think about the humanity of killing for sport and sparking legislative attacks on trophy The death of Cecil the lion made a big difference in the united states. It made people to think that how bad trophy hunting especially of an endangered animal species. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service introduced new laws and extended the protections of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) which states that it is an offense to kill an endangered animal in a restricted area such as if the animal is safe in national park or any wildlife sanctuary. Wilson talks about Texas man paid $350,000 for the right to hunt an endangered African black rhinoceros in (4).This emphasizes that people are willing to pay a lot of money just to kill an endangered species because it will become a symbol of bravery or an achievement for them. Many employees in the national parks and wildlife sanctuary makes thousands of dollars in exchange of life of an endangered animal from the trophy hunters. In the first picture which is used is very helpful to show how protestors are trying to spread word to ban trophy hunting. This picture establishes an appeal to creditability (ethos) as Anand 3 well as appeal to experience or suffering (pathos) of the source that is the wildlife conservation organization. It is a picture of a women who is holding a board which says THE TROPHY HUNT in large bold font and the handwriting on the board shows that it is made up in some elementary or middle school. Some wildlife conservation organizations are also promoting the idea of banning trophy hunting in elementary as well as middle school. They are organizing campaigns in school and teaching the kids about the consequences of trophy hunting. This makes this picture powerful as anyone who will look at the board will try to know more about it because an innocent mind of a kid which do not know how to hate or kill anyone, they just know how to love is behind the creation of the board. A picture of black bear and a hunter with a weapon in his hand on the board make this picture more important and powerful. It shows a red target on the head of the bear which emphasizes animal cruelty that the hunter is killing an innocent animal to just show how brave he is. Mainly color black and red is used in the picture because these colors are usually used to show the emotion of anger. There are some Hashtags like #BanTrophyExports, #pacificwild which is used in the pictures. Hashtags are generally used to promote any kind of action or change a group wants in the society for a good cause. Viewers get an appeal of timeliness (Kairos) too from this picture as on the board, the word catches the attention because means that urgent action by the people is required to solve this problem. The background of picture is dull in color to make it easy to focus on the board as words on the board are black in color. In the second picture, there are bunch of protestors which are totally against trophy hunting. They are holding some boards which has really good quote for example, there is a picture of lion on the board and a quote is written on that board head belongs to my shoulders, not your This tells that lions wants to express to all the trophy hunters that he Anand 4 is a living creature and his head is a body part not a decoration piece or a symbol of bravery. Another protestor is holding a board which says Fish and Wildlife Service say no more animal This shows the public that a famous wildlife conservation organization is involved in this issue. So it is must be a big problem which society is facing. This makes people to come and learn more about the consequences of the problem everyone is facing. This picture establishes an appeal to credibility (ethos). Four women and a men are used in the second picture because women are used to get sympathy from the viewers very quickly. Unity of women has their unique power. Women of different ages are used in the picture which shows that no matter how old the women is, every generation women are against trophy hunting. Both of the pictures supports the ideas that the stakeholders wants to express to the audience. Though both the pictures evoke an emotional response in the audience, picture 1 is more effective in presenting the information on banning the trophy hunting as it directly shows with the help of images of bear and hunters to ban the trophy hunting whereas picture 2 make audience to think about trophy hunting from the point view of the animal like how it feels to them that they are being killed so that people can show how brave they are. The pictures present some complex ideas about the view of stakeholders. Many wildlife conservation organization are playing their part to ban the trophy hunting because it does not really make any sense as you can not treat a living creature as a trophy or any kind of achievement. There is not much usage of logos, and this is due to an emphasis on emotion which is easier to relate to in such an issue. Though there is a little amount of logos, the pictures still establish a sense of credibility, evoke emotions, and place a sense of urgency on the audience. The two pictures inform the audience that some famous wildlife conservation organization are against trophy hunting and the government should take appropriate actions towards it by banning it. The pictures fulfilled their Anand 5 intended objective and are an ideal way for the organizations to persuade spectators to support the cause because together people can make a big difference in the society, every individual matters. These pictures are the best way to promote people to come out and join the wildlife organization like U.S Fish and Wildlife Service. Work Cited Shoot To  Earth Island Journal 29.1 (2014): 4-5. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Elgin, Beckie. Hounding The  Earth Island Journal 30.4 (2016): 30-36. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Simon, Alexander. Against trophy hunting: a Marxian-Leopoldian  Monthly Review 2016: 17. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Wyatt. Endangered Species Act Or Extradition?: Protecting Foreign Species In The Aftermath Of The Cecil The Lion  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 18.1 (2016): 55. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Anand 6