Onwuanaibe 1 Nneka (Nikki) Onwuanaibe Mr. Nusspickel ENC 1101 February 6, 2017 Annotated Bibliography Why does the color of skin dictate his/her fate, and who gave the police the right to demoralize social justice? This issue will address racism within the justice system and how this has led to disparities between the black and white community. This research will tackle the issue of white privilege and why authorities tend to have leniency with whites. Is this privilege granted based on the color of their skin? During Martin Luther civil rights campaign in Birmingham Alabama, police used fire hoses and vicious dogs against blacks who were peacefully protesting segregation. This is not a new issue it dates to the 400 years of oppression and will continue to be a problem for years to come. This paper will analyze the statistics of arrests, trials, and convictions among minorities and whites. The police have been preconditioned to associate blacks and Hispanics with more crimes such as drugs and illegal activities. Blacks, Hispanics, and even American Indians hold a higher count in jails than they do within the population. This data will uncover the truth behind the police and why blacks and Hispanics account for a larger segment of people in jails and in criminal activities. Overtime our criminal justice system has developed a bias towards minorities and endured corruption. How has the justice system stereotyped minorities and allowed image to dictate social justice? Onwuanaibe 2 Annotated Bibliography CRUTCHFIELD, ROBERT D., et al. AND ETHNIC DISPARITY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE: HOW MUCH IS TOO The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), vol. 100, no. 3, 2010, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/25766112. article focuses on the key factors that have contributed to racial disparities in the criminal justice system. The timeline of evidence ranges from that of the antebellum period to present day. He explains how racial disparity has been an ongoing issue and will continue to be one. This articles goes on to show that throughout history it has been argued that there is no true discrimination towards minorities. He then analyzed different sources of information to test the conclusion that there is in fact a divide among the races. This evidence includes arrests, trials, and convictions. After examining this evidence the author noticed that minorities are indeed more susceptible to trouble with the justice system. Authorities have preconditioned biases to associate people of color with criminal activity and find them guilty of stricter charges when they are faced in court. Sections of this article will prove to be good evidence not only in the adult justice system but in the juvenile justice system as well. It will provide good statistics and help to explain why minorities encounter law enforcements more frequently than whites. This article addresses the research question because it ties in factual evidence that will prove there is a bias against minorities. It also shows that discrimination has been a ongoing problem since the antebellum period. This article also provides a counter argument about the divides between blacks and whites and in fact proves that there is a bias. Robert D Crutchfield Onwuanaibe 3 obtained a bachelor from Thiel College he then furthered his education at Vanderbilt University where he acquired his masters and PhD. Crutchfield is a professor of sociology at the University of Washington where he received the award of distinguished teaching. For all these reasons Crutchfield can be accounted as a credible source. Kakade, Meghana, et al. Adolescent Substance Use And Other Illegal Behaviors And Racial Disparities In Criminal Justice System Involvement: Findings From A US National  American Journal Of Public Health 102.7 (2012): 1307-1310. Business Source Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article is an investigation of the disparities of blacks and whites in the justice system. The authors of this article utilized national data to test the rate of arrests between these two races. The data states that even though blacks hold a smaller population count they still account for two times the amount when it comes to arrests and convictions. In fact the article goes on to test the activity of these races when dealing with drugs, conviction, and arrests. To no surprise whites came back with the higher rate of being involved in criminal activity than blacks. But what is truly astonishing is the fact that even though blacks are less involved when it comes to drugs they are the ones who are arrested more frequently. In this study they tested over 6000 blacks and whites collectively and the results never once waivered, blacks always had the higher number of arrests or infractions with the law. Despite this it does not match up with the data that whites are committing more crimes, it just proves that there is corruption within our justice system. Just think these studies were conducted on children ranging from 12-17 years old. As they tested higher the divide between the races continued to increase. This article relates to the research topic because it puts the criminal activity of both races to the test. They tested 6000 kids both black and white, and the results supported the idea that Onwuanaibe 4 there is leniency for whites and not blacks. It proves that our justice system has endured corruption and inequalities among races still persists today. Mauer, Marc. Race, Class, And The Development Of Criminal Justice  Review Of Policy Research 21.1 (2004): 79-92. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article examines the truth behind criminal justice system policies. It elaborates on the idea that all crime is to be considered a (Mauer 1). The article expresses that racial issues are not a new thing, they have been prevalent for some time now. The article starts at the beginning and expresses how the discrimination changed the way crime is perceived today. It breaks down the chain reaction that explain how we have reached the point of corruption that we are facing today. It goes so far as to explain racial effects and how they have led to imprisonment of minorities. Racial disparities today are well known and documented with precision and accuracy. This is in hopes to limit the amount of discrimination and injustice towards people of color. This article relates to the research question because it explains how over the racism has been prevalent. It discusses scenarios that have allowed for preconditioned bias towards blacks and allowed corruption to deem crime a black problem. Marc Mauer is a credible source because he is one of the top experts on issues dealing with racism, the justice system, and sentencing and convictions. He also has been recognized in many magazines for his works and led reforms for over 30 years. Onwuanaibe 5 Mears, Daniel P., Joshua C. Cochran, and Andrea M. Lindsey. Offending And Racial And Ethnic Disparities In Criminal Justice: A Conceptual Framework For Guiding Theory And Research And Informing  Journal Of Contemporary Criminal Justice 32.1 (2016): 78-103. PsycINFO. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. article explains that the real reason why we have so much discrimination and such a huge divide among minorities and whites is that people are not fully aware of the division. He goes so far as to differentiate between differences, disproportionality, and disparity in efforts to educate people further. He provides information on arrests, trials, and convictions to help expand knowledge and state the facts. The author talks about how sparking a change will be difficult because the concept of racial and ethnic disparities is not fully understood. He even takes it back to say that the past directly effects the way the races view one another today. Mears states that this divide has been an ongoing reoccurrence since the 20 th century and will continue if nothing is done to stop it. He then goes on to break down evidence of blacks versus whites and their appearances in criminal activity. Points in this article will bring light to the injustices in our criminal justice system and set a tone for change. Mears made a strong point that people lack knowledge therefore, facts like the ones stated in the paper will educate the public about the truth and how it must be stopped. This article provides supporting evidence to prove the truth behind the research question. It provides a decent counter argument about how discrimination is not fully understood. His thoughts run parallel to that of Crutchfield, in the sense that discrimination and racism have and will continue to be an ongoing problem. Mears is a credible source because he is a professor at Florida State University, he has obtained his Bachelors, Masters, and PhD in Sociology. He has a variety of published works and understand how and why people function the way they do. Onwuanaibe 6 Tonry, Michael. Social, Psychological, And Political Causes Of Racial Disparities In The American Criminal Justice System, The  Crime And Justice: A Review Of Research (2010): 273. HeinOnline. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on the issues that the disparities between blacks and whites stem from the justice system focusing more on crimes than crimes. The justice system maintains their preconditioned bias about blacks because society has shaped it to be that way. The author explains to us that politics has a strong hand when it comes to the divide among the races. He states attitudes support their beliefs, old habits, and opinions of the black community play a major role in society (Tonry 279). It is their ideal of white privilege, believing that they are the superior race. Overtime they have been conditioned to believe that every African- American is associated with drugs and other illegal activity. Unaware of the fact that they are the ones who have shaped people to think this way. Their way of thinking is the reason that blacks cannot escape the clutches of racism. opinions will always weigh heavy when dealing with the public eye. The author states, whites are the reason for racism, colorism, and This article goes on to explain the statistics and why blacks have a higher rate of arrests, trials, and convictions. It also explains police and their preconditioned beliefs. This article relates to the research question because it highlights the fact that the justice system aims to focus on crimes specifically committed by minorities. It also explains that society is to blame for how people view different groups. Tonry holds many titles at the University of Minnesota, such as Presidential professor of criminal law and director of public policy and crime. He is credible because he is an astounded professor. Onwuanaibe 7 Van Cleve, Nicole Gonzalez, and Lauren Mayes. Criminal Justice Through Lenses: A Call To Examine The Mutual Constitution Of Race And Criminal  Law & Social Inquiry 40.2 (2015): 406-432. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the difference of blacks to whites in the justice system, and how it has changed following the Jim Crow Laws. Over the past few years the ratio of blacks to whites imprisonments have nearly tripled, and the black community held within prison continues to increase. This shows a relapse in the stride for equality between the two races. Racial disparities have been hidden within the justice system for several years. It explains the ideology of colorblindness, a neutral ground between whites and people of color. This article explains that people are conditioned to believe that the rate of white arrests to black arrests is a normality when in fact it is not. This article relates to the research question because it provides a historical timeline that shows how the issue of racial disparities have changed over the years. It also provides information on the idea of looking at people with color blindness or complete sameness despite the color of skin. This article makes it apparent that equality is not something that society has today. Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve is an assistant professor at Temple University. She received a postdoctoral award and has many affiliations due to the success of her book.