Bianco 1 Richelle Bianco Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102- 27 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Citizens Against Spouse Abuse (CASA) is a nonprofit organization that gives those being abused opportunity to start anew. Their goal is: raise our voices against violence through advocacy, empowerment and social while they hope that one day the world will be free from domestic abuse The organization conveys their mission through use of pathos, ethos and Kairos. is a method of convincing people with an argument drawn out through an emotional the organization does this by using relatable images. Ethos, or better known as: convincing others through the credibility of a (Literary is justified when the organization states their name and hotline number. Kairos is defined as: to making exactly the right statement at exactly the right CASA does this by inserting important statements onto their ads that bring awareness to abuse. Figure 1, although simply expressed, portrays vivid emotion to the viewer. Automatically, the viewer feels a sense of distress, due to the melancholy colors and overall dreariness of the image. While the advertisement may seem like an unreasonable way to depict spouse abuse, the picture relies heavily on symbolism to convey a message. The focus of the picture displays three shoes, a male pair and one distinct woman shoe. The right shoe of the male pair is crushing the female shoe, displayed almost as if there is an invisible foot in the male shoe. Bianco 2 Since the ad is used to bring awareness to abuse, the male shoe stepping on the women shoe symbolizes a man beating a woman. He has complete control over her and therefore can force himself to beat her. The contrast between the male shoe being dirty with mud and the female shoe being white, the onlooker acknowledges there is a difference between the two shoes. In literature, white is commonly associated with: virginity, suggesting that the creator of this advertisement sees women as pure and innocent beings of The Color In comparison to the male shoe, which is the color grey and scuffed with mud, indicating that the male wearing the shoe is dirty. According to Jennifer Bourn, grey is considered an color; the fact that his shoe color is a dull grey, the viewer can infer that the male feels little emotion while beating his wife of The Color The white shoe is being stained with mud by the unclean shoe, symbolizing not only the bruises that he might leave on her, but that her purity and innocence is ruined. Another contrast of colors is the background being slightly blurred out while the two dominant shoes have a shadow of light casted onto them. This gives hint to some light on the and one is forced to address the image in front of them. Even though the background is blurred, one can still see other shoes. These other shoes are positioned away from the incident, and can be illustrated as those that turn to neglect abuse. The males left shoe is arranged between the shoes in the background and the right shoe, indicating he has two personalities: one he chooses to show to those around him, and one he presents to his wife. Also, since shoes are mainly found in a closet, the phrase, it in the comes into play; though because the closet door is open, and the shoes are placed outside the room, one can infer that this is an issue that needs to be brought to attention and not ignored. These subtle details propel the viewer to feel a sense of helplessness and disgust that one cannot protect the woman shoe. To demonstrate Bianco 3 authority, name and organizational logo, a butterfly, is displayed in the bottom right corner of the ad. Underneath the main focus of the ad, and to the left of their logo, is one of mission statements and a 24/7 abuse hotline number. In their mission statement: abuse strips your dignity, your hope and your life. The pain only measure in bruises and marks. We know. been there. And we know how to get are a free and confidential assistance program run by, and for, victims of domestic they suggest that they have and how to get (Figure 1). This promotes credibility, because the viewer gains insightful information about the organization as well as knowledge that it truly exists. To assert timeliness and urgency, the artist captions the image with the slogan: he controls your life, no longer your (Figure 1). This creates a sense of desperation for the one being abused. They feel that they need to escape their current living situation, and to do that, they need to contact CASA. Figure 2 displays two mugs in a cupboard. One mug signifies a male, while the other signifies a viewer can conclude this due to the words written on one and written on the other. Although there are other items in the cabinet, the viewers eye focuses on the two mugs, specifically the mug with a heaping crack in the side. This coffee cup is not as pristine as counterpart, and is placed a few feet back from the other mug, indicating that the male in this household is dominant over the female in all ways. The fact the woman cup is cracked proves that whomever has touched it, clearly mishandled it. These cracks symbolized abuse towards women in a household setting. The cracks express the physical and mental aspects of abuse. When abused, not only is the person left with bruises and scars, but their emotional cognitive abilities are impacted; the course of an abusive relationship a perpetrator will use both physical and non-physical forms of abuse to blame and control their Bianco 4 victims. The effects of these forms of abuse is reflected in their thoughts, emotions, and behaviours. They begin to doubt their own worth (thoughts), feel depressed and anxious (emotions), and either become abusive themselves, or withdraw from the relationship and the world entirely Cognitive-Behavioural Interventions with Victims of ). The artist purposely portrayed the situation with cups to demonstrate how spouse abuse can happen anywhere- including in the presence of own home. This makes the viewer consider whether it is something happening in their home. Since the cups are specifically labelled Mom and Dad, instead of generalized (i.e. Mr. and Mrs.), the viewer relates the objects to his/her life and personalizes the situation, making the image emanate a sense of empathy. As the viewer takes this all in, there is a feeling of needing to fix the mug. The image appeals to authoritativeness and importance in the same way Figure 1 does. Despite Figure 1 and Figure 2 being different images, they have similarities that define their uniqueness. Both images attract the viewer with an allurement to modernism. The items displayed correlate to modern society. They are convenient components of a everyday life regardless of religion, race or lifestyle. Since these items are so common and have no boundaries among cultures or societies, the viewer realizes that abuse should be viewed in the same way. The modern productivity of the items reiterates that spouse abuse is a current issue. Both images rely heavily on pathos, ethos and Kairos to express their passion on ending domestic abuse, though they lack the appeal of logos, better known as: device that includes any content in an argument that is meant to appeal to is To justify a point that portrays logic, CASA could have provided a statistic on how many women are abused by their spouses or how many women the organization has protected. This would strengthen the credibility of the ad as well. Bianco 5 Through the application of pathos, ethos, logos and Kairos, Citizens Against Spouse Abuse demonstrate their concerns and reach out to those struggling within their relationship. The images provide powerful reasons to end spouse abuse while satisfying their commitment to eventually end corruption within a home. Bianco 6 Works Cited About  CASA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Amaral, Richard. Cognitive-Behavioural Interventions with Victims of  Knowledge For Growth. N.p., 04 Apr. 2011. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer. Meaning of The Color White  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer, Rick Tompkins, and Tracy Taub. Meaning of The Color  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Literary  Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Most Creative Ads Series: Domestic  Design Inspiration. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. What Is Logos? Definition, Examples of Logos in  Writing Explained. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Bianco 7 Figure 1: Most Creative Ads Series: Domestic  Design Inspiration. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Bianco 8 Figure 2: Most Creative Ads Series: Domestic  Design Inspiration. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.