Zapata 1 Melanie Zapata ENC 1102 Instructor: Robert Ryan 2/25/17 PETA AND FACTORY FARMING The fight for animal rights has been a long struggle, especially for those that want complete freedom from involving them in any activity for human profit that is not a part of their natural way of life. PETA has been fighting a constant battle with society and industries that use animals for production by promoting the end of all use of animal products. PETA believes in the wellbeing of all animals and getting rid of them in all industries; factory farming being one of them. Simultaneously, the farming industry has the responsibility to meet the demands of an entire country that is populated primarily by people that consume meat and dairy products. Both PETA is an organization with strong beliefs. Their method of endorsing their mission statements through advertisements uses rhetorical visuals and appeals to effectively convey their principles. choice to advertise against the unethical treatment of animals in factory farms was designed in a specific manner to get their message across by using rhetorical elements. The ad that includes American actress, comedian, singer, and animal rights activist Bea Arthur supports mission statement and does so through visual rhetoric. The placement of Bea Arthur as the main subject positions her as the first thing viewers will notice. Since she was an animal activist and did leave PETA money in her will, using a celebrity in their ad is a visual element that was done with a purpose. The picture of the chickens suffering in the corner seems like a tiny detail compared to the big celebrity shown. A larger image of the animal itself helped in the establishment of belief in the wellbeing of all animals. Also, Zapata 2 because is the largest fast food chain is brought up in the text, integrating this popular fast food logo would also improve the visual rhetoric of this ad because it is eye catching. The usage of rhetorical appeals in the Bea Arthur ad by PETA is also effective in expressing mission statement- and perhaps has an even greater effect than the visual elements themselves. The appeal to logic and reasoning is used throughout the text shown in the ad. PETA provides statistics of how many chickens would be saved if were to switch to a less violent way of handle chicken-slaughtering. A million is a large quantity; especially when used to represent the number of chickens that could be excluded from the horrific treatment on factory farms. Also, giving an alternative to the current method of slaughtering provides an ethical appeal because one can distinguish between wrong (which would be the current methods as described by PETA) and right or essentially more humane (the suggested method). Ethos is the strongest appeal used in this ad which can be accredited to including not just a person that is known worldwide for acting and singing- but also an advocate for animal rights and the discontinuation of animal abuse in factory farms. PETA states her role as a former campaigner and her impact which establishes the credibility. The second ad that youth organization has from their famous video Acres to communicate their message uses more effective visual elements than the Bea Arthur ad. This is due to the fact that this ad uses a more graphic image- free of any text at all yet describing the treatment of factory farm animals so accurately. The depiction of humans instead of animals in tiny cages is disturbing and eye opening- something PETA intentionally does. afraid to make the difficult comparisons, say the unpopular thing, or point out the uncomfortable truth, if it means that animals will (PETA.COM) Therefore, although the Zapata 3 bizarre picture may at first make one who views it uneasy, it allows one to visually analyze what the animals must go through. Also, the facial expressions of the naked people in the cages is another visual element specifically chosen to highlight the importance of why people should neglect factory farms. Their bruises and frightened faces also increase the realism of the picture. This ad also uses several rhetorical appeals to get their message across and combat factory farming. The facial expressions speak for themselves- that is they show true fear and despair to escape from those prison like cages. It might even remind people of the horrors of the Holocaust and possibly appeal to pathos. It is normal for viewers to watch an ASPCA animal commercial and automatically feel a sense of pity and guilt. Placing pictures of animals on the screen persuades the audience to feel bad for the animals, and makes them want to donate to help save them, according to animalsafetyawareness.weebly.com. However, placing humans instead of animals in cages for a better perspective on what they go through on a daily basis can target emotions because one might feel like those animals deserve to go through those treatments. This achieves mission of raising animal awareness and stopping the inhumane treatment of animals on factory farms. Both ads that PETA presents use several visual elements in order to make their mission statement known, as well as the treatment of factory farm animals, and encouraging people to stop buying from factory farms. The first ad is effective in doing so in its own way using visual elements. It uses a famous celebrity as an attention getter- something that is key to raising awareness of inhumane treatment. A picture of a chicken also aids in the visual appeal of the ad- but could have been larger to give a better look at what the chickens must actually face daily. However, this ad makes up for its lack of elements by using many rhetorical appeals that really captivate the audience and might make them rethink purchasing from factory farms, especially Zapata 4 since cages and overcrowding (as depicted in the picture) is one of the major sources of animal suffering on factory farms, as stated by ASPCA.com Although PETA has often been harshly criticized and often labeled outrageous for the tactics they use to make their values well known and understood- they do skillfully use visual and rhetorical appeals in their ads. The Bea Arthur ad effectively uses visual elements as well as rhetorical appeals such as ethos to express their mission statement. The second ad from Sonny Acres video has stronger visual elements and uses rhetorical appeals- mostly pathos- to convey their message. Though PETA does have a scandalous reputation, their methods of conveying their beliefs have led them to be the largest animal rights organization in the world. Zapata 5 Zapata 6 Ad: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SyivyZoFM4c Zapata 7 WORKS CITED Stands on Animal Animals Need Our ,http://www.aspca.org/animal-cruelty/farm-animal- welfare http://animalsafetyawareness.weebly.com/analysis-of-peta-website.html