1 Boccalon Paula Boccalon Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102.014 1 March 2017 Infectious Diseases Research Infectious diseases research is a controversial issue that has risen throughout the years. Organizations such as ASTMH, or American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, advocate for doctors to find solutions for infectious diseases found aim to have a place free of tropical diseases. This organization has strategically placed offices throughout the world where tropical diseases are in abundance, as a way of: the worldwide burden of tropical infectious diseases and improving global (ASTMH). Their vision is to create a world free of infectious diseases by accounting and documenting all fatalities that have occurred as a cause of these illnesses. A case that was reported in the article was; fatal severe acute respiratory syndrome case reported during the (Global Health Degrees). While what they did was important, making people aware of the symptoms in order to get not a cure should have found a way to combat the disease. Ultimately, these deaths could have been prevented if a cure had been found before the outbreak happened. Something that many fail to take into account is that because of this loss of lives, there are things that a domino effect, jobs are lost and the economy decreases in that area. As the 800 lives were lost in the 2002 outbreak, there was a to $50 billion ... economic (Global Health Degrees). The organization proceeds to inform the public that, if another outbreak were to occur in the future, this could result is more fatalities or completely whipping out a population. The article further points out another catastrophe to the unwillingness of the global community to gather and create a cure to stop the Ebola pandemic, 2 Boccalon of lives unnecessarily (Global Health Degrees). One can witness the impact that this tragedy has brought. While it is a risk that many are willing to take, in order to stop the lives being lost, it is not something that can be achieved by a small group of doctors. This organization has realized that in order to make great achievements, it has to be a holistic contribution from every doctor and member in communities worldwide. Now, they have created samples and plans for future research as a way of stopping this pandemic. ASTMH argues that medical research for infectious diseases should be supported globally through two pieces of visual rhetoric ineffectively. ASTMH argues that infectious diseases research should be riotously supported worldwide; they portray this through the two images. Figure A demonstrates an advertisement that was released in 2016. In this advertisement it asks the public to sign up for their 65 th annual convention, of which this year would occur in Atlanta. Figure B is composed of a poster presented in the annual meeting demonstrating their statistical analysis of the dengue fever reduction. The organization uses a variety of visual rhetoric to draw their audience in, for example, in these two images logos and Kairos are very prominent. According to Purdue Owl, or the appeal to reason relies on logic or reason. Logos often depends on the use of inductive or deductive (Purdue Owl). In other words, logos is the appeal to a logic or arguments that demonstrate facts and believes that can be backed up by concrete evidence. This rhetorical strategy is very prominent in figure B, as one can see the huge amount of statistical analysis that has been provided. The organization has given background on what dengue fever entails, the objective of their studies, and the methods they used in order to reach their results. By doing so, they create a solid base from which they have gathered the information shown from. Ultimately, this has now created a sense of trust between the audience and the 3 Boccalon organization. Logos is further established within the poster by the various graphs, tables and maps that are presented. These images are placed to represent the data that has been gathered through extensive research by qualified creating credibility from the organization of the information that is being provided by them. When the audience will look at this poster board, they will be able to comprehend the meaning behind all the material that is being provided from the stakeholder in order to inhibit Dengue Fever from expanding regions. Meanwhile, figure have as much logos as displayed in figure shows some. This ad, asking people to sign up for their annual conference, demonstrates its facts by showing where this meeting will take place, what dates it will be, and providing the link to sign up. ASTMH exhibits logos at this point as they provide credibility to their readers by providing concrete information about their meeting in Atlanta on November 13-17, 2016. While further analyzing the image Kairos can be found; is timeliness, appropriateness, decorum, symmetry, of the rhetorical situation or the circumstances that open moments of (Kairos). This is very prominent in figure A where the date is displayed, 13-17 (ASTMH). As they have stated certain days for which this will occur it has now created an for when, those that want to attend, must be signed up. In addition to the approaching time limit, they stamp a sign on top of a map and have quoted people around the world that aspire to attend this meeting. This generates a feeling of urgency to be present at their 65 th meeting as there is now both a limit on the time available to sign up and the seats that can be occupied. Both figures A and B have drawn the audience in through the appeals of Kairos and Logos by creating a sense of timeliness and stating logical facts that can be supported by concrete facts. As ASTMH argued that they have used these images to show the need for medical research, it can be argued that these two images ass 4 Boccalon effective in portraying this. Although it does give awareness for the dangers in infectious diseases and the holistic contribution that doctors worldwide have joined, it does not directly provide information on the need for infectious diseases research. By further dissecting the two images, found that they also have pathos and ethos as rhetorical strategies. Figure B provides step by step procedures on how they have gathered all the data that they are presenting on the poster board. According to Purdue Owl, or the ethical appeal is based on the character, credibility, or reliability of the (Purdue Owl). In other words, this strategy is based on the credibility that is provided by the stakeholder. In this figure, by stating all steps that have been followed, all the data that has been gathered through extensive research, and their explanations to the establishes a credible, concrete base for readers to rely on the organization. ASTMH takes it a step further by providing the name of the skilled doctors that have taken part in this research. This action establishes trust between both parties, the stakeholder and reader, as the reader now knows who has done this and can tell whether or not they are eligible to analyze the data. Figure A creates credibility by providing the organizations name, logo, and all the details needed in order to attend the meeting. It seems that by doing so they give substantial information for this to be a legitimate event taking place in the Atlanta Marriott Marquis on November 13-17, 2016. This will make people aware of when and where this even is a set event for those attending. This last rhetorical appeal is not as prominent as the rest, yet it is marginally revealed. Purdue Owl defines pathos as, appeal, appeals to an needs, values, and emotional (Purdue Owl). In figure A, the thought bubbles containing quotations exclaiming the different reactions towards the impending meeting from various people worldwide extracts excitement from the reader. By saying this such as etc. it establishes enthusiasm to 5 Boccalon sign up and attend the meeting. On the contrary, figure B contains no pathos as the poster is predominantly information on what has been found. Once again, both images fail to show the need for infectious diseases research. The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene aims to have a world free of tropical diseases and the aimed to show that through these two images. However, one can see how it fails to show the impending need for research. Yet again, it does a fantastic job at demonstrating the holistic contribution for funding and awareness, and the results of this contribution. 6 Boccalon Works Cited: Michael G. Head. Research Investments in Global Health: A Systematic Analysis of UK Infectious Disease Research Funding and Global Health Metrics, 1997  E. Bio Medicine 3.C (2016):180-190. Web. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: Establishing Arguments. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Written by Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee. Kairos Writing  Home. Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. 7 Boccalon Figure A: ASTMH News - June  InboxCart.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. 8 Boccalon Figure B: Fio and partners present latest findings at ASTMH 2015 Annual  Better data. Better care. N.p., 28 Oct. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.