Alrasbi 1 Alnaser Alrasbi Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 02/26/2017 Cosmetic surgery Cosmetic surgery gives people the chance to improve their physical defects and look more beautiful. Cosmetic surgery has positive and negative effects, the most negative effect is probably unsuccessful surgeries that can result from the disfigurement of features. However, plastic surgery still improving, and new ways are discovered on its way to improvement. The positive effect is, of course, the successful outcome of the surgeries. Initially, cosmetic surgery raised to fame after WWI, when some men soldiers had deformities in their bodies after the battlefield. Plastic surgery for these people was more of a necessity than the personal will to change something in their appearance. Nowadays, there are many reasons make people do cosmetic surgery the first reason is due to birth defects, for example, Polydactyly, which means that humans might have a body part that is extra on their bodies like toe, finger or tail. Moreover, skin distortion is one of the reason make people do cosmetic surgery, and there are many reasons cause this distortion like a car accident, burning, chemicals, and allergy. This example of plastic surgery as mentioned above was introduced after WWI. At last, people started doing surgeries to look more attractive and get closer to the idealistic look they want. Most people who do this surgery want to model and they want to look as close to magazine cover picture as possible. So the question is how has the perception of cosmetic surgery shifted over the past 20 years? Cosmetic surgery is very useful and has a positive and negative impact on people who have done cosmetic surgery, but it depends on how people use it. Alrasbi 2 Jones, Meredith Rachael. an anatomy of cosmetic New York, N.Y: Berg, 2008. Print. The author of this article is Meredith Rachael Jones. Also, he is Reader in Gender and Media at the Brunel University London. He argues that cosmetic surgery is practiced everywhere. It can be comprehended amongst the skinny, altered, stretched, and enhanced celebrities in an overvalued media society with the focus on refining beauty standards of the society. While it has become a cultural and aesthetic norm amongst the rich with an effort to expose real identity, cosmetic surgery has validated a repulsion of punishing surgical modifications. The article is relevant because it has explored the broad range of modern culture case studies that include the Internet, magazines, architecture, and television. Meredith Rachael has also demonstrated the controversial aspects of the makeover culture by referring to the celebrities such as Jocelyn Wildenstein and Michael case studies. Rohrich, Rod J., and Joel E. Pessa. The fat compartments of the face: anatomy and clinical implications for cosmetic  Plastic and reconstructive surgery 119.7 (2007): 2219-2227. The authors of this article are Pessa Joel E and Rod J Rohrich. Dr. Rohrich is one professor in plastic surgery at the University of Texas, and Joel E Pessa is a plastic surgeon in Pikeville, Kentucky. they argue that the hypodermic face fat is apportioned as divergent anatomical cubicles. Face aging is as a result of the degree of change of these compartments. The article concludes that face does not age due to composite or confluent mass since the fat compartments are separate. Additionally, the shearing between contiguous partitions could be another tenet for Alrasbi 3 the soft-tissue etiology malposition. Understanding the anatomy behind the preoperative analysis and surgical methodology can lead to effective aging face treatment. The article is important because it covers the factors that lead to face aging. Once the knowledge behind this is acknowledged, cosmetic surgery can be conducted successfully. The piece supports cosmetic surgery but once the anatomy behind it is scientifically proven. Also, this source has high credibility because its writer by scientists and is based on researches, this type of information is useful as an evidence for certain facts. Alsarraf, R. Measuring Cosmetic Facial Plastic Surgery Outcomes: A Pilot  Archives of Facial Plastic Surgery 3.3 (2001): 198-201. Web. The author of this journal is Ramsey Alsarraf a Professor of Surgery Chief, Section of General Thoracic Surgery Duke Cancer Institute. He discusses four instruments of assessing the cosmetic surgical outcomes. These tests include the Blepharoplasty Outcomes Evaluation, the Facelift Outcomes Evaluation, the Skin Rejuvenation Outcomes Evaluation, and the Rhinoplasty Outcomes Evaluation. The main objective of this article is to prove the validity and reliability of these instruments. The journal is incredible because the design used to test the reliability and validity of the instrument support rhinoplasty, skin rejuvenation, the 100 facelift, and blepharoplasty techniques that are necessary for determining the successful cosmetic surgery. The questionnaire and quantitative used to carry out this research have applied purely qualitative and subjective tools that are recommended in facial anatomy. Davis, Kathy. the female body: the dilemma of cosmetic New York: Routledge, 2008. Print. Alrasbi 4 The writer of this book is Kathy Davis, and she is currently a senior research fellow in the PARIS research program and the Department of Sociology at the VU University Amsterdam in the Netherlands. The book covers the accounts of the decisions women make regarding the cosmetic surgery. The author has discussed the experiences, decisions, and the view female counterparts have towards the surgical alterations they undergo. The writer also gives a personal story regarding the inequities that comes along with medical encounters. The book covers the profound puzzlement as a result of the urge by women to alter their bodies by surgical means. The book is important because it gives the historical view of cosmetic surgery. The call for beauty amongst women is the reason why cosmetic surgery is practiced. The horror outcomes that come out of cheap body modifications through medical encounters explain the reason why cosmetic surgery should be a major concern in the health sector. Hunter, Margaret L. Buying racial capital: Skin-bleaching and cosmetic surgery in a globalized  The Journal of Pan African Studies 4.4 (2011): 142-164. Margret L Hunter is the author of this article. She is Professor of Sociology Professor, Sociology. She concerned about the new technologies of purchasing via cosmetic surgeries and skin-bleaching cosmetics. Although the paper discusses beauty and public sector discourses, cosmetic surgery discourse has also been covered that is created as a result of the marketing cosmetic procedures in the newly developing market. The article is critical since it obfuscates the discourse of racial discrimination with the attitude of buying ethnic capital products using proven methodologies. It discloses the other reason behind the increased cosmetic surgery cases amongst Africans, African Diasporas, and people in wealthy countries. Alrasbi 5 Oni, G., J. Ahmad, J. E. Zins, and J. M. Kenkel. Cosmetic Surgery Training in Plastic Surgery Residency Programs in the United States: How Have We Progressed in the Last Three  Aesthetic Surgery Journal 31.4 (2011): 445-55. Web. The authors of this article are Kenkel J.M, and Zins J.E, and Ahmad Oni, G,.J. The primary concern is whether the society has enough information in regards to cosmetic surgery amongst the American people. The follow-up on the research that was conducted three years ago in respect to this article regarding plastic surgery residency programs indicates an improvement conduct behavior amongst the United States residents;, particularly in noninvasive cosmetic treatments. The article is relevant because its principal concern is to uphold high-quality and safe plastic surgery amongst the users. Also, it has covered the estimated economic impact; around ten billion dollars is used in cosmetic industry implying that cosmetic surgery is a national concern. Ways to improve its safety have been highlighted in the article to ensure quality in its undertakings amongst users.