Alomar 1 1 Bander Alomar 02/26/2017 Anastasia Khawaja Equality and civil rights Martin Luther king Jr once said, have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their One of the most important movements in human history is the shifting from having limited rights to having more access to freedom and equality. Going through discriminations and racisms to the ability of creating a lifestyle where everyone is almost equal to United States of America just like many countries throughout history suffered from the lack of rights especially in terms of skin colors and gender rights. Racism was and still one of the most crucial issues in societies, when people judge others depend on their colors, race, religion. According to Andrew, Crow laws were based on the theory of white supremacy and were a reaction to Reconstruction. In the depression-racked 1890s, racism appealed to whites who feared losing their jobs to Many people have sacrificed their lives, families, and money to have the equality and rights that generations nowadays share. Moreover, equality is essential in life, with it, people can have the motives to be more creative and productive. Without it, people are going to lose that motives to develop their lives. Thus, how essential is equality in life? How lack of equality between genders can affect their creativity and productivity? Therefore, equality and civil rights will be discussed along with more deep pieces of informations mostly related to the fascinating history of the United States. Alomar 2 Childs, David1. Socially Constructing Race And History: Exploring Black Identity And Popular Culture In Social Studies Classrooms Through Cultural Studies  Of Pan African Studies 8.2 (2015): 55-73. Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article demonstrates how negative ideas about racism towards African Americans are generated by media and popular culture. This article based on culture stories to demonstrate how racial awareness affects young people in schools and in social life. The main goal of this article is to aware and help people to be more knowledge about stereotypes that affect society. This article is written by David Childs, an educator that studied history and social studies. He completed a research in Mexico city on popular culture and education. This article is taken from USF database which makes it trustworthy scholarly and credible. This article is peer reviewed and well arranged with no grammatical mistakes. DeGirolami, Marc O.1. Virtue, Freedom, And The First  Dame Law Review 91.4 (2016): 1465-1516. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 11 Feb. 2017. In a constitutional point of view, this article illustrates the first amendment. About freedom and how in everybody earns their right to act and speech. He relates the constitution to liberty. The fields are law and religion, constitutional and criminal Alomar 2 law. Professor DeGirolami was published by Harvard University press in 2013 which make him trustworthy and credible. Klarman, Michael J. Jim Crow To Civil Rights: The Supreme Court And The Struggle For Racial Equality . n.p.: Oxford University Press, 2004. Humanities E-Book . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This book illustrate civil rights and some racial issues in many different eras such as the progressive era, interwar period, WWII and school segregations. As an example of the book demonstrating different timelines, the years 1895-1900, an average of 101 blacks were lynched a year-mostly in the south. In 1898, a white supremacist campaigning to eliminate black political influence culminated in a race riot in Wilmington, North Carolina which killed at least a dozen blacks (Klarman 1). Stories and facts are provided in this book to illustrate the switch of status in societies. Michael J. Klarman is an American historian and writer who specializes in constitutional history. He wrote many books such as From Jim Crow to civil rights: the Supreme Court and the struggle for racial equality, Brown versus Board of Education and the civil rights movement. Also he won a prize in 2005, which make this book trustworthy and credible for academic researches. Reardon, Sean F., John T. Yun, and Tamela McNulty Eitle. The changing structure of school segregation: Measurement and evidence of multiracial metropolitan-area school segregation,  37.3 (2000): 351-364. This paper looks at total examinations and patterns in segregation among white, black, Hispanic, and Asian government funded school understudies in 217 metropolitan areas Alomar 2 amid the period 1989-1995. For example, this paper found that segregation in multiracial schools has been the same from 1989 to 1995. Found out also that segregation between white students and all other students has raised, while segregation between blacks and Asians has decreased. Reardon Sean F. is professor of poverty and inequality in education at Stanford University. His areas of interest mainly about the inequality in both socially and educationally. He develops process of calculating social and educational inequality. received his doctorate in education in 1997 from Harvard is a member of the National Academy of Education, and he has many Awards such as William T. Grant Foundation Scholar Award and a Carnegie Scholar incredible resume says about his credibility and trustworthy. Rivkin, Steven G. School Desegregation, Academic Attainment, And  Of Human Resources 35.2 (2000): 333. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article basically is about studies and statistics to see whether desegregation program improves school racial equality. The author uses school informations to measure the significant increasing of desegregation in schools. Results in this article show support of raising school equality which could be more effective than using any other patterns, which also could lead to increase academic and labor market outcome for blacks. This paper can assist my research by supporting the education equality and desegregation. Also using this article statistics can support my claims about the importance of equality. The author of this article is professor Rivkin Steven, he is the head department of economics at the university of Illinois Chicago. His fields of interest are the economics Alomar 2 and sociology of education and he has written many articles about those fields including teacher quality and labor markets, school desegregation and more, which make him a trustworthy and credible which is also reflecting on this article and its informations, facts, statistics. Versey, H. Shellae, and Nicola Curtin. The Differential Impact Of Discrimination On Health Among Black And White  Science Research 57.(2016): 99-115. ScienceDirect . Web. 11 Feb. 2017. In this article the author focus on the effects of discrimination tower health. Also, the article provides some evidence say discrimination is also affecting structural awareness and lower self-esteem. The article is concerned with physical and mental outcomes of injustice. Studies and evidence are provided by the author to illustrates that either black or white women could face the same consequence of The aim of this project is to examine relations between health and social life. This article could be helpful for my research by illustrating the negative effects of discrimination toward health. Shellae is a psychologist and critical health researcher holding a Ph.D. in psychology from the Department of Psychology at the University of Michigan. Alomar 2 Work Cited Costly, Andrew. A Brief History of Jim  Brief History of Jim Crow - Constitutional Rights Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Martin Luther King, Jr.  . Xplore, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.