Rahman 1 Saif Rahman Bob Botkin ENC 1102 29 February 2017 Limiting refugees and immigrants in United States Throughout history, international migration has brought both positive and negative impacts, including internal and external security concerns, for both countries which are taking in refugees and sending refugees. Since there is a global immigration crisis, it does not only affect the country which they are currently residing in but also other countries which they are trying to migrate to. It is a global crisis; therefore, the global community should try to solve these problems because it will eventually damage the global community (Weiner 3). The most recent international immigration crisis was the Syrian crisis. The United Nation High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) estimated that 6.5 million people where displaced during the crisis, by the end of August 2014. This event impacted the global community, but it manly effected the counties which were close to Syria. Turkey and Germany were the most generous nations to welcome refugees. Turkey took in about 2.7 million refugees and Germany took in about 600,000 refugees (Hunt 30). Neighboring countries like Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and Jordan also took in a high number of refugees. These nations got a huge applaud from the global community for aiding the people who were in a dangerous situation. The United Nation High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR), is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting human rights and building a better future for refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people. This organization has been active since 1950, and has been a prominent figure in helping refugees since then. main objective is to protect and support refugees at the request of a government or Rahman 2 the UN itself and assist in their voluntary expulsion, local integration or resettlement to a third country. By showing these images UNHCR wanted to show how people are suffering and how it can be dealt with. The first image depicts the reality that Syrian refugees are currently facing. This picture was taken in one of the Greek islands. It shows how the Syrian refugees are desperately migrating to a different country in order to have a better life. They are arriving in a small boat, taking major life-threatening risks in order to escape from inevitable death. By analyzing the first image, the refugees are crossing the sea in a small boat and with just a life jacket. This image appeals to pathos, as it can be seen that a little child is going through so much hardship. It catches the attention of the audience because normally a child should be in a safe environment with a joyous smile but instead he is trying his best to survive. The picture has a bluish background which sets an emotional tone to the picture. The roaring sea act as a metaphor for the struggle that the refugees have to face whilst migrating to a new place to settle in. Also, it appeals to logos because it lets the audience witness how the Rahman 3 refugees are struggling as the picture is taken in a real-life situation. The image also acts as an evidence. Furthermore, the contrast in the picture is pale which sets up a gloomy feel. The audience may sympathize with the picture. The child who is tightly gripping the rocks underneath him sends a powerful message to the audience, that the refugees are in a miserable condition. The child is crying which shows how much of a shocked state he is in at the moment. By using rhetorical elements such as logos and pathos, UNHCR wants to illustrate that the refugees are in hostile and miserable conditions, therefore developed countries such as United States of America should increase taking in more refugees. The second image illustrates how Germany is welcoming refugees and integrating them into their society. In this image, UNHCR is setting Germany as an example. The children are shown leading an ordinary life like they are supposed to. After struggling for a long period of time, they are now settled in Germany. In the picture, there are a number of students and a teacher who looks appears to be asking a question. The children are attending a German school where they are being taught to integrate into society. Integrating into the host society is indeed an important part as it would be hard for the refugees to function Rahman 4 properly otherwise. Without knowing the culture of the host country, the refugees would feel alienated. In order to function properly the refugees should learn the language, culture and history of the country where they reside in. The second picture appeals to pathos, with the children looking happy in contrast to the first image and thus draws attention from the audience. The contrast of the image is bright, making the image look warm and peaceful. Logos is also conveyed through this image. The host country is utilizing refugees and the text refugees breathe new life into shirking German written in bold white, tells the audience how Germany is utilizing the refugees. The population of the German village is declining so the Syrian refugees are bringing back the life of the dying village. The text is written in bold white color because the UNHCR wanted to catch the eye and show the positive aspect of allowing in refugees. In conclusion, both of the images appeals to logos and pathos in order to persuade the audience and change their opinion about refugees. The images provided by the UNHCR draw attention from the audience by focusing on real life pictures and situations. Both of the pictures shows different aspects of the same topic: refugees. The first image shows how the refugees are migrating in horrible conditions. By showing this, UNHCR has earned the sympathy of the audience. The second image is the complete opposite of the fist. When viewing the second image, the audience will find it pleasing that the children are trying their best to integrate in the host society. The second image coveys a core message, that there is still hope for the refugees. The host countries will benefit from the exposure because there are lots of bright children, who might bring positive changes to their society once they get a proper education. UNHCR, by showing these images, wanted to indicate an important point which is that refugees are not a liability to the host country if they are utilized properly. Rahman 5 Works Cited Ross, Ashley D., and Stella M. Rouse. Economic Uncertainty, Job Threat, and the Resiliency of the Millennial Attitudes toward  Social Science Quarterly (Wiley-Blackwell), vol. 96, no. 5, 2015, pp. 1363-79. Rissing, Ben A., and Castella, EMILIO J. Testing Attestations: U.S. Unemployment and Immigrant Work  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 69, 2016, p. 1081. Matsongou, Elizabeth. are an Economic Benefit, Not a Burden, in World finance. http://www.worldfinance.com/infrastructure-investment/government- policy/refugees-are-an-economic-benefit-not-burden-to-europe. Accessed 29 February 2017. Hunt, Jennifer. Immigrants the Most Skilled US Computer and Engineering Journal of Labour Economics, vol. 33, 2015, pp. 30-77. Hong, Gihoon. Examining the U.S. Labor Market Performance of Immigrant Workers in the Presence of Network  Journal of Labor Research, vol. 36, no. 1, 2015, pp. 9-26. Rahman 6