Albert Campbell Professor Paquette Composition I 5 March 2017 Historiographical Essay Intermediate Draft Facial transplantation is a plastic surgery procedure which aims to provide a better quality of life for patients with severe disfigurement of their face. Like any surgery the potential benefits it provides are balanced by risks that make it complicated and possibly dangerous to patients. It is the duty of medical professionals to understand what the dangers are and how to limit the risks to provide an effective surgery. Facial transplantation was an especially controversial debate in its process to being considered acceptable in the right cases. Understanding how such a controversial topic in the medical community was resolved is useful for its application to future debates. Observing the conversation surrounding the procedure reveals an important shift that occurred when the procedure was first performed. The medical community was only able to approve of facial transplantation surgeries after it was practiced and shown to be beneficial. The first partial facial transplant occurred in 2005, and the first full facial transplant occurred in 2010. Not once has this surgery been attempted with an absolute guarantee of success, yet it has been attempted out of the necessity of doctors to care for patients. Before 2005 most major medical institutions held the belief that facial transplantations were not ready to be performed. Karen Maschke and Eric Trump highlight this belief in an article in which they support The Royal College of Surgeons of England in their disapproval of the University of belief that they were prepared to conduct a facial transplant in 2004. The concerns with the University of Louisville stemmed from their narrow examination of human ethics in researching the risks and a ability to provide consent. Disapproval caused by ethics is a result of professionals not being able to accurately determine the true risks associated with facial transplantation. Without clear understanding of potential complications, doctors cannot ethically operate on a patient (Maschke, 2004). However, it would prove to be difficult for surgeons to define the exact dangers without actually performing the procedure. A true evaluation of the risk to benefit ratio can only be valid after the operation has actually been performed. Debate over the surgery continued after the completion of the first partial transplant was completed. While some professionals wanted to keep advancing the practice by applying it to new patients, others were not satisfied by the results. Ethical dilemma regarding a full transplant still remained. Michael Freeman and Pauline Abou express this notion in their article when they state that they the case for face transplants has not yet been They conclude that no further transplants should be performed until a long-term assessment of the ability of facial transplants can be shown to be successful (Freeman, 2007). Based on this argument, it appears that surgeries are only accepted in the medical community after they can be attempted and prove their worth. Without actual case studies to examine, risks remain unseen and the benefit is completely withdrawn. This sets the stage for the time period following the first full facial transplants. Case studies provide professionals with crucial information that provides insight to whether or not a surgery should be supported or opposed. Without looking at actual application of a procedure, it is nearly impossible to fully understand the risks and benefits associated with a procedure. In terms of facial transplantation, the first procedures performed were able to depict the ability of transplants to restore function and aesthetic quality to patients. Marcelo Goiato used the evaluation of seven case studies to justify the use of facial transplantation. He uses these cases to extinguish ethical concerns which have been raised based on the needs and desires of patients and their post-operative condition. support is in the form of a 100% survival rate and satisfactory improvements in patients (Goiato, 2014). The only issue of this study is that it focuses on cases which are no longer than two years after the operation. Further evaluation after longer periods of time after the operation can be more effective in helping to assess the capacity of facial transplantations. Laurent Lantieri, a frequent voice in debates surrounding plastic surgery, provides the extended evaluation which helps to further solidify assessments made by Goiato. Lantieri also assessed long-term post-operative results of seven patients out of 30 total who had undergone the procedure. Flaws are certainly apparent, with two transplant patients ultimately dying after the surgery. All patients required persistent treatment, and some needed advanced methods to help them retain their transplanted organ. However, all recipients and their families were accepting of the results. study further advances knowledge of surgeons on how to evaluate, select, and prepare patients (Lantieri, 2016). This article reflects the fact that discussions surrounding facial transplants will continue as a natural aspect of medical professionals wanting to care for patients in the best ways they can offer. Performing the surgery and proving its value may have ended most debate on whether or not it is an acceptable treatment, but there will always be room for improvement. The medical community has accepted the facial transplant procedure, and this was only possible through case studies which give professionals the proper means to evaluate a procedure. Facial transplantation depicts the necessity of a first patient in advancing medicine. The only way to combat the skepticism which halted this life changing operation was to care for patients with caution and an open mind. Now as cases can further be evaluated, patients in the future can more effectively be treated properly and with the right techniques. Facing the future can be difficult without a willingness to attempt. Works Cited Freeman, Michael, and Pauline Abou Last Taboo: The Ethics of Face Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 33, no. 2, 2007, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27719793. Goiato, Marcelo C. et al. Facial Reconstruction: Facial Journal of Dentistry of Tehran University of Medical Sciences, vol. 11, no. 6, 2014, pp. 733-739. Directory of Open Access Journals, https://doaj.org/article/1ae90a0494194fddb22dbd49c2be9fe4 Lantieri, Laurent, et al. Face Transplant: Long-Term Follow-Up And Results Of A Prospective Open  Lancet 388.10052 (2016): 1398-1407. Business Source Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Maschke, KJ, and E Trump. Facial Transplantation Research: A Need For Additional  American Journal Of Bioethics 4.3 (2004): 33-35. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb.