Running head: PROJECT 1 1 ENC 1101: Project 1 Jordan Taylor The University of South Florida PROJECT 1 2 ENC 1101: Project 1 There are currently 28 states that have passed legislature legalizing marijuana for medical use. This goes against the federal current scheduling of marijuana as schedule one under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). This means that, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), marijuana has no medicinal applications currently accepted in the United States, has a high potential for abuse, and also has a lack of accepted safety when using the drug under medical supervision. In contradiction to this, scientific studies involving medical uses have finally gained some traction, with some of the studies claiming that marijuana is an effective treatment of various afflictions, including muscle spasms caused by multiple sclerosis, as well as nausea caused by chemotherapy. Citizens around the US are also becoming increasingly relaxed towards the idea of using marijuana, as most of the taboos surrounding marijuana died out once people realized they were mostly propagandist or racist. States considering legalizing marijuana must then ask themselves; should they hear out the academic studies, economic benefits, and public opinion advocating legalization, or simply follow federal regulations and the opinions of those against marijuana use that deem it as a risk to children or a detriment to society? PROJECT 1 3 Annotated Bibliography AS STATES LEGALIZE MARIJUANA, LAWS REMAIN MURKY. (2017). Journal of Property Management, 82(1), 28-29. According to the article, the inconsistencies associated with legalizing marijuana on the state level and the conflicts those policies have with the fact that marijuana is still classified under federal law as a Schedule 1 controlled substance are only becoming increasingly prevalent now that eight states have legalized recreational marijuana, and 28 have legalized medical marijuana. The main issue that businesses face is banking. Banks are prohibited from accepting money tied to illegal activity, and since marijuana is still illegal at the federal level, any revenue generated from marijuana-related businesses is technically tied to illegal activity. This has forced marijuana-related businesses to be almost entirely cash-based (AS STATES LEGALIZE, 2017, p. 28). Businesses can, however, use private banks, but they come with the same benefits as federally regulated banks do, such as FDIC insurance. These private banks also charge various fees, such as deposit or monthly fees. Credit and debit card networks are also federally regulated, forcing daily transactions to still be made in cash. There are also issues regarding security. According to Nicole Van Rensburg, Partner at Midwest Compassion Center (MCC), first medical marijuana dispensary, security was their largest expense by a considerable margin. half of their $400,000 renovation budget was spent on security (AS STATES LEGALIZE, 2017, p.29). Expenses such as converting a room into a walk-in safe and a network of security cameras can really add up. Taxes can prove challenging as well; Section 280E of the Internal Revenue Code makes business expenses incurred by marijuana-related businesses non- deductible. Furthermore, typical business expense deductions such as wages, rent and PROJECT 1 4 equipment unavailable to dispensaries and growers, the resulting effective tax rate can range from 50 to 75 (AS STATES LEGALIZE, 2017, p.29). This article highlights issues that marijuana-related business face, as well as the increasingly notable conflict between the federal status on marijuana and the individual state policies regarding legality. Due to classification as a Schedule 1 drug, it is illegal, so marijuana-businesses cannot utilize federally regulated institutions such as banks, or even Debit or Credit cards. The article also states that marijuana consumption has doubled since 2013, and that 60% of Americans support the decriminalization of marijuana, according to a recent Gallop (AS STATES LEGALIZE, 2017, p.28). The numbers provided only further supports advocacy for marijuana legalization. It is relevant to my topic because this article acknowledges the fact that state policies conflicting with federal regulations is only becoming a bigger issue as more and more states decriminalize marijuana. The source is credible as it is published in the Journal of Property Management, a bi-monthly collection of insights on various trends and issues affecting all property types. The Journal of Property Management is published by the Institute of Real Estate Management; an international community of real estate managers that for 80 years has been dedicated to ethical business practices, maximizing the value of investment real estate, and promoting superior management through education and information sharing. Investors and real estate managers use this journal to gain expert insights and analyzations of how different topics/issues are affecting various types of properties and their value. PROJECT 1 5 Bestrashniy, J., & Winters, K. C. (2015). Variability in medical marijuana laws in the United States. Psychology Of Addictive Behaviors, 29(3), 639-642. doi:10.1037/adb0000111 According to the J. Bestradhniy & K.C. Winters, due to the fact that states must individually formulate policies regarding marijuana legalization, there is an underlying variability amongst each state. For instance, J. Bestradhniy & K.C. Winters assert that medical marijuana states permit an individual to grow their own plants whereas others do not; some states have a limited list of medical conditions and some are quite liberal in this (Bestrashiniy, J., & Winters, K.C., 2015, p. 639). This means that someone relying on marijuana to relieve symptoms for a certain condition in one state may be prohibited from doing the same in another state just because of inconsistencies between state legislatures. After making this observation, the authors then analyzed which medical conditions were accepted as treatable by marijuana across states, as well as the overall restrictiveness of the polices currently implemented in legal states. Each restriction and treatable condition is calculated so that they can compare each degree of permissiveness. The data gathered demonstrated a high variability concerning the conditions acceptable for marijuana use, for instance, permits marijuana for about 7 times the number of conditions (40) permitted by Washington, the most restrictive state (Bestrashiniy, J., & Winters, K.C., 2015, p. 641). Extreme variability such as this could ultimately be avoided if there were national policies in place. The objective is to the policy features of medical marijuana legislation, including an emphasis on the types of medical conditions that are included in medical marijuana (Bestrashiniy, J., & Winters, K.C., 2015, p.639). The variability in restrictiveness and medical conditions mentioned in state legislatures that is later identified is relevant to my topic because it shows just how inconsistent policies regarding marijuana legalization can be due to a PROJECT 1 6 lack of a national and unified policy. Since marijuana is still federally prohibited, the variability distinguished in the article is all but inevitable because up to the state-wide legislation to enact medical or recreational marijuana policies. As a result, medical conditions accepted to be treated with marijuana in one state may not be accepted in another, leaving those that rely on marijuana as their main medicine with little options of residence. Furthermore, greater understanding of current polices will help to inform future policies and serve as a means by which the strength of existing policies can be (Bestrashiniy, J., & Winters, K.C., 2015, p.640). Cooperation amongst states considering medical marijuana policies would also prove helpful in creating consistent and uniform policies that assist in avoiding any confusion or conflicts with other policies. The authors are credible because Jessica Bestrashniy earned her Doctorate of Philosophy, Epidemiology as well as a Master of Science in Biostatistics at the University of Minnesota, and works as a research associate at the University of Minnesota. Ken C. Winters, Ph.D., is the director of the Center for Adolescent Substance Abuse Research and an Associate Professor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Minnesota. He received his B.A. from the University of Minnesota and a Ph.D. in Psychology (Clinical) from the State University of New York at Stony Brook. They published this article in the 29 th volume of the Psychology of Addictive Behaviors, a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal of the American Psychological Association. Cohen, P. J. (2010). Medical Marijuana 2010: Time to Fix the Regulatory Vacuum. Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 38(3), 654-666. doi:10.1111/j.1748-720X.2010.00519.x PROJECT 1 7 According to P.J. Cohen, marijuana is considered by the United States Congress to have absolutely no medicinal or therapeutic value, since classified as a schedule one drug. There would normally have to be scientific evidence and studies proving that sort of designation. This was bypassed, however, Congress itself assigned this status to (Cohen, 2010, p.654). As a result, in order to conduct any research on medicinal benefits, researchers would need a special license from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), as well as asking the National Institutes of Drug Abuse (NIDA) to provide any marijuana for any studies trying to discover medicinal and therapeutic applications. These roadblocks set by the government make it nearly impossible to do any amount of research in the field of medical marijuana. It was due to these obstacles, that potentially significant studies have been shot down. Recommendations of rescheduling marijuana under the CSA came as early as 1997 when a Consensus Conference sponsored by the National Institutes of Health concluded that: at least some potential indications, marijuana looks promising enough to recommend that there be new controlled studies (Cohen, 2010, p.656). Even after a number of peer-reviewed studies in the scientific literature proved that marijuana has been proven safe and effective when used medicinally, federal agencies such as the NIDA and FDA still shot down the study. They proposed the which stated that association may arise from the effects of the peer and social context within which cannabis is used and obtained. In particular, early access to and use of cannabis may reduce perceived barriers against the use of other illegal drugs and provide access to these (Cohen, 2010, p.658). There is a sparse amount of evidence proving this theory, however, when marijuana is used under the supervision of a medical professional. PROJECT 1 8 This article addresses the issues faced with conducting research on medical marijuana, and the legitimacy of its classification as a schedule one drug under the Controlled Substances Act. It brings forth evidence supporting smoked efficacy as a therapeutic and medicinal agent, claiming that of any drug for medical use should be based on scientific evidence rather than political (Cohen, 2010, p.661). This is perhaps to point fingers at the way Congress classified marijuana as a schedule one drug simply because they had the power to rather than providing scientific evidence to show why marijuana is as ineffective medicinally as heroin. The argument presented is relevant to my topic because it shows that even though some of the research involving medical uses is gaining some momentum, the government only sets up several near-impossible hurdles that researchers must cross in order to even be approved to begin their research, and must gain the approval every step of the way. This article is a terrific example of how the government consistently impeded on research involving medical marijuana, and that even with substantial evidence supporting efficacy in medical use, the government just disregards it. The source is credible because Peter J. Cohen worked as an attorney and a physician, spending most of his medical career in academia where he published over 100 scientific papers, three books; several review articles, as well as several chapters in books. He published this article in the 38 th edition of the Journal of Law, Medicine, & Ethics, which has been in production since 1973. DAMRONGPLASIT, K., & CHENG, H. (2009). DECRIMINALIZATION POLICY AND MARIJUANA SMOKING PREVALENCE:: A LOOK AT THE LITERATURE. Singapore PROJECT 1 9 Economic Review, 54(4), 621-644. According to K. Damrongplasit & H. Cheng, policy in general has two goals: to minimize health and safety hazards associated with use, and to minimize the social costs and adverse individual consequences that result from attempts to control (K. Damrongplasit & C. Hsiao, 2009, p.621). The two goals often contradict each other, where if you increase enforcement of marijuana use it may reduce the usage but at the same time increase social costs and individual consequences. Decriminalization of marijuana is intensely debated because it brings about many benefits as well as costs associated with it. Those in favor may argue that decriminalization means that people will no longer have to worry about having a criminal record after getting in trouble with marijuana, since decriminalization would only bring about an on-the- spot fine. Therefore people with debilitating conditions that smoke marijuana for medicinal purposes have as much trouble finding employment since they have a criminal background. Those against, however, may argue that decriminalization is the first step to having the public image of marijuana become more and more acceptable to the point where teenagers or even children may think it too big of a deal. This article tackles the issues associated with marijuana decriminalization policies, and sheds some light on both the many benefits and costs of enacting them. The article then assesses the impact of marijuana decriminalization policy on marijuana use through reviewing the empirical literature on that relationship. Eventually the article utilizes different models designed to mathematically measure the relationship using elaborate equations based on variables such as supply and demand, marijuana based arrests before and after, as well as race and gender. They then conclude the article finding positive and significant impact of decriminalization policy on marijuana smoking prevalence is often generated when the data set is of repeated cross- PROJECT 1 10 section nature, covering overall population and/or from the time (Damrongplasit & Cheng, 2009, p.643). This is relevant to my topic because it analyzes the effect that decriminalization of marijuana has on the prevalence of marijuana use, and if the effect reaches/effects children or at least causes them to have a lighter attitude towards it. This is something state legislatures should keep in mind when considering their policies and regulations to minimize the health and safety hazards associated with decriminalization policies. The authors are credible since K. Damrongplasit is a postdoctoral researcher at UCLA Department of Health Services and RAND Corporation, and H. Cheng works with the University of Southern economics division, and has published 46 working papers, over 90 articles, and 5 books. World Scientific publishes about 130 journals every year in various fields, and many of its texts are adopted by renowned academic institutions such as Harvard, Stanford, and Princeton University, as well as the California Institute of Technology. Hall, W., & Degenhardt, L. (2003). Medical Marijuana Initiatives: Are They Justified? How Successful Are They Likely to Be?. CNS Drugs, 17(10), 689-697. doi:10.2165/00023210-200317100-00001 According to W. Hall & L. Degenhardt, argue that legalizing cannabis is the only way to ensure that patients can use it for medical purposes. However, this would be contrary to international drug control treaties and is electorally (Hall, W., & Degenhardt, L., 2003, p.691). As well as violating treaties, medical marijuana advocates face the issue of the long-term health effects of smoking cannabis to relieve certain symptoms of medical conditions that require daily smoking for years at a time. Smoking marijuana puts the user at risk of lung PROJECT 1 11 damage or other respiratory afflictions and possibly cancer. also the risk of creating a dependence on THC, which is highest among adults with psychiatric disorders and adolescents with conduct disorders. People that used to the psychoactive effects of cannabis smoke have also reported instances of panic attacks, anxiety, and even depression. These risks could be avoided, however, with advancements of production of synthetic cannabinoids that deliver THC in ways that involve smoking, while maximizing therapeutic effects and minimizing psychoactive effects. On the other hand, cannabinoids that are registered for medical use are not widely used because of difficulties titrating (Hall, W., & Degenhardt, L., 2003, p.696). This is mostly due to the infancy that synthetic cannabinoids are currently situated in, and shows that further research is required to make them viable as a medical treatment. The objective is to examine the legitimacy of early medical marijuana initiatives and determine whether they are justified or simply just a pipe dream. The article looks at some of the policies being implemented in Canada, the UK, and Australia, and parallels them with some of the own policies. It looks at the pros and cons of each side of the argument, such as the inconsistencies and risks associated with smoked cannabis, as well as developments in a safer alternative-synthetic cannabinoids. The argument presented is relevant to my topic because it concludes that the safest way for physicians to prescribe marijuana to patients is not through smoked but synthetic cannabis, and that they will be reluctant to prescribe marijuana to be smoked due to legal liabilities. It also concludes that while smoked cannabis is unlikely to obtain regulatory approval for medical uses due to health concerns, least problematic way of providing medical access to cannabis may be allowing patients with specified medical conditions an exemption from criminal prosecution to grow cannabis for their own personal (Hall, W., & Degenhardt, L., 2003, p.696). This provides an interesting proposition unheard of in any PROJECT 1 12 current U.S. medical marijuana policies that allows patients to bypass approval of physicians since content with smoking at their own risk. The authors are credible, because Wayne Hall is the Professor and Inaugural Director of the Centre for Youth Substance Abuse Research at the University of Queensland. In 2003 he was identified by the Institute for Scientific Analysis, as a Cited in social science general, comprising less than one half of one percent of all publishing researchers - in the last two decades. Louisa Degenhardt, PhD, has published over 310 peer reviewed papers, 110 technical reports and monographs, three books and 35 book chapters. Schmidt, L. A., Jacobs, L. M., & Spetz, J. (2016). Young More Permissive Views About Marijuana: Local Impact of State Laws or National Trend?. American Journal Of Public Health, 106(8), 1498-1503. doi:10.2105/AJPH.2016.303153 According to the article, passage of medical marijuana laws does not seem to have a direct impact on the perspectives of younger views about marijuana consumption. There is, however, a national trend for young people to take more permissive views about marijuana regardless of any effects within states. To reach these conclusions, they divided their target demographic into three groups: middle-school aged (12-14), high-school aged (15-17), and young adults (18-25). L. Schmidt, L.M. Jacobs, & J. Spetz then multilevel, serial, cross-sectional analyses on 10 annual waves of the US National Survey on Drug Use and Health nationally and for states with marijuana laws using individual- and state-level (Schmidt, L. A., Jacobs, L. M., & Spetz, J., 2016, p.1498). PROJECT 1 13 This objective is to whether state medical marijuana laws the wrong that is, have a local influence on the views of young people about the risks of using (Schmidt, L. A., Jacobs, L. M., & Spetz, J., 2016, p.1498). While they were able to link the passage of medical marijuana laws with the national trend of younger people having an increasingly relaxed attitude towards marijuana, they were not able to determine exactly why that is. They integrated certain variables of the younger lives, such as religiosity, income, age, race, employment, parental status, attitudes towards various subjects such as school or fighting, as well as any parental restrictions set (i.e. curfew or limited T.V. time) in order to monitor any changes at the individual-level. This is relevant to my topic because it highlights a global trend of an increasingly relaxed attitude towards the risks relating to marijuana consumption, and that passage of medical marijuana laws do not seem to have a direct effect on how younger people perceive marijuana consumption. This contradicts one of the underlying claims made by those that oppose marijuana legalization concerning the risk of younger people having a relaxed attitude to marijuana- and eventually associating that same mindset with more serious and dangerous drugs. The authors are credible because Laura Schmidt is Professor of Health Policy in the School of Medicine at the University of California at San Francisco and earned a PhD in sociology as well as a degree in clinical social work, Dr. Laurie Jacobs is Professor of Clinical Medicine at Columbia University, and Joanne Spetz, Ph.D., is a Professor at the Institute for Health Policy Studies and in the Department of Family and Community Medicine and the School of Nursing at the University of California, San Francisco and she frequently provides testimony and technical assistance to state and federal agencies and policymakers. The authors worked with the American Public Health academic publication American Journal of PROJECT 1 14 Public (AJPH). The AJPH has worked for over 100 years dedicated to the publication of original work in research, research methods, and program evaluation in the field of public health, and was voted one of the 100 most influential journals in biology & medicine over the last 100 years by the Special Libraries Association.