Running head: BENEFITS OF GMO 1 Project 1: Benefits of GMO on health Smirnou Stanislau University of South Florida BENEFITS OF GMO 2 Project 1: Benefits of GMO on health Food is one of the most important factors for survival of living organisms and humans are not exceptions. Throughout the history people were trying to improve and modify their food sources. According to archeological and paleontological evidence, first cultivation of plants occurred in southern Levant around 11,000 B.P., while first domestication of animals took place 1,000 years later (Zeder, 2008). Since that time, methods of cultivation were improved and hundreds or even thousands of new species were artificially selected to open new horizons for agriculture. However, with recent advancements of bioengineering techniques, methods of artificial selection can no longer compete to be primary instrument in the hands of bioengineers. Nowadays, scientists can convert years of artificial selection into weeks or even days of biological manipulations with genomes to get a desired trait of an organism. Despite a huge decrease in time needed for production of new organisms or traits, scientists can avoid undesired changes of other parts of the genome that occur during artificial selection. Also, genetic modification techniques provide a huge field for potential treatment of human diseases. However, despite all advantages that GM provides for health, there are still huge proportions of populations of different countries that believe that genetic modification is dangerous. As a molecular biologist doing research in proteins and their structures, investigating how induced mutations can modify structure of proteins such as COR 15 A which is a potential candidate to be inserted in plants to make them cold-resistant and p-53 that is one of the main tumor-suppressor proteins, I would like to focus on benefits that GM can provide for health. Therefore, the question becomes, how do genetically modified organisms (GMOs) benefit human health? BENEFITS OF GMO 3 Annotated Bibliography Butelli, E., Titta, L., Giorgio, M., Mock, H., Matros, A., Peterek, S., & ... Martin, C. (2008). Enrichment of tomato fruit with health-promoting anthocyanins by expression of select transcription factors. Nature Biotechnology, (11), 1301. Article of tomato fruit with health-promoting anthocyanins by expression of select transcription describes the study conducted to investigate effect of introduction of anthocyanins molecules into tomato fruit on heath. Anthocyanins are class of polyphenols that exist in many products that are part of a human natural diet. Previous studies have revealed a positive effect of those molecules on health in terms of protection from cancers, cardio-vascular diseases, diabetes and other dangerous conditions. Therefore, raising concentration of anthocyanin in food is a logical idea. However, to reach a positive effect, a high concentration of anthocyanin should be consumed daily. Naturally, tomato fruits contain a low level of anthocyanins and to increase their concentration some genetic modification were conducted. Therefore, genetic modifications were made to increase anthocyanins concentrations. New GM tomato fruits with silenced DET1 gene and increased chalcone isomerase activity had up to 78- fold increase in flavanols level in fruit peel. Taking into consideration the fact that peel accounts for about 5% mass of a fruit, the total level of anthocyanins was no more than 300 micrograms per one gram of fresh weight. The next step of that research was to observe the effect that increased anthocianins concentration has on the health of Trp53 -/- knockout mice. Those mice have a higher probability of developing cancer than other types. Results showed the increase in average life expectancy from 142.0 8.7 days to 182.2 8.6 days. The article is relevant to the topic of research, because it shows am example of the positives effect of GM food on human health. Article presents statistics that shows a clear benefit BENEFITS OF GMO 4 of that technology. The article was published in one of the top journals in biotechnology field - Nature Biotechnology. Authors of that article are credible specialist who have many publications in scientific journals and are experts in the field of biotechnology and oncology. Kaufman, H. L., Kohlhapp, F. J., & Zloza, A. (2015). Oncolytic viruses: a new class of immunotherapy drugs. Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, (9), 642. doi:10.1038/nrd4663 Oncological diseases are one of the top killers of people in the developed countries. Therefore, it is essential to develop new methods of treatment and one of the newest and most promising method is oncoimmunology. One of its subdivisions is the therapy of oncological patients with GM viruses. In the article viruses: a new class of immunotherapy some latest advances in the treatment of oncology using GM viruses are discussed. There are many different mechanisms of action utilized by viruses and they depend on the nature of a targeted cell, nature of a virus, and on the interaction between the cell environment, virus, and host immune system. However, two main mechanisms can be identified from the variety of action mechanisms. First mechanism is the direct cell lysis due to viral replication inside the tumor cell. Second method is the induction of antitumor immunity or in other words an activation of the immune cells that can detect and destroy tumor cells. In this article authors reviewed new approach for the treatment of oncological diseases by using oncolytic viruses and that provides a clear answer for the research qustion that genetic modification can be beneficial for human health. The article was published in the Nature Reviews Drug Discovery by three authors. Article was peer reviewed and authors are competent in the topic they are writing about. Howard L. Kaufman is a scientist specializing in BENEFITS OF GMO 5 oncoimmunology with more than one hundred publications in that field. Frederic J. Kohlhapp is a researcher whose primary focus is the study of viruses and their potential use in the context of oncological treatment. The last author is Andrew Zloza who has many publications about viruses and their use in oncoimmunology. That shows that all authors are highly qualified in the topic they are presenting and the source can be considered reliable. Murphy, S. L., & High, K. A. (2008). Gene therapy for haemophilia. British Journal of Haematology, 140(5), http://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2141.2007.06942.x There are many genetic diseases that are transmitted through generations and despite all current advances of technologies, they cannot be fixed. The only approach for the treatment was the replacement of molecules that are not synthesized properly because of the gene mutation. However, new approaches for the treatment were developed with the advancements of genetic engineering. In this article advances of hemophilia treatment using GM viruses are discussed. Hemophilia is characterized by the mutation of the gene that encodes the blood coagulation factor thus, causing problems with blood clotting. Genetic modification of viruses that specifically target liver cells is a potential solution for treatment of hemophilia. Viruses introduce the correct version of gene into liver cells, and that allows cells to start production of the correct clotting factor and as a result, decreases severity of symptoms or even eliminate them. However, a hundred percent elimination of symptoms was not achieved, a noticeable reduction of symptoms was observed. The article is relevant to the research question because it provides an example of how genetic modification can be used to improve human health. This article was published in British BENEFITS OF GMO 6 Journal of Hematology by two researchers who specialize in gene therapy. Samuel Murphy is the professor with many publications in that field, while Katherine High is a physician with hematology specialization. She did many researches on blood clotting mechanism and is a credible specialist in that field. The article can be considered a credible source of information, because it is written by the credible specialist and published in the peer reviewed journal. Ye, X., Al-Babili, S., A., Zhang, J., Lucca, P., Beyer, P., & Potrykus, I. (2000). Engineering the Provitamin A Biosynthetic Pathway into (Carotenoid-Free) Rice Endosperm. Science, (5451). 303. Article the Provitamin A Biosynthetic Patway into (Carotenoid-Free) Rice summarizes a common situation that occurs in some parts of the world were deficiency of vitamin A (VAD) occurs due to lack of pre-vitamin A in the food and provides a solution to that problem. VAD leads to a variety of heath problems including conditions from night blindness to the complete blindness, diarrhea, respiratory disease and as a result causes a quarter of a million people only in Southeast Asia to go blind each year. Authors estimated that around 124 million children worldwide have VAD and propose a solution to that problem by genetic modification of the most common source of food in those places - rice. The article is relevant to the topic, because it provides example of the benefits for human health after implication of methods of genetic engineering. Ligation of bacterial version of gene that can catalyze production of from its precursor helps to enrich rice with provitamin A and provides a source of Vitamin A for people who are suffering from VAD. Article was published in Science magazine that is a reliable peer reviewed journal. Publisher is a non-for BENEFITS OF GMO 7 profit organization that get any profit from publication. The authors of that article are scientist in the Institute of Plant Science in Swiss Federal Institute of Technology and in the center of Applied Bioscience ii Germany. They all have many peer reviewed publications in reliable journals of the biotechnology field. Zhao, F., & Shewry, P. R. (2011). Recent developments in modifying crops and agronomic practice to improve human health. Food Policy, 36(Supplement 1), S94-S101. doi: 10.1016/j.foodpol.2010.11.011 The article developments in modifying crops and agronomic practice to improve human discusses a problem of malnutrition of micronutrients in developing countries and provides possible ways to solve that problem. According to the article, one way to deal with that problem is through introduction of GM food with increased nutritional value. Deficiencies in Fe, Zn and vitamin A are among ten leading causes of diseases in developing countries. Agriculture is a primary source of macro and micronutrients for humans and genetic engineering techniques can be used to enrich food with micro-elements. Endosperm is a part of the grain that is high in nutrients, such as starch, but low in Fe and Zn which can be found there in low bioavailability due to presence of anti-nutrient phytates. Endosperm is the most valuable food for majority of people and thus, they do not consume enough micro-elements with their diets. The solution offered by the article is to reduce synthesis of phytates and to increases expression of genes responsible for accumulation of iron in endosperm. In rice endosperm, overexpression of common bean ferritin gene led to 2-3-fold increase in Fe concentration. Also, another factor contributed to the accumulation of Fe was over-expression of nicotinamide synthase (NAS) gene. NAS is an important molecule that play a crucial role in iron transport. BENEFITS OF GMO 8 The article is relevant to the topic of research, because it provides solutions for the problem of malnutrition of micro elements by genetic modification of existing crops. The article was peer reviewed and published in the reliable journal - Food Policy. Authors of that article are credible specialists who have previous publications in the same field. They declared that they are independent of Government and declared no conflicts of interest and stated that they do not constitute Government policy. Zhongyi, C., Lilu, G., Yongqin, Z., Walzem, R. L., Pendergast, J. S., Printz, R. L., & ... Davies, S. S. (2014). Incorporation of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits obesity. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 124(8), 3391-3406. doi:10.1172 JCI72517 Article of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits summarizes results of the study that proposes potential way to decrease obesity in humans by incorporation of genetically modified bacteria that produces therapeutic factors into gut. Obesity is a rising problem in many countries and developing therapeutic techniques to treat that condition is a cornerstone in prevention of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer. Susceptibility to obesity is contributed by microbiota of the gut and thus, modification of microbiota can open new ways in therapeutics of obesity. In mice introduction of bacteria that secretes the N-acylphosphatidylethanolamines (NAPEs) molecules that are then converted into class of lipids that can reduce obesity level when animals are on a high-fat diet. NAPEs are direct precursors of N-acylethanolamide (NAE) lipids that increase sensitivity to the the adipose- derived negative feedback signal molecules such as leptin. BENEFITS OF GMO 9 That article is relevant to the topic, because it provides a good quality data that shows potential benefit of genetical modification of bacteria on treatment of obesity. Article was published in the reliable peer reviewed journal and authors have declared no conflict of interest. That research was done by scientists who had many publications on the similar topic in peer reviewed journals. They work in Vanderbilt University obesity and lipids. BENEFITS OF GMO 10 References Zeder, M. A. (2008). Domestication and early agriculture in the Mediterranean Basin: origins, diffusion, and impact. Proceedings Of The National Academy Of Sciences Of The United States, (33), 11597.