Ferguson 1 Nathaniel Ferguson Professor Lay ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 The Use of Rhetorical Appeal on Football Helmet Safety Football players believe that football is a traditional sport and believe that football as dangerous as it seems to look, rules are being changed every year to make the game safe. The NFL supports this belief by continuing to develop Ferguson 2 better football helmets to make the game safer. On the other hand, doctors believe that football is a dangerous sport because of the injuries and long-term health risk associated with the sport. Both stakeholders, the NFL and doctors, use the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos through different types of to demonstrate their argument. The purpose of the image represents the view on the safety of football. This image displays football as a dangerous sport, and how injuries are so serious that some players even walk off the field on their own. The NFL uses the video as a representation of the new technology that is being developed to insure safety to the head. They believe that new football technology is being made up based on the knowledge of specific points of impact, helping to make the game safer. The use of rhetorical devices by both of the stakeholders in the video and the picture help to strengthen their arguments. The image that is posted in multiple locker rooms in the NFL shows emotion through the pain that the athlete is having. This image try to help their viewers realize that football is a dangerous sport and how injuries, as seen in this imagine, are common. You can also see that the emotions are conveyed through their facial expressions on these football players. They also use pictures of players on the ground holding their head like they have a major headache. There is another picture on the poster trying to show that this sport is so dangerous that players are Ferguson 3 getting hurt and can not even walk off the field on their own. The video shows emotion by talking about how hard they worked to build up the safety of football helmets and players health. If you put so many hours into something and trying to find new ways to make it better there is going to be a lot of emotion behind all of it. Especially if you have somebody or some organization trying to put a end to something your trying to fix and keep running. The doctor from Virginia Tech, who has been doing research and looking up new technology to make the game safer. Feels like people are trying to take away what they worked so hard for. They also feel like helmets are safer than we think and the human body is a lot more tougher than we think, so if you combine good equipment, good human bodies, good coaching, and good rules officiating that the game will be a lot more safer. The picture shows how ethical to help carry the injured player off the field or see if he can walk off on their own, if he or she do it themselves. If the player is hurt to the point where he or she cant walk off the field on their own, he is carried off the field in a cart. This information is accurate because these pictures were taken right on the field shortly after the players hurt themselves. The National Football League (NFL), making the image a creditable source, published this. The video shows how its ethical by making better and safer helmets as the years go on, and it is working. The team doctor who has multiple years of experience explains how they are putting sensors in the helmets now a days and Ferguson 4 this allows them to track players concussions. So if anybody is hit to hard then the team doctor can automatically check on him, which will reduce the risk of future injuries, and you will not have to worry about anybody having any long term injuries in the future. The Doctors use this image to convey that football is dangerous, and therefore, it is not logical to play the sport. This image specifically shows the consequence of the dangerous sport, creating a logical appeal against playing football by putting pictures of people holding there head crouched on the ground. They also use the slogan use your lead with Basically saying that we use our head a lot to hit in football, which also creates a dangerous image in your head. In this video a matter of common sense that if you continue to put sensors in the players helmet and have safer rules that this will make the game safer. This video specifically shows how the sensors are making it much easier for doctors to detect serious head trauma. Once a player haves serious head contact it will alret the team doctor and then they will be able to decide if he can come back in the game, instead of the player trying to hide it. In this imagine is a perfect time to show why doctors feel like this sport is very dangerous and be played. They talk so down on the sport and in this image is a prime example why. They also have pictures with players laid out on the ground griping their head as if they cannot get up. In the video they show how they Ferguson 5 have been developing helmets and the safety of them. This is perfect timing because a lot of people feel like its not helping but it is because the sensors can tell the team doctor right away if you have had to hard of a hit to the head. Since 2003 been monitoring the safety of football now, more than ever. The NFL believes that is an urgent issue, and they stress it in the video. The purpose of the image represents the view on the safety of football and how they feel about the sport. The video on the other hand shows how the NFL supports football beliefs by continuing to develop better football helmets and new technology to make the game safer but. still entertaining. The NFL and doctors, use the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos through a lot of multimedia to show their side of the argument and where they stand on football and the safety of the game. Ferguson 6 Ferguson 7 Link to Video: http://www.nfl.com/videos/nfl-videos/0ap2000000095202/Health-of-the-game-Helmet- technology Ferguson 8 Work Cited Bancroft Follow. Bancroft Sports  LinkedIn SlideShare. NFL, 26 Sept. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://www.slideshare.net/cseabo/bancroft-sports-concussions>.  NFL. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.nfl.com/videos/nfl- videos/0ap2000000095202/Health-of-the-game-Helmet-technology>. Ferguson 9