Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette Composition I 03-05-2017 Solar Energy How have writers referred to solar energy in the past years until now? There is one thing that cannot be hidden and it is the massive growth of technology in recent years. This means that there has been an evolution in the world and daily life has changed. For instance the same thing has happened to electrical power as there have been new innovations to develop new types of energy. One of this innovation is solar energy, which is energy produced by sunlight. Since then, it has become such a strong topic in the field of science and technology that many writers and professionals have made their comment on the topic. In the early 2000s the focus of solar energy was pointed to the development of the system, improvement of it and knowing the benefits that it could bring to the future. In contrast, the focus in the present time is pointed to the benefits, impact and expansion of the system. As solar energy started to become a huge topic in the world many authors were talking about it as a futuristic type of energy with a lot to develop, discover and improve, as many people saw a huge potential on it. In 2006, Katherine Ellison an ecologist published an article named Solar Power: The future looks bright. One of the arguments presented on the article says, power is too expensive. true that the cost of solar power today works out to double that of conventional sources. Yet these costs have been rapidly This argument shows that while not being developed at all and being very limited, solar energy presented to be a huge investment in the market. There were researches and improvements to make in order to develop an accessible and essential system. Solar power was still too small in the U.S economy energy to make a difference, but it was growing at a rate of 25%. to surveys, large majorities of Americans said they not only want more solar power, but would pay more for In fact, in that same year 2006 the White House reversed its previous policy of making deep cuts in solar research and development and proposed a $ 148 million in new funds. In 2007, the scientists Nathan S. Lewis published an article called Toward Cost-Effective Solar Energy Use. In his article he mentions, present, solar energy conversion technologies face cost and scalability hurdles in the technologies required for a complete energy system. To provide a truly widespread primary energy source, solar energy must be captured, converted and stored in a cost-effective He also mentions that in order to have a globally scalable system of solar energy there must be new developments in nanotechnology, biotechnology and physical science materials. This also shows that solar energy was still in development and that a restructuration in the technological field was needed to implement viable factors in order to compete with other energy systems. Even Though solar energy was not highly developed yet, it was imminent that solar energy was growing and becoming stronger as in 2007 the market was valued at $ 10 billion annually and with a 30% growing rate. With Solar Energy growing at a very fast rate and becoming very powerful in the global energy market with all the advanced researches and technology, writers and professionals changed their focus to talk about the impact, benefits and expansions of solar energy in the world. In 2013, a recent study made by various Scientists that published an article show that power provide health, environmental and climate benefits by displacing conventional generators and therefore reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and criteria air pollutants, which include sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and fine particulate (Kyle Siler-Evans, Lima Azevedo, M. Granger Morgan and Jay Apt, 11768). After installing the system and producing solar energy not only scientists but everyone can realize the benefits that this type of energy have. This study demonstrates that this is the kind of energy we need not only because the source is unlimited but because it provides the earth with clean energy which harm the environment in any way. If the whole world was able to develop and get this technology the planet would be cleaner and presenting better habitats not only for humans but plants and animals as well. In 2015, the scientist Michael E. Mackay published his work on solar energy, highlighting the importance of it. He mentions that solar energy is extremely important because fossil fuels resources will last on order of no more than 100-300 years; yet burning them generates human made carbon dioxide which is responsible for changes in the earth such as global warming and arctic ice loss. Just a fact mentioned by Michael, is that the CO2 concentration has reached a level of approximately 50 % above that of the last 800,000 years and this has only happened in the last 100 years. Solar energy technologies can help to mitigate CO2 generation and must be used. As the world faces pollution problems and everyone might be in danger, clean energy should now be taken to the highest level to help the entire population. In fact, there has been an expansion of solar energy as well as wind energy globally including Asia, America, and Europe as the highest leaders of the technology. It is expected that in the coming years solar energy takes the energy industry in a totally high and different capacity. In conclusion, over the years solar energy has been part of a very massive discussion all over the world. Starting out as futuristic energy type and with all the technological advances that it has presented, solar energy has become a very strong electrical power benefiting not only the environment but humanity as well. While there is still more to discover and implement in order to take solar energy to every home in the world, many advances have been made making it a very innovated technology presented in many different countries at very different levels. Work Cited Ellison, Katherine. Power: The Future Looks Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, vol. 4, no. 8, 2006, pp. 5 Mar. 2017 Mackay, Michael E. Solar Energy: An Introduction. : Oxford University Press, 2015-06-01. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2015-08-20. 5 Mar. 2017 Siler-Evans, Kyle, et al. Variations in the Health, Environmental, and Climate Benefits of Wind and Solar Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 110, no. 29, 2013, pp. 5 Mar. 2017 Barber, James. Solar Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, vol. 365, no. 1853, 2007, pp. 5 Mar. 2017