Mirzakhalov 1 Jamshidbek Mirzakhalov Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 February 13, 2017 Balancing the scales between Apple Inc. and FBI Due to the willingness of people to stay connected in the Digital Age, the world has witnessed an unprecedented connectivity. Laptops, phones, PCs and even household devices such as TVs and fridges have started to require internet connection to function properly. Together with the comfort this closeness has brought, there is a concern over the vast amount of personal information being spread into the Web. As much as this is useful to FBI and other intelligence agencies to provide security to citizens by tracking the dangerous criminals, it is also important for people to keep their private information unexposed. Meanwhile, giant technology companies like Apple Inc. also want to ensure its privacy as much as they can. In other words, it is a clash between privacy and security, which has already become synonymous with a clash between Apple Inc. and FBI. As the goal of both parties is to serve protect the people, their cooperation without undermining each mission and priorities would bear the best result as the investigative power of FBI and the technological capabilities of Apple Inc. are the best tools to fight any type of crime. Apple Incorporation is a multinational technology company founded in 1976 by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne. The company designs, develops and sells a range of computer software, electronics and online services all over the world (Rick 71), and today has total assets worth around $495 billion. Its customer base is estimated to be about 600 million people with around 1 billion active devices all over the world (Monica, CNNMoney). As well as producing high-quality products, Apple is known for its security features in its devices, which Mirzakhalov 2 does not allow anyone other than the user access the data on the device. commitment to privacy clearly states, I want to be absolutely clear that we have never worked with any government agency from any country to create a backdoor in any of our products or services. We have also never allowed access to our servers. And we never (Privacy, Apple.com). Apple has big commitment to protect the privacy of its customers, and puts the trust of its customers ahead of any collaboration even with government agencies. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, a domestic intelligence and security service which operates under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Justice. FBI also maintains substantial overseas connections operating 60 Legal (LEGAT). It was established in 1908, and since then serves as prime federal law enforcement agency FBI is committed to provide the national security, and undoubtedly puts the security over privacy. In general terms, Apple wants privacy to hold some significance in the minds of intelligence services, and for that it will protect its customers from being completely exploited as much as it can. For instance, there was a major court case earlier in 2016 involving Apple and FBI. It sparked as FBI requested Apple to write a software to unlock its phones to help FBI solve criminal cases, and as Apple refused, the case went to the court. Apple won the court saying that the software FBI is requesting could be potentially devastating for Apple customers, their products and security (Chris, Bloomberg.com). The conflict was the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, where a married couple left 14 people killed and 22 seriously injured after a mass shooting in San Bernardino Department of Public Health training event and Christmas Party. The couple fled in sport utility vehicles, and were killed later in a shootout with the police. The phone was found, and was a valuable piece of evidence for FBI to reveal the case. The phone was an Apple product, therefore could not be opened without password at all. Apple Mirzakhalov 3 totally rejected the proposal of revealing the way of opening Apple phones to FBI (Shackford, 11). Editor-in-chief of PcMag.com, Dan Costa, in his interview to CNBC about the court case, said that Apple would stick to its guns, and remain as a defender of civil liberties at any cost(Costa). In fact, Apple did stick to its guns so far by not allowing any intelligence services gain access to the personal data on its electronics. On the other hand, FBI stresses that most attacks and security threats can be thwarted if they have access to records. It is logical that for the full investigation of the cases, it is crucial for the personnel to have all the data and evidence available. For instance, with the help of tracking and surveillance, the personnel can catch and investigate people who are purchasing illegal guns online, or who are planning some attacks. Slightly controversially, in his interview to CBSNews, the director of FBI, James Comey, made strong comments on surveillance policies and the way they work. We cannot read your emails or listen to your calls without going to a federal judge, making a showing of probable cause that you are a terrorist, an agent of a foreign power, or a serious criminal of some sort, and get permission for a limited period of time to intercept those communications. It is an extremely burdensome process. And I like it that (Pelley, CBSNews) While James Comey states that intelligence agencies cannot spy on people without getting the necessary permission, former CIA agent Edward Snowden tells a different story. In 2013, Mr. Snowden some revelations about the excessive and unnecessary surveillance over people, such as phone call tapping (Chandra). This is the moment where people start to have less trust in government agencies and their activities. Even if this is true, national security is too Mirzakhalov 4 delicate and costly to be ignored for the sake of privacy, and to provide this security, FBI, NSA, CIA and others should be able to perform their duties as needed. So far, arguments of both sides sound very reasonable and compelling, and both sides seem to be very much far from the compromise. However, at the core of the conflict lies trust and human ego. there is a will, there is a says editor of Huffington Post, Admiral Jim Stavridis. Although, intelligence agencies insist that all their actions, including surveillance are only targeted and completely constitutional, the public seems to have lost some faith in their actions and intentions (Stavridis, Huffingtonpost.com). The solution could be cooperation between FBI and Apple, which would accomplish their goals of both in the long run. Going into more detail, as Apple does not want FBI and other intelligence agencies to gain control of the encryption codes, it can hand the necessary data to FBI itself. For instance, in the case of San Bernardino, the data in the phone could only be accessed by Apple personnel, so the perfect solution instead of the court case would be Apple getting the personal data in the phone and pass it down to FBI personnel for further investigation. In this way, FBI would get what they needed, and Apple would successfully preserve their rights of privacy. CEO of Microsoft Inc., Bill Gates also supports this view of balance. In an interview with Financial Times, Mr. Gates stressed that even if he does not support proposal of total access, Apple should help the government agencies to solve the cases by providing the information needed(Cathaleen). Overall, cooperation is necessary to keep the privacy and safety in balance, but this balance is very delicate. In the worst cases, US Supreme Court should become a key player either to let or not let FBI get what they want for the sake of national security. Indeed, Apple has expressed its surprise over why FBI took this case to the court, as Apple had already been Mirzakhalov 5 helping FBI on many occasions by providing the necessary data. In the statement general counsel Bruce Sewel gave to the court he notes it: [Apple The company already works with law enforcement regularly and would help develop the capability to decrypt technology itself, but open to its iPhones due to the security risk that would pose to all users. The FBI had demanded that Apple write a new version of its iOS operating system to give access to the iPhone of San Bernardino shooter Syed (States News Service). As the general counsel told, the company has been working with the government sector in revealing the cases before, and is ready to continue to do the same way. Judging on this, both parties seem not so far from a compromise on the issue for the time being. In addition, benefits of this cooperation will strengthen the trust and collaboration between the private and public sector of agencies and companies. Mirzakhalov 6 Works Cited Chen, Cathaleen. In Apple vs. FBI dispute, Bill Gates calls for  The Christian Science Monitor 2016: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Deciphering the Debate Over Encryption: Industry and Law Enforcement Perspectives  States News Service. N.p., 14 Apr. 2016. FBI Cracks  Interview by Dominic Chu. Cnbc.com. CNBC, 29 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lawlor, Maryan. Privacy vs. Protection: A Delicate  SIGNAL Magazine. N.p., 16 Jan. 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Monica, Paul R.La. Google Is Worth More than Apple  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, 12 May 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Musal, Steve. Looking for Common Ground in Apple vs. the  Macworld. Macworld, 19 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pelley, Scott. FBI Director on Privacy, Electronic  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 13 Oct. 2014. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.  Apple. Apple Inc., 12 Feb. 2017. (Ret.), Admiral Jim Stavridis. Apple vs. FBI. About How to Achieve  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 08 Mar. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Robinson, Teri. to rumble: Apple vs. SC Magazine. Vol. 27 Issue 4, p18, 6 p. Haymarket Media Group. April 2016. Steele, Chandra. The 10 Most Disturbing Snowden  PCMAG. PCMAG.COM, 11 Feb. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Strohm, Chris. FBI and NSA Poised to Gain New Surveillance Powers Under Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 29 Nov. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Shackford, Scott. Never mind! Apple vs  Reason Magazine July 2016, 3rd ed., sec. 48: 11. Tetzeli, Rick. The Real Legacy of Steve  Fast Company 194 (2015): 70-76. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. United States. Federal Bureau of, Investigation. The  (2008): HathiTrust. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.