Student 1 Student Kimberly Wiggs ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Gender Wage Gap Over Time The gender wage gap has existed throughout history. Women have been unequal to men since the hunter and gatherer era of human existence. There were noticeable differences in women job opportunities, especially in the 20 th and 19 th century where women actually played a more important role in everyday lives. Gender equality is converging, without a doubt, and the rise of feminism is what is bringing gender equality. Looking at the topic in a modern day perspective, there has been an increase of women in important positions in companies. This is due to the gender inequality that has been converging throughout the 21 st century as well. Francine Blau and Lawrence Kahn states that the gender wage gap has substantially lowered since the 1980s, meaning that there is a clear trend of where the wage gap is going. Although the rate of convergence has slowed down considerably in this past decade, the direction where it is going is a good one. The gender wage gap has been converging as an increasing number of women take prominent positions in companies, therefore hiring more women because of their homophily preference. The ratio of the wage gap is converging, but has decreased considerably, due to the fact that there is labor market discrimination, and supply and demand shifts in jobs. The gender wage gap has always been converging, but has slowed down since the 1980s according to Francine Blau. The topic has not changed too much but the convergence rate has definitely changed. The wage gap difference was decreasing ever since the stereotypical female role was decreasing. Student 2 Molly Bryant states that gender stereotypes have played a massive role in gender wage differences due to the fact that during the 19 th century Victorian Era, for example, main role was to cook, clean, and tended to be a stay at home mom. Modern day feminism is what changed all of this for the better, because now women can be considered equal to men. It is colossally important because society accepts this notion now, because half a century ago sexism was at its prime. Therefore, the topic has not changed much, but the rate of convergence definitely has. Phillip Cohen brought up an extremely important point about the gender wage gap. He stated that the reason why the wage gap is so large is due to the fact that women do not hold as many prominent positions in important companies, compared to men. This leads to the men hiring more men because there will always be a homophily preference in the hiring process. As more and more women are taking positions of authority, the differences in earnings should noticeably start to decline due to the fact that they are a crucial part in decision making about salaries, promotions, hiring, etc. So something that is notable is that as time progresses, the results will become more noticeable as men who hold said prominent positions retire, there will be a greater chance than before that a woman will replace that job. Gender itself pays an important role in the wage gap because due to the fact that men will continue to hire a disproportionate number of men in their company, as opposed to hiring an equal ratio of men and women. Educational success of women has definitely played a colossal role in the closing of the gender wage gap. There is an increased amount of women getting higher education, compared to before. Educational success of women is paramount to success in their professional lives. According to Molly Bryant, there is an increased number of women taking S.T.E.M majors as Student 3 their career path. S.T.E.M is science, technology, engineering, and math. Due to this spike in interest in these career fields, there will undoubtedly be an equal work environment in the future, in all work fields due to this. Even though the wage gap difference is at an all time low compared to the previous years, but the very existence of a wage gap in modern day society is extremely surprising. In the Institute for Policy article by Ariane Hegewisch, it states that ratio of and median annual earnings was 79.6 percent for full-time or year-round workers in (Hegewisch 1). The topic has changed over time greatly, but still has a long way to go. In conclusion, the gender wage cap has had an existing trend of convergence ever since the late 19 th century as gender roles have started to disappear. The rate of convergence has slowed considerably, but if the pattern continues in the future the gender wage will be inexistent. The trend of convergence has been around since the late 19 th century, but the rise of feminism promotes equality and therefore creates job and pay equality as well. The gender wage gap has not changed considerably over time, but the convergence itself is still underway. Student 4 Works Cited Blau, Francine, and Lawrence Kahn. The US Gender Pay Gap in the 1990s: Slowing  Sage Journals (2004): n. pag. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Bryant, Molly, Paige Winters, and Jojo Matson. Gender Pay  Uhuru 10th ser. 10.3 (2012): n. pag. Iowa State University. Iowa State University, 24 Jan. 2012. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Cohen, Philip N., and Matt L. Huffman. Working for the Woman? Female Managers and the Gender Wage  American Sociological Review 72.5 (2007): 681-704. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hegewisch, Ariane, and Asha DuMonthier. IWPR  The Gender Wage Gap: 2015; Annual Earnings Differences by Gender, Race, and Ethnicity IWPR. IWPR, 1 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.iwpr.org/publications/pubs/the-gender-wage-gap- 2015-annual-earnings-differences-by-gender-race-and-ethnicity>.