Santana 1 James Santana Jr. Professor Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 January 28, 2017 How effect the Health and Fitness levels of Individuals Many Americans strive to be healthy. With fitness ads, commercials, and society putting pressure on both male and females to look a certain way in order to be classified as a healthy human being. However, being an overall healthy human starts with what you are putting into your body. a reason why a market for supplement stores such as GNC and The Vitamin Shoppe. But even then, buyers are beguiled into buying sixty-dollar protein tubs that are manufactured nine dollars by the pound and have a whole bunch of artificial flavorings, sweeteners, and components that make the shake taste pleasant. Though these ingredients increase your chance of cancer, interfere with reproductive success and increase your chance of having a child with birth defects. So as you strive for a better body, little do you know the potential harm you are causing. But even if you a gym rat and consuming or buying supplements left and right from your nearest supplement shop; at risk. As are most American citizens from the introductory of (genetically modified organisms) in a Santana 2 majority of our everyday foods. Which leads me into wondering, how quite do effect the overall health and fitness levels of individuals? Annotated Bibliography Burke, Alana M. 7 Ways GMOs Affect Your  Newsmax. N.p., 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. This article, written by Alana Burke, explores new research on GMOs and gives insight on the ways it is affecting our health, for, not so much the better. The article shows that the most common food allergies are attributed to foods that are typically GM foods in society today. Showing us that GMOs foods are causing people to become more allergic, or at all allergic, to these foods than they been readily. Another negative that these foods have on our health is through the toxicity of them. It reads, mammals fed with commercialized GM soy and maize that are already in our food and feed chain found consistent toxic effects on the liver and (Burke, par.5) are also linked to infertility in humans as well as in animals, and studies show that GM foods are the reason for the rise of gluten sensitivity in the United States. Even so, as if this enough, GM foods are linked to birth defects (due to the herbicide put on them), cancer, and DNA transfer (through horizontal gene transfer from ingesting these foods that are injected with foreign DNA). Although there is not much information on our author, the website whom published the work is NEWSMAX and has been approved by many sources, including CBS News. Be that as it may, this article does give subsequent evidence and many justifiable points that answer our research question to a T. With this article being if not the most, one of the most, informational articles online about the overlooked negatives of GMOs on our health in society today. Santana 3 Myhr, A.I. & Traavik, T. Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, Mar. 2002 In addition, this article written by Anne Ingeborg Myhr and Terje Traavik address the controversies of GMO foods and targets the scientific community to help clear up the controversies of genetically modified foods. Scientific research has showed that GM foods not only link to Crohns disease and the inflammation of internal organs but also increases allergens and can alter a person overall genetic code. Encrypting the foods injected DNA into yours which links to birth defects as well as other future health risks for your offspring and their offspring. Accordingly, the article put pressure on the scientific community and put the responsibility of scantiest to clear up the mis-informed GMO critics and show the potential harm that can be done from these foods. As many countries, besides the U.S., allow for genetically modified crops. The authors of this journal excerpt work for the Department of Microbiology and Virology at the University of Tromso and Norwegian, Institute of Gene Ecology. There work aims to encourage more scientists to look into GMOs and study the potentially deadly effects it poses to the human body. They hope that this can open the eyes of Americans as well as legislators who are uninformed or not informed at all about the negatives of GMOs on a health. As a result, banning GM foods in our country, just as we ban illegal drugs that have catastrophic affects. Rosendal, Kristin G. GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable  GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable development EMBO Reports. Anne Ingeborg Myhr, 21 Aug. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Santana 4 Consequently, this academic journal written by Kristin Rosendal talks about Food Law in Norway and why they decided, among many other countries in the European Union, to ban all GMO food production in their country. After scientific research and the discovery of the negative bodily affects that GMO causes, Norwegian people and farmers became very opposed to this idea of farming. Farmers heavily argued against this act of GMO foods and caused The Norwegian Gene Technology Act. Which states that any food production that is GM needs to be assessed thoroughly for its health danger. None the least, this did wind up happening and along with it the banning of GMOs in this country. To say the least, what they found was substantial enough to ban it nationwide. On the other hand, there is little information regarding the history of these authors. Though this article was published by Anne Ingeborg Myhr and found using the credible Google scholar. Even so, it goes to show that GMOs can in no way possible be good for anyone if a whole entire country and many other countries that are in part of the EU conducted further research on this topic and decided to ban it once knowledgeable about it. Ultimately playing out to be a key source in addressing our topic question. Because if Norway prides themselves on keeping their people healthy, and need to ban GMOs in order to do so, than how really good for you can they be? Shaw, John N. Should We Care About Genetically Modified  Food Safety News. Food Safety News, 01 Feb. 2010. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. In this article, written by John N Shaw, we further explore the positives and negatives with genetically modified organisms. Although have what our author writes, to save money, eliminate poverty, reduce hunger and malnutrition, and promote innovative (Shaw, par.9). It also has catastrophic negatives on a health, which the author Santana 5 believes is more important and justifying than the positives. One concern is that the introduction of foreign genes into our foods introduces a new allergen into our genome as well as the inflammation of the lining of our intestines. This can cause and lead to intestinal obstruction and ultimately the failure of your bodies vital organs. All because the FDA refuses to prohibit the cancelation of GMO foods in the United States and fails to do further scientific research on this issue. Primarily spanning off of the economic benefit it has in our society, though can slowly be deteriorating and inflating our insides. Our author, John Shaw, attended the University of Arkansas where he played football and graduated with his Bachelor of Science degree in Finance with a minor in Marketing. On top of this, however, he has always had a passion for Food Law. Which he studies most readily today, as he is a law student at the University Of Arkansas School Of Law. Furthermore elaborating on the credibility of our author, he has worked alongside Director Susan Schneider of Food Law LL.M as a research assistant studying GM foods first hand. Which gave him an inside personal look at the ugly side of GMOs that the FDA neglects and America turns their cheek on. Smith, Jeffrey. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. IRT, 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Moreover, in this article the author, Jeffrey Smith, not only informs us about what a GMO is but also what type of foods are genetically modified and the certain health issues that were studied in animals given these types of foods. By and large, this article opens our eyes to how quite relatively new are to the market. They were only first noticed and introduced in the mid-90s and truly gain crazy attention until about 2012. In contrast, a vast majority of our foods are nearly almost strictly genetically modified. The article reads, crops in the U.S. include soy (94%), cotton (90%), canola (90%), sugar beets (95%), corn (88%), Hawaiian Santana 6 papaya (more than 50%), zucchini and yellow squash (over 24,000 (Smith, p.1). Meaning nearly almost all soy, canola, corn, and sugar beets products (all which are sold to the consumer) are genetically modified in one way or another. Which is extremely terrible when studies done on lab animals that were fed GM foods found that the inside lining of their digestive linings became enflamed and experienced rapid cell growth. In addition, the article (from studies on various lab animals) states that GM foods in lab animals caused and allergic reactions, sick, sterile, and dead livestock, and damage to virtually every (Smith, p.1) in these lab animals. Which reflects on the toxicity of these foods that I mentioned earlier in my writing. Just think about it, if animals are so similar to us, imagine the effect it could be having right now on our human body. The author Jeffrey Smith is a world renowned consumer advocate that lives his life writing books, constructing documentaries, and speaking to people and legislators about non- GMO choices. His work reveals the truth behind regulations and how the FDA uses outdated sciences and assumptions to not put a ban on what he believes is the number one food safety pandemic in our new America. On top of this, his full length documentary, Roulette The Gamble of Our has won many awards including the 2012 Movie of The Year. He also has toured and talked to people from over 40 different countries on the health and dangers of And as done all over the world, he has done in this article, with targeting and educating people about the health issues that can be attributed to GMOs. Which in all seriousness poses many health dangers to our bodies, as he so stated in the article. Vaesa, Janelle. GMOs: Benefits and Negative Effects of Genetically Modified  Decoded Science. NP, 19 July 2013. Santana 7 This article written by Janelle Vaesa for Decoded Science explores the idea that many may have about The positive effects on them and why here in the United States the FDA agrees on continuing the production of them. The article states that genetically modified crops are beneficial to our industry because they enable farmers to grow more crops on less amounts of land, grow more nutrient rich crops at that, and more tasteful ones as well. On top of this, the article also points out that genetically modified crops are pesticide and disease resistant. Ultimately maximizing the overall quality of food produced, while producing it in such a way that is time, space, and economically efficient. It also addresses GMO usage in animals and talks briefly on how animals inserted with a certain genome can produce better meat, milk, and eggs. As well as having better immunity against diseases than those none GM. Those are some of the reasons to why people around America would argue for GMO usage into our foods. However this article does go onto say that resent research is showing that GM foods may not be particularly in your favor and could have potentially negative effects on our bodies. The author, Janelle Vaesa, graduated in 2008 from the University of Louisville with a Masters in Public Health and Bachelors in Health and Human Performance. Since then she has racked up nearly eight years of professional work in the public health field and specializes in the study of infectious diseases. She also has worked with many medical professionals and created her own curriculum for them that betters their knowledge and others around them on infectious disease. All things considered, she poses as a credible source and does give great knowledge as to why GMOs are good for our society and is continued to be used despite the possible health precautions.