Wilson 1 Isaiah Wilson Kristen Collins ENC 1102 29 January 2017 A Peak at Inflexible Desire: The Impact of Underage Drinking on our Society The United States has completely outlawed the consumption of alcohol under the age of 21. However, making something illegal does not always have the desired effect, hence the reason underage drinking is a major issue. There are several organizations fighting for the reinforcement of this age restriction because they strongly believe that it is protecting both our society and those that are underage. However, not all organizations share this belief; there are those that would argue in favor of the abolishment of this age restriction as it encourages drinking behind closed doors, which is highly dangerous. These varying views on how underage drinking should be handled has led to several organizations being at odds with each other. Two such organizations are Students for Sensible Drug Policy (SSDP) and Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). SSDP is a student-run organization dedicated to ending the war on drugs while MADD is the largest non-profit working to protect society from drunk driving, drugged driving, and underage drinking. SSDP strongly believes that the age restriction on the consumption of alcohol should be abolished while MADD is fighting hard to ensure that this age restriction is kept at 21, and thus, one can see where the conflict lies. However, there is a compromise here that can be beneficial to both organizations allow underage drinking, but in a controlled environment where the drinks contain a low alcohol percentage. Wilson 2 These two organizations possess a distinct set of values. In accordance with their website, Students for Sensible Drug Policy neither condones nor condemns drug use, rather we respect the right of individuals to make decisions about their own health and  ). With regards to the consumption of alcohol, this means that they would rather the youth be given the freedom of choice. In addition, lowering or removing this age restriction gives the guardians of those that are underage the ability to instill safe drinking practices and ensure that these teens understand what they are getting involved with when they choose to consume alcohol Lowering the Drinking ). Camille Paglia recognized that the National Minimum Drinking Act has young people of safe spaces where they could drink alcohol and socialize in a free but controlled public environment. It has instead provoked them towards illicit drug use and other antisocial (22). From this, it is clear that there is an argument to be made with regards to repealing this law. On the other hand, Mothers Against Drunk Driving strongly believes that there is an age of initiation for the consumption of alcohol, which is 21. Enforcing this age restriction decreases the likelihood of the underage posing a threat to themselves or to those around them Why ). Teens have a lower tolerance to alcohol and get drunk much faster than adults do, so by restricting them until they become of age, the law is saving them from themselves. Patricia Melody Loewit-Phillips and Abbie Goldbas summarized stance on underage drinking perfectly when they said MADD not only supports the legislation and enforcement of Driving Under the Influence (DUI) legislation, but also supports the families and victims of drunk and impaired drivers, as well as advocating for the elimination of underage  (62). From this, it is clear that MADD wants to eliminate underage drinking completely so the underage do not injure themselves or those around them. Wilson 3 These two organizations are clearly both interested in ensuring the safety of the youth. The differences between them lie in the methods by which they are going about it. SSDP wants to ensure that the youth utilize safe drinking practices and understand the dangers of drinking behind closed doors. In order for SSDP to achieve its mission, there needs to be a repeal of The National Minimum Drinking Age  Lowering the Drinking ). This will give the guardians of these young ones the authority to instill safe drinking practices, and the underage the freedom to make their own decisions, which is important to their development. In order for MADD to achieve its mission, the legal drinking age needs to remain at 21. Interestingly, MADD has actually explored efforts to give parents more control. On their website, MADD stated when teens feel they have their approval to drink, they do it more and more often when they are not with their parents. When parents have concrete, enforced rules about alcohol, young people binge drink  Why ). It is clear that MADD does not believe that parents are able to effectively guide the young through making healthy decisions when it comes to the consumption of alcohol. Unquestionably, their views are at opposite ends of the spectrum. Nonetheless, there is still room for a compromise. There is a compromise that can be beneficial to both organizations, if they are willing to make a reasonable sacrifice - allow those that are underage to drink alcohol, but alcoholic drinks that contain a low alcohol content percentage. This will allow them to exercise safe drinking practices, but it give them enough alcohol to pose a threat to themselves or to those around them. According to Infodrinks, low alcohol drinks are an alternative to every person who wants to enjoy the real flavor of a beer or the wine but without having to suffer the unpleasant consequences caused by the excessive ingestion of  Low Alcohol ). Low alcoholic drinks are much safer that regular drinks, and by implementing this solution, both Wilson 4 organizations stand to benefit. The underage will be able to make their own decisions and their guardians will have an influence on how they consume alcohol, thus satisfying mission. However, SSDP would have to give up the idea of the youth having total freedom to drink whatever they would like to. MADD, on the other hand, would have to give up being completely against the youth having alcohol under 21, but with this compromise, the underage would not be of harm to those around them. Therefore, this solution does not hinder main mission. They would also stand to benefit by implementing this solution because in doing so, they are showing the underage that they are not completely against them and that they are willing to work with those that want to consume alcohol. In addition, they may be able to get their message across much easier by sympathizing with the underage, because this has the potential to create a mutual understanding. This compromise can be further strengthened if a redesigned alcohol education system were to be put in place. This system would need to go hand in hand with the new law and assist teens in understanding the differences between the alcohol that they are allowed to drink, and the more dangerous alcohol. Most importantly, this system should allow for feedback from teens so that it is possible to gauge where they are at mentally. teen attitudes toward alcohol can provide a basis for education, prevention, and treatment programs for alcohol (Pfingsten, Kae Lee 87). In doing so, teens would be able to understand every aspect of the consumption of alcohol and be able to share their side, which is something that would work in the favor of both organizations. In order for this compromise to work, these two organizations would need to be able to make altercations to the law. MADD has already proven that they have the power to influence legislation because their campaign to eliminate drunk driving has strengthened drunk driving Wilson 5 laws in over 20 states. MADD has successfully passed major legislation aimed at stopping drunk driving. Today, nearly half of the nation (24 states) has passed an all-offender ignition interlock  Campaign Has Strengthened Drunk Driving Laws in 24 ). SSDP been as successful in having an impact on legislation, but they do have a strong influence within the schools across the nation, which would make it simple for them to introduce this revamped alcohol education system. If these two organizations can combine their efforts, this compromise becomes simple to achieve. These two organizations have very different views and ideals when it comes to how underage drinking should be handled, and these differences definitely have the potential to cause a conflict between the two. However, if they are able to make reasonable sacrifices, then this conflict can be brought to a compromise and be beneficial to both organizations. With this compromise, the youth can stop breaking the law and hiding behind closed doors when it comes to the consumption of alcohol and their parents can be the ones to educate and ensure that they are indeed safe when they come out into the open. Wilson 6 Works Cited  SSDP. Students for Sensible Drug Policy. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Pfingsten, Kae Lee. School Attitude Toward And Use of Eric, 1996, https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED375356. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Loewit-Phillips, Patricia Melody, and Abbie Goldbas. Mothers against drunk driving (MADD): history and  International Journal of Childbirth Education 28.4 (2013): 62. Print. Low Alcohol  Infodrinks. Conteneo S.L. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lowering the Drinking  SSDP. Students for Sensible Drug Policy. Web. 21 Jan. 2017 Campaign Has Strengthened Drunk Driving Laws in 24  MADD. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Paglia, Camille. Drinking Age is Past Its Time, Inc. 183.19 (2014): 22. Print. Why  MADD. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 21 Jan. 2017.