Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Conducing Subjective Stakeholders Solutions to problems arise in many different formats. There is always more than one way to reach a goal. In the space of treatment for depression, there are two stakeholders who have contradictory approaches to the methods used for treatment. THIS WAY UP is the first stakeholder who believes in using internet-delivered therapy as the remedy to treat depression. On the other hand, Bare Soul is another stakeholder who has a completely different method by using phone based therapy sessions to treat depression. While both agree on the fact that depression is a common serious issue that many face on an everyday basis. They both differ in their methods used when proving a solution. These types of differences arise due to the fact that there simply cannot be one final solution to all problems. While phone based therapy may be the solution to some, this is not the case for all. Hence, THIS WAY method is giving additional options for those who would prefer to find treatment online. The treatment of depression is a concern for both THIS WAY UP and Bare Soul. Despite their opposing views of treatment, both stakeholders share the same perspective on the effects of depressions in lives. Since both organization share a common result to depression, a compromise that may benefit both organization would be to work on additional solutions to treat depression in the comfort of their home. Home is also where much of the predisposed symptoms of depression derive. As mentioned by Thomas Schwartz and Timothy Petersen in their book, Depression: Treatment Student 2 Strategies and Management, the risk of depression in relatives of depressed probands has been substantially and significantly higher than the risk in relatives of normal controls. This is also sustained by THIS WAY UP when they state that 30% of the predisposition for depression is due to genetic influences. This is also supported by Constance L. Hammen in her book that talks about children of depressed mothers and also how depression runs deep in the family. This leads to the need for a solution which is why there are many different types of methods to solve the issue of depression. The method used by THIS WAY UP is the internet. Many individuals use the internet for just about everything in their life. From personal enjoyment to work and school. THIS WAY UP saw this as an opportunity and created an online interactive course for those who prefer not to visit with a therapist in person and could also receive treatment at any given time. Additional organizations who shares this style are 7Cups.com and Beck Institute. Both organizations also use online content help provide aid to those who suffer from depression. Beck Institute provides online workshops that their clients can work on during their own time. 7Cups is similar in the online space, however they are providing chat rooms with a therapist anytime you need it. generation is immersed in online content and most believe the internet to be a bad influence due to the large amount of content that is unpleasant. However, there is also many beneficial websites that could promote healthy living such as THIS WAY UP. Although much of our lives today has evolved around technology and being online, there are still those that do not feel that online course work to treat depression will work for them. Therefore, Bare Soul took a different approach and offers their clients secured phone conversations with therapists. Their slogan on their logo states, up, Let go, Start From time to time, everyone could use a fresh start. Individuals who suffer from anxiety and depression can schedule appointments to speak with a certified councilor and open up about their Student 3 issues so they may be able to let go and have that fresh start. They provide their clients with a counselor who also lives in the same state as their clients and provide them with the relief that are seeking. It is always easier to open up to and speak to people who do not know you personally and does not cast judgement right away. Additional organizations that share this style are better help and presto experts. Both organizations provide phone based support to their clients who suffer from mental issues like depression. Again, there are always more than one way to achieve one goal. Different methods work for different people. Since both THIS WAY UP and Bare Soul differ in the methodology that they use to help their clients who suffer from anxiety and depression, there must be some type of compromise for these two organizations. They both already focus their efforts on provide their services to client within their home. A compromise would be to interview each client and understand the needs of the client. If they are not computer savvy and would prefer a voice conversation with a certified counselor, then THIS WAY UP would receive a referral commission for referring that client over to Bare Soul. The same would go for those would do not prefer phone conversations and would like the convivence on working in an online environment. Another compromise would also be work together and find additional solutions to help solve depression. This may include mailing CDs with therapy sessions on a regular basis for the client to use while they are driving to work or at home. Additionally, since both organizations have already proven to solve the business problem in the area of treatment for depression, they both could collaborate and take their expertise to identify more possibilities and solutions to treating the mental disorder in the comfort of their clients home. Both organizations are similar in more ways than one. The goal for each stakeholder is to provide relief to those who need help professional with their depression. They both also claim Student 4 that their clients can receive the help they need from the comfort of their own homes. The two organizations could work together and create a middle party website that provides users a questionnaire about their preferences on the delivery of their treatment. At the end of the questionnaire it would redirect them to the appropriate website of the stakeholder that provides the treatment in the method the client prefers. The use of the middle website would benefit both stakeholders since they would be splitting the profits made from it, plus the clients that are directed toward them. Both organizations would then own a greater share of the market in that space. In conclusion, the two stakeholders mention both have the passion to help their clients with the mental disorder of depression. Despite having separate views on the delivery of the treatment, both stakeholders share the concern of the disorder and understand the impact of depression and anxiety in the lives of families, friends, and everyone around us. Depression leads to stress which leads to anger which results in an unhappy environment. The two stakeholders support the same cause and ideally would work together to promote a healthier lifestyle for everyone around us. Although these two stakeholders are contradicting in the methods used to treat depression, they both have common ground in the desired result for their clients. (WC: 1204) Student 5 Works Cited Schwartz, Thomas L. and Timothy Petersen. Depression. [Electronic : Treatment Strategies and Management. Boca Raton, Fla. : CRC Press, 2010., 2010. Medical psychiatry. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=cat00847a &AN=usflc.034699932&site=eds-live. Hammen, Constance L. Depression Runs in Families : The Social Context of Risk and Resilience in Children of Depressed Mothers. New York : Springer-Verlag, c1991., 1991. Series in psychopathology. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=cat00847a &AN=usflc.022052384&site=eds-live. Cvetkovich, Ann. Depression. [Electronic : A Public Feeling. Durham, NC : Duke University Press, 2012., 2012. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=cat00847a &AN=usflc.032058588&site=eds-live. Thomas-Robe, Kimberly. Anxiety and Depression : A Study of Cognitive Specificity. 1990., 1990. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=cat00847a &AN=usflc.027858215&site=eds-live. Kendall, Philip C. and David Watson. Anxiety and Depression : Distinctive and Overlapping Features. San Diego : Academic Press, c1989., 1989. Personality, psychopathology, and psychotherapy. EBSCOhost, Student 6 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=cat00847a &AN=usflc.022042282&site=eds-live. Horwitz, Allan V. Anxiety. [Electronic : A Short History. Baltimore : Johns Hopkins University Press, c2013. (Baltimore, Md. : Project MUSE, 2015), 2013. Johns Hopkins biographies of disease. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=cat00847a &AN=usflc.033788701&site=eds-live.  How To Deal With Depression and Sadness. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. https://thiswayup.org.au/how-do-you-feel/sad/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. How It  Get a phone counseling session. Web. https://bareonessoul.com/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.