Student Student 1 Instructor: Kimber Wiggs 5 March 2017 Special Needs Education Special needs education is a type of education that is set up to help students with disabilities. Education is the foundation to success, and is simply one of the most important factors in life. Special needs education has come a long way and has changed drastically from what it was many years ago. Children who had learning disabilities were not even able to go to school, or if they were they were not receiving the help that they needed. Special needs education started developing and becoming more of an issue when Brown v. Board of Education happened. Even though that case did not directly have to do with special needs education, in began to shine a light on what was going on within schools. Even after that case, special needs education still needed some help to get recognition. Public schools got to choose if they wanted to have special needs programs or not. It is crazy to think that in the students that had special needs, were not even given the right to attend school. Another law that was passed that changed special needs education was the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, in 20004. This law states that children who have learning disabilities are allowed a higher equality of education, so that they can have the best education but in the environment. This law basically says to give special needs children the best education they can receive in order to be successful. Now, there are many different programs and special needs teachers that can help students with disabilities. There are even schools designed just for kids with learning disabilities. Student 2 Today, there are many different programs and schools that kids with disabilities can be placed into. They have many different choices to choose where they will receive their education, including a general classroom, a special education classroom, or even at they own home. Obviously, things have drastically changed for students with special needs. From not being able to even receive education in the to having classrooms made just for kids with learning disabilities. If it for a lot of things would be different including the type of environment the students would be in. Deciding on where to put someone who has a disability is different for each person depending on what type of disability the person has. In one article, it says to try to place them in a general classroom with the tools that are provided for them in that classroom. There are many factors to remember while deciding on the placement, including making sure the classroom has the right tools, and the social atmosphere with the other students. In 1975, the Individual Education Plan (IEP) was developed to make sure that students with learning disabilities get the same type of education as the other students do. The IEP is a legal document that states an educational plan for students with special needs. Many people are involved with making an IEP including the student with special needs, the parents, teachers/staff, and any doctors that are involved. If someone does not follow the IEP then it can be looked at by the Court of Law. The IEP talks about the kind of services the student will get which is why it is so important and the key to the education. The IEP also discusses the strengths and weaknesses. The IEP is one of the most important laws dealing with Student 3 special needs education because it is a binding contract that discusses the educational plans and goals. In conclusion, special needs education has drastically changed over time. Students with special needs were not even allowed to attend a public school, and now there are many different programs and institutions made just for students with leaning disabilities. Works Cited Teaching Students with Special Needs: Advice for Teachers (Grades  Advice for Teachers (Grades K-12) - TeacherVision. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 March 2017. Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents -  Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents - ED.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 March 2017. What Is Special  What Is Special Education? N.p., n.d. Web. 05 March 2017.  PhDinSpecialEducationcom. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 March 2017.