Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 26 February 2017 A Proposed Solution to Women in Combat Roles Women have since the Revolutionary War been a part of the military, and since then they have been working their way to full equality within the ranks of the military. One of the final milestones of this goal is the infantry, or rather any ground combat unit. On one side, there is the Service Action Network (SWAN), an organization lobbying for full equality between men and women in uniform, who want women to have a more significant role in ground combat units. Countered to SWAN, there is the Center for Military Readiness (CMR), an organization aimed at promoting the sustained efficiency of the US military, who rather want women integrated to branches where they can better serve the nation and military without compromising standards. The result is a situation where lawmakers, as well as the military, are unsure of how far they should implement women and to what degree of handicap they should be awarded, but there are other ways of solving the situation. To maintain the current combat effectiveness and ensure that women are granted equal opportunities within the infantry, the military should initiate optional training programs to help prepare women for both the physical and mental solidity required by the units they wish to join; and, how to avoid injuries that women are prone to sustain in such units. Lobbying for women, there is SWAN, which promotes women in a multitude of ways, but regarding combat roles, their goal is to for one single physical fitness standard for both men and women, and for occupational standards that are task-oriented and gender- (What We Do: Service Women Action Network). They argue that women in the military participate in these units and that the units are in fact sought after, citing a Student 2 Congressional report that shows that since the repeal of the ground combat exclusion policy in 2013, the number of women entering these roles are increasing (Kamarck). They also point to the fact that gender integration in the Army is exceeding expectations, with more than 300 women successfully recruited or transferred into the most physically demanding career fields in (Kimmons). SWAN supports the notion that if women can successfully pass the requirements set by the military, then they should be allowed to serve with those units. By having one physical fitness test for both genders that weigh them equally, women are given the equality they sought. Alternatively, the CMR believe that although opportunity is the needs of the military and the nation must come (Mission Statement: Center for Military Readiness). Standards are kept in the military, like any other organization, for the sake of efficiency, but combat units have the downside of that if their standards drop then the likelihood of people dying increases. They cite a survey done by the Center for Naval Analysis which did an in-depth look at the Marine introduction of women to combat roles, showing both the drawbacks of forced integration, and the lack of enthusiasm the Marine Corps it. The survey shows a lot of things, but most notably is that women get hurt. Out of the 29 women who participated in the Infantry Officer Course in the Marine Corps, Marine Corps reported that 98% of the women dropped from the IOC were due to physical performance failures and one woman dropped due to (Dolfini-Reed) while 98% of the males pass. While looking at the report that SWAN uses to back their argument that women are passing the physical standards set by the military, one will notice that of all the people leaving the units that they were trying out for, 47% of women did so for medical reasons, and an additional 16% for poor physical performance, while only 22% of males dropped due to medical reasons and 0% due to poor physical performance (Kamarck). Student 3 The shared interest held by both stakeholders is that of a strong military, capable of performing the plethora of tasks allotted to it. They are committed to seeing women succeed and that their health is in order. SWAN works to see that women can feel safe in their workspace, free of harassment, and lobby to make sure that they are given equal chances at the career goals they hold. The CMR works to see that the military is strong and steadfast, and that political games and not played on the battlefield. They both agree that women serve a place in the military, and if women were as obstructed then there would be no discussion to be had. The best compromise would be to take women who would like to be in ground combat units and train them to 1: pass the same requirements as the men do, and 2: avoid the physical injuries that women are prone to sustain in such units. This would allow women to enter the units they desire without compromising the effectiveness of the units in discussion. The best example of such a group, is the Norwegian Hunter Troop. an all-female special forces group, who are training to pass the physical requirements set by the Norwegian Special Forces (Braw). The need arose from social inequality, and from the fact that most special forces units deal heavily with locals in the middle east, which is why important to be able to respect their culture and let female soldiers women and not let male soldiers touch a Muslim wife. Women have always been an important part of the military, from days serving as nurses and cooks to being shoulder to shoulder with other soldiers. Their presence on the front is even more important now, dealing with cultures where men and women speak to one- another under certain circumstances. With a unit that trains women to prepare for the challenges they will face mentally, physically, and medically, women have a better chance of enrolling in the units they desire. If the military addresses the issue correctly women can go down paths in the military that are yet to be seen, and achieve a many great things. If the situation is hurled back and forth between yes and no, the only product left is a lower quality Student 4 of military than what stands today. If both stakeholders work to promote an equal fitness test for the genders to take, and lobby to train women for what they have to expect, the military can only benefit. Student 5 Works Cited Braw, Elisabeth. Foreign Affairs. 8 February 2016. Web. 25 February 2017. Dolfini-Reed, Michelle, Elizabeth Bradley, Bradley Dickey, Yancey Hrobowski, and Jessica Wolfanger. Assessment of Changes in Perspectives During the GCE  2015. Web. Kamarck, Kristy N. Women in Combat: Issues for  CRS Report. 2016. Web. Kimmons, Sean. HIgher-Than-Expected Number of Women Joining Combat Arms. 19 December 2016. Web. 5 March 2017. Mission Statement: Center for Military Readiness. n.d. Web. 24 February 2017. What We Do: Service Women Action Network. 31 January 2017. Web. 24 February 2017.