Gregory Portner !1 Gregory Portner 02/28/17 Adam Carter ENC 1102 How Rhetorical Appeals Help End Drunk Driving The permission to consume alcohol is a big responsibility that has spark a debate on what the legal drinking age should be. This discussion started in 1984 when the National Minimum Drinking Age Act was imposed. Since then, Mother Against Drunk Driving, one of the biggest stakeholders in this debate, has been using rhetorical appeals to put an end to drunk driving. They have created thousands of different type of images to educate the public about the dangers of drunk driving. This essay will analyze 2 images to interpret how Mother Against Drunk Driving use the four parts of rhetorical appeal. Mothers Against Drunk Driving uses different rhetorical appeals such as Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos to warn and ultimately tragedies that arise from driving under the influence of alcohol. Almost every nation has a legal drinking age of 18 but the United States changed its legal drinking age from 18 to 21, by passing the 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act, which forced every state to change their legal drinking age to 21, or they would lose 10% of their federal highway funding. This law was implemented because of the continuous drunk driving fatal accidents from the ages 18-20. Mother Against Drunk Driving is one of the most influential organizations in the fight against drunk driving. This non-profit organization was started in 1980 originally named Mother Against Drunk Driver which was change in 1983 to Mother Against Drunk Driving (MADD 2017). Since their involvement, according to the National High Safety Administration website has multiple graphs and statistics on their website showing that from Gregory Portner !2 1980 to 2007, the percentage of fatal car crashes due to alcohol for 18-21-year-olds went from 45% to almost 20% (NHSA 2014) Their current missions stamens is end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes, and prevent underage (MADD 2017). Since 1980, Mother Against Drunk Driving has been designing numerous images, each with better rhetorical appeals than the previous ones. Ethos is an important rhetorical appeal used in advertisements that try to build trust with the reader by showing its credibility. Mother Against Drunk Driving establishes trust with their advertisement by displaying the logos of other sponsors. The advertisement with the ringing phone, different famous logos such as: TAXI, AllState and Real Madrid C.F. (Soccer Team) are all used to create credibility. All these big companies have their own respective business but by donating money towards Mother Against Drunk Driving, they are showing that they believe in their cause, making individuals more likely to support the MADD cause as well. Furthermore, on the Mother Against Drunk Driving website, it states that they are also supported by the NFL and Uber, which both are well-known organizations with millions of customers. The NFL is known for supporting non-profit organizations that help better the community and as a result, is greatly helping MADD gain credibility. On the other hand, in the advertisement with the coffin, it can be observed that famous actors such as Wentworth Miller, the main actor of prison break, are used establish trust with the audience. Throughout the TV show he plays an admirable character and by having him in an advertisement, the audience can automatically relate to image and trust what it says. Lastly, in both advertisement, under the MADD logo, there is the name in French showing that they are an international non-profit organization. As a viewer, it is a lot easier to trust what the message of an advertisement says if the association is view Gregory Portner !3 internationally as opposed to only nationally. After establishing credibility, it is important that the picture makes sense and is logical. Logos analyzes how the MADD uses logic to convince the viewer that their image makes sense and that their argument is valid. In the coffin picture, it says: ROUND WITH MY which can be interpreted that the men carrying the coffin are friends with the man or women that died. It can also be interpreted that the person who passed away died from a drunk driving accident. Furthermore, it can also be inferred ay because all of the men have head down and a facial expression of guilt, that they could have had a chance from stopping their friends from drunk driving. Logically, this image evokes a thought in the viewers head about the next time they are faced with the option to stop one of their friends from drunk driving. In the other image, logos is used by displaying the number 911 to show the importance of stopping someone from drunk driving. 911 is only called in emergency situation and logically Mother Against Drunk Driving have associated the seriousness of 911 to the seriousness of drunk driving. Furthermore, by saying Impaired it is literally commanding the whoever is viewing the image to stop what they are doing and call 911 to avoid a bad situation. This idea of being commanded to Impaired is backed up by both using 911 as an authoritative figure and the red light on the phone as a sign of emergency. Lastly, the font used for phone picture is all pixels, which is indirectly telling people that to stop someone from drunk driving you should call 911 instead of trying to stop them yourself. All these pictures do not only make sense but they evoke emotions out of the viewers. Pathos is the appeal to emotion and MADD uses it to affect the way you feel in order convince you not to drink drive and stop people from drinking and driving. Funerals are Gregory Portner !4 associated with sad or depressing emotions and by looking at an image with a funeral, it automatically makes the viewer more emotional. As previously said, it is logical that by the saying ROUND WITH MY that the men carrying the coffin are bringing their friend to the grave. The picture uses a common phrase associated with drinking and having fun with a funeral scene. By using the word it makes the reader connect the picture to his or her personal life by imaging if that was their friend in the coffin. This will evoke an emotional reaction out of the reader which will influence them to stop someone from drunk driving in the future. The colors used int the coffin picture are all dark and gray which are commonly associated with sad feelings. Overall, the picture is associating the dangers of drunk driving to death to evoke an emotional response from the viewer to stop someone from drunk driving. In the other picture, MADD is using the color red on the phone to make the reader feel a sense of urgency. An article written by David Johnson explains that red is most emotionally intense color, red stimulates a faster heartbeat and (Johnson 2013). Red is associated with danger and urgency which only reinforces the importance of calling 911 to stop someone from drunk driving. Kairos pertains to the use of time to help an image get a point across. In the picture with the coffin, MADD is using kairos to try to make you feel responsible if you did not stop your friend from driving at the right time and place. The picture almost makes you feel bad that the men carrying the coffin had a chance at some point in time to stop their friends from drunk driving and dying. On the other hand, the phone picture is using the 911 to evoke a sense of urgency in the viewer to stop someone from drunk driving. The word on the phone is furthering the importance of urgency from stopping someone from drunk driving. Gregory Portner !5 Mother Against Drunk Driving use rhetorical appeals through the advertisement to put an end to drunk driving. With the use of Ethos, the images manage to establish trust with the viewer by using credibility. With the use of Logos, MADD creates a logical argument which makes the viewer question the next time they have the chance to stop someone or themselves from drunk driving. With the use of Pathos, the non-profit organization manages to use emotions to relate their images to a personal situation in hopes that the viewer will stop their friend from drunk driving. Finally, with the use of Kairos, the pictures can evoke a sense of urgency in the reader which is also associated with how important it is to act fast in order to save life. Mother Against Drunk Driving does an excellent job to combine all four rhetorical appeals to hopefully one day save life. Gregory Portner !6 Work Cited WebMD, Sept. 2017, http://www.madd.org/about-us/mission/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS). 2014. Washington D.C. https://www-fars.nhtsa.dot.gov/Crashes/CrashesAlcohol.aspx. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. David Johson. 2013, http://www.pschologystudy.com/spot/colors1.html. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2016