Zhou 1 Guangzheng Zhou Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 Spring 2017 January 29 th Graphene Is Still on the Way Graphene is described as miracle material of future by its especial splendid physicochemical properties which can be used in tons of different fields, including electronics, paint, military, generate electricity and many so on. By experimental statistics, graphene has almost 180 times higher electron mobility than silicon, which might replace almost all semiconducting silicic chip we using now and promote electron technology into next era! More astonishing, although graphene is the strongest material human ever had, about 130,000mpa, 50times stronger than Maraging steel; graphene has great flexibility:1.0 modulus, close to polypropylene plastic! One of the most interesting imagination of graphene application in future is that people would finally have a bendable smart phone or person computer: imagine you are playing a prank -- put your white paper-like phone into a large stack of print paper or some dark corner which makes he or she has to spend whole afternoon to find it. How interesting will it be! By many propagandas on this famous material of which you may have heard, it sound as we are going to get touch with graphene product soon! But when will those dreams or conceives exactly come true? In fact, although the structure of graphene has already been identified in early 20 th century by V. and P. Haenni; but until 2006, Andre Geim and Kostya Zhou 2 Novoselov first time extracted pure single-layer graphene form carbolic crystal (which is known as graphite.) Unfortunately, just as Dr. Novoselov mentioned in his roadmap of graphene article: will (probably) be used only after The mass production of graphene still on the stage of theory or laboratorial application. And possible practical applications are still confronted with tons of problems and challenges. Although there are thousands of studies were made each year and even still constant increasing, our longing is still farther than we thought. In this composition, the research question is: Why it takes so long to bring the graphene product come true? Zhou 3 Annotated Bibliography Ball, Philip. expect graphene to perform miracles Philip  Opinion. Guardian News and Media, 28 Dec. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The article first makes a review on history of material around us: from the textiles to the synthetic plastics we using now, then introduces properties of graphene. where had huge competitions across international graphene researches. The article also assert that the application of graphene in future will change many things just as plastics and rubber did, however, there still many things that graphene achieve. By the example of high-temperature superconductor still move into our daily life, author argues that we put too much unjustifiable expectation on only one material. Although the article wrote by British author and the article is more like a news for public, this article gives a valuable reference on international graphene research situation: multiple research institutions work separately or together on graphene and gained progress. The author is a professional science writer for the Guardian News. On the other hand, author use economic and historical facts to support his opinion, which opens another gate of view on the graphene. Although examples which author mentions were not strict nor professional, those examples expand outlook. The advantages and disadvantages which author mentioned will be good references. More important: the article provide some helpful forecast for future application on graphene: graphene needs time to develop and integrate our live safely. Zhou 4 Brooks, Michael.  New Scientist 204.2736 (2009): 48-51. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. First, the article recall the history of the carbon-related matter around us: form greenhouse gas carbon dioxide to carbon nanotube and sheets. After a short introduction of characteristic: a single layer of carbon arranges a chicken wire like shape. Graphene has many unique properties: great electrical conductivity, super strong tensile strength and almost transparent. More compelling, since 2004, graphene first time be produced in laboratory, researches increasing very fast in graphene studying. Mass production is possible for graphene soon. By its great electrical conductivity, graphene might replace copper and silicon in electronic application. Also, due to special optic property, it is very suitable for sensor application as well; however, there still have several challenges: how to solve some technologies problems? And how to achieve manufacturing for required form? The article cited several recent solutions of the time, however, just as Dr. Grim side: far as is concerned, we Just as the website shows: Michael Brooks is an author, journalist and broadcaster who holds Ph.D. in quantum physics. Obviously, the article has good creditability. This article was published on New Scientist in 2009, as we saw, this article present great expectation on graphene application, especially in Electronic field application. For my research question, the article provided the argument that applicating was still Zhou 5 Dempsey, Paul. Flat Out For The  Engineering & Technology (17509637) 3.19 (2008): 34-37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article begins with a forecast by quotes some sayings form Professor Andre Geim who is one of the graphene research parent. He claimed the researches that have done so far in graphene was just declaring the beginning of the graphene. Then, article introduces the way he used to strip graphene form graphite and properties of the graphene. Third, article mentions it is hard to mass produce pure graphene in industrial scale. However, if solved this problem, the future of graphene application will almost be unpredictable. The using of graphene in electronics also full with potential, its glamour attract lots of enterprises and institutions. The future application will need much support from them, and extend broader and broader. The author in this article is a professional writer for Engineering & Technology, also the magazine where this article was published; the Engineering & Technology is a Science magazine. This article interview Dr. Andre Geim who was one for the Nobelist by his research in graphene, to ask some questions about graphene developing. Obviously, this interview report which has great creditability, even though it was published in 2008, it still helpful; especially this article quotes many sayings form professor Andre directly, which can be quoted in compositions to support argument because of his authority. Several examples mentioned in the article offered different viewpoints. For example, the article mentioned gallium arsenide represented a successful material in commercialization with a short time, which is a successful precedent of new material application. Also, other objective perspectives made by the Zhou 6 professor in this article that provided graphene developing situation in both research and commercialization are very helpful for my research question. J., A. Small  Entrepreneur 42.12 (2014): 70. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. After a short introduce of graphene, the distinctive properties and possible applications that might come true in some day. By emphasize its great potential, article indicate graphene are now under both official academic and commercial support greatly. Internationally, from Britain to South Korea has come up with their special theory and application in some fields. Company like IBM also working on solve some graphene technical problems on the field of electronics. Startups companies also rising on graphene research, article hints they might become very contributing on the developing and promoting of graphene. Also, article mentions graphene is an environmental friendly material which can reduce the pollution. Unfortunately, due to the abbreviation, it almost impossible to find who the author is, which also makes the article distrustful. The article form the Entrepreneur magazine, obviously, the article focuses on economic application in commercialization, which provides a different view point on the rising of graphene compare with other articles. This magazine also ensures the creditability; and accurate terms, data and statistic numbers promote the creditability as well. The expectation on graphene is harder than any other new materials, presented by its market price constant rising for years, which is a supportive point for my research question. Article also list shortcoming with its Zhou 7 Which proved the main problem that needs to be surmounted for graphene commercialization. Can also be supportive for my research question. Novoselov, K.S., et al. A Roadmap For  Nature 7419 (2012): 192. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article summarizes main characteristics and properties of the Graphene, shows the graphene own high strength, high stretchability, great electron and heat conductibility and distinctive spectrum of absorbance etc. Than come up with some possible application in many different aspects such as paint, computer technology (including electronics technologies and new possible materials can be used on computer) generate electricity and even disruptive technologies. Article also includes several technologies which were used in produce industrial graphene, after complex but professional descriptions on (mainly) Liquid phase and thermal exfoliation, Chemical vapour deposition and Synthesis on SiC. Article started to describe and analyze how will graphene be helpful in the field of electronics, Photonics, Composite materials, paints and coating, Energy generation and storage, Graphene for sensors and metrology, and finally, Bioapplications. The main author is Dr. K. S. Novoselov, who was the famous Nobelist by his research on the graphene. Obviously, this sign on the article makes it full with credibility and authority on the field of graphene studying. Also by list detailed experimental data and large amount of different cites provided tons of helpful information relate to my question. The article also answers my questions: preparation of industrial graphene does Zhou 8 not hard and even has already developed several different methods, and it is still developing for better and cheaper method to gain purer quality. More than that, this source provides lots of basic characteristics and possible application of the graphene which can be quoted in to composition directly. Segal, Michael. Selling Graphene By The  Nature Nanotechnology 4.10 (2009): 612. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. After a short introduction on present situation on commercial produce graphene, article begins with another introduction on the modern applications of graphene, including Composites and electrodes. Article also mentions there were many cross-generations of companies were attracted by potential. The definition of graphene was extended in manufacturing industry, which normally are multilayer of laboratorial graphene due to the difficulty and cost. After a short review on the development form 19 th century to nowadays, author mentions that it is important to protect the Intellectual property and keep successes in graphene research. Article also mentions other carbon nanotechnologies such as nanotubes and nanoplatelets. At the end, article argues that, for become successful in commercialization, the ascertainment on applications should always precede over finding the way to mass product. Author has very little information, however, by searching result on google shows he wrote lots of nanotechnology-related articles which shows he might be a professional writer or expert in the field of nanotechnology. This article was published on Nature Nanotechnology in 2009, still with credible information. The article analyses graphene Zhou 9 promoting situation by referential interviews form some nanotechnology business leaders. To surprise, on the headway to graphene commercialization, the major challenge is not mass production, but process graphene to its applicable product. This article with abundant evidences proves on the developing of graphene; how to apply graphene should be the higher concept than how to manufacturing graphene. Taghioskoui, Mazdak. Trends In Graphene  Materials Today 12.10 (2009): 34-37. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article first cites a saying form Professor Richard Feynman in 1959 to express nanotechnologies and the application on graphene will bring a great change to the world. Then, after a short introducing on structure and properties, the article analyses and assumes that by the reason of graphene is probably going to replace the role of silicon in future. A large numbers of increasing relative research publications showed rising of interest. The funds and grants used provided same result, too. Article mentions the methods of productions as well. The post processing problems also be introduced, for example, the band-gap between graphene and other materials. Also, the application in different fields such as stored energy and electronic applications; fabrication of chemical sensors, films for solar cells, liquid crystal devices and using on electromagnetic devices are also introduced. At last, the article indicates that although graphene has great potential, practical commercialization is still far for us. Graphs in the article provide some helpful understanding on structure of graphene, increasing of relative publications and different methods for graphene production. Zhou 10 Author is an expert in electronics, with degree of Ph.D and is being employed by Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in the Rice University. Clearly, his academic authority shows the article is reliably. This article is published on the Material Today in 2009, despite is relative old article, things mentioned in the article are still mostly reliable; the main idea is very helpful for my research question: graphene is a powerful material but still need time to overcome several challenges so that graphene can finally come true into our life.