Running head: DEATH PENALTY 1 Is the Death Penalty Effective? Demetria Washington University of South Florida DEATH PENALTY 2 Is the Death Penalty Effective? In society, majority of Americans support the death penalty. They believe it serves justice for the family of the victims and reduces the number of people contained in prisons. However, these supporters take into account specific details that come along with the death penalty such as the cost of executions, the amount of time it takes to complete these trials, and where the money comes from that covers the costs. These are just some of the many troubles that come along with capital punishment. Many people believe that the death penalty should be used for extraordinary heinous crimes, or when it meets a set of requirements that qualifies when someone should be executed. In a democracy, where majority rules, establishing the effectiveness of capital punishment can become quite difficult especially when taking into account of how it affects the economy overall. Therefore the research question becomes how effective is the death penalty economically? DEATH PENALTY 3 Annotated Bibliography Johnson, M. (2014, May 13). Death penalty. CQ Researcher. Retrieved January 31, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/ In Capital Punishment Be Abolished in , the article explained that there are many problems that are associated with the death penalty such as the possibility of putting innocents to death. There also has to be consideration about the expensive costs of capital punishment and its effects of using non-administered drugs on death row inmates. Inmates are passing away slower than anticipated with the drugs the states have replaced from other pharmacies. According to the article, Clayton locket, a man who originates from Oklahoma, was executed by lethal injection which should have been a quick death. Yet, the drug collapsed his vein and he died 10 minutes later. case is just one example of what could go wrong. There is a shortage of lethal drugs for all death row inmates because manufacturers are refusing to sell them for death purposes or have stopped making the drug. Therefore, money is being spent to house inmates until further notice which could take up to a couple years. of death row inmates are falsely accused of committing according to a study conducted by the National Academy of Sciences (Johnson 2014). 10% of homicides crimes, including mass shootings, are committed by untreated mentally ill individuals who are given sympathy as claimed by the Stanley Medical Research Institute and Nonprofit Treatment Advocacy Center. States are losing earnings by spending money on drugs for the death penalty that give the full medicinal effect it should have. Therefore states will have to continue to disperse financial gains in order to buy more of the drugs to increase its effect on prisoners. This shows how the death penalty increases debt economically by having to continue to purchase more and more of these drugs. Michelle Johnson, the author, is a journalist in Indianapolis also DEATH PENALTY 4 written pieces on prescription drugs and reforming juvenile justice. Johnson worked as an editor and was pronounced the first editorial manager for the Boston Globe. She has taught many workshops for professional journalists and student training programs internationally for more than 15 years. She has substantial experience in writing and editing which shows that she is a reliable person to get information from. Jost, K. (2005, September 23). Death penalty controversies. CQ Researcher, 15, 785-808. Retrieved February 17, 2017 from http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ In states impose moratoriums on it explained that congress passed a law limiting death row inmates from challenging their sentencing or convictions because of the overwhelming amount of death row appeals. The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA) allows state inmates to file for a federal habeas corpus request after all state proceedings are finished in which they are given a one year deadline. DNA exonerations have proven to everybody that there are far more innocent persons in our criminal justice system than anyone had Conveyed Barry Scheck, a DNA defense lawyer from New York. In Tennessee a jury convicted a man of the murder of his neighbor because he was a sex offender and the blood type of his semen matched the crime scene. DNA later determined that the semen did not come from him but the husband who confessed to his neighbors that he killed his wife. The federal court still refused to give the wrongfully convicted man a chance to claim his innocence. Families of the innocent people that have been put to death will want memorials for their loved ones and compensation for their suffering. The government would have to deal with these repercussions in order to satisfy the families, money will be spent to accommodate the families for additional expenses such as funeral costs and psychological damages that may have occurred DEATH PENALTY 5 due to their loss within the family. Kenneth Jost has many articles related to the death penalty and Supreme Court controversies. He is an associated editor who graduated from Georgetown and Harvard, the author of the Supreme Court Yearbook and editor of the Supreme Court A-Z. Jost, K. (2010, November 19). Death penalty debates. CQ Researcher, 20, 965-988. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from In the article Capital Punishment Kenneth Jost states that prosecutors are less likely to recommend the death penalty because of the costs associated with capital punishment, sentencing and post proceedings. These costs can add up fairly quickly. The delay between sentencing and executions are also risk factors and worries that the jurors have. Most jurors fear that they will send an innocent person to be executed. Although capital punishment is favored by majority of the people, it is declining as decades pass. Capital murder cases costs more than non-capital murder cases. costs $90,000 more per inmate on death row than imprisonment at a maximum security (Jost 2010). In a Kansas study performed by the California Commission, a capital trial costs $1.2 million compared to $700,000 for a non-capital murder trial. They also estimated that the death penalty adds $51 million in yearly costs for appeals and federal proceedings. The amount of money spent for additional lawyers to speed the processes of any challenges the cases come to face with is another cost to keep in mind. Housing of inmates raises the prices of capital punishment as well. This source provides proof that the death penalty has a negative effect on its economy financially. The costs are substantially too high and the money that is being spent for executions could be used for greater good of our society. Kenneth Jost, the author of Capital Punishment is a graduate from Harvard and Georgetown Law Center. He is also a professor at Georgetown and he was an active member of the CQ Researcher team, which won the American DEATH PENALTY 6 Bar Association Silver Gavel Award in 2002. His work related to the death penalty include Penalty (2005) and the Death (2001). Katel, P. (2016, June 14). Death penalty. CQ researcher. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/ As was stated in Its Days pharmaceutical companies are refusing to allow their drugs to be used for purposes revolving around the death penalty. Lethal injection is the main execution method in the United States. For instance Pfizer, a leading pharmaceutical company, has denied prisons access to their drugs. Therefore, some states have passed laws allowing other types of executions but the products being used on the prisoners are unidentified and not closely analyzed by the FDA. For example, a man from Missouri was put to death by an unknown drug which violated a state law. Several laws are being passed to protect company names who attribute to the death penalty. In addition, death sentencing has been declared as unconstitutional by the high court which results in jurors being required to vote 10 to 2 on a death sentence. Baumgartner, a professor at UNC, conducted research that showed in the states of Louisiana, Florida, Missouri and Ohio that African Americans who killed whites, specifically white women, were more often given death sentences than those that killed other African Americans. They were rarely given a death sentence. According to his data, no white person has been executed for the killing of a black person in the state of Florida. Even though the number of executions worldwide are decreasing by the decade, the U.S. is ranked 5th nationwide in the number of executions after China, Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The source relates to the research question because it examines how prisons have a high demand for these drugs yet a low supply of them which causes an economic unbalance for the institutions. Pharmaceutical companies and their drugs are being hindered because these DEATH PENALTY 7 companies are refusing to accommodate the death penalty. By doing so, they are losing possible profit that could be made and used to increase their businesses. Peter Katel is a CQ Researcher contributing writer that graduated from the University of New Mexico. CQ research provides in depth coverage of important issues today. He has also written sources for the International Social Services and the World Bank. Katel previously worked as a Latin American bureau chief for Time Magazine and as a reporter in New Mexico for 11 years. Kiener, R. (2015, July 7). Death penalty. CQ researcher. Retrieved February 17, 2017 from http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ According to the article, opponents of capital punishment continue to gain it expressed that the death penalty was an example of government waste. any other program was as inefficient and as costly as this has been, we would have gotten rid of it a long time says state senator Colby Coash. Duke University professor, Phillip J. Cook, showed that North Carolina could save $11 million dollars by abolishing the death penalty. Death penalty opponents have religious and moral objections due to the punishment being inhumane. The article presented the fact that 1 in 25 innocent people are sentenced to death row. A democratic governor, Jack Markell, discovered that the FBI forensic specialists were lying about evidence found in death penalty cases which quickly changed his views on the issue and called capital punishment instrument of imperfect It was also mentioned that there is a more noticeable racial divide on the death penalty than political division. This source displays that the death penalty negatively effects the economy. Capital punishment is causing debt in states which harms America as a whole. The death penalty an economically effective way to punish individuals. Robert Keiner has a masters of Arts degree in Asian studies from Hong Kong University and a masters of philosophy in International relations DEATH PENALTY 8 from Cambridge. His work has been featured in the Washington Post and London Sunday Times. He reports on international issues, works as an editor and is an award winning writer. Weinberg, S. (2009, April 17). Wrongful convictions. CQ Researcher, 19, 345-372. Retrieved January 31, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/ DNA evidence and laws have been put into action to prevent wrongful convictions of innocent people in relation to the Is Overhaul of the Criminal Justice System Attorneys believe wrongful convictions are reoccurring problems and there should be a change in the justice system. On the other hand, prosecutors and the police believe that there is nothing wrong with the system because the percentage of wrongfully convicted individuals is relatively low. The government or state does not provide donations that are needed to help unjustified prisoners pay for their cases to be investigated in order to possibly prove their innocence. This revenue is funded by individuals that are looking to help an innocent man or woman. Tax payers pay for these convictions of innocent people. Money is wasted on these cases when the real perpetrator has not yet been found. Costs of legal representation, appeals, proceedings and incarcerations increase additionally because the system has to compensate for the inconvenience of the individual and their family. Then they have to spend more money to find the real criminal and sentence them all over again causing a financial burden for the tax payer and economy, this is how the source relates to my research question. Steven Weinberg is a freelance, independent author. He earned his bachelors and masters in journalism at the University of Missouri where he also teaches about criminal justice. In addition, he served as an executive director of investigative reporters and editors. Since he studied and teaches criminal justice he has a personal connection with the judicial system therefore he has plenty of evidence and information to share about the death penalty. Also, his executive position over reporters and DEATH PENALTY 9 editors that investigate capital punishments shows the power, supremacy and importance he holds in this specific area of study.