Haley Jordan Derisi 3-5-17 Historically the military was a job, it was not until World War I women were allowed into the US Military. Even though women were allowed into the military they were mainly nurses as they were seen to not be fit for combat. Today certain organization hold this belief that women are not fit for the military; on the other hand, certain feminist groups see women as being equal to men and they are fit for the military. Although these two organizations have battling viewpoints, they do share similar goals such as service, unity, and support; the fact that they are serving the same country could possibly be enough to bring them together. The first organization supports women having an active role in the US Military they call themselves Service Women Action Network (SWAN). The mission they attempt to voice is to provide support, unity, and service to all women serving the US. targeted audience is extremely narrow to all present, and service women. They claim to be the be the only organization for service the perspective of SWAN is they want service women to have the same benefits, maybe more, as service men have. The organization has a strong bias towards a matriarchal society and the idea that women are just as important as men in the military. SWAN argues that women are just as fit for the military and to have a successful military woman need to be integrated among all branches and fields not just nursing like it was in World War I. SWAN argues to ensure fairness and proof women should be integrated into combat that there should only be single physical fitness for both genders. Not only does SWAN argue women need to be integrated but harassment ad assault need to not be allowed and enforced more efficacy. They claim to ensure women troops are better protected the military needs to have victims and not fear reporting a case. The SWAN activist group is all about the women troops and how the military needs to change after being established a long time and confirm to desire. They hold an extremely biased point of view and rhetoric that only favors females. The second organization is called War on the Rocks; their mission is to support men in the military and prove why women do not fit. They claim that only men can endure the physical hardship that goes along with combat. The biggest argument they have is health-related consequences and sexual violence against women in the military. The stakeholder claims that women are good for types of missions, especially special but that women alongside men is not a good idea. Having a mixed military will cause certain male/female interation issues that occur on a daily basis but instead in a war zone. The organization claims that women in the military will have no positive effects and thus since no positives effects will happen they be allowed. A compromise to this issue is an organization that supports all US troops. Since the militaty is a nationalistic organization the mission of the organization should be to unify and protect the freedom of America. Having a common goal of serving their country will help unify the two stakeholders Inconclusion bot