ALSHAMSI 1 Hamdan Alshamsi Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 03-05-2017 Global Warming What we observe today, the sudden change of temperature, long summer, and short winter. All weather conditions have been changes since the phenomenon of global warming started. Global warming is considered as a threat to the future of the world because not only humans are affected by it but also the animals and plants. This article will discuss the temperature changes happened because of global warming, the changes in a hydro cycle because temperature change leads to the fast evaporation of ocean water in the air, and finally, the extinction of reptiles specifically lizards. Collins, et al. in his article elaborate the first impact of climate change and temperature rise by quoting the example of Pacific region specifically the Pacific Ocean and El Nino Southern Oscillation. Moreover, a phenomenon of the increase in temperature that results in overheating of oceanic water surface. Tropical Eastern Trade winds carrying enough heat to cause the overheating in ocean surface continues to blow along the central regions that cause more rise in temperature because of massive evaporation from the sea. Southward become less severs in all this process. Similarly, other oceans also face such situations because this climate change is separating overall the world. Collins further anticipated that in near future weather conditions would be affected more negatively if the same process continues. This will further rise the risks. (Collins 393) . In 2006 article Responses of the Hydrological Cycle to Global Held and Brian further explained these changes in weather conditions by Oceanic steam by using precipitation models and the atmospheric conditions on different levels. According to their research very important consequence of the increase in lower- tropospheric water is the increase in horizontal vapor transport within the ALSHAMSI 2 Precipitation continues to increase in the lower troposphere, heat decrease. So, the change in temperature is relevant to the change in lowest 2 KM of troposphere because there is where the massive amount of water vapors stay that is why even a slight change of heat in atmosphere and ocean will lead to the change of weather conditions (Held, Brian 5691-5692). The question remains that how this temperature change is linked to the extinction of reptiles especially lizards. The answer is simple. Most of the species are dependent on temperature. A particular temperature is required for them to be living in comfortable conditions. Low temperature as well as high-temperature results in the death of lizards, so because the global warming phenomenon is affecting temperature the most so, lizards are directly affected by these changes. According to an article of Lizard Diversity by Climate Change and Altered Thermal by Sinervo et al, research on 48 Mexican lizards on 200 different sites on different times proved this thesis about rise in temperature and extinction of lizards. Since 1975, 12% of local lizard population has gone extinct with only 4% in 1975. With the same rate of rise in temperature and extinction rate of lizards, researchers predicted that by the end of 2080 local extinction will reach 39% and worldwide 20% lizards will face the same fate as local lizards. extinction projections were validated with local extinctions observed from 1975 to 2009 for regional biotas on four other continents, suggesting that lizards have already crossed a threshold for extinctions caused by climate (Sinervo 894). Boyle emphasizes on the same situation with another perspective. He provides evidence that, even if the temperature continues to rise with 3% per year, this will be a slight change, but with the same rate in next 100 years the temperature will rise to such amount, that the reptiles dependent on temperature will not be able to reproduce, their reproduction system will be affected severely. Moreover, without the system of reproduction, they will cease from the existence. This means that the slow production rate of reptiles in current years can lead to the zero percentage of a generation process in next 100 years (Boyle 35).So, there are two possibilities here, about the extinction of lizards. First is the natural death of lizards by the change of temperature, in this case, lizards will simply not be able to adapt the changing environment conditions, this will cause their extinction. Second is the difficulty in reproduction. ALSHAMSI 3 In conclusion, observe these evidence from researches, a need of the time that measures should be taken to stop these possibilities to happen in future. These are the reptiles that are living in this world a long time before the humans. Many species in the world need the safe; lizards are one of them. Humans are causing global warming with their unnatural activities; they must understand the process of global warming and how it is leading towards the extinction of certain species. Then try to take certain measure to ensure the safety of these endangered species. ALSHAMSI 4 Works Cited Boyle, Maria, et al. Dispersal and climate warming determine range shift in model reptile  Ecological Modelling, vol. 32, no. 8, 2016, pp. 34-43. Collins, Mat, et.al. Impact of global warming on the tropical Pacific Ocean and El  Nature Geoscience, vol. 3, no. 6, 2010, pp. 391-397. Held, Isaac M., and Brian J. Soden. Robust responses of the hydrological cycle to global  Journal of Climate, vol. 19, no. 21, 2006, pp. 5686-5699. Sinervo, Barry, et al. Erosion of lizard diversity by climate change and altered thermal  Science, vol. 328, no. 5980, 2010, pp. 894-899.