Arterberry 1 Project 2 intermediate draft The Black Lives Matter movement has gained some major popularity within recent years. Although the movement lacks an overall leader or central base, it does have one unifying goal and message. According to the official Black Lives Matter website, the BLM movement is meant to support diversity and bring light to those very important issues that are looked over both in the media and in everyday life. The two visuals appeal to Kairos, pathos and logos. The first appealing more strongly to pathos and Kairos, and the second appealing more towards logos. The visual aids help to make the BLM movements goals and message more real and are some of the best examples for doing so. The first picture requires very little reading or education to understand. It depicts a black woman seemingly peacefully sitting in a park or just a patch of grass. In her hand is a sign that contains a check list. The check list reads: black, with the later remaining unchecked. The black background and white lettering forces the audience to be drawn to, and read the sign. Once the sign is processed it immediately appeals to the pathos. The sign is very concise and that is what makes it so controversial. It yells that police brutality and inequality regarding overall safety is very real a prevalent. A message that Cynthia Lee agrees with: and Latinos constitute only thirty percent of the United States population but make up fifty-six percent of the inmates in prisons and jails across the the United States Supreme to turn a blind eye to race and the possibility that racial may contribute to the decisions that are made by (Making Black and Brown Lives Matter: Incorporating Race into the Criminal Procedure Curriculum, abstract). This simple message represents the argument that has caused many riots, marches, and overall civil disobedience within recent years which makes it more powerful. Arterberry 2 The simple sign alone is powerful enough to cause much conversation and at the very least a little discomfort. The second part to this image: the woman is what make this image even more intriguing. She sits comfortably as if she knows the impact that her message will have on the audience. clear to see that she supports the black lives matter movement or at the very least the advancement of black people. She wears a tribal style head wrap, Africa shaped earrings, and a shirt that clearly reads at the top. Her appearance and demeanor adds to the feeling of discomfort that the image gives the audience. She seems to say know you like it but here The second visual aid is much more complicated to understand. In it we see the typical Black Lives Matter logo with its usual loud yellow background and bold lettering. Above the logo is a mask. This mask is the focal point or most interesting part of the image because of its message. The image of the mask comes from the popular show Mr. Robot. In the show the mask is used to conceal the identity of the main character and leader of a rebel group called FSociety: Elliot. He broadcasts himself wearing the mask every time him and his group of technology hackers hack into a monopolizing company called E Corp, which is cast as the enemy for purposes of the show. The presences of the mask above the BLM logo could be interpreted in many ways. In the show the mask is worn because Elliot want to be caught, but also because he wants the movement to be picked up and carried on by regular citizens. Basically, his goal is to bring more people to his cause while never being identified as its leader, much like the Black Lives Matter movement has been doing. The overall image appeals to the logos because it proves and assures the audience that BLM does not and will not have a leader, something that the creators intended it to do. Arterberry 3 The image could also be interpreted to have a negative message. Some would argue that the presence of the mask could be a clear sign that the Black Lives Matter movement is blatantly saying that it is a terrorist group. Inarguably FSociety parallels many aspects of the BLMM. In the show FSociety is called a terrorist group who are dangerous rebels with no control and too much power. Nay-sayers have argued that the parallel between the two strategies would be an obvious sign to dismantle and discredit the movement. A strategy that Louis Hoffman and associates claim to be having positive impact: relying on decentralized leadership and utilizing social media and it can be recognized that the Black Lives Matter movement is providing a healthy cultural critique and creative use of pain, anger, and suffering to advocate for human dignity and positive cultural The two images presented are very powerful and both carry a heavy message. They are both very simple in looks but carry a whole story behind them. The first image effectively makes the audience think, while the second image assures followers that this movement is for the people and has no underlying motive. They require the audience to take a second and think about what the message is and what it means to them. why they are the most appropriate representations for the Black Lives Matter movement. The whole goal of the BLMM is to get viewer uncomfortable, interested, stirred up, and scared about the current state of affairs, because the current state of affairs is unacceptable. Arterberry 4 Arterberry 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Louis, et al. An Perspective on Black Lives Matter and Contemporary Protest  Journal of Humanistic Psychology, vol. 56, no. 6, Nov. 2016, pp. 595-611. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0022167816652273. Smith, Kerry. United States: Black Lives Matter Protests Erupt over New Police  Green Left Weekly, no. 1101, 2016, p. 19. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsihs&A N=196911684482254&site=eds-live. Hooker, Juliet. Black Lives Matter and the Paradoxes of U.S. Black  Political Theory, vol. 44, no. 4, Aug. 2016, p. 448. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edb&AN =116785915&site=eds-live. LEE, CYNTHIA1. Making Black and Brown Lives Matter: Incorporating Race into the Criminal Procedure  St. Louis University Law Journal, vol. 60, no. 3, Spring2016, pp. 481-496. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lft&AN= 116281199&site=eds-live. Johnston, Angus. Student Protests, Then and  The Chronicle of Higher Education, no. 16, 2015, p. 6. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.438369575&site=eds-live. Arterberry 6