Over the years, research on my topic evolved very much. More information has become available as more teams delve into what the brain does when listening to music. not been very much contradicting research that allows me to compare and contrast, but there have been different methods used, as well as the common trend that states that our current mood can dictate our choice of music. One of the largest things that many of my sources have in common is that they used EEG tests to determine what the brain was doing. Like in emotion recognition and they used an EEG test to see how brains were reacting to different 60 second snippets of music followed by the expressing what emotions they felt after each song. This is different from emotions can be because in this study, researchers used the EEG tests to see if they could predict the emotions that each participant was feeling based on the readings. Our mood, among other things, can determine what genre of music we listen to. role of mood and tells us that our choice of music can change based on not only our personality, but also on temporary mood swings. Mood swings such as anger and sadness can lead us to listening to music that suits those emotions, and in turn they make us feel better as we listen to the songs. When happy, we listen to the music, but when sad we listen to the lyrics and connect with them on an emotional level, and in turn what makes us feel better is actually hearing the words of the artist and relating to the struggles been through. Not only does our current mood affect what we listen to, but our brain also makes something called an evaluative judgement that is made within tenths of a second after hearing the start of a song. This judgement is made to save us from wasting time on a song we probably like. made automatically and most times we even know that made the decision. When we make these decisions, while it does possibly save us from wasting time on a song we may not like, also the chance that we could like the song and we just skipped it. There is also a common trend in at least a few of these studies, that the researchers simply ask the participants what emotions currently feeling. These questions were generally used in conjunction with the EEG tests as a way to reinforce the conclusions that the test came to. For example, in emotion recognition and the researchers asked each participant to describe their emotion after each piece of music. This allowed them to confirm the findings of the test, as well as show how accurate people were at describing the emotion that they were feeling. As evidenced, there much research that has changed or been contradicted over the years, more has simply become available. Research teams have done a good number of studies trying to figure out what goes on in our minds when we listen to music, yet there is still much more that can be learned. merely cracked the skull a bit and plenty of secrets to be found. This means both with the chemicals that are released, as well as which parts of the brain become active when we listen to music. While there is still a great deal of research and learning to be done on the brain in general, I think these teams did a great job in tackling a bunch of different aspects of how the brain reacts to music.