Generations of Changing Sounds Music is something that has lasted throughout time and continues to develop even today. However, the kind of music that one generation may consider to be can sometimes be significantly different from what another generation may consider Older generations may hold Classic Rock to be the greatest music of all, but modern generations may consider genres such as Alternative Rock or Hip-Hop to be. Despite differences in opinions, there is a clear change when discussing the trends of what has risen and fallen in popularity over the last fifty years. When it comes to the reasons that these trends occur and change the way they do, there could be various reasons, such as new technology or new styles of performing on an instrument. Through examining the changing trends of music throughout the last fifty years, it could be possible for one to determine what caused these changing trends and what music will start to trend in the years coming. Annotated Bibliography Kim, Kyle. The evolution of music: How genres rise and fall over  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 6 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article gives information on the popularity of 13 music categories from the years 1960 to 2010. It gives fairly detailed insight into the changing popularity of these kinds of music genres over time. The information is also shown in comparison to the popularity of the other types of music at the same time period. The article is mostly visuals. This author is also a reliable source since he is a graphics and data journalist for the Los Angeles Times which gives good insight into media and current events. This source is also useful to the topic which I am discussing because it gives necessary information for my topic. This information is all pertaining to what music was most prevalent during these periods of time. It give fairly detailed, easy to understand information. The information is also helpful because it does not just show the popularity of music genres alone, but instead it shows their popularity in comparison to other music genres at the same time period. This would allow one to analyze the way the people of select time periods, such as the valued different genres of music. Snow, Shane. This Analysis of the Last 50 Years of Pop Music Reveals Just How Much America Has  The Content Strategist. N.p., 7 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source shows gives information on popular songs from the third week of April according to top 10 songs from the years 1965 to 2015. By looking at these songs and their genres one can determine the trending music of the time. It also provides visuals that show popular words used in many songs within the given decade. The author of this source is reliable because he is both the CEO of the website this article was acquired from and he has written 129 stories for 21 different publications. He is well versed in pop-culture. This article will be extremely useful to my paper because it does not only show specific song that were popular during the given time periods, but it also shows what words were popular within those songs and overall gives a good look into what the popular themes of the most loved songs of the time period were. Words that connect with people in music, from my experience, connect simply through emotion, therefore the words being used frequently in the most popular songs could show the most prevalent emotions of those listening at certain periods in time. It also is extremely helpful because it even provides the most prevalent themes themselves. Malone, Luke, Saar Fresco, and Matan Gilat. How Taste In Music Has Evolved Over The Past 50  Vocativ. Vocativ, 16 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article is a good look at popular music from the years 1965 to 2015 and also gives graphs of the changes in popularity of these different genres of music over those years. It also provides examples of popular artists of the genres discussed. It also shows why these artists attributed to spikes in popularity to their genres at certain times. An example of this being how The Lumineers grew the popularity of folk music again recently, though it peaked in popularity during the and The authors are also reliable due to the fact that they work for a company that specializes in news, culture, and current events. Luke Malone is also one of the senior writers for Vocativ. Matan Gilat is also a data editor and performs daily data analysis for the company. This article would also be helpful due to the fact that it gives information key to my topic. It also gives some factors of why certain genres of music has gained popularity at certain points in time. It helps me expand upon the questions of why certain genres became popular, and also gives me insight to help find out what music genres may gain more popularity in following years. However, my statements about what genres of music will gain popularity as time progresses will come from assumptions based on past trends.