Herdomina Daundi ENC1101 Anastasia Khawaja The Life of Factory Labors Factories have been able to support the economy of countries from the economic point of view and to how it can provide goods for the people. For many years factories also have provided jobs for a very big group of people called working Since the first time factories built there have been many issues about the life of the laborers, from their working condition, hours of working, to their salary (Sinclair, 1920). However, as the time went and after many protest from the laborers the government then passed the law to prevent critique accidents at the working place. For example, the tragedy of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory in 1911, because of the poor working conditions many young women died from the fire (McCormick, 2011). This tragedy brought attention to the working-class women whose salary are always lower than men, even for an unskilled man. Not just that, people who are working in the factories are from a very young age, as young as five year olds could work at the factory. After many protest from the factory laborers and the journalist who exposed the life of the working-class, the government has passed some laws that may help the poor laborers to get their right. These laws created brought me a question, how the life of the laborers have changed overtime from progressive era to this era after the government take a role in protecting the factory labors? McCormick, Marcia L. Consensus, Dissensus, and Enforcement: Legal Protection of Working Women from the Time of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire to  NYUJ Legis. & Pub. 14 (2011): 645. According to the website of Saint Louis University School of Law McCormick was a scholar from this university. She was majoring in the in the areas of labor law which made her wrote this.McCormick in this journal exposed the working life of women in the factories in Progressive era and also the tragedy of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire. In this journal McCormick also give some details about how the women who were dying inside the factory after it got burned. Other than that, she explained about the working-class women did not have the same salary and also all the labor organizations built to support the women laborers. These organizations convinced the government to pass the law to protect women as workers at the working place and also to prevent discrimination based on gender. This journal is going to be used in the research for the points used in the article showed the life of the factory laborers through life at the Progressive era. McCormick shows the poor condition of the laborers at the factory before the 21 st century so it can be compared to the life working condition of the factory labor now. Since this also showed the laws that are passed to protect women at the work place, this article can also explain how the life of these laborers change after the government took place protect the life of the labors. Gabriel, S.J. Zhang, Lu. Inside automobile factories: the politics of labor and worker  CHOICE: Current Reviews for Academic Libraries 2015: 1557. Literature Resource Center. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Lu Zhang is an assistant professor at Temple University she has a specialty in labor and social movement also at Research and Consultant on HR practice and labor laws in China. After many interviews from the factory workers of seven huge automobile factories from several places in China, Zhang able to expose the life of the laborers in the 21 st century. The book linked all the data and the artificial analysis from all the shops to the expansion of the business world and also the role these laborers who worked more than they should. This book is a perfect source for a comparison between the factories in America and China. Not just that, this book also can be a comparison to the life of the working- class in America through the progressive era. Zhang also represents the image of the journalist at the progressive era, Muckrakers, the people who went to the factories and wrote about the unrest life at the manufacturing place. She is basically a muckraker in 21 st century. Sinclair, Upton. The  (1920): HathiTrust. The book is a story of the life of Sinclair who emigrated from Lithuania to America for a better life but then he realized life for immigrants were not so easy. Sinclair was working in one of the factories which then became one of the Muckrakers who exposed the horrible condition of the life of the laborers in the factory as well as the tenement house. Then in the factory the quality of the products is more important than the working space. The overcrowded of the labor housing add more problems to the workers because the infection of some viruses and bacteria just circulating around the housing. The factories based their production in the consumerism culture and not responsible for the unrest life of their workers and life are the worst of all because they were treated differently. This book can show the life of the immigrants before the laws passed. In the book Sinclair also gives the readers explicit views of how the meat were made which is the cause of some children and some people lost their fingers after got cut form the machine. Thus the readers started to give complain about the food factories which made the government passed the law to made sure the food that the factories made were save for the consumer. This can be linked to the life of the in China where many laws have already passed but those workers cannot even get their right. It made the detail of the argument will be more clear. Roberts, Kenneth. Labor Migrants to Shanghai: Temporary or Potential The International Migration Review, vol. 36, no. 2, 2002, pp.www.jstor.org/stable/4149462. This one can be the comparison to the Triangle Shirt Factory Fire where the author shows the life of the working-class through women and also this presents the difference of the workers in China and in America. Not just women but also the family in America and China from The Jungle book. Kenneth Roberts is a journalist in the 20 th century, he wrote about the revolution of America. He wrote this journal because he wanted to focus on the female immigrants who went to Shanghai, China. This journal showed the different life of the female workers who had totally different way to live, they also came from small villages and tried to have better life. This data is collected from thousands of people in the largest city in China. Watch, China Labor. Child laborers in Chinese supplier factories for american  (2011). This source, shows how the manufacturing factories in China 21st century expressed the life of laborers in 20th century. It is a report of three manufacturing factories in China where they had child as their workers. Small factories in China do not get many attentions from the government so they can hire people from many ages including children from 11-15. This document is filled with the information from the workers who got interviewed at the factory and they provided all the information about how they have been treated like the working class in the factories in the Gilded age and Progressive era in America. China Labor Watch is an organization founded by Li Qiang, to help the laborers there to make sure they know about their rights and they get it through many legal ways. These two can show how the conversation of the factory labor flows from the 20th century until now. They also can talk about the children workers which back in progressive era it made Mother Jones had to take them to the public to show people how their damage body after they worked at the factories. Reich, Robert B. The Work of Nations: Preparing Ourselves for 21st Century Capitalis. Vintage, 2010. Reich, in this book, wrote about the changes of the world of industry where the service is more important than the quality of the product. factories have moved overseas to increase the production with lower outcome, which means lower wages for the unskilled laborers that the factory hired. Also this has brought Americans to the lifestyle of social well-being is more important than their skills. Reich also talks about the three different competitive positions in which Americans find (Reich, 2010), where it brought the attention to his research question in his book, Are we still a society, even if we are no longer an economy? Are we bound together by something more than the gross national  (Reich, 2010) This article is a great source to connect the life of the factory laborers at the work place also at home (in the United States). The industrial world, economy of a America and the laborers have a critical connection between each other (Reich,2010) which means this can be connected to the question of my paper have the life of the factory laborers changed over This book is one of the bestsellers of Reich, who named of the ten most effective cabinet secretaries of the twentieth by the time magazine (http://robertreich.org). He worked for the Clinton administration as Secretary of Labor which proved that this book is a competitive source.