Jeffrey 1 Jeffrey Smith Professor Anastasia Khawaja ENC 1101 2/25/17 Move Over, Walt: Sweden as One of the Happiest Places on Earth What is the correlation between the Swedish economic policies and the quality of living, and how has the adaptability of the economy over the years helped to form it? Sweden is one of the leaders in their quality of living. One of the main reasons for this is because of the socialistic economies that most countries in that region employ. Through taxes, the Swedish government is able to provide free healthcare, education, and numerous social and human welfare policies to its citizenry. The ability to adapt their economy over time is one of the main factors contributing to the increasing importance of the socialistic economic policies in effect today. of the reasons Sweden was able to transition to a strong economy was their ability to stay neutral during the First and Second World Wars while also reaping the benefits of rebuilding efforts without suffering any significant industrial (Feng, Tian. Pg. 32). This period of economic growth almost came to a stop and the entire economy nearly collapsed in the early 1990s due to high unemployment rates. Since 1993, the Swedish government has left the private sector alone and weakened some of the socialist policies around the economy; the national bank also keeps the inflation rate steady at nearly one or two percent a year. economic model has evolved from being predominantly socialistic to a quasi-socialistic economy with a significant emphasis on private sector capitalism. So, with all this in mind, is it likely that economy is or has been a driving factor behind its stellar quality of life? Feng, Tian. Dynamic Welfare State: How adaption can save the Swedish Harvard International Review, Winter 2008, pp. 32-35 Jeffrey 2 This article focuses on the necessity of adapting economy over time to keep it from collapsing under the weight of the socialistic policies it incurs. Sweden must adapt to keep its stability economically as the economy nearly collapsed once before - many believe due to a purely socialistic viewpoint - causing them to add a more capitalist aspect to it. It also goes on to compare and contrast other economies throughout the region as well. The International Review is published by the Harvard International Relations Council at Harvard University. It is a quarterly journal that discusses global issues in a variety of subjects. Brown, Andrew. Dark Side of Statesmen, January 10, 2011, pp. 34-37 This article focuses on the reputation that Sweden has and how in reality fascism is slowly taking over. It examines the rise of the Democratic party in Sweden during the early 1900s to the far right gaining popularity in the 2000s. Brown states in the article that in the 1970s, at the height of the Democratic party, that was richer and more equal than any other This was a well-deserved reputation on its face but behind the scenes the facade began to crumble as the years went on, and it soon became clear, Sweden needed to fix its economy. Brown grew up in Sweden and he often writes about his childhood growing up and how it was influenced by the politics and economy while growing up there. He has also won an Orwell Prize for one of his books, and has been nominated for multiple awards. The Statesmen was founded on April 12, 1913 as a weekly review of politics and literature. Schnyder, Gerhard a phoenix from the ashes? Reassessing the transformation of the Swedish political economy since the of European Public Policy , September 11, 2012, pp. 1126-1145 Jeffrey 3 This article focuses purely on the economy of Sweden since the 1970s. It explores why they ditched the for which they were famous as a result of a growing wage gap and booming inflation alongside other serious economic triggers and the incremental adoption of the more capitalistic and socialistic economy that is in place now. It goes on to explain in great detail all of the changes that happened in the interim and why they happened in order to make economy what it is today. Furthermore, it illustrates the challenges facing the Swedish government as they worked to overhaul a broken system while maintaining the benefits for mankind and their citizenry. This is a peer reviewed journal covering politics in the European Union. The author has a PhD in political science from the University of Lausanne in Switzerland. His research is in Comparative Management, Comparative Political Economy, and Comparative Politics. He is currently a Senior Lecturer at the College in London and was also a research fellow at Cambridge University. Larabell, John T. happiest people on New American , August 22, 2016, Vol. 32 Issue 16, pp. 17 - 21 This article focuses on all the Scandanavian countries being at the peak with the highest quality of life mostly because of the socialistic economic practices of these countries, however, it does mention that this - in combination with the culture in these countries - also contributes to the quality of life. It talks about how these countries might be seen to be or might actually be becoming lazier as a society because of the social welfare policies that many of these countries have. This shift in perception illustrates the complexity of a national economy and the perils of governance with regards to socialism. Like any form of governance, socialism can be exploited, but that render it useless. Instead of abandoning the system that served its citizens, Sweden chose to adapt it to best serve everyone. The American was founded in 1985 due to a merger of two magazines from the John Birch Society. It is a bi-monthly magazine which focuses mostly on politics. Jeffrey 4 Amado. satisfaction and socio-economic conditions: Some international The Journal of Socio-Economics, (2006), Vol. 35 pp. 348 365 This paper looks for potential connections between social and economic factors and the resulting happiness or satisfaction in adults from a number of different countries. Age, health, and marital status seem strongly to connect with happiness and satisfaction, and this the first time this connection has been posited. An interesting fact emerged; being unemployed did not seem to show any significant connection with happiness - this seems to go against popular belief. However, on the other hand, the income of participants did demonstrate a correlation with satisfaction. From these results the researchers believe happiness and satisfaction to be distinct spheres of (348). Economic factors according to this study have minimal effect on happiness but significant effect on satisfaction. Socialism as a social policy might be in fact linked to higher happiness ratings. This and the following article come from Journal of Socio-Economics . A peer-reviewed publication, founded in 1972, now going by the title of Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics , it examines the links between social factors, behavioral factors, economic factors, and how they contribute to society largely through the lens of thorough experimental design and administration. Ulf-G, Gerdthama and Johannesson, Magnus relationship between happiness, health, and socio-economic factors: results based on Swedish The Journal of Socio-Economics 2001, Vol 30, Issue 6, pp. This was a research study performed to investigate the changes to self-reported happiness due to a number of social and economic variables. They studied 5000 Swedish adults and once the study was concluded the researcher found that increases in health, income, education, and marriage overall led to greater happiness values while increases in unemployment or urbanization as well as being single or male Jeffrey 5 led to lower happiness values. Age on the other hand had an interesting pattern; the youngest study participants and the oldest study participants tended to have higher happiness than their middle-aged counterparts, with the minimal happiness values being found in those aged 45 to 64. Compared to the previous source, this study offers a very similar but more nuanced look at the socio-economic impact on happiness, however this study focused solely on happiness and may have missed the feedback interactions accounted for by including satisfaction as the other researchers did. Overall, the results seem to indicate one clear conclusion: economic stability and social protections lead to a happier population. Like the last source, this study also comes from the of Behavioral and Experimental , an academic peer-reviewed journal.