Kareem Hessen February 28, 2017 ENC 1102 Professor Fennell International Free Speech the freedom of speech is taken away then dumb and silent we may be led, like sheep to the (George Washington to Officers of the Army 1783). Free speech is an ideal that is a fundamental human right. Humans should be allowed to speak their minds, and not be persecuted for thinking an unpopular opinion, or an opinion that does not fit the agenda of the ruling power. Reporters without Borders (RSF) is the biggest NGO specializing in the defense of media freedom, which we regard as the basic human right to be informed and to inform others (RSF website). Reporters without Borders is known to have provocative visual advertisements such as a photoshopped picture of Vladimir Putin giving the audience the middle finger. I will examine two visual aids of Reporters without Borders and explain the rhetorical techniques used to persuade people to join the cause of international free speech. In the first visual advertisement of Reporters without Borders, I have chosen the picture of Vladimir Putin flicking the camera off. There are many other advertisements from Reporters without Borders that share similar themes, a leader who allow free speech or is known to be oppressive on opposition. Leaders such as Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and Kim Jong Il are seen to gesture to the camera provocatively. The ethos used in the picture of Putin is the face of Putin. His face is easily recognized as the leader of Russia, and when you see that Putin is flicking you off it persuades the audience for whatever cause. Another case of ethos is the name of the interest group, Reporters without Borders. A bolded font with the No freedom of information, No voice of This establishes a trust in the credibility between RSF and the audience. A case of pathos, is the grey background of the picture. It may be me looking into it too much, but the bleakness and mundane qualities of the color grey, may be intentional to play off on life without free speech. What it really looks like to be in a country without free speech and how sad it can be. The pathos invoked from Putin flicking you off as well is smart from the creators of the advertisement, who want you to feel angry and upset so you can have the motivation to join their cause. The logos in the advertisement is easily the No freedom of information, No voice of The concise statement makes you feel like you are being silenced. It is a voice of reason to the audience, to show you that there is a suppression of freedom of speech. The usage of Kairos in this advertisement is the insertion of a date. Below the message that explains what RSF is May 3 rd , World press Freedom is to instill a feeling of urgency. It is a day to look forward to, just like a birthday and any other holiday. These are all a part of a series of ads RSF ran in 2015. The second visual advertisement was also running in 2015, but it was in a different format. The ad covered in the 2 nd paragraph was of political leaders known to suppress freedom of speech flicking the camera off. This ad shows a Syrian newspaper airing a fake news story that the people support Bashar Al Assad, when in a reality, the people are revolting against the dictatorship. The ethos in this advertisement is the title of the Daily and the story being People support Audiences see this and believe it is happening and is a reality that news outlets in countries ruled by dictators are lying to their own people and others around the world. The pathos that can be seen in this ad is once again the grey background. The gloomy, bleak, mundane feeling of what it is like to have free speech suppressed in your lives. Also, the picture under the newspaper, which shows the other half of the picture of Bashar Al Assad being burned can also be seen as pathos. The burning of symbols and peoples shows a great distaste is a message, and audiences see this as a genuine call for revolt. Logos in this picture, just like the last ad is the message. The message on this How can you see the truth if it cannot be This is a rhetorical question, meant to sway you one way, in that the obvious answer is free speech is the answer to knowing the truth. The question invokes reasoning for the audience, that will more than likely make you sway towards direction on the issue. Kairos in this ad is the strength of the rhetorical question used for Logos. The question makes the audience know it is a reality, and it is happening. This will call for the feeling of urgency to the audience to join cause. To conclude, the two ads used by RSF want to make you feel like it is in your duty to protect International Free Speech. Going from the provocative imagery of political leaders flicking you off, then to outright lying from news outlets to go along with an agenda of those in power, RSF use ethos and pathos to make you aware of the bleak, gloomy, sad feeling of what a life without free speech looks like. Then with concise statements that do not have a lot of words, but say a lot, use logos to show the audience that free speech is dying and their cause is useful. RSF uses Kairos in the sense of highlighting May 3 rd as the World Press Freedom Day, to make people aware of a day that supports their cause and instill a feeling of urgency that the day is upcoming and their cause needs support. RSF made these advertisements with Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos in mind, and in the two ads dissected, there is a sure case for a rise in the care for free speech worldwide, which may have been taken for granted before in Western countries. Works Cited Cios, Arthur. Decline in Press Freedom in 2015 According to Reporters without  Konbini United States. N.p., 21 Apr. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Founders Online: From George Washington to Officers of the Army, 15 March  National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Our Values Reporters without  RSF. N.p., 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Reporters Without Borders:  Reporters Without Borders: Putin Ads of the N.p., 01 May 2013. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.