AL Zadjali 1 Mazin Al Zadjali Instructor Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 March 5, 2017 Domestic Violence Domestic violence can take different forms and a widely-spread issue. It has caused many issues during these years and researchers are trying to minimize its effects and causes on children who are encountered with this problem. The view point on the domestic violence issues and children mistreat has changed over the years. Researchers has changed their focus of search from time to time. Before 2010, it focused on the impacts of domestic violence on women and mental health and how it affected them in their daily life. After 2010, it disused the causes of domestic violence on the children and whether its related to family martial statues. This phenomenon issue changed over the years, but peoples approach of this issue had made a difference. Before 2010, the causes of domestic violence seemed to be few. But after 2010, the psychological effects on children due to domestic violence seemed to be more essential. Between 2000 2010, researchers thought that the family martial and economic statues is not related to domestic violence factors on the youngsters mental and sentimental health. But between 2011 2015, main points have shifted by proving that family martial and economic statues play a big role on the appearance of this issue. Throughout the years, researchers have found out more essential parts in which domestic violence can have an affect on youngsters. Due to that, researchers started changing the fields they have been researching in domestic violence. In the earlier researcher, the mental and emotional impacts of family violence on youngsters was the scientists and researchers major Al Zadjali 2 focus for years. Scientist and researchers thought that children who experienced domestic violence, their emotions and characters would be effected which might cause psychological problems in their future life. According to Holt, children who encountered with this kind of violence they will start emotional and behavioral problems and of increased exposure to the presence of other adversities in their (Holt 803). Researchers thought that it is essential to know all the aspects regarding the sentimental effects since the syndromes are believed to be advanced and long-drawn in the future. In the recent research, researchers started to notice the strong connection between the sentimental affects and the health affects. According to Laurel, domestic violence can have a great impact on a child which could to mental health (Laurel 204). Researchers now think that intellectual issues might cause health issues within the upcoming years. However, it is essential to consider both the impacts to reduce the affects of the domestic or family violence on youngsters. There are other areas which has changed the connection between the socioeconomics aspects and the family violence. In years between 2000 - 2010, researchers thought that aspects such as race, color is not related with the domestic violence issues. Researchers thought that they are sentimental and mental issues related to the wrongdoer. According to Moylan, children whom are encountered with domestic violence are for risk factors unassociated with surrounding (Moylan 58). However, the stand changes after 2010, researchers say the opposite of what they first believed. Which is that the issues of domestic violence are connected to the aspects which surround us. According to Tailor, families with a of parental resources may affect (Tailor 30). Al Zadjali 3 Another aspect which has changed from time to time is the areas which domestic violence can affect. Before 2010, researchers aimed attention at the impacts of the issues and how to lessen it. Moreover, allow it to be visible to everyone and make people know how this issue might be harmful. According to Holt, examining the impacts of violence can uplift peoples mind regarding this (Holt 798) and help to reduce it. After 2010, researchers supported the idea of examining the causes of family violence, so it might help to stop it. According to Tailor, the research that discus the cause of the domestic violence issues much. So more articles are required to make this issue more understandable. I conclude, by saying that domestic violence is a big problem and researchers has changed their research areas in domestic violence issues over the past years. The areas of research which has shifted are the effects of domestic violence on children behavior and mental health. Over the years, researchers examine and analyze new field of domestic violence affects and causes on children, to help raise the awareness and reduce its effect. Al Zadjali 4 Works cited Moylan et al. Effects of Child Abuse and Exposure to Domestic Violence on Adolescent Internalizing and Externalizing Behavior J Fam Viol Journal of Family Violence, vol. 25, no. 1, 2009, pp. 53-63. Accessed 28 Jan 2017. Laurel et al. Impacts of Family and Community Violence Exposure on Child Coping and Mental  J Abnorm Child Psychol, vol. 43, no. 2, spring 2015, pp. 203-215, Accessed 28 Jan 2017. Tailor et al. Children Exposed to Intimate Partner Violence: Influences of Parenting, Family Distress, and  Journal of Family Psychology, vol. 29, no. 1, 1 Feb. 2015, pp. 29-38, doi: 10.1037/a0038584, Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. Holt et al. The Impact of Exposure to Domestic Violence on Children and Young People: A Review of the  Child Abuse & Neglect, vol. 32, no. 8, 21 Feb. 2008, pp. 797- 810, Accessed 4 Feb. 2017.