Markovits 1 Gabriela Markovits Sarah Basil ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Campaign Against Animals in Entertainment Today, everywhere one looks they will see animals that are part of the entertainment industry. It has become so common to see animals in movies, performing shows, and posing for magazines, that only few people stop to think about their wellbeing while performing these jobs. One important stakeholder regarding this issue is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. PETA is a non-profit animal rights organization that has been trying to fight against the use of animals for personal and monetary gains. They claim that animals are suffering when they are made to sit in small enclosures in zoos, perform tricks on shows and act for cameras. One of many techniques of persuading the public to join their cause is the use of advertisements. These two images are examples of a campaign this organization did to help save the Orca whales from SeaWorld. By using these two advertisements featuring the rhetorical appeals Pathos, Ethos, Kairos, and Logos, PETA has attempted to promote their goal of ending the use of animals in the entertainment industry and gain support for their fight against mistreatment of Orca whales. Along with fighting to stop the use of animals in the entertainment industry, PETA also has several other goals. Their motto are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other strongly portrays their views on the equality they believe should exist between people and animals PETA is a very influential and notable animal rights organization. It was founded in 1980 and today they have over five million Markovits 2 supporters, including celebrities and politicians Regarding the use of animals in the entertainment industry, one of their main areas of focus, PETA has been fighting for years for the release of animals from circuses, aquariums and other institutions. Their campaign against SeaWorld, depicted in these two images, has been one of its greatest challenges. Because of position as one of the leading companies in the industry, they have constantly denied claims regarding the harmful consequences of animal shows and their petition to retire the whales to wildlife sanctuaries Although the animals are still at parks and continue to perform for the public, PETA has already achieved some milestones. One of their most remarkable achievements is that SeaWorld has discontinued their breeding program, making this the last generation of Orca whales at their parks fight against SeaWorld, one of the many organizations that benefit from using animals to entertain the public, is just a step in their bigger campaign to stop the use of animals in all aspects of society. They continue to spread their ideas, through advertisements and other techniques, so lives will finally be seen with equal value as those of humans. main visual rhetorical appeal in these two advertisements is to Pathos. These images are intended to shock the public and capitalize on their empathy for the Orca whales. The first image has a very dark background, which helps set a somber mood and aids in the depiction of the feeling of sadness. The serious face, the broken glass and the fractured letters saying also contribute to this mood. The second image displays a model confined to small aquarium, as is indicated by her position and scale in regards to the object. Her distress can be clearly seen along with its culprit, a human hand signifying society. The model is also displaying body paint like she is an Orca whale. According to Megan Fletcher in the article People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): Creating a Collective the Markovits 3 reason behind this is that attempt to create shared physical and mental substance between humans and animals. In creating a shared identity PETA could establish a foundation for equal treatment between the (Fletcher). By having the models, in both images, act as the representatives and show their suffering, PETA is telling the public that if people pity humans in these conditions, they should also pity the animals because their lives have equal value. Due to these factors, the appeal to emotion is one of its strongest elements. It serves as a first contact between PETA and the reader and invites the reader to stop and further analyze the images. The second most important rhetorical appeal present in these two images is Ethos. When analyzing the images appeal to authority, it can be seen that they both display the same propaganda technique. Along with them both presenting the name and logo of the company, PETA also uses a technique called false testimony. According to Lauren Pina in the article Analysis of People for Ethical Treatment of the concept of testimony means that someone/something uses a person who is well known to encourage an idea although the person is usually not qualified to support the (Pina). This concept is strongly portrayed when, in the first image, PETA uses the model and actress Kristen Ritter by not only including her picture, but also having her name written at the bottom of the image. Similarly, in the second image, PETA uses the model Joanna Krupa. By having these two famous women on these advertisements, PETA is using the technique of false testimony. The advertisement implies that because they support cause against SeaWorld, so should their fans. Because the models are the main focus of each image, the appeal to Ethos is also one of its strongest factors. Markovits 4 Another rhetorical appeal that is present in the images is Kairos. Although there are no dates or deadlines present in either image, they both portray a sense of urgency. By showing the suffering of the Orcas whales, they ask the public for immediate action. The first image asks the public to free the Orcas from This statement invites people to learn more about the issue, but gives no specific instructions on how to help. Differently, the second statement, is a lot more specific in its call to action. When they ask for a boycott, they are telling the public to immediately stop buying products from SeaWorld. By making the suffering of the whales so apparent and insisting on the need for immediate action, more research or a boycott, PETA is appealing to sense of timeliness. Logos, the appeal to logic, is not as noticeable in the two images as much as the other rhetorical appeals. The first image employs this appeal by using a propaganda technique called virtue words. According to Mark Nichol on Types of virtue words means the of words with positive connotations to associate an idea or cause with the self- perceived values of the (Nichol). This can be seen when PETA uses strong statements like in big capital letters. By doing this they are appealing to the importance of the value of freedom to the public. In the second image, the propaganda technique used to appeal to Logos is called half-truth. It is explained by Nichol as a statement that is partly true or only part of the truth, or is otherwise meaning that the advertisement is telling the public only what it wants them to believe (Nichol). PETA employs this technique when it states that Orcas at SeaWorld are Lonely. A long way from when in fact those statements are not completely true. Even though these two images appeal to Logos in very different ways, their message to the public is the same: Orcas are suffering, they deserve to be free, and the public has the power to do something about it. Markovits 5 In conclusion, PETA is using the rhetorical appeals Pathos, Ethos, Kairos, and Logos with the goal of persuading the public to join their cause and support their fight against SeaWorld. The images main message, that Orcas are suffering and something needs to be done about it, is aligned with believe that animals belong in the entertainment industry. By breaking up the analysis of the two images in its different rhetorical appeals, a more in depth investigation of the effectiveness and validity can be done. Markovits 6 Works Cited Fletcher, Megan. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): Creating a . Collective Bridgewater State University, 14 May 2013, . Accessed . 19 February 2017. Nichol, Mark. Types of Daily Writing Tips, www.dailywritingtips.com/50- . types-of-propaganda/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. PETA, 2017, www.peta.org/. Accessed 23 January 2017. Pina, Lauren. Analysis of People for Ethical Treatment of WordPress, 28 April . 2016, www.elayepea.wordpress.com/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Markovits 7