Joyce 1 Shannon Joyce Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 D.A.R.E. Program Implemented in 1983, the D.A.R.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) program is a school-based substance abuse, gang, and violence prevention program. The controversy regarding this program stands with whether it is truly effective in preventing elementary, middle, and high school students from abusing substances, joining gangs, and participating in violence. They hope to reach their goal of prevention of substance abuse, gangs, and violence by using ads such as the image and the commercial, featuring Serena Williams. The image is focused on spreading the word about D.A.R.E. programs, while the commercial is popularizing the program with the use of a celebrity. Both ads use elements of the rhetorical appeals: ethos (appeal to credibility), logos (appeal to logic), pathos (appeal to emotion), and kairos (appeal to timeliness). These appeals assist the D.A.R.E. program in reaching its goal by hopefully establishing a connection between the argument and the audience. Ethos is method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman and Wiggs 25). The D.A.R.E. Program uses the rhetorical appeal of ethos in both of the selected advertisements in order to add credibility to the program, and therefore increase its popularity. The picture from their website features many aspects of ethos, from the text, to the logos, and even from the images. The advertisement features text that says, new programs created by experts, for all students and The use of the phrase by adds a lot of credibility to not Joyce 2 only the advertisement, but also the D.A.R.E. Program as a whole. Relating to this, the advertisement features an image of a doctor. This picture adds credibility, as this is one of the experts they are talking about, as mentioned above. Doctors are known to be intelligent individuals, who want the best for the people of our society, which adds to the credibility of their advertisement. The final element of ethos in the advertisement are the numerous logos in the bottom left-hand corner from different companies. The logos consist of the companies: Abbott Laboratories, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), and Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA). Each of these companies involve research and studies that add credibility to the D.A.R.E. Program. The commercial also employs a lot of ethos throughout the advertisement in hopes to reach the goal. The major element of ethos in the D.A.R.E. commercial is the starring of Serena Williams. Throughout the commercial, Williams discusses how she was once a part of the D.A.R.E. Program and how it held a positive influence on her, and eventually her dreams come Many people look up to the star athlete, which adds credibility to this advertisement as she talks about her personal experiences. Throughout these advertisements, ethos plays a crucial role in achieving the D.A.R.E. goal of making the program more popular, as the credibility of the program is essential in popularizing it. Logos is appeal to logic and the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman and Wiggs 30). Advertisements typically utilize logos in order to incorporate logic. In this case, neither of the picture from their website, nor the commercial featuring Serena Williams, have major elements of the appeal of logos. If they were to incorporate logos into these advertisements, it would most likely will help them reach their goal of popularizing the program by adding factual evidence. Joyce 3 Pathos is appeal to emotion and a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Hoffman and Wiggs 35). The image from the D.A.R.E. website appeals to the emotions by featuring pictures of happy children and a happy family. This shows the community aspect of the advertisement, and how the program will have a positive effect on life. During the D.A.R.E. Program commercial, Serena Williams states that joining the D.A.R.E. Program can make dreams come true. This is bound to affect the emotions, as everyone wants their own dreams to come true. Also, the use of the cartoon lion throughout the commercial will appeal to younger children, who may or may not know who Serena Williams is. The lion will appeal to their happiness, as it acts out what Williams is saying. Throughout these advertisements, pathos plays a fundamental role in achieving the D.A.R.E. goal of making the program more popular, by giving the advertisements the ability to connect with the audience, by appealing to their emotions. Kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Wiggs 39). The advertisement found on the website of the D.A.R.E. Program features kairos in the implementation of making the word stand out in the phrase get started contact your local D.A.R.E. Program In the advertisement, they do not only put it in another the bright red color, contrasting the white, but they also italicize the word to make it stand out even more. This call to action implements an appeal to timeliness, as it urges them to call rather than tomorrow or the next. Throughout this advertisement, kairos plays a vital role in achieving the D.A.R.E. goal of making the program more popular, by making the call to act now, rather than later. Joyce 4 The rhetorical appeals, ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, assist the D.A.R.E. program in reaching its goal by hopefully establishing a connection between the argument and the audience. The rhetorical appeals are essential to the advertisements, as they add credibility, evidence, emotional connections, and timeliness to the argument the advertisements are trying to persuade the audience towards, which is more people joining the D.A.R.E. Program. The use of these elements not only added to their argument, but most likely also enhanced the program in terms of how the society views D.A.R.E.. Serena Williams ad: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7WQkY0L7ygs Joyce 5 Works Cited abuse trends change DARE America D.A.R.E. America, www.dare.org/drug-abuse-trends-change-dare-america-responds/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Commercial / Public Service Announcement - Serena YouTube, YouTube, 7 Sept. 2014, www.youtube.com/watch?v=7WQkY0L7ygs. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric matters: foundations of rhetoric and composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print.