Casaes 1 Leonardo Casaes ENC 1102 Madeline Gottlieb Project 2 Draft Save Healthy Lives Stop Smoking Tobacco has been around for thousands of years and with over 100 million tobacco- related deaths, (more than both world wars combined) during the 20 th century alone (NCIB), the Action on Smoking and Health organization (ASH) has been avidly working since 1971 working to prevent harm caused by tobacco industries. One of the ways ASH communicates its beliefs on regulating tobacco is through ads created to catch the attention, inform the public on the dangers of tobacco, and persuade individuals to join their mission to save lives. The first ad shown educates consumers on the severity of Tabaco-related deaths and ask for support to save millions of lives, while the second gives ASH a healthy appeal that encourages people to be with the ASH. The first thing people will probably see in the first ad is an innocent young life directly participating in tobacco use, it then goes on to comment on the millions of lives lost to it. The fist image uses a wide range of rhetorical appeals to its advantage. It directly appeals to pathos, as the image of the kid happily smoking something that kills millions of people is sure to uproot some emotion from the viewer. ASH recognizes how serious underage smoking is, are more than 150,000 new underage daily smokers in this country each roughly one-third Casaes 2 of them will eventually die prematurely from smoking-caused (Bach), by utilizing an image of a child smoking they bring awareness to the audience in hopes of gaining support to better control the tobacco industry. Logos is applied by listing troubling statistics, million deaths in 20th Century and 1 billon estimated in the 21 st (1 st image), that supports ASH argument, tobacco should be better regulated to prevent deaths. These statistics are backed by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and The World Health Organization (WHO), and supply concrete data meant to galvanize people into taking preventive actions to stop tobacco-related deaths. It exploits Kairos by informing the reader that person dies from tobacco every 6 (ASH) by mentioning the rate of the death it ignites a sense of urgency, as further regulating tobacco industry could save a life every 6 seconds. The block at the bottom of the image uses a larger font and all capital letters to capture attention and add to the sense of urgency the last statistic brought forth. This effective exploitation of Kairos is improved with the diction, the word makes the possible donator feel he/she could make an immediate impact and is somewhat assertive, almost pressuring them into donating. All these rhetorical appeals in the 1 st image give a negative perception of tobacco to convince the audience to align with view on enforcing stricter regulations on tobacco products. By making their Organization seem ASH seems like a the more natural and foundation compared to its counterpart, the tobacco industry. This gives the observer more incentive to join ASH, the side. Making the ASH look like the picture of health and appealing to the ethos is exactly what the second image effectively did. The background picture ASH chose to brand themselves is very natural, as trying to give Casaes 3 credibility to their statement, with Choosing to fill the landscape with green colors is no accident, green symbolizes nature and health (Dena) which is the message that ASH wants to send to their audience. Their background also directly contrast with the other ads throughout the page (for example the 1st image), where a lot of dark colors, this is to subconsciously influence the observer into connecting Tobacco products with dark colors that can be menacing and symbolizes death (Dena). This sharp contrast only adds to the ethos appeal of their brand. Diction is also essential to this ad because it adds a world-wide interest using the words and they even highlight in red to add emphasis. Taking their mission to the global scale magnifies its importance and interest to its audience. The 2nd images utilizes repetition to reinforce their message of health, is the most used word repeated 3 times throughout the ad and, proves messages are more effective when (Financial Brand). Written in the ad in a larger font is the statement with this is a direct appeal to logos because most people want to be healthy, in 2010, of Americans said they were very or fairly focused on healthy and nutritious eating, 58% said that most days they probably should be eating (Desilver). By repeatedly emphasizing how ASH is through these visual rhetorical appeals, ASH is effectively trying to gain more members to support their cause to regulate the tobacco industry. While ASH claims to not be anti-smoking or anti-tobacco but the ads are biased against it, this is most likely due to the fact that this stance helps supports their goal to regulate. Both ads contribute to ASH goal by bringing awareness to the casualties involved with tobacco related products while simultaneously boosting credibility as a brand of health. With strict overseeing over the tobacco ASH hopes to prevent millions of death and create a Casaes 4 world for the future. Casaes 5 Works Cited P., Dena. Black Meaning - Black Color  Color Psychology. Colorpsychology.org, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. ASH Action on Smoking &  ASH. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Asma S, Song Y, Cohen J, Eriksen M, Pechacek T, Cohen N, et al. CDC Grand Rounds: global tobacco control. MMWR Morbidity and mortality weekly report. 2014;63(13):277- 80. Campaign for Tobacco-Free  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. DeSilver, Drew. on Your Table? How Diet Has Changed over the  Pew Research Center. N.p., 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. P., Dena. Black Meaning - Black Color  Color Psychology. Colorpsychology.org, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Say It Again: Messages Are More Effective When  The Financial Brand. N.p., 13 Nov. 2014. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Casaes 6