Tulloch 1 Katie Tulloch Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Animal Testing Through Pictures With technology and resources expanding on a daily basis, new products are being made by individual companies in order meet needs, further proving that, there are always two sides to every story or debate. A highly debated topic that currently consumes companies is animal testing. The two obvious sides are: those that are for animal testing, and others that stay away from animals, and do not even consider it an option at all. Whether it is a product used in households or used for human needs, companies must test the safety of their product before releasing it to the public. Many companies such as Clorox, Avon, Estee Lauder, and Dove are examples of those that choose to use animals as their preferred testing method. Each of these companies use animals due to easy access and the inexpensive nature. However, an organization that choses to protect animals and their rights is, for the Ethical Treatment of or PETA. This organization uses visual rhetoric in order to stay true to their mission statement. Companies and organizations frequently use advertisements as a form of communication to an audience. PETA provides advertisements that utilize rhetorical appeals in order to effectively deliver the message that humans should stray away from products tested on animals. On the whole, PETA is an organization that has a main focus and goal of protecting animals from those who attempt to ignore their rights. In other words, PETA believes that animals are capable of suffering just as humans are and for that reason alone, they chose to focus on certain areas: major areas in which the largest number of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest period of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, Tulloch 2 and in the entertainment (PETA 1). In order to focus on these four areas and stay true to their mission statement, PETA works to educate humans through cruelty investigations and participates in cruelty protests. Each time, hoping to open the eyes of the human race to information they may have previously been blinded to. To show their commitment to protecting the lives of animals, PETA has completed over one hundred milestones each ending with a victory for animals who were taken advantage of. Focusing on figure one, it is evident that PETA attempts to appeal to emotion and credibility in order to get their point across. The close up view of the makeup could symbolize the naive attitude that humans give off when the topic of animal testing is discussed. All that humans care about is the product and not the process it went through to get in the hands of the public. It emphasizes how our beauty has consequences, but if it does not affect humans directly, those consequences do not matter. This interpretation goes hand in hand with the words PETA choses to put on this advertisement. It states, makeup, is her Those words attempt to grab at the emotions by making them feel guilty. However, makeup is still used on a daily basis by many people despite the efforts PETA has given to change the minds of those who chose to use products tested on animals. Further confirming the symbolism of the casual attitude makeup users give. As for the bunny, PETA choses to not do a close up to also emphasize the horrible conditions that animal testing subjects have to live in. They are trapped and helpless with clear health issues that go untreated. The use of the picture of the bunny not only appeals to the emotions, but to credibility as well. Exposing the obvious health problems gives the statement makeup, is her credibility. The viewer can read the statement then see with their own eyes that it is, in fact, true. Additionally, the bunny is Tulloch 3 placed in, what seems to be, a dark cage although the flash of the camera is what fills the background at the moment. These black edges of the photo and the bright center can symbolize the hope and positive outcome that the bunny and PETA wishes to receive. After all, the color black is with power, death, evil, and (Color Psychology 1). This description perfectly resembles the animal testers themselves, and the companies who chose to test on animals. They have power over the animals and the end result is often a mystery but can also lead to death. However, as one can see there is the white center in the middle of the picture. White is said to be, lightest color, meaning purity, innocence, and (Color Psychology 10). The testing subjects are pure and innocent but are put in this situation without a choice or a voice. They are taken advantage of, and there is nothing they can do to save themselves. In comparison to the first photo, the second photo attempts to use all aspects of the rhetorical appeals. Just by looking at figure two, one will notice that majority of the advertisement is gray. According to a source, color gray is an unemotional color. It is detached, neutral, impartial and indecisive - the (Empowered 1). As one already knows, humans continue to use animal tested products constantly. The fact that animal tested products are still used, despite the many efforts by organizations such as PETA, resembles a neutral and impartial attitude to the many lives of animals that are put on the line for these products. Also, percent of people would support a ban on all product testing on laboratory (Harvard 1). This statistic is more proof to the attitude humans give off when purchasing animal tested products. If these product buyers were not as neutral, one would think this number would be higher. Moreover, PETA aims to appeal to credibility in this Tulloch 4 image by adding in the website with hopes that people will access it to gain more insight to the point they are trying to get across. Not only can they receive more information, but also verify that what they say in the image is true. When looking at the image and all the neutral colors that surround it, the blood and cuts on Dave Navarro stand out to the human eye. This tactic is an appeal to emotion. It shows humans what is done to animals on a regular basis and puts humans in the shoes. The use of Dave Navarro helps humans relate to the situation more, and after seeing those cuts, humans might show sympathy since they would never want to be in that positon- the position that animals are forced in regularly with no say. Digging a little deeper, something not so obvious, is the appeal to logic. PETA forms a subtle analogy by saying: testing This statement shows a correlation between two things, which are: animals testing and killing. This analogy states that with animal testing, death will follow. In order to help animals, and reduce the amount of animal testing used altogether, it can be said that PETA wants us to act sooner rather than later. By deciding to include cruelty means that PETA is hoping for the public to make a decision fast in order to save as many animals as possible. Overall, the ultimate goal of these two images is eliminate the number of animals used and reduce the number of animal tested products being bought. PETA effectively uses the rhetorical appeals in order to deliver this message to the human population. After looking at these images, it is clear that PETA stands by their mission statement and works solely to protect animals along with their rights and attempts to educate the public about the hidden aspects of animal testing. Tulloch 5 Figure One: Peta. Wearing Cosmetics Tested on Abused, Frightened, & Sad Animal Beautiful, Selfish. #WW4AIL  Twitter. Twitter, 30 Apr. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Figure Two: Dave Navarro: Stop Testing Cosmetics on  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/features/dave-navarro-cruelty-free/>. Tulloch 6 Works Cited Alternatives to Animal  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. B. Animal Rights  Testing Cosmetics on Animals: An Idea Time Has Gone. Harvard, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Black Meaning - Black Color  Color Psychology. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://www.colorpsychology.org/black/>. The Color  Empowered By Color. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://www.empower- yourself-with-color-psychology.com/color-gray.html>. White Meaning - White Color  Color Psychology. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://www.colorpsychology.org/white/>.