Matthew Nelson Prof. Kat Modlin-Jackson Composition 1 3/4/17 Car Manufacturing As with all fields of manufacturing, the automobile industry is always changing whether it be due to different locations of production or the change in outsourcing to increase profit. From 2010 and back, it was believed that the United States had completed its industrial phase early in the 20 th century. Most scholars believed that America should cease major production and leave the manufacturing to the smaller, less developed countries, who are at their peak of productivity. Another thought during this time was that the conflict between countries in the manufacturing industry was beneficial for both economies. After 2010, the mindset and claims about the continuation of American manufacturing and the competition with other countries completely switched. Some also believed that the competition between the United States and the other countries they dealt with unnecessary and self-inflicted. The change shifted due to the shift of research on the economies and how these international trades affected the countries involved. A lot of discussion and arguments are over whether or not the competition between the United States is beneficial. Scholars debate whether America should keep up production if it is not benefitting them, because the whole reason or goal for manufacturing is to expand the quantity while staying efficient with your sources and expanding profit by staying fiscally responsible. In 2000, Eamonn Fingleton introduced his idea that the United States no longer needed to be the industrial hub that it had almost always been known for. Smaller countries, whom may not be the most developed or self-dependent, set their focus on innovation in hopes to break into the revolution stage in which the United States has already soared through. While other countries have found ways to stay at the top of the industry, the United States has fell behind (Fingleton 67). However, 12 years later, Christopher Wilson wrote about the strong impact the automotive industry of Mexico makes on the US. He claims that they complement each other and a failure on one end would mean a failure of the other (Wilson 27). So within the span of a decade, the belief that the United States should cease all large production changed into the idea that if either country was to drop out, the economy and industries would pay. With the main debate being over whether or not the competition is beneficial or downright useless and redundant, there is a lot of research poured into it. Most of the research is aimed towards competition with larger countries that the United States deals with, like Japan, China, Mexico, and even Canada. In 2010, Michael F. Thompson, along with Ali Merchant, dived into and explained the job loss and effects on the GDP due to the trade between the US and other countries that produce the same parts in the manufacturing industry. As the same thing that takes place in all industries, the manufacturing industry is a continuous fight for dominance and the countries innovate to stay on top and raise their Growth Domestic Product (Thompson 10). Just a mere two years later and Vincent Childress writes that the United States competes and creates competition against itself by purchasing products made in the other countries for cheaper. With little labor laws in some countries, wages are cheaper which in turn brings down the total cost to produce the items. Therefore, American companies outsource to safe funds but by doing so create that competition. Childress attacks the NAFTA agreement as the sole punisher of the United States decline in manufacturing domestically (Childress 23). The change is the earlier belief was that the constant competition kept the countries on their feet as they all tried to one up each other, but in the later he again explains that the strife is self- created and unneeded. Sure competition is great and it can benefit everyone involved, granted they play their cards right, but it has direct and indirect problems. Competition comes with a lot of positives but there is always negatives in any industry and not all the problems just hurt the company. As I covered earlier, Thompson and Merchant stressed the need for competition and how it was important in the development of the economy. However, the pair of authors also wrote on the loss of jobs that come with the companies fight for dominance. The reason is simple, the main goal is to maximize profit and they do that by cutting excess costs which then falls down to the layoff of excess workers (Thompson 25). Christopher Wilson speaks on and supports this competition specifically between the United States and Mexico. He goes into all of the positives such as the codependent relationship it creates and how they keep each other afloat due to their cooperation with each other (Wilson 28). The positives and negatives must be shown so that the researcher can make their own decision on whether the competition is helpful or not. The indirect issues are important to the common population and especially workers affected. In conclusion, the researchers reopened and tried new approaches to determine whether or not the competition between countries in the fields of manufacturing is beneficial or not. Whether the United States should cease production to the belief that if the United States pulled back, other countries that depended on them would fall with them. More researchers and sources will uncover more statistics and numbers that prove each other wrong but it all falls to the companies in the industry itself. Bibliography Childress, Vincent W. Impacts: Manufacturing and the Technology and Engineering Teacher, Vol.71, No. 5, Feb 2012, pp. 23-29. Wilson, Christopher Competiveness: The Mexican Issues in Science and Technology, Vol. 28, No. 4, 2012, pp. 27-30 Fingleton, Eamonn. Forgotten Merits of Challenge (05775132), vol. 43, no. 2, 2000, pp.67 Thompson, Michael F. Ali Arif Merchant. and Economic Growth in the U.S. Automotive Manufacturing Industry: Considering the Impact of American and Japanese Indiana Business Review, Vol. 85, No. 1, 2010, pp. 10-17