Choi 1 Jimin Choi Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 (Composition 1) February 19, 2017 Come over Firearms Firearm means dangerous weapons like riffle, pistol, or other portable guns. Firearm is a sensitive topic especially in America. The reason is that a lot of people has been conflicted with opinion which means using gun or not in terms of saving their life. Because, many people who have been killed by someone who has a gun every single day in the US. Therefore, all people must consider for this serious problem. Because of this reason, I will figure something out for how to prevent to minimize their shooting for coming future. Even since a half year ago, the things I have heard from SNS are 3times which occurred from airport in Fort Lauderdale, Miami, and gay club in Orlando. In other words, a lot of serious problems has continued at the short moment. When it comes to rating materials of problems, we can notice the situation of numerical value. By looking this, we will be able to compare with past, nowadays and even future. Also, these materials make people anxious. By investigating specific reasons of using firearms, they should make alternatives in terms of saving life. Ultimately, what is the basic problem? And, how has situation of firearm been problems nowadays including past and future? First article shows us very variable materials about firearms in many ways. the only country in the world where this happens, and it happens once a (Obama). This mention is about accident of using gun. Previous Obama has been anxious. Compare with other Choi 2 countries, the accident of using firearms is way higher than other countries. Moreover, the numerical values are not significantly changed. In other words, the problems are no problems with gun control. From 2009 to 2013, 2009 occurred 13,752 and 2013 is 12,253 (FBI). If we see this numerical value, we might have thought that it is good situation. Because, it has been better than before. The reason is that some of categories are still rising. Also, the interested thing is that the current rate, 339,000 Americans will die by guns by the early 2020s. That is roughly equivalent to the current population of Tampa, (CDC data, Walter Hickey/BI). This article notice us serious problems as well. Because annual death has been rise from 2000. Moreover, we can think that this material can related to another material. This material shows us which state has a lot of firearms? When it comes to South, Midwest, West, East which has occurred accident of firearms usually, South area is the most highest state among upper areas. By this reason, we can recognize that Americans will die by guns Tampa, is connected this problem (Matthew). Overall, this material shows us a lot of statistical situation for us. Therefore, we can understand this situation more easily. why the previous American president Obama worried about firearms. Matthew Speiser. AMERICA: why everyone thinks you have a problem with New Republic. Oct 3. 2015. A lot of people think that gun control is not solution regarding prevent accident. The main reason is that people already know how to stop the violence in society. They assist that they already have experienced many accidents before. However, this mention might bring about debate for everyone. The reason why, the accidents have been continued. Even if they are informed of control firearms, that will be unpredictable situation. If they stopping assist their opinion, this problem will not be stopped. Therefore, we can know that we need to Choi 3 pros and cons about firearms. Second, they would say that president and national assembly must be good at controlling gun control if they want to stop to use gun control. However, we might think the priority between life and killing someone. According to article, question is: which candidate is smart enough to simply promote what we already know (Power Lunch). We can know that some people obsess with their opinion. It may imply for us that America need to compromise regarding use firearms. After compromise, this confliction between using firearms or not will be reduce as long as they will try to make alternatives about minimizing their opinions. Jake Novak. control the answer. We already know how to stop the One file. Web. Jun 29. 2016. Nowadays, society has a lot of problems regarding firearms. According to Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of by Bovy, a lot of people have conflicting views about the safety of having firearms. Because of this, having firearms brings about a lot of contemplation. One of the reasons is because firearms can sometimes be used to save a life. However, it would be serious problem because of people who use firearms maliciously. Basically, we have to think about how to fix these problems concerning firearms. First, Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of shows us that the government always gives ambiguous problems to those living in the US (Bovy). For example, some problems are also related to other ambiguous problems which is further related to other problems. In other words, the government even have a specific standard. Basically, this author insists that the government has to make clear laws about the use of firearms. As we know, it is not always clear who is in the right in the cases of so we can expect similar problems in the future. For instance, the article mentions that people have the Choi 4 right to choose to get firearms by law (Bovy). However, everyone has been confused by legitimacy of using firearms. take specialized expertise in constitutional law to understand that current U.S. gun law gets its parameters from Supreme Court interpretations of the Second the Second Amendment has been liberally interpreted prevent any of us from saying been misinterpreted, or that it should be (Bovy) Moreover, this article gives us more insight on the vagueness of gun laws. The author explains herself, just gun violence. Not just certain guns. Not just already-technically- illegal guns. All of (Bovy). As everybody knows, this is very ambiguous problem. When we think about we have thoughts like: is the standard of illegal use of and makes this important decision for people in terms of the legal use of In fact, the name of this article sounds like ban all guns regardless of the reason of using gun; however, the main purpose of this article is that we prevent anyone from having firearms as long as there are no laws preventing them. Depending on interpretation of this article, we will be able to recognize the conflicts between banning firearms and using firearms and why we should ban firearms. Bovy, Phoebe Maltz. Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of  New Republic. N.p., 10 Dec. 2015. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Twisted by Joyce Lee Malcolm, there is a major crime problem in England. However, the rate of crime is more than the US even though gun regulations are strict. The rate of crime was not high in regard to the use firearms, but in many other ways. Still, it has been slightly rising compared to crime rates in the past. five centuries of growing civility ended in 1954. Violent crime has been climbing ever From 1991 to 1995, crimes against the person in inner cities increased 91 Choi 5 And in the four years from 1997 to 2001, the rate of violent crime more than (Malcolm). By looking at this article, we can recognize that similar problems concerning firearms may occur in the US as well. Regardless, firearms may bring about the sacrifice of people in general. object of a weapon was to assist weakness to cope with strength and it is this ability that the bill was framed to destroy. I do not think any government has the right, though they may very well have the power, to deprive people for whom they are responsible of the right to defend (Malcolm). Even for England, the role of the government is more important in many ways. As long as the government care who uses firearms, then England reduce the crimes related to them. The government has take care of people who use firearms as well as people who use firearms. This article give us the message that the harmony between people and government is very core of society. If something bad is taking place, someone should be there to help in regard to the problems of firearms. Before making good alternatives, no one should relax thinking about firearms. How can we minimize the crimes of firearms? Are crimes related to firearms not related to a particular nation? Malcolm, Joyce Lee. Gun Twisted  Reason.com. N.p, 01 Nov. 2002. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The issue of the united states is the problem of using firearm. The reason is that the crime rating of firearms is steadily rising since every single year. Because of this reason, almost people live comfortable without concern in the us. In my opinion, the most important problem is that the someone who shoot some people by gun. Basically, murder be justification regardless of any reasons. Therefore, we must need to know how to distinguish the justification about using of firearms. First problem is that no one has proved Choi 6 some crime of rating generally decreasing depending on specific laws about firearms or not. Moreover, if someone uses the firearms, statistical rating is vague. More importantly, which problem should we figure something out for this problem? According to resource which shows an average of 36,000 firearms-related deaths, fifty one percent were suicides, and 44 percent homicides (Liptak). This article prove it to us that nobody can confirm the most important problem between suicide and homicides about using firearms. Even some of experts regarding criminal professor in the us, they said that any laws affect to crime (Kleck). In other words, relationship of criminal problem is hard to solve in many ways. What is the best solution for solving our criminal society? Liptak, Adam. Laws and Crime: A Complex . The New York Times General OneFile. Web. 29 June. 2008 Second, which is the real purpose of using firearms and who get the gun in the society? The general reason of obtaining firearms is protecting from crime or dangerous something. According to the survey about that who has weapon like firearm in one family. the 314 parents, 201 (64%) reported the presence of at least 1 gun in the This material is extremely shocked for foreigner who is living another country unlike the us. The reason is that a lot of people consider guns as very dangerous weapon regardless of some reasons. Of course 314 is not too much big numerical number in the us when it comes to population comparison, it was enough to prove that American is so sensitive about saving themselves in the society. Because, one of the purpose about keeping firearms is protection However we can find something interest. That is five percent of the homes contained guns for recreational purposes We will be able to recognize for dangerous happening. Even 45% is for fun in their life. It could not be make sense for people. Firearms are so Choi 7 dangerous in many way. Priority should be known how to use the firearms for saving themselves against crime in the us. Basically, we should confirm the real purpose of using firearms. Frances, Baxley. Misperceptions About Children and . The Jama Network General OneFile. Web. 1 May. 2006 Choi 8