Pretty 1 Brandon Pretty Professor Changamire English 1102 25 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The United Nations is an intergovernmental organization that promotes international cooperation between states, nations and NGOs. On the topic of private military and security contractors many within the organization support using them for peacekeeping and military operations. Due to financial and strain on UN forces, they believe it is their moral and ethical duty to support democracies around the by any means possible including hiring mercenaries. Both pictures explain the financial situation and role of the UN, and the men and women that they hire to perform military-like roles around the world. They explain the dangerous conflicts surfacing around the world and dire situations that many innocent civilians face nowadays. These images are like windows to a world which nearly nobody in the US has experienced, places where people live in fear and poverty. The UN may not be able to protect everyone, but considering PMSCs to help take on this role must be considered for the betterment of the whole world. Without enough UN troops to both protect people and operate at a moments notice, employing PMSCs may be the most practical option. The first photo was taken in April of 1994 of Executive Outcomes contractors serving in Angola and Sierra Leone. People who know the context of this image know that the four men at the door were killed during an attack in Camaxilo, Angola. It depicts over a dozen well armed former Special Forces contractors, hired by the two governments to help fight Pretty 2 revolutionaries who had been causing havoc in the region. They are rough men, carrying military-grade weaponry and are prepared for whatever task that they performed. The most noticeable part of the picture is the way they look. Their expressions are grim as if this job is a requirement rather then a choice, and the gritty image provides a somber tome to the state of the country they are deployed to. This image was taken by Executive Outcomes, and used by a UN Expert Group who were for regulations and were concerned about the increased usage. When looking at it it gives the viewer a perspective on how dangerous the world really is and how millions of people still live in conditions with these men. PMSCs create conflicts, rather they are a product of it and participate in order to provide security to soldiers and civilians alike. While they should be monitored and regulated, whole continents face threats of anarchy and many more times then not, PMSCs are the only ones willing to bring peace. The UN Working Group in of Private Military and Security Companies: Regulation and Oversight brings up the issue that war may be becoming privatized and for profit and the lines of humanitarian aid are becoming blurred (15), but this comes as a result of the unwillingness of states to work together and the increasing fragmentation of communities around the world. I believe that this photograph is a representation of what is happening in the world, and it says that only men like those in the photo have any chance at stemming the tide of full-blown anarchy. The second image is of two UN soldiers standing in front of dozens of South Sudanese refugees, taken in December of 2013. In Juba, thousands of civilians were subjected to horrors by local troops and were forced to flee their country. When the UN arrived though, they were unable to stop the massacres and failed to properly protect civilians. The UN and humanitarian community even claimed in their Executive Summary that they knew Juba would be Pretty 3 caught in the crossfires of fighting, but prepare their defenses against heavy weapon fire or even a way to evacuate civilians (2). In the image it sets a somber tone, dozens of families and many more fleeing a wartorn area where they have lost nearly everything. Most of them have nothing more then a single bag with belongings as they sit cramped together in a hastily thrown-together camp. There are only two UN soldiers in view compared to the many refugees showing how ill-prepared they are to deal with this situation and it can be assumed that they are their to simply watch over rather then protect them, as the two men are watching them instead of the surroundings. Both men are armed with old rifles, their vests worn and uniforms surplused by the US military. The Executive Summary stated that poor leadership, lack of coordination, and failure to respond and use forces properly resulted in hundreds of innocent civilians dying (3). With the context of the image in mind, viewers of the image would come to the conclusion that the UN is incapable and their forces too spread out to competently defend people from rebels and local troops. If international organizations and countries are unable to protect people and stop these threats, the only viable option is to hire PMSCs to take part in some of these roles. The two images represent not only the inability to perform at peak capacity in ever crisis around the world, but the potential forces they have at their disposal to help them. Many PMSCs are former special forces or highly qualified soldiers who still believe that it is their duty to save lives and protect civilians and government officials around the world. With the UN themselves claiming that they lack the proper resources and also advocating for an increased usage of PMSCs, it is a viable option to think of doing just that. They photographs just a snapshot to the actions and failure to defend people in the past, but combined they represent what can be Pretty 4 our future. With enough regulation, legal framework being fixed and ethical standards being upheld people in dire situations all around the world can be protected by highly trained PMSCs. Without this the number of fleeing civilians in the second image may increase tenfold in countries not only like South Sudan, but at-risk areas in South America or even fragmented Eastern European states. Funding can be increased and more soldiers can be recruited, but with proper action employed by more qualified PMSCs wars and conflicts can be contained. This is not a decision that can be answered in a single day but something take months to decide if it is the right choice. The two images speak for themselves though and allow people to take a peek inside a dangerous world so they can decide on their own if risking human lives due to bad judgement is something they want on their conscience. They speak to us logically and emotionally, and teach us how to world can be or should be in this day and age. Pretty 5 Works Cited Hinedi, Rolla. Nations soldiers stand guard as civilians gather at the compound of the United Nations Mission in the Republic of South Sudan. United Nations Mission in South Sudan, 18 December 2013, UN Working Group on the Use of Mercenaries. of Private Military and Security Companies: Regulation and April 14 2010, Samuels, Taylor. Expert Group Concerned by Mercenary International, 10 November 2011, currentinternational.wordpress.com/2011/11/10/u-n-expert-group-concerned-by-mercenary-acti ity/. Accessed 25 February 2017. United Nations Mission in South Sudan. Summary of the Independent Special Investigation into the violence which occurred in Juba in 2016 and UNMISS response. UNMISS, 1 November 2016, Pretty 6 Image 1 Image 2