Allen 1 Amanda Allen Mariama M. Changamire English Composition II 26 February 2017 The daily products we use for makeup, skincare, or to medicate ourselves require to go through animal testing. What most people fail to realize are the laboratory animals that take part in testing for these products. Animals who are tested on experience poor conditions including suffering, such as long-term social isolation, electric shocks, withholding of food and water, or repeated breeding and separating of infants from and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), is an organization that fights for animal rights such as safety, proper living conditions, and alterative research for experimentation Mission PETA effectively supports its argument to end animal testing through two examples of visual rhetoric that addresses this issue. In Image A, there are a variety of statistics about animal testing for instance, the University of Utah spends $500,000 of grant money from tax payers to start heart attacks in dogs, Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted This image also includes important information about medications that have failed even though it has been animal tested. Per the section of Image A, the drugs that are shown to be safe and effective in animal tests, 92% fail in human trial because they work or are Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted The American Anti-Vivisection Society (AAVS), also states that research has never proven to be better than other models, nor particularly successful at Allen 2 with Animal The use of patriotic colors and different graph interests the audience more because it is ascetically pleasing. With Image A incorporating the pie chart and bar graph, highlights the effect animal testing truly has or does not have on human medications. Image A organizes its information by first having in bold letters, Money Wasted Annually on Animal this captures the audience right away because it is stating how their money is being spent which creates concern. Image A continues arrange information by discussing how money taxpayers spend is wasted on specific universities that conduct cruel and unnecessary animal experiments. It further demonstrates the statistics of how ineffective animal testing and is and concludes with what America could do with all the money the government spends on animal testing. Image B is a photograph from official website, which shows a rabbit that has been experimented on, Testing Is Bad Science: Instantly the audience is saddened and horrified by the condition the rabbit is in. With PETA sharing this image, the audience immediately wants to help this rabbit and ensure its safety. The positioning of camera in which is facing directly at the rabbit, draws the attention to the rabbit. The camera is also at a higher angle which cause the rabbit to purposely look smaller and defenseless. The Humane Society International (HIS), agrees that animal testing is cruel and informs that scientists are increasingly questioning the relevance of research aimed at  human diseases in the laboratory by artificially creating symptoms in other animal Wrong with Animal With this image, PETA is making the statement that regardless what the purpose is, experimentation upon animals is cruel and inhumane. Allen 3 In summation, both images from website exemplify brutality and the amount of money that taxpayers waste on condoning animal testing. This is done through multiple rhetorical appeals that encourage audience to fight against animal testing. Works Cited About Animal  Humane Society International. Humane Society International, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. About  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Animal Testing Is Bad Science:  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Problems with Animal  American Anti-Vivisection Society. AAVS, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  Harm and Suffering. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Allen 4 Word Count: 586