Krieman 1 Julia Krieman Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102.015 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Catholic Relief Services is a nonprofit charity that collects donations to bring aid to people in need in other countries. According to their website, Relief Services eases suffering and provides assistance to people in need in more than 100 countries, without regard to race, religion or CRS works in faith to help others in need, Relief Services is a manifestation of love for our brothers and sisters around the globe by the Catholic community of the United States. We protect, defend and advance human life around the world by directly meeting basic needs and advocating solutions to injustice. CRS is a pro-life organization dedicated to preserving the sacredness and dignity of human life from conception to natural This organization provides services based on the teachings of the Catholic Church. All of their efforts are aligned with Catholic doctrine and work to protect human life at all stages. The main mission of this charity is that in action provides CRS is free from tax in the United States which allows ninety three percent of their donation based income to be used directly through charity in other countries. The remaining seven percent of the income goes to fundraising, awareness, management, and general expenses The goal of Catholic Relief Services is to obtain peace in and between all countries and to help people who are in the most need aid. CRS uses specific advertising techniques to get their message across to their audience. Catholic Relief Services advertises Krieman 2 using the rhetorical appeals which in turn encourages their audience to donate time and money to help their cause. In Image 1, CRS is asking viewers to donate money in the Liturgical Season of Lent through their project, Rice This ad shows a little boy who is laughing with a bowl of rice. This would urge a viewer to donate because it shows that Operation Rice Bowl is truly helping people and making their lives better and happier. CRS provides social media links and web addresses so that the viewer can easily become involved. This insures they have easy access to the donation portal. The CRS Rice Bowl logo gives the ad credibility and the motto appeals to logic because the reader can see that CRS puts faith into action to create results. The reader is assured that their money will be going straight to helping people. In Image 1, CRS provides social media links and web addresses so that the viewer can easily become involved and gain knowledge on the organization. The links insure that the viewers have easy access to the donation portal. These links give CRS credibility because it shows that there is a place where the reader can learn more about the organization. The CRS Rice Bowl logo also gives the ad credibility because the reader knows it is a well-planned and organized charity. In Image 1, the CRS mission statement, action. appeals to the logic because it gives them an idea of what CRS does and how they apply their work. Kairos can only really be seen in Image 1 because they are collecting donations during the Lenten Liturgical Season. Image 2 depicts a little boy that looks as if he is crying and his hair looks dirty. He is wearing red clothing which could show the viewer that he is hungry or, to Catholics, the color red represents the Holy Spirit so that could show them that this little boy has the Holy Spirit in him just like everyone else. This common ground could cause the reader to donate and urge the reader to help in some way. The statistic in Image 2 appeals to logic so the reader can see that Krieman 3 this issue is urgent. This will encourage the reader to donate money or their time to the service of this group. Knowing the severity of this matter is effective because it will push the reader to help. The statistic also shows the reader that this issue is real because there is statistical proof. The CRS logo and the photographer name give the ad credibility because the reader can see that CRS has service groups working in those other countries that are providing relief. The reader can also see exactly where the photo is coming from and they know that the ad has a connection to a well-known and recognized charity. In Image 2, the reader can see the statistic as an appeal to logic because this is most likely new information that they have not seen before and it shows just how severe this issue is. Because of the large amount of refugees in need, the more help and donations CRS needs. The reader will see this once they read the ad. Both of these images are urging the audience to make a difference in the lives of people who need it by either donating or getting involved in the mission of CRS through charitable works like mission trips and prayer. These images both do a great job getting their point across with the use of pathos, the appeal to emotion. Image 1 uses it in a way that will make the reader happy because the little boy is happy. In Image 2, the reader is encouraged to donate because they feel they need to help children in similar situations to the little boy who looks sad in this image. Image 2 could be seen as more effective to some people because it appeals to the emotions of the reader in way that would make them sad. The reader might feel compassion for this little boy because he looks sad and in need of aid. CRS does a good job in showing the need for their services which would encourage their readers to donate. The main mission of CRS is to provide service for people in other countries who are impoverished or need relief after a tragic and fatal event. Their advertisements use ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to appeal to the readers ethics, logic, emotions, and the time in which they are Krieman 4 viewing the advertisement. The advertisements are effective in encouraging viewers to donate their time and money to the less fortunate in other countries. Krieman 5 Image 1 Image 2 Krieman 6 Works Cited  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Mission  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, 01 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Tarling, Sam. CRS. N.d. Catholic Relief Services, Syria. CRS. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Operation Rice Bowl. N.d. Catholic Relief Services, Laos. CRS Rice Bowl. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.