Enix 1 David Enix ENC 1102 Casey Clague February 26 2017 Environment vs Profit Environmentalists, such as the members of the Ocean Cleanup, and plastic producers, such as The Hoover Company are considered clear opposers, with little in common. The main goal of The Ocean Cleanup is to reduce the amount of plastic in the environment, focusing on our oceans. Their image (image 1) tries to bring attention to their project(s) and is a potential call for help. On the other hand, the main goals of plastic producers are to generate profit and maintain happy customers. Image 2, presented by The Hoover Company, is used to persuade customers to buy their product. Image 1, representative of the Ocean Cleanup, uses pathos, kairos, and some ethos to motivate the audience to get involved in Largest Cleanup in while the Hoover image uses instances of logos, kairos, and some ethos to persuade consumers to buy the The Ocean Cleanup is an organization consisting of dedicated environmentalists that have the goal of substantially reducing the amount of plastic in our oceans. Their plan is to use huge objects that move with our currents to trap plastic debris in a net like structure. Image 1 is a picture of one of their nets in the ocean, catching plastic and concentrating it into one spot. The phrase Largest Cleanup in is front and center in their picture, making it the first thing noticed. There is no company logo on the image as this picture is from their website. Enix 2 Although there is no inclusion of company experts or a company logo on the image, the presence of their equipment and the huge collection of plastic sends the message that the cleanup has hit the ground running, an appeal to ethos. Showing their audience that they know what gives the reader a sense of confidence when choosing to support their cause. The biggest appeal in this image, pathos, is easily noticed. Showing that plastic pollution is a real problem by presenting a real life example appeals to emotions. Having the ocean in the background can be comforting, as blue is many favorite color. However, the bulk of plastic in the image should spark an offensive feeling in the audience. The centerpiece of this image is the phrase Largest Cleanup in Their use of white font contrasts the colored background and makes the phrase stand out above the rest of the image. Additionally, the use of capital letters lets the audience know that what they are saying is important. They want to draw the attention of the audience to this specific phrase because it reflects their mission, to clean up our oceans. This phrase is also an appeal to kairos because it motivates the audience to get involved and potentially become a part a history. The biggest fault of this image is its lack of appeal to logos. Many environmentalists are scientists and/or researchers, where statistics and data reign supreme. The biggest goal of this image is to gather support for their cause, however no facts or data are shown to convince the audience that a real problem exists and how effective this organization is at solving it. Looking at this image alone, the reader can feel confused as the what to do next or how to get involved. An easy way to suppress this flaw would be to have the website printed on the image to inform the audience of where to go to find out more information. The Hoover Company is an American vacuum cleaner company that is focused on providing reliable and innovative cleaning solutions. For over 100 years they have designed Enix 3 powerful, easy-to-use products that can clean your entire home. Their advertisement, image 2, is a picture of their new product, the Hoover Cleaner, model 115. They have bolded letters at the top that read low Price on the newest model Hoover followed by the price. Under that, is a sort of dialogue and series of questions printed in small font. At the very bottom is the company name, followed by company locations such as North Carolina, Ohio, and England. The most noticeable part of this advertisement is the bolded letters at the very top. The attention is quickly drawn to the phrase low This phrase appeals to logos and kairos as the audience is drawn to the newest product as they assume it is the best one. Additionally, it makes the most sense to get the newest product while at a low price. Moving towards the middle, the mention of the vacuum being is an appeal to logos. Positioning the price front and center makes the vacuum seem like a reasonable deal and a smart buy. Under the price is a dialogue in small font continued by a series of questions. The only phrase in the text that stands out is Monthly Payments, Making the purchase of their product even easier is another appeal to logos. The only sign of ethos is the company name and their various locations at the bottom left of the advertisement. Kairos, the most effective appeal in the image, is created through the repetition of the word This makes the audience feel inclined to buy now. Also, the phrase Hoover Cleaner always establishes a predetermined need for their product. No appeals to pathos are found in this image. The goal of this advertisement is to convince consumers to buy the new Hoover Cleaner, but audiences should feel much less than convinced. The constant variation in font and text size makes the advertisement hard to follow. There is too much text for the reader to take in all at once, making it easy for the eye to skip over sentences at a time. The lack of colors and contrast Enix 4 throughout the image makes the advertisement seem boring, making it difficult to hold a attention. The inclusion of a quote from a happy customer would give the product more credibility. The Ocean Cleanup is an organization looking to counteract the destruction of our oceans. Plastic being the biggest offender, they are starting projects to gather and clean up the trash in our oceans. According to their website there is 5 trillion pieces of plastic that litter our oceans. Plastic accumulates in 5 big ocean garbage patches, the largest being between Hawaii and California. They are looking for support for their projects so they can complete the largest cleanup in history. Strangely enough, there are plastic production companies, such as the Hoover Company that are only concerned with suppling top of the line products to their customers. They use advertisements to convince consumers to buy their product(s). Two images from their respective company/organization were analyzed to find occurrences of all four rhetorical appeals. (Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos) In the end, both images could be improved to relay their message and accomplish their purposes. Enix 5 Works Cited Cleanup, Www.theoceancleanup.com The Ocean.  The Ocean Cleanup. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Find  Vacuum Cleaners Carpet Cleaners Hard Floor Cleaners Hoover. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Psychology, Color. does the color blue make you Verywell. Verywell, 9 May 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.