Leger1 Hantz Leger ENC1102 Mrs. Changamire 27 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric The health industry has been one of the most innovating industry with new cures and technology generating each year deriving from research and testing. An important organization that takes part in this health care revolution is the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association. Their health mission is devoted to advancing public policies that support innovative medical research, improve treatments, and yield real results. dedicated to modernizing the drug discovery and development process, promoting value-driven health care, and engaging and empowering consumers, and addressing market (About PhRMA) The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association advocate on many issues such as direct-to-consumer advertisement, nonprescription drug importation, and heavy investment in research and development. They have success in creating and delivering medicines to aid patients live longer and healthier lives that depends on ethical relationship and behavior. The organization also emphasis their importance for new cures and treatment in more ways than one. Through visual rhetoric, PhRMA illuminates their goals missions and value in underlying symbolisms presented in the images. Leger2 Image one expresses multiple messages about the organization and is very intertextual between its goals and missions. The image consists of a somewhat elderly man who seemed to be middle age based on his facial hair and rescinding hairline. The first conclusion I drew from analyzing this photo is that PhRMA wanted to depict an active middle age lifestyle. His mouth partial open, he is wearing a sports jacket, and he is on a bridge at the crack of dawn. Given that he looks like he has just taken a deep breath, we understand that he was engaging in some physical activity. He is also wearing a what looks to be a dri-fit sports jacket, which is what is normally worn during a cool morning exercise or jog. Furthermore, through different media outlets a common theme to see middle age people running early in the morning up a bridge or uphill of some sort. The underlying message found consistently within these themes has been, trying to maintain a healthy lifestyle at a stereotypical inactive age. PhRMA values on health are aligned with the message portrayed in the image because value are driven on a goal for healthy living. Leger3 Further decoding the image, the printed message hope to also contributes on the theme of getting healthy. Just like the man exercising to obtain greater health, we also hope develop cures to extend life by treating different illnesses. But having the word can invoke emotions such as optimism, in which people who see the ad can develop a feeling of still having a chance. A feeling that tells the person that not too late to turn your life around because hope for a cure. Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association is dedicated to modernizing the drug discovery and development process, promoting value-driven health care, and engaging and empowering consumers. Also in the printed message hope to the word hope is bolded and the word cures is bolded and enlarged compared the rest of the words. According to the English club, use bold for emphasis, when we want to make sure that our reader sees and takes in certain Therefore, it was imperative for the reader to see the words hope and cures, given that these words are invokes emotion and will draw attention to the image. Throughout the image there is obvious use of colors and light sources to symbol deeper meaning. The light beaming down against the man draws to different meanings. A beaming light down on a person translate things such as faith, power, spirituality and used to create focal points in a scene. Here they placed the beam of light behind his head and place him in a angle where he looks like moving towards it but turn back for a sec. We can see they want the viewer to see the man running towards the light, or that he was moving in the direction of the light source. A play on the phrase, light at the end of the road or tunnel, is displayed. Per Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary, the meaning of the phrase is, of success, happiness, or help after a long period of It relates to people who have been struggling with the illness and hope to find sure and the overall message of the image. Leger4 This second image is statistical chart that is used to update many followers on where PhRMA progress stands on journey for rare diseases. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacture of America is trade group that advocates businesses in the pharmaceutical industry. They also promote direct to consumer prescription drug advertisements. They believe the goal of DTC ads are to get the information out to patients. PhRMA says that studies have shown DTC ads on prescription drugs encourage patients to see their doctors and start important conversations about their health that might had not taken place. (About PhRMA) Immediately when seeing the image two you notice the big prescription bottle as the focal point of the visual, which signal Leger5 PhRMA. Hence, they are huge advocates for prescriptions. The prescription bottle is bright orange with whimsical geometric triangles and is used as an attention grabber. But more importantly the color orange is often used to symbolize energy, enthusiasm, and demanding of attention. (Color Symbolism and Culture). With this image, PhRMA wants to illuminate the prescription bottle in a positive way buy using bright orange and a clean white that pops. The subtitle rare in the image is printed with a turquoise color, another strategy to emphasis on certain areas of the image. obvious that PhRMA would want the use the most recognizable image of a prescription bottle. There are many forms of prescription bottles now and come in different colors, but the one used can be commonly identified by many people around the world. Buying using this image of a prescription bottle as an attention grabber appeals to a larger audience. The illustration has many appeals for credibility. Numbers and percentages used to explain stats are backed up from an outsource presented in the image. Below the Prescription bottle you can see the words U.S. FDA. Drug Summary This cites where the information is founded and the organization who conducted the statistical research. The FDA (Food and Drug Administration) is and government organization regulates and approve of all new drugs in the market which. safe to say the information present in the image is reliable. Being that 2015 was a great year for new prescription drugs, medicines, and treatment therapy because there were so many breakthroughs. Allyson funk stated in February of 2016 the hope for new treatments and cures has never been greater, with recent advances delivering on the promise of the science for (Advancing the science for patients with rare diseases) Through visual rhetoric, PhRMA illuminates their goals missions and value in underlying symbolisms presented in the images. With the two image its shown we can see where the argument, mission, goal, and value of the illustration can be decoded and illuminated. Word Count:1196 Leger6 Word Cited Color Symbolism and  Symbolism of Color: Using Color for Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.  English Club. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 27 Feb. Light at the end of the tunnel Definition in the Cambridge English  at the end of the tunnel Definition in the Cambridge English Dictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). Advancing the science for patients with rare  PR Newswire: news distribution, targeting and monitoring. N.p., 29 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.