Physician Assisted Suicide 1 Physician Assisted Suicide Maria A. Chancafe University of South Florida Physician Assisted Suicide 2 Physician Assisted Suicide Physician assisted suicide is one of the most controversial topics to be consulted in the medical field. This is due to the many different viewpoints on what physicians should do in terminally ill cases. The first legal practice of physician assisted suicide began in 1998 in the United States (Josefson). Even in this case, the act was only able to be done with the small margin that approved the Death with Dignity Act. This act is a fairly lengthy process in which a patient must first be above 18 years of age and a resident of a state that allows for the Death with Dignity Act. Then the patient must find a doctor in the practicing state, the patient must also have a terminal illness with less than 6 months to live. This is only the basic criteria for a patient being eligible for physician assisted suicide. Once a patient passes these initial criteria they must then make two oral requests to partake in the practice being 15 days apart. Then the patient must make a written request to their physician and another physician is then brought to consult on the case. Once these two physicians agree on the prognosis, with the possibility of a psychologist or psychiatrist being brought in on the case (Johnson). The process to get approved for the act of physician assisted suicide can take a long period of time depending on the individual patient themselves and the length can change from patient to patient. In the picture that the organization, Death with Dignity, presents it shows examples of pathos, ethos, and Kairos. In this picture we see a beautiful image of the sunset over a body of water and in the center an eagle soaring through the sky. This image shows pathos by using the arm colors of the sunset. The orangish-grey tones of the sky colliding with the pale blue tones of the ocean allow for a calming effect on the person looking at this picture. The brown and white accents on the eagle make it appear as if it is flying towards the viewer leaving an awe. This perfect scenery shows a peaceful and empathetic viewpoint to the cause of physician assisted Physician Assisted Suicide 3 suicide. By having the words and on the picture in a simple, black font it appeals to the emotional side of the reader by allowing for a calmer outlook of death. This picture also shows ethos, or credibility by having the name Death with Dignity in the picture. Death with Dignity is a well-known organization that strives to get physician assisted suicide legal across the United States. There is also an act called Death with Dignity that is known across the world. This act, that is only acceptable in 4 states allows for physicians to allow terminally ill patients to choose when they die. This act advocates for those in need. This picture also shows Kairos by having the eagle in the picture. The eagle symbolizes the United States, and in this picture the eagle is currently soaring through the sky. This represents how a person must act know as this bird is flying. Along with the first picture, this picture that the organization, Not Dead Yet, presents it shows examples of pathos, ethos, and Kairos. In this picture we see a group of everyday people standing in a group holding signs. The main focal point of this picture is a sign being held by a woman saying, us to live not This sign is red with bold white letterings, the red sends the sign of anger. Using words like in the sign allow for the reader to understand that it could also happen to them. Using words like show a more vicious or harsher viewpoint than in the first picture gives off. This picture also uses ethos by having the organizations name on the sign. The organization, Not Dead Yet, is a world known organization that is attempting to stop all of the work that the organization Death with Dignity has tried to work for because they feel that opening up the doors to physician assisted suicide would allow for the possible outcome of genocide against the lower economic class and social status. By using what seems to be everyday people, this picture shows examples of Kairos. This shows that since these people are Physician Assisted Suicide 4 taking time out of their day to say what they would want to be heard, anyone can do it and everyone can partake in the action to speak today. Physician Assisted Suicide 5 References Home. (n.d.). Retrieved February 8, 2017, from https://www.deathwithdignity.org/ Johnson, B. (2008). Death with Dignity Act.. Encyclopedia of Aging and Public Health,. 256- 257. Retrieved on January 18, 2017. Josefson, D. (1998). US Sees First Legal Case of Physician Assisted Suicide. BMJ: British Medical Journal, 316(7137), 1037-1037. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/25178781 Not Dead Yet. (n.d.). Retrieved February 12, 2017, from http://notdeadyet.org/ Physician Assisted Suicide 6 Pictures