Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 The War on Drugs and the Black community The topic is about how the war on drugs affects the Black community. The name on was first popularized after President Nixon used it in a 1971 press conference. This was also where he declared drug abuse to be public enemy number one. It became even more popular in 1982 when President Reagan officially declared a on The sources that have been chosen best represent the topic. The first source is from an Encyclopedia of Health. This article is quite insightful when it comes to the War on Drugs. It gives many examples and statistics throughout the article. The second source is mainly about mass incarceration and how it has drastically changed during the past few decades. The author believes that because of the new drug policies enacted during the Regan presidency, there were many Blacks being targeted purposefully. The third source is about how the War on Drugs does not provide any justice for minorities, especially Black people. It mentions the socio-economic factors that have plagued the Black community since the emergence of this event. The next source points out how the War on Drugs has been an all-around failure because it has not decreased the level of street drugs activities. The fifth source is about how the author thinks that the War on Drugs has become a race war. The author mentions disproportionate arrests and over policing of Black communities. The last source makes the comparison of values to the situation at hand. In this project, I will ask, how does the war on drugs effect the Black community? Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 Willis, S.M., MS, War on Drugs. Press Encyclopedia of Health, January, 2015 and Graff, Gilda. racial caste in America via mass The Journal of Psychohistory, Vol 43(2), Fal 2015. pp. 120-133. This article explains the origins and its original purpose, mission of the War on Drugs is to reduce the production, distribution, and usage of all illegal drugs. Domestically, this mission has been consistent. Manufacturers, dealers, and users remain targets of arrest and It is also about the criticisms that this operation faced and continues to face to this day. There is also statistics on how this operation has effected minority groups to whites, ... whites accounted for seventy-six percent of current drug users but made up only ten percent of those serving time for a drug-related offense. African Americans, on the other hand, represented 13.5 percent of drug users and Hispanic Americans less than 9 percent, yet Black and Hispanic Americans made up more than 90 percent of all persons jailed for a drug related  The second source is from a journal on Psychohistory. This article is basically about the fact that the War on Drugs was being used as a new breed of racism. After the Civil War and the Reconstruction. There was Jim Crow laws. I think the racism went from being more blatant and out in the open to being much subtler and secret. This article also says that the modern version of convict leasing is mass incarceration. This article states how drastically announcement about the War on Drugs changed policies. There was a huge growth in prison/jail populations. Also, poor African-Americans were intentionally targeted. De Rugy, Veronique. How The War On Drugs Fails Black . Business Daily, 10612890, 14 July 2016. Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 This article is about how the war on drugs has failed the Black community. In the beginning it gives evidence of the fact that many more whites than blacks believe that America has done enough for equal rights for black people. It also talks about some more of the negative effects. Things like fathers going to prison and kids growing up in single parent homes. Some working class blacks turned to drugs as a source of income because it is easy to get into. Also, America has spent billions on this operation, but there been much to show for it. This source is relevant to the topic because it helps explain the research question. As was addressed earlier, the war on drugs does more harm than good. There are many young black men that turn to drugs as a source of income, instead of getting legal jobs, such, the war on drugs creates incentives for young black men to seek employment in the drug business rather than seek lower-paying legal employment. This incentive structure unfortunately starts a vicious circle of incarceration followed by a failure to build the job skills for legal employment that serve as a foundation for a productive existence in middle and later . This is a direct result of keeping many drugs like marijuana illegal. That is because selling illegal drugs makes them much more profitable than if it were to be legal. Illegal drugs make for higher profit, which in turn gives you a bigger risk. Cooper, Hannah LF. War On Drugs Policing And Police  Substance Use & Misuse 50.8/9 (2015): 1188-1194. Academic Search Premier. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. The war on drugs policing has failed to reduce domestic street-level drugs activity: the cost of drugs remains low and drugs remain widely available. Policing and racism have been mutually constitutive in the United States. Erosions to the 4th Amendment to the Constitution Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 and to the Posse Comitatus Act set the foundations for two war on drugs policing strategies: stop and frisk and Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) teams. These strategies have created specific conditions conducive to police brutality targeting Black communities. War on Drugs policing strategies appear to increase police brutality targeting Black communities, even as they make little progress in reducing street-level drug activity. This source was chosen because it talks about how policing also has to do with this. Things like Stop and  were created to help combat drugs and other illegal activity on the streets. Though it became a huge issue because the police would target mainly Blacks and Latinos, and frisks proliferated in the United States during the War on Drugs, particularly in impoverished predominately Black and Latino . Another thing was that when these frisks were conducted, a lot of them were done to innocent people. This again, sends many innocent people to jail for a very long time for something they might not have committed,  Stop and frisks can be highly geographically concentrated: in a single 8-block area of a predominately Black and Latino neighborhood (home to just 14,000 people), the police conducted 52,000 stop and frisks over a four-year period; 94% of people stopped had committed no . Kenneth B. Nunn, Race, Crime and the Pool of Surplus Criminality: or Why the on Was a on 6 Journal of Gender, Race and Justice 381-445, 386-412, 422-427 (Fall 2002) This excerpt is goes into depth about the War on Drugs. The author speaks about the anti- drug policies that came about in the early and The anti-drug policies were split into two categories, and Supply-reduction strategies seek to reduce the availability of drugs by limiting access to drug sources and increasing the risks of Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 drug possession and distribution. Demand-reduction strategies, on the other hand, seek to reduce demand for illegal drugs through drug use prevention and The policies were made so harsh because the Reagan and Bush Sr. administrations wanted to make public safety and crime prevention the number one priority. This source is relevant to the topic because it explains a lot of the questions about why the Regan and Bush presidency pushed for the War on Drugs so hard. They truly believed they were doing the right thing. Instead when the statistics are really analyzed, all it did was truly make things worse for Black people. Though the rest of the general public began to view drug use as a menace to society. citizens viewed drugs as a menace and many of these same citizens were readily supportive of proposals to address the drug Bobo, Lawrence D., and Victor Thompson. Unfair By Design. The War on Drugs, Race, and the Legitimacy of the Criminal Justice  Social Research 2 (2006): 445. Academic OneFile. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The author of this article begins with making the comparison to the War on Drugs with the are bound together by an American  This creed contains ideas and values that Americans of almost any station in life can articulate, namely inalienable rights to freedom, justice, and a fair This is very important because of the injustices that Black people face due to the War on Drugs. This article is relevant to the topic because it points out how different the values are to the situation that minorities are facing. It is a stark contrast to how everyone is supposed to be treated equally and given the same right as everyone else. That is mostly the point of this topic to point out the unfair injustices given to the Black community. Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017