Orie 1 Shamon Orie Sarah Basil Composition 2 26 February 2017 Appeals through Advertisement Steroid usage in sports is a growing affair that most athletes find their selves being involved in to better their overall performance. Even though, steroid usage has its benefits when it comes to athletic competition, it is mostly associated with its negative connotations. Stakeholders, like WADA (World Anti-Drug Agency) fight every day to make sure athletes do not use steroids in result that it will enhance their physical abilities and give them an unnatural edge over their opponents. WADA uses different visual logos to stress the importance of not using steroids in hopes that the different appeals will cause athletes to see the seriousness in steroid usage. Through the use of pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos WADA, effectively delivers the message that athletes using steroids is a negative entity through advertisement photos. The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), is a foundation that fights against athletes using drugs in sports to enhance their performance. (WADA 1). WADA feel that the usage of steroids in sports gives unfair advantages to users and that it damages their health. World Anti-Doping Agency was founded with the aim of bringing consistency to anti-doping policies and regulations within sport organizations and governments right across the (WADA 1). WADA feels that the usage of steroids in sports results is an unfair advantage when playing sports. WADA are aware that steroids have positive effects on the human but feel it greatly impacts a person in a negative way more. The health issues that come with the usage of steroids and other drugs are severe. In order to protect individuals, WADA work yearly to ban certain steroids entirely and in certain sports. The World Anti-Doping Code (Code) is the core document that harmonizes anti-doping policies, rules and regulations within sport organizations around the world. (WADA 4). WADA is the reason why most sports are banned from allowing their athletes to use steroids and they hope to brush their beliefs off on other sports as well. Emotions is a key way to connect to a person on a personal level and a way to connect to people through feelings. Pathos is an appeal to the emotions of an individual or group of people. The first image WADA uses to portray there standing on steroid use and sports involves a kid dressed in hockey gear. The purpose of using a child in their advertisement picture is because children hold soft sports in most hearts especially individuals who have children. When looking at the picture, WADA raises the question, do you want your children to drugs? Immediately, this causes individuals to protect their children and yearn for their safety. The second picture does not have much of an emotional appeal but the fact that the professional athlete is looking out for other athletes in her sport shows that she cares about others well-being. This also shows emotional aspects because the girl is saying no to drugs so she is protecting her body. The first advertisement photo shows more emotional appeal than the second advertisement picture but both pictures show that WADA understands the importance of using emotional appeals to get their intended point to their viewers. WADA also feel that appeals to logic is necessary when persuading individuals that drugs should not be used when participating is sports. Logos is defined as is an appeal to logic, and is a way of Orie 2 persuading an audience by (Examples of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos). The first picture is straight forward in its effort to achieve logic. The overall message is to say no to drugs, because drugs are known to be destructive. Knowing that drugs are bad this shows that individuals should not be doing them in the first place especially athletes. To perform well as athletes, it is logical that an individual should not partake in consuming drugs because they want their bodies to be as healthy as possible. The second picture pertains to logic because the athlete states that she respects herself and she wants to compete clean. The only true way to accomplish this goal is to simply not do drugs and to say no to drugs. The overall purpose of both advertisement pictures is simply saying no to drugs because drugs are downright bad for you. With WADA being a credible organization and source they feel that they can appeal to their viewers through ethos. is an appeal to ethics, and it is a means of convincing someone of the character or credibility of the (Examples of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos1). Both pictures have a since of ethos by incorporating the WADA logo in the picture. By incorporating the WADA logo this also shows that the information intended from each picture is coming from a credible source. The second picture has another since of ethos by using a personal statement from an Olympic athlete. This shows that you need drugs to be great in sports, she use steroids and she is an Olympic athlete. The advertisement photos show that the information is credible because it is coming from to credible sources. The last appeal that WADA uses in their advertisement pictures is Kairos, Kairos is an appeal that pertains to time. refers to the opportune time and/or place--that is, the right or appropriate time to say or do the right or appropriate (Grammer 1). In the first pic, WADA is stating that saying no to drugs starts with the youth. This involves parents teaching their students at an early age the negative effects of drugs and the importance of not doing drugs. After a child learns about drugs this limits the chances that they will use drugs when they get older. The second picture uses little appeals of kairos but it can still relate to Kairos. The second picture deals with kairos but it entails that one should not partake in doing drugs once they are a professional athlete. The advertisement pictures used by WADA show appeals of when is the right time to say no to drugs but overall anytime is the right time to say no to drugs. In conclusion, WADA is an organization that view steroid usage in sports as a wrong doing and fights to make sure steroid usage is not tolerated in sports. WADA uses advertisement photos to broadcast that athletes should not being using steroids by using different appeals. Pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos are appeals used by WADA to further broadcast their standpoint on steroid usage in sports. Through emotional appeals, WADA leans toward children and the thought of caring about others. Logic is an easy appeal that WADA accomplishes by using common sense that drugs are simply bad for you. Since WADA is a credible source using their logo and using professional athletes prove their information is credible. Time is essential for WADA and the organization feels saying no to drugs starts at a young age. overall goal is to broadcast that steroid usage is a negative activity and should it should be banned through sports by using advertisement pictures. Orie 3 Work Cited World Anti-Doping  World AntiDoping Agency. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Grammer Grammar & Composition Expert, Richard Nordquist. Kairos: The Right Time and the Right  About.com Education. N.p., 16 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.