Pemberton 1 Daniel Pemberton Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102.106S17 26 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeal and the Heartland Institute The Heartland Institute is an organization self-described as a tank promoting public policy based on individual liberty, limited government, and free They endeavor to come up with solutions to economic problems, using their influence with government policy makers to forward their plans and agenda In regard to climate change, the stance of the Institute is that a lot of the claims made by the scientific community are false or exaggerated, and lead to alarmism about the environment. The Institute believes that this ultimately costs the government money with policies created to protect the environment; they attempt to share their belief and suspend the spread of what they consider to be misinformation. In 2011 and 2012, the Heartland Institute created a poster and a billboard respectively, as a way of advertising their stance on climate change. These two images attempted to provoke thought in the viewer by appealing to ethos, logos, pathos and kairos. Over the years, the Heartland Institute has fortified itself as a bastion of anti-climate change rhetoric, dismissing claims that the world was in imminent and permanent danger and directly opposing the views of the larger scientific community. The Economist described the Heartland Institute as most prominent think-tank promoting skepticism about man- made climate when referring to the allegations that the Institute had attempted to give anti-climate change teaching materials to primary schools in 2012 The Institute favors Pemberton 2 literature over images to provoke rhetorical appeals, however, which makes the two images in question especially unique. The first image was published in 2011, and served as one of the few posters made and distributed by the Heartland Institute. The poster displays a young boy with his arms and legs outstretched, wearing nothing but shorts and a cape while he is being supported by masculine legs. At the top of the poster, in a mixture of black and red, the words are written. Beneath that on the left side of the paper is written Man in blue, fully capitalized letters, with a list of four supporting pieces of evidence beneath that. To the right of that is written in a similar fashion. In the background is a lush green landscape, with the Heartland Institute logo in the bottom right corner of the poster. This poster appeals to the four forms of rhetorical appeal: logos, pathos, ethos and kairos. In regards to logos, the manner in which the information is displayed is a strong factor. The two statements and are displayed prominently and as facts; it is presented to the reader as a definite truth, and can potentially provide that sense of logic. In regards to pathos, the poster tries to appeal to the viewer with the image of the young boy with his limbs outstretched. The way the boy pretends to fly appeals to a sense of innocence and childhood in the viewer, while the image of the green landscape gives a sense of reassurance that the information being said about climate change is indeed true. Ethos is also appealed in the image. There is a sense of credibility and trust established with the use of the Heartland logo in the bottom right corner of the poster. This allows the viewer to know that the information about climate change on the poster is reinforced and supported by a known organization. The appeal to kairos in the poster however, might be the weakest appeal. There is no sense of urgency or timeliness is really emphasized in the poster, aside from the fact that Pemberton 3 global warming has been a controversial topic for the majority of the new millennium. Kairos is not as present in this image, unlike the other. The second image is a billboard put up in 2012 by the Heartland Institute. It is a simple billboard that displays the visage of Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber, in his mug shot photo. To the right of his face are the words still believe in Global Warming. Do written in red, with a white background. Underneath his face is his name and alias, and to the right of that is the Heartland website. This billboard was put up in Chicago for the 7 th International Conference on Climate Change which was being held in the city, and was supposed to be the first of a series of billboards such as this. According to officials from the Institute, other billboards were supposed to feature Osama bin Laden, Charles Manson, and Fidel Castro. Joseph Bast, then president of the Institute said in response to the controversy that most prominent advocates of global warming scientists. The leaders of the global warming movement have one thing in common: They are willing to use force and fraud to advance their fringe (Kuipers). Ted Kaczynski himself is an incarcerated criminal who carried out a series of bombings throughout the eighteen years. He sent bombs through the mail and targeted individuals, airlines and universities (Chia). This billboard also has elements of the four kind of rhetorical appeal: logos, pathos, ethos and kairos. In regards to logos, the billboard attempts to appeal to the sense of irony; if such a terrible extremist such as the Unabomber could advocate for something, then how can that thing be legitimate? This might create a sense of uncertainty to the audience, who may have had strong beliefs about climate change beforehand. When it comes to pathos, the billboard invokes a feeling of fear and disgust, as his unruly face is displayed prominently on it, catching the eyes of those driving below. To address credibility, the billboard also displays the Heartland Pemberton 4 website, assuring the viewer that if they so choose, they could find more information about the eye catching billboard at an website. In regards to kairos, this image does a much better sense of appealing to timeliness than the first; the picture of Kaczynski was recent and appeared in the news for some time, making his image fresh in minds at the time. This level of recognition made it even easier to catch attention. The Heartland Institute is an organization that set out to provide solutions to different societal problems that they highlighted, such as climate change. Their view is that a lot of the information that the scientific community puts out is exaggerated, and so, have set out to attempt to quell the spread of misinformation. Though not their most used form of rhetoric, the Heartland Institute has employed the usage of images to express their views. One of the images is of a young boy, and appeals to a sense of logos, ethos and pathos, using his childhood innocence to make their claims about climate change. The other image is that of a billboard put up in 2012 in Chicago, and depicted the Unabomber. The image created a sense of unsettlement and had elements of all the rhetorical appeals. These two images show how the Heartland Institute has attempted to show their views to the world through images, and shows how simple pictures can impact us. (1190 words) Pemberton 5 Works Cited Chia, Jessica. Unabomber says he will break 20 YEARS of silence... on one condition: Ted Kaczynski offers interview to journalist as long as he understands am NOT  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 23 May 2016. Web. Kuipers, Dean Unabomber billboard continues to hurt Heartland  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 09 May 2012. Web. Home - Heartland  Home Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. Toxic  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 26 May 2012. Web.