Coladonato 1 Sebastian Coladonato Bob Botkin ENC1102 26, March, 2017 Are Advertisements Really Just Pictures, Or A Mind Game . Samsung is an electronics company who produces top of the line smartphones and puts out great, and powerful advertisements to attempt to lure in other customers who have put all of their loyalty and money into competitors. Samsung has all types of advertisements, which cover all of the rhetorical appeals available to masterminds behind the creation of these advertisements. Everyone sees how colorful these advertisements are, and what they say, Though what people understand is how intricate these advertisements truly are, how every little part of the design is meant to target a certain audience and interest them into buying the product. Advertisements are created to perplex an audience and persuade them to buy a certain product that a company is selling. Advertisements have been round for ages, 313 years to be exact, the first advertisement was created in the Boston newsletter during the year 1704, The first newspaper advertisement, an announcement seeking a buyer for an Oyster Bay, Long Island, estate, is published in the Boston (Advertisingage,1). The whole advertising due to two inventions, the invention of the printing press, and the invention of the television. Once the printing press was created people were either writing news by hand like letters, or on stone as the ancient romans did of the earliest newspapers date back to Ancient Rome where important announcements were carved in stone tablets and placed in highly Coladonato 1 populated areas where citizens could be informed of the (History of the Printed Newspaper, 1). The printing press was created by Johannes Gutenberg, sometime between the years of 1398-1468, and this is how it worked devised an alloy of lead, tin and antimony that would melt at low temperature, cast well in the die, and be durable in the press. It was then possible to use and reuse the separate pieces of type, as long as the metal in which they were cast did not wear down, simply by arranging them in the desired order. The mirror image of each letter (rather than entire words or phrases), was carved in relief on a small block. Individual letters, easily movable, were put together to form words; words separated by blank spaces formed lines of type; and lines of type were brought together to make up a page. Since letters could be arranged into any format, an infinite variety of texts could be printed by reusing and resetting the (Kreis, 1). The Creation of the printing press enabled people to mass produce hand written letters, drawings, newspapers, and any other hand produced thing using ink on paper, because instead of them having to create one at a time by hand, writing out every single word over and over again, all they have to do is press it and it. The next huge revolutionary step that happened when it comes to advertisements is the television. The television started to be thought of in the first television was a mechanical television which was created in 1923, then after that the electronic television was created in In the late 1800s, Paul Gottlieb Nipkow, a student in Germany, developed the first ever mechanical module of television. He succeeded in sending images through wires with the help of a rotating metal disk. This technology was called the that had 18 lines of In 1923, an American inventor called Charles Jenkins used the disk idea of Nipkow to invent the first ever practical mechanical television system. By 1931, his Radiovisor Model 100 was being sold in a complete kit as a mechanical The experiments of Swinton in 1907, with the Coladonato 1 cathode ray tube for electronic television held great potential but were not converted into reality. Finally, in 1927, Philo Taylor Farnsworth was able to invent a working model of electronic television that was based on (Jezek,1) the creation of the television made it stupidly simple to put out advertisements, they would just broadcast the image on their channel to every persons TV tuned into the channel. Once the televisions came out and the mass production of paper advertisements the whole advertisements changed and became more strategic, more competitive, and consisted of way more head games. Samsung is one of the top phone producers in the world, and to be the top phone producer you need to also have amazing advertisements created to trap the attention and influence them purchase your product. The first advertisement that I am researching Within this one image there are multiple differently creative effects created by a crew of artists. For example they used the color blue because of the emotions this color evokes from you is a cool calming color that shows creativity and intelligence. It is a popular color among large corporations, hospitals and airlines. It is a color of loyalty, strength, wisdom and trust. Blue has a calming effect on the psyche. Blue is the color of the sky and the sea and is often used to represent those images. Blue is a color that generally looks good in almost any shade and is a popular color among males. Blue is not a good color when used for food as there are few blue foods found in nature and it suppresses the Color can influence emotions in a way that few other Coladonato 1 mediums can, 1) another thing is, what do you see in the middle of the page other then the big words screaming out THE NEXT BIG THING IS HERE, you see the word here. The word Here is talking about time and place but in this it is both, he is talking about time when you put it in the context of the literal text , here also means, home , we are here, this makes the reader more humble, then finally there is a dandelion on the background oh the phone, this also evokes a humble emotion within. This advertisement has all the rhetorical appeals too, pathos because they are messing and possessing your emotion by the colors, word placement, and pictures. Ethos because Samsung is a credible company that is trusted by many, so they made sure to put the trust worthy phone made by the trust worthy company on the advertisement , logos because everyone wants the next be thing, to be the more up to date person in the office or classroom, so it is logical to want this phone. Kairos because by it being the next big thing people get watery mouth and end up getting it as soon as possible. The Second interesting image that Samsung had released was this picture . like the other picture, this one was also created to make to influence the audience to buy the product through Coladonato 1 mind games, and this one is just as complex as the last one. First off, the background is not just stars, the stars are making you mind connect and produce the thought of the future, because of how much people tend to correlate space with future. Another visual affect is the lines coming from the phone like it is emanating from it, this is also making the phone look futuristic, and the words do too, they are big, sleek and fast. This one also has all of the rhetorical appeals too Ethos by Samsung putting their name on the logo as a credible source makes it a credible advertisement, logos, by putting vivid slim and fast they are telling you everything everyone wants and this phone has and if you want it and this phone has it you logically should get it, Pathos, by making you think about the future and how you want to be happy in the future, this phone can do that for you, Kairos, because you want the future to be now, in which case get the phone. Advertising has come a long way since the stone tablets. Advertisements evolved through time, first the stone tablets, then hand written, printing press, and television. Not only the way they come can be put out into the public, but, also the way they target people. Advertisements are an art form and will most likely never go away. Coladonato 1 Works Sighted Color Psychology, what do colors mean and  Digital Skratch. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Kreis, Steven. The Printing  Historyguide.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ad Age Advertising Century:  Ad Age. N.p., 29 Mar. 1999. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. History of the Printed  PsPrint. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.