Morocho 1 Casey Morocho Hannah Lay ENC 1102 25 February 2017 PETA For several decades, there has been a progressing issue of animal cruelty. Thus, organizations such as the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, also known as PETA, have been created since the early The topic of animal cruelty did not come to the mainstream light until a couple of years ago. Different industries, such as the food and entertainment industry, have had claims made against them for abusing animals for human exploitation. With the purpose of acting as a firm voice for the animals, PETA has spread the word that have rights and deserve to have their best interests taken into consideration regardless of whether they are useful to One way that this organization has tried to spread their objective is by creating advertisements about the campaigns that they hold. By using rhetorical appeals, PETA can grasp the targeted attention with their graphic images. In the first image endorsed by PETA, ethos and pathos are two major rhetorical appeals that are used to convey what they believe SeaWorld is doing wrong while in the second image, PETA utilizes pathos, logos, and Kairos to convey a similar message. Morocho 2 This image is asking the audience to feel disgusted by what SeaWorld does to their animals, specifically their orcas in captivity. The image infers bestiality, which is the act of sex with animals. By doing so, PETA is tapping into viewpoint on bestiality. It is looked at as a horrible thing to do. It does not conform to what society believes is right. In addition, the phrase Grown Men Perform Sex Acts on is meant to shock the audience and be repulsive. This phrase is startegically placed right underneath There is also a smiling man on an orca floatie that has a facial expression of sadness. In regards to the appeal of ethos, it is clear to see the credibility of PETA and the known reputation associated with it. Since PETA is a well-known and large animal rights organization, it just comes naturally to believe what they say. They are known to be largest animal rights organization with over five million members and Besides ethos, there are also several elements in this image that represent pathos. The use of the word and in one sentence can anger people due to the image inferring bestiality. It can also stir pity for the animals since grown men should not be performing sex acts on animals. PETA seems that it is trying to say that even though bestiality is looked down upon by society, it is yet supported by SeaWorld. Also, the facial expressions of the grown man on the inflatable orca would cause the audience to see how the orcas felt about what SeaWorld is technically doing to them. The light in the poster could represent the reputation of SeaWorld even though they masturbate and artificially inseminate the orcas. This image is trying to accomplish to scare its audience into thinking what SeaWorld is doing is not right by appealing to it in a sexual manner. The image does a great job at achieving this goal. Morocho 3 This image takes a more innocent approach towards the audience. It is basically trying to express how SeaWorld has been separating baby orcas from their mothers for decades. It uses pathos as its main defense against SeaWorld. It makes the audience see the innocence of the orcas that are being separated by the naked woman in the small bathtub. The image also uses neutral and dark tones to reflect the sadness. To add to the atmosphere of sadness, the text in the picture is small and not bolded to go in with the theme being displayed. This image uses elements such as dark shading and a naked body to demonstrate pathos. The dark shading in the image shows a somber attitude which coincides with the sadness that the orcas feel after being separated. The naked body reflects the innocence of the orcas that SeaWorld captures. The woman in the image is also pregnant, which helps represent the strong bond between a mother and child. The smallness of the bath tub represents the habitats that the orcas are kept in. The animal cruelty claims against SeaWorld state how the health is poor due to not being in a more natural environment. The phrase babies and mothers since shows how the orca program works in SeaWorld. At SeaWorld, there is a program where orcas are raised in tanks to be used in performances. One element of the picture that expresses Kairos is the It makes the audience feel as if something they must do as soon as possible. also the right thing to do now. Also, the amount of time SeaWorld has been babies and Morocho 4 is another example of Kairos. shows the audience that SeaWorld has been doing this for decades which means that several orcas have been affected. PETA, with its main goal of acting as a firm voice for animals, achieves its purpose by displaying such graphic images. By the display of such images, the rhetorical appeals help capture the attention as to how SeaWorld treats its orcas in captivity. In the first image of the man and the orca, the use of ethos and pathos played an extreme role in PETA being able to transmit their message. As for the second image, pathos, logos, and kairos were the rhetorical appeals that were able to convey a similar message. By studying the images, it makes it possible for the audience to see its intended purpose, audience, and message. This plays an important part for the success in acting as a firm voice for the animals. Morocho 5 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>.