Adams 1 Patrick Adams Mr. Bob Botkin ENC 1102 01 March 2017 The Case against Steroid Abusers in the Hall of Fame using Visual Aids There is a famous phrase that says a picture is worth a thousand words. Pictures or any other type of visual can often sway a opinion. They can do that in multiple ways for example through an appeal to character or authority (ethos), an appeal to emotion (pathos), or an appeal to logic or reason (logos). Good writers use pictures to their advantage to emphasize their point. Sportswriters are no exception, they often use pictures to round out an article or for emphasis. This paper will examine how these writers used Figures 1, 2, and 3 to support and enhance their arguments against players abusing steroids being considered for the Hall of Fame. It will also discuss two prominent arguments against steroid abusers for consideration the Hall of Fame. One of the arguments against steroid users in the Hall of Fame is the medical harm steroid abuse causes; thereby the virtue of baseball influence they are influencing young players to take steroids in order to make it as a professional. According to recovery.org the rate of steroid abuse in high school seniors is on the rise (Williams, Steroid Addiction and Recovery Facts, recovery.org). The reason for this according to baseball Hall of Famer and former U.S Senator Jim Bunning is that who cheat . . . sends a terrible message to our young athletes that it is OK to (Bunning, Baseball Great Jim Bunning: Steroid Users Have No Place in Hall of Fame, usnews.com). Therefore the worry that steroid users in Major League Baseball are influencing young players are not unfounded. Writer Scott Miller of Adams 2 Bleacher-Report.com uses Figure 1, shown at the end of the paper, to start off his article (Miller, The Cautionary Tale of Ken Caminiti: The Steroid First Truth-Teller,). Looking at Figure 1 a few things jump off the picture. The first thing of note is the color of the background a deep black. This is important because black is a very serious color that symbolizes death and sorrow. This reflects the story of the man in the picture, Ken Caminiti. Caminiti was a star baseball player during the right in the heart of the steroid era. Caminiti even won a National League MVP (most valuable player) in 1996. In 2002 after Caminiti had retired he admitted to using steroids during his career starting in his MVP season. Two years later Caminiti died of an overdose of cocaine and heroin, an addiction which stemmed from his use of steroids and its psychological effects. The choice to use the word casualty hammers home the idea of that steroids cause tragedy. The word choice also includes a logical fallacy the slippery slope, by including the words first casualty it makes it seem as though if this issue is not confronted immediately there will be more cases like this without providing evidence for this idea. The font accentuates this by being very serious and business-like. With all of these factors combined it weaves a fabric around the picture where steroids are linked to death and the tragedy that was Ken life. use of this picture as the titular image sets the tone for the rest of his article and lets you know how he stands regarding steroids and the Hall of Fame, resolutely against. Miller is appealing to his audiences through pathos by attempting to create pity and sympathy through the story painted by Figure 1. The question that remains is what exactly the effects of steroid abuse are. In order to understand the problem with steroids and the argument against steroid users making into the Hall of Fame it is necessary that are medical benefits to using steroids, but it becomes harmful when they are abused or misused. Figure 2 shows some adverse effects of misuse and abuse of steroids (Shalini, What are Anabolic Steroids? Benefits, Adams 3 Side Effects, Cautions and Advices, health-hq.com). Figure 2 uses logos, as the image presents facts about the side-effects that are possible with the misuse of steroids. Figure 2 also uses ethos, an appeal to authority as it uses an image that people would normally associate with Doctors an authority in the medical field. Figure 2 uses white space to focus all the attention on the image and text in Figure 2. This is an example of an appeal to false authority as there is no actual authority presented just images that the brain links to actual authorities. The font in Figure 2 is simple and almost factual which is contrasted with the actual text which is chalk full of medical terminology. The use of the medical terminology in the figure to the uninformed makes the potential pitfalls of steroid abuse seem even worse because of the ignorance about the terminology. Other side-effects include but not limited to a hormone deficiency, prostate cancer, and extreme mood swings (Williams, Steroid Addiction and Recovery Facts, recovery.org). In review, one of the arguments against steroid abusers being considered for the Hall of Fame is the medical effects it can have on the body and the influence players have as role models, thereby putting young athletes at risk. The other prominent argument against steroid abusers being considered for the baseball Hall of Fame is that steroid users have unleveled the playing field and made the game unfair for the clean players. The premier writer and spokesperson for this line of thinking is Sports Illustrated writer Tom Verducci. Verducci points this out in a 2017 article saying that his for the 2002 story I wrote on steroids in baseball . . . were the many clean players who volunteered to me over the and seasons how the game was horribly (Verducci, How I decide who gets my Hall of Fame vote, and why steroid users belong, si.com). That 2002 story he wrote was the expose where Caminiti admitted to taking steroids which led to the pressure on Major League Baseball to implement testing. Figure 3 is the cover of the Sports Illustrated issue in which the article appear (Verducci, SI 60 Q&A: Adams 4 How Tom Verducci blew the lid off Steroid Era, si.com). Figure 3 is a prime example of symbolism and how the image supports claim that steroid users were unbalancing the game. The image in Figure 3 is striking and bold. The boldest thing is the metaphor sitting smack dab in the middle of Figure 3. The baseball with crossed syringes is reminiscent of a coat of arms with a shield and crossed swords. What this implies is that choice of weapon in baseball was no longer their skill and innate talent but drugs that enhanced their body unnaturally. The colors are also striking as they sit in the background and separately they do not mean anything. When put together you realize the colors are red, white, and blue the colors of America. Then the disruption of the color scheme becomes apparent with the silver and black of the syringes disrupting the American color scheme much like how steroids are bastardizing and breaking the game of baseball. The word choice specifically of an hammers home the idea that steroids are wrong (SI 60 Q&A: How Tom Verducci blew the lid off Steroid Era, si.com). The quote by Caminiti that is included in Figure 3 along with the overall word choice are an appeal to ethos, because of words like confessions and cheater. The colors and the baseball and syringes are also a part of ethos, as they are symbols and metaphors. choice to use Figure 3 as the introduction to his expose serves as a tone setter for the whole of his article. It not only sets the tone but it also shows his opinion on steroids with one picture. In review, Verducci uses Figure 3 to show his stance against steroids because of the harm steroids do to clean players and to set the tone of his article. In review, writers are able to use pictures of various types to set tone and to state their opinion and ultimately enhance their arguments. These writers were able to use Figures 1, 2, 3 to show their stances on steroids with all of them being firmly against. The writers used images to enhance their arguments or article using ethos, logos, or pathos. Adams 5 Figure 1 Figure 2 Adams 6 Figure 3 Adams 7 Works Cited Bunning, Jim. Baseball Great Jim Bunning: Steroid Users Have No Place in Hall of  Usnews.com. US News and World Report, 21 July 2009. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Miller, Scott. The Cautionary Tale of Ken Caminiti: The Steroid First  Bleacherreport.com. Bleacher Report, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Shalini. What are Anabolic Steroids? Benefits, Side Effects, Cautions and  Health- HQ.com. Health-HQ, 23 Sept. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017 Verducci, Tom. How I decide who gets my Hall of Fame vote, and why steroid users  Si.com. Sports Illustrated, 10 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Verducci, Tom. SI 60 Q&A: How Tom Verducci blew the lid off Steroid  Si.com. Sports Illustrated, 09 Sept. 2014. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Williams, Sarah. Steroid Addiction and Recovery  Recovery.org. N.p., 11 Dec. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.