Su 1 Yang Su ENC1102.106S17 Sarah Basil 1/29/2017 Smoking Save Your Life When you ask people who are smoking, what time did you begin to smoke. He probably said I begin to smoke when I was teenager. The reason of most first smoking is curiosity. Teenager is a group are most easy to confuse, they will not consider the consequences of doing things. So when they see the people around begin to smoke, they also want to try it and usually hide from their parents. When they realized the harm of smoking are too late, because they already got smoking addiction. The stakeholder known as Stop Smoking is an organization whose main objective is help people stop smoking. Obviously smoking have any benefit for your health. Contrary to popular belief, smoking only harm the lungs of a smoker, and cancer the only threat to a health. Inhaling tobacco smoke can cause damage to most of the organs and systems. ( So stop smoking become an imminent thing. I found two advertisements from the internet. It is in order to help people quit smoke. Through the use of the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. They are able to tell people the dangerous of smoke. Pathos is the way to images evoke emotions. At the first image we could see a pregnant woman. We can see form the picture, this woman is smoking and she has a lot of smoke even she was pregnant. holding a cigarette and the smoke came out from the belly button, it looks like she is smoking to the unborn child. The text describes child health foundation. That is Su 2 warning people stop smoke give your child a good health. The second image has the name We could see clear, a man is holding a cigarette and the shadow of the cigarette is a gun. The text describes about 106000 people in the UK die each year due to smoking. This bluntness and incorporation of a gun is make audience feeling fear. Bold words and data statistics can let more people give up smoking. The gun in the image is a good thing to warning people quit smoke, it looks like every smoke equal to shoot a feeling of anxiety. Ethos is the credibility of information or images. At the bottom of the first image, we can see a web site about child health foundation and also we can see a logo about child health foundation. The two evidence to enhance the image of credibility. If you want to find more details you can search this web site. In from organizations that have a website usually automatically seem more credible to most people. At the second image is not good at ethos. Because the really have any part to show the authority of information. But the data statistics are precise numbers in UK. Although maybe it exaggerated but also can make the audience feel afraid. As everyone know there do have a lot of people died because smoking each year, remind is most important in this image. Logos is the logic of information or an image. An advertisement without logic is not a good advertisement. If an advertisement only has text, that will easy to let people feel boring and also it is hard to impress the audience. If an advertisement only has image, it could be difficult to understand, it also hard to impress the audience. A good advertisement should combine appropriate image and text. At the first advertisement, we could easy to find the topic from the image, that is quit smoke, we also could find the reason of why should we quit smoke from text. Text show child health. In conclusion, we can understand very easy after read this advertisement, Su 3 it is telling people stop smoke for your child health. For the second image. After reading there have two things make me impressed, one is the shadow of the cigarette another one is large letters text. The shadow of the cigarette is showing a gun, and large letters text write smoking kill. We can easy to understand the cigarette like a gun is killing people now. The topic is stop smoke and save your life. The two images have similar logic, that is let audience realize the harm of smoke and make people fear and quit smoke. Those two image can effectively communicate their ideas by providing visual cues. About 1.1 billion people -- one in every three adults -- are smokers, according to the World Health Organization. Contains 41,000 kind of chemicals in cigarettes, most are known to be carcinogenic (leading to cancer). These chemicals combine the heat of cigarettes to cause your cells to mutate, causing them to reproduce in an uncontrolled manner, leading to cancer. (Sampath) Now teenagers have a myth, most of them think smoking is very cool, in fact is not cool. Why do teenagers think so? Because some people they worship are smoking, such as their parents or celebrity. Everyone has teenager time, as we know teenagers are lack of self-control and have a strong curiosity. As parents should have correct guidance. The advertisement about stop smoke is a good method, but could not have substantial effect. To fundamentally eliminate must guide them correctly. As adults if you could not quit smoke in an easy way, you should remind yourself the harmful of smoke. Tell yourself there is no benefit about smoking. Smoking is not something that should be taken lightly. Every year a lot of people die the immediate cause is smoking. Smoking also lead to other lesions. Most reason of death seems not care about smoking, in fact it is closely related with disease in tobacco. Now male life expectancy shorter than women, part of the reason is that more men than women smokers. Advocate smoking is helpful to improve the quality of producing advertisements that utilize the rhetorical appeals, logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos stop smoking Su 4 is able to effectively persuade the audience to stop smoke if people smoke that will make him want to begin to smoke. Su 5 Su 6 Work Cited Quittingsmoking among adults--United States, MMWR.Morbidity and mortality weekly report. 60 (44) Stead, Lindsay F.; Lancaster, Tim (2016). Combined pharmacotherapy and behavioural interventions for smoking . Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Fiore MC, Bailey WC, Cohen SJ, et al. practice guideline: treating tobacco use and Rockville, MD: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service Maguire CP, Ryan J, Kelly A, D, Coakley D, Walsh JB (2000). Do patient age and medical condition influence medical advice to stop . Age Ageing. 29 (3)