Guzman !1 Daylees Guzman Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 1 March 2017 Visual Rhetoric in Fight for Marine Animal Rights Since the emergence of animal parks, aquariums and the fur trade, animal rights have been a controversial topic of discussion. On one side of the argument, organizations and companies make millions of dollars using marine animals for fashion and entertainment purposes. For the sake of keeping their wallets full, companies work around the clock to collect marine animals to either be pretty accessories or swim in endless circles around shallow tanks. Organizations such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) fight back against the industries built on the suffering of intelligent, social beings who are denied everything that is natural and important to (PETA). PETA, with their 5 million supporters, reaches out to the masses through campaigns aimed to end animal suffering in the food industry, laboratories, and in the clothing trade. PETA endorses a strict no animal cruelty stance on their website and through advertisement campaigns throughout the world, including their heavy use of rhetorical appeals, with hopes of educating people on the importance of eliminating human abuse on animals. PETA specifically uses visual rhetoric within their advertisements and to combat a core value of theirs, the ethical treatment of marine life. use of rhetoric appeals are evident in their advertisements. In the first example of advertisements, they call for the elimination of seal slaughter. The main focal point is the depiction of Pamela Anderson wearing only a shirt with an image of a seal Guzman !2 on it and the phrase, save the seals, in red plastered over her. Red, an emotionally intense color associated with blood and danger, is the only color used throughout the image. In art, color is used to draw emotion from the viewer and connect them to the artwork; this is exactly what PETA counted on when choosing the color scheme of gray and red. This emotional invocation caused by color is an appeal to pathos. To draw more of an emotional response out of the viewers, the ad also uses triggering words such as baby, massacre, and slaughter. How could anyone agree with the unreasonable slaughtering of tiny defenseless baby seals? This emotional response is created with the use of a red color scheme, coupled with selective wording. The first advertisement, concerning seals, also appeals to the audiences ethics, or ethos. In the image, Pamela Anderson calls upon the credibility of Barack Obama, Vladimir Putin, and The Dalai Lama to make it known to the reader that the slaughtering of seals in Canada should be stopped. The advertisement borrows the credibility of three well known and respected people to make their argument more ethically appealing. Obama, Putin, and The Dalai Lama are all familiar names to an average person which allows PETA to reach across many groups with only one ad and get their message out to the public. Then again, invoking the credibility of people that have no say in seal slaughter an effective use of ethos as a rhetoric appeal. With the second example of advertisements, they attempt to convince the audience to help free Lolita, an orca, who has been trapped at the Miami Seaquarium since 1970. It states that Lolita was taken from her family out in the wild and has been alone in a small filthy tank all by herself for the past 40 years. Unlike the first advertisement, this ad presents a specific situation of animal abuse and mistreatment on one marine animal and calls for the audience to take action. PETA presents the information in a logical manner by stating when she was stolen Guzman !3 from the wild as well as how long she has been mistreated. This technique allows the audience to understand how unethical situation is by giving them facts and allowing them to analyze them, this is an example of logos. By using logos, the image persuades the audience to fight back against imprisonment. Additionally, PETA heavily relies on pathos as a mean of persuading viewers to join their cause. As with the first image, triggering words, such as cruelty and confinement, are used to strike an emotional cord with people. Also similar to the first example, this image uses the colors green and blue to draw a sad and melancholy response from the audience in the same way that the first advertisement uses red. PETA used a different pathos technique and compared tank with a bathtub while also asking the audience if they could personally live within such a small space for 40 years of their life. By comparing Lolita to humans and allowing people to visualize her situation, PETA reasonably educates individuals on the unfair treatment of marine life that is happening right under their noses. In an attempt to broadcast their values as an organization, PETA has created hundreds of advertisements with the hopes that others can be educated and converted to agree with their core values, including the fair treatment of marine life. To implement this, a large amount of their campaigns have a similar strategic technique used, sex appeal. It is evident in both images that PETA uses nudity and sexually appealing women to create shock value and grab individuals attentions at first glance. While viewing the images, there is no legitimate reason why Pamela Anderson wearing pants or why Adriana de Moura had to be naked to showcase the confined space orcas live. Renata Bongiorno, a professor at the University of Queensland with a PhD in social psychology, states that ads promoting ethical causes with advertising may limit its (1). Using women in a demeaning and over sexualized manner Guzman !4 negatively reflects on how PETA choses to implement their organizations goals. Women should not have to be viewed as animals for people to understand that the killing of seals and the captivity of orcas is unacceptable. As well as with sex appeal, the majority of advertisements attempt to appeal to their audience with ethos. Whether or not their attempts at ethos is successful is a hot topic of debate. With this in mind, use of ethos in the two ads presented fail to hit their mark. In the first advertisement, Pamela use as the spokesperson, as well as the focal point of the image, is ineffective. To the general public, Anderson is a well known actress and model. Her advocacy work for PETA is not common knowledge and at first glance her picture leaves viewers confused as to why she is on the ad at all. Lonnie Shekhtman, a writer for the Christian Science Monitor who focuses her writing on topics of science and environment, wrote about animal rights work around the world. Shekhtman wrote that while Anderson was on an animal rights advocation trip she showcased her interest in protecting marine life by criticizing for keeping orca whales at an aquarium in Shekhtman also states that she has been heavy involved with many animal causes and has been highly outspoken about her beliefs. After deep research into Pamela character, it is clear that she is a devoted animal rights activist. With that being stated, her involvement in the fight for the protection of seals, which is the advertisements only goal, is nonexistent. For the purpose of the ad, she is not a reliable source and this invokes the rhetoric fallacy of false authority. Additionally, her involvement with animal rights is not clearly stated in the advertisement which leads the viewer to question if the information they are reading is credible and reliable, completely failing to appeal to ethos. Similarly, in the second advertisement PETA uses Adriana de Moura as their spokesperson to Guzman !5 raise awareness for the imprisonment of Lolita, the orca, in Miami Seaquarium. Moura in known for her role on the television show Real Housewives of Miami; she has seldom participated in any animal rights activism. The only connections Moura has to Lolita or to marine life is that she currently lives in the city Lolita is being housed and that from Brazil where illegal to imprison marine mammals in aquariums for human (PETA). That being said, it is quite evident that Adriana de participation in a PETA advertisement add any credibility or reliability for the viewer. Therefore, achieving ethos relies more heavily on the character or the individual being used for credibility instead of popularity. Using famous individuals, who have little to no involvement with the topic they are supposed to be passionate about, convinces absolutely none of audience to get out and protect the marine life. It is highly important that the countries around the world begin fighting against the mistreatment of animals. Living, feeling, and breathing organisms are not human property; therefore, using them for clothing and entertainment purposes is unethical and wrong. PETA, backed by the voices of 5 million supporters, prides themselves in creating conversation over the elimination of human control on animals. Through the analysis of the visual rhetoric used in advertisements, it is clear that they value the health and safety of marine animals. The campaigns they launch spark the conversation needed to ignite the world in protest and unite us as a whole. For centuries humans have felt themselves superior to all other living creatures solely due to the fact we have the ability to think and communicate on different levels. PETA hopes to end this divide and reshape what society thinks acceptable treatment of animals is. Guzman !6 mission will cease to exist, and visual rhetoric will have served its purpose, once the senseless cruelty in animal confinement and slaughtering has ended. Guzman !7 Works Cited Bongiorno, Renata, et al. Sex Sell: Using Sexualized Images of Women Reduces Support for Ethical PLoS ONE, Vol. 8, Issue 12, 2013. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals  PETA, http://www.peta.org/. Accessed 22 January 2017. Shekhtman, Lonnie. What Is Pamela Anderson Doing Lobbying the The Christian Science Monitor, 2015. Guzman !8 Image 1: https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/65/0b/ac/650bacf5c6e81e3ad09c302031df8a9b.jpg Guzman !9 Image 2: http://about-face.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/07/Pamela-Anderson-Save-The-Seals-T-Shirt- Ad.jpg