Newbold 1 Lexi Newbold Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 007 23 February 2017 Student Success Through Empowered Communities The National Parent Teacher Association, or PTA, is an organization to student (Mission & Values). The mission is make every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all (Mission & Values). According to the organization, students need help finding their potential and this is where family and community involvement comes into play. When a student has a support system that emphasizes the importance of their education, it facilitates this success that the PTA is targeting. The PTA successfully represents its mission and goals through two pieces of visual rhetoric that emphasize a need for balance between community and education for the benefit of all students. In reference to homework policy, the PTA is an advocate of the 10-minute rule (Resolution on Homework). This guideline for homework basically says that the product of multiplying a grade level by 10 will result in the number of minutes that a student should have to do homework (Resolution on Homework). To a certain degree, homework should not intrude on free time to spend with family, eat nutritional meals, play outside with friends, or get a good night sleep at the elementary level (Cooper 147; Kohn 10). The PTA also believes in the idea of over which is demonstrated in the resolution on homework (Resolution on Homework). When homework is assigned with purpose, it can be used as a tool that facilitates student academic achievement (Cooper 146). When homework is created Newbold 2 and assigned without the proper intent, it can have negative effects on the students themselves and on their academic achievement (Cooper 146), which works against the goals of the PTA. The PTA works toward creating a balance between school and community for each student. The community can also include a family. It has already been established that denies access to leisure time and community activities that can teach important lessons, both academic and which are critical for a personal development (Cooper 146). These community activities include spending quality time with family and participating in extra-curricular activities like sports outside of school. Image A shows not only the importance of community, but also shows the importance of family involvement in a education. The goal of most images created and distributed by the PTA are directed towards parents with the goal of enticing them to join the organization because they will pay the membership fee. This particular image emphasizes that the PTA connects a education to their life outside of school by using the phrase Families and (Image A). The PTA logo is a crucial part of the image because the image claims that through the PTA, families and schools will be able to work together to facilitate student success whether it be academically or in non- academic ways. In the first image, the bold font of the word creates a sense of urgency because this leads the audience of parents to believe they need to join the PTA in order to be more connected with the education system as well as the community. The family in Image A are also holding hands which is a sign of happiness and love between family members. The PTA uses this as an example of what a family could become or experience by joining the PTA and becoming increasingly more involved not only with the community, but directly with the schools themselves. Additionally, the organization took advantage of color symbolism by using Newbold 3 both dark and lighter shades of blue. Dark blue can symbolize integrity, knowledge, power, and seriousness which is important because the organization wants to keep its voice as an active member in the education community in the United States (Color Symbolism and Culture). The lighter blues can represent, in this case, stability, unity, trust, and truth which will help parents feel more secure in their decision to support and represent the PTA as a member (Color Symbolism and Culture). The second image below, Image B, demonstrates the slogan of the PTA: every child. one voice. It shows a community of different people and different places that all work together to be something great. It demonstrates that no matter who you are, education and a sense of belonging in the community is most important and can lead to happiness. The actual PTA logo is also in this image. The claims that the PTA does have involvement in our schools as well as our communities is illustrated by the graphics themselves of families, students, and community buildings. The family depicted in Image A and the group of people pictured in Image B are all holding hands. This can make the audience feel contentment towards the organization because the organization wants the audience to join and if they do, the PTA promises a feeling of togetherness in community. There are also schools depicted both in the images which can lead the audience to understand that through education, better futures may be provided for the children. Additionally, quality time spent with others outside of school is also important to the happiness of the children and families as time progresses. In the second image, the italicized words of and lead the audience to believe that the PTA really does have the best interest of all students and their families in mind and why they should support the PTA. Image B also takes advantage of color symbolism by using an array of bright and happy colors Newbold 4 which combine to bring out a combination of emotions in the audience including optimism, friendliness, excitement, creativity, trustworthiness, peacefulness, as well as balance (Color Symbolism and Culture). Those bright and happy colors show that through the involvement, it can create a bright and happy community for students and their families to live in. The National Parent Teacher Association not only works toward student success through community involvement in education and vice versa. The PTA has values that include collaboration, commitment, diversity, respect, and accountability (Mission and Values) on the part of its members and its leaders. It relies mainly on volunteers and fundraising as well as donations from parents and families looking to help improve their educational experience through the actions of the PTA. The main goal of the PTA is to recruit willing members to join and support their organization so that the students of the country might have a chance at getting a better education. Through the use of effective visual rhetoric, such as Image A and Image B, the PTA can achieve its goal more easily. The advertisements, if they can be called that, call parents to attention by showing them what their family and their community can look like with the help of the PTA. They do not just want the money to help support the things the organization does, but wants the parents to have a say in what the organization does and what they support in the world of United States education. Through these images, the organization does not attempt to say that academic success is most important, but rather it attempts to emphasize that a sense of belonging and the belief that a student can succeed in their own community is everything. Newbold 5 Works Cited Color Symbolism and  Symbolism of Color: Using Color for Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <http://www.incredibleart.org/lessons/middle/color2.htm>. Cooper, Harris M., and Jeffrey C. Valentine. Using Research to Answer Practical Questions About  Educational Psychologist, vol. 36, no. 3, 2001, pp. 143-153. Kohn, Alfie. Abusing Research: The Study of Homework and Other  Phi Delta Kappan, vol. 88, no. 1, 2006, pp. 8-22. Mission &  National PTA. n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pta.org/about/content.cfm?ItemNumber=944&navItemNumber=552>. Resolution on Homework: Quality Over  National PTA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. http://www.pta.org/advocacy/content.cfm?ItemNumber=4782 Word Count: 1212 Total Word Count: 1318 Newbold 6 Image A Image B