Ledesma 1 Kimberly Ledesma Mrs. Penuliar ENC1102 Project 2 Intermediate Draft 26 February 2017 Evaluation Images about Evaluation If someone has gone to public school, or just school in general, the chances are that standardized tests have been apart of the curriculum. It seems that every year the number of tests administered to students goes up. The American Evaluation Association (AEA) is involved in standardized testing but they have a different perspective. The American Evaluation Association (AEA) believes that the benefits of testing students do more harm than good, and through the two images shared on their Facebook page they communicate that evaluation should be transparent and that the expectations that have been put in place for students are absurd and unrealistic. The AEA is an association that dedicates itself to evaluating in different facets. The association believes in the improvement of that be improving the testing itself or finding an alternative. The association wrote a report on their position regarding high stakes testing and how it has negative Some of these negative consequences include more dropouts, deprofessionalization of staff, and the concentration of money going toward testing (American Evaluation Association 1). Also, under No Child Left Behind, every annual test has to meet achievement leading to a of sanctions and interventions (Brown). The AEA report also discusses that one of the issues with Ledesma 2 these tests is that they are insufficient. There is more to a knowledge that an assessment cannot family environment, their economic status, and their health. The American Evaluation Association looks to find an alternative for these standardized tests and in their position statement on high stakes testing lists expectations for improved evaluation. Some of these expectations include: That measurement specialists and advisors involved in high stakes testing programs consider not only technical and theoretical but also consequential issues, such as the welfare of students, educators, schools, and society. Also, that important decisions (for example, grade to grade promotion/retention, graduation, certification, classification, basis of any single test or test battery, no matter how many times it may be taken. (American Evaluation Association 3) The AEA wants to improve what students are currently going through involving standardized testing, and the stress that is involved with it. The mission says, improve evaluation practices and methods, increase evaluation use, promote evaluation as a profession, and support the contribution of evaluation to the generation of theory and knowledge about effective human (http://www.eval.org/p/cm/ld/fid=4). The AEA wants to improve the current situation of standardized testing; this portrays their passion for students, and their wellbeing. They just want to build upon what has already been put in want to look at what has been done that can be improved and go from there. The AEA values knowledge and the students/faculty involved in the testing. In the first image posted on Facebook by the AEA, there is a polar bear that is standing half in water and half out, with the text is (Wilson). Lauren Wilson, Ledesma 3 who is an evaluation specialist, created this image that was later shared on the Facebook page. This image may seem like it is simply stating that evaluation is transparent, but that is not the case. The use of logos in this image is a kind of ironic logic, poking fun at the fact that evaluation is supposed to be transparent and that we would assume it is, but not. Wilson says, provides evidence beyond how you might feel things are (Wilson, Illuminated Ideas). This statement is saying that sometimes there can be more below the surface that maybe we know about regarding evaluation. This image has ethos because it was created by an evaluation specialist and shared by an evaluation topic is what they do for a living and what they are passionate about. There is also a sense of urgency (kairos) in this image because it appeals to current culture, as it was posted on a Facebook page. Also, due to the fact that it implies that something needs to soon. Chris Lysy, who works for an evaluation agency called Freshspectrum, created the cartoon image shared on the Facebook page (Lysy). Similar to the image created by Wilson, this one has kairos because it was shared to a Facebook page and is directed toward the current culture. Another part of the appeal of kairos is a sense of urgency, which can be seen in the text of the cartoon. The teacher is telling the class all of the topics that will be tested, and it seems that the students have to master them in a short amount of time. Topics like compassion, creativity, and humor would be incredibly difficult to test or be able to perfect in a short amount of time to be tested on. The fact that the artist behind the cartoon not only works for an evaluation agency, but also dedicates most of his work to the topic of evaluation creates a sense of credibility when you see the image. This cartoon also has a bit of ironic logic due to the fact that some of the topics listed in the cartoon are assessed in real life standardized tests, but the tone of the image makes it seem that it is something impossible that could never be tested. Ledesma 4 Through these images, the AEA is conveying the fact that standardized testing should be straightforward. The images imply how difficult testing can be and that it is not or as simple as studying the materials on the test like some people may think. These images could be directed towards the creators of these assessments, teachers and schools that rely on the tests, or the students that take the tests themselves. The AEA wants change for images support the desires that they have of improvement. They hope for evaluation to be transparent, with no tricks or confusion. They strive for simplicity in materials that are being tested so that students are not frustrated when preparing and studying for the test. Those are the reasons why the AEA does what they state it in their mission, improve evaluation practices and (http://www.eval.org/p/cm/ld/fid=4). The images are not simply shared for fun, but for another perspective of the situation that they are working on. They mean something much more than one would think. The AEA believes in finding a better alternative or minimizing the amounts of testing while still producing the results needed to improve the education of students. The association used those two images to raise awareness of the situation regarding test taking. Both images may not seem as meaningful as they really are, but with careful thought and evaluating the appeal of the images you realize what is trying to be communicated. This issue may not seem as important as others like world hunger or poverty for example, but the fact is that the students that go through these standardized tests are the future of the United States. Their education matters more than it is recognized, therefore should the time they spend in school be spent primarily on absorbing material or on testing them to see if they have mastered what they are learning? At the end of the day, are scores in school enough to evaluate a progress? Or can an alternative option be found to promote even more success in students? Ledesma 5 Works Cited American Evaluation Association. American Evaluation Association Position Statement on HIGH STAKES TESTING In PreK-12 Education. Publication. American Evaluation Association, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.eval.org/d/do/128>. Brown, Emma. Teachers union, think tank propose compromise on K-12 testing of U.S.  The Washington Post. WP Company, 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lysy, Chris. A different kind of standardized test. Digital image. Facebook. American Evaluation Association, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Wilson, Lauren. If you ever need to explain what evaluation is, this can help... Digital image. Facebook. American Evaluation Association, 3 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Wilson, Lauren. What is  Illuminated Ideas. N.p., 10 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.