Paul 1 Jessica Paul Professor Penuliar Composition II 26 February 2017 The Visual Rhetoric of ChoseVeg Company are kept pregnant and imprisoned inside tiny metal gestation crates so small they turn around, lie down comfortably, or engage in any natural ChoseVeg in this quote describes how pigs are treated in the course of pork production. The company has extremely high interests in the topic of vegetarianism. goals are to create a society in which vegetarianism is more common than meat consumption or a world in which animals are treated without cruelty or hormones. There mission statement is that switching to vegetarianism benefits the treatment, the health of the consumers, and the environment over all. The two images included are both part of the propaganda of the ChoseVeg company. Both of these images focus on why the audience should switch to a vegetarian diet. Pathos is the rhetoric appeal to emotions. Both images use a clear use of pathological rhetoric in their use of color. Both use a plain white background and colored text to not only create an emphasis on the message, but to make the message easiest to read. The first images uses pink text. Since this pink colored text is paired with the matching pink pig creates the feeling of sympathy. The pink text reminds the audience how fragile and the piglet is.It is a soft pink, which best emphasizes the softness of the animal. The second image uses the color of the raw chicken to attract the attention of the audience. The only other source of color is the green text located at the bottom. are to dozens of reasons to eat vegetarian. the text states. This is not only the major tag line, but it is in colored text. Paul 2 Specifically, it is in green colored text. This use of color is to connect with positive emotions. The brain is programmed by being told, means and to associate green check marks with success. There are positive connotations with the color green. The meat however contains shades of red, the contrast of green. is a color that has a strong sense of right or wrong, inviting good judgment. It sees both sides of the equation, weighs them up, and then usually takes the moral stand in making appropriate Color Green) This site about color psychology explains how green is used in moral stands, which is the situation present in this campaign. This is to get the ready to subconsciously associate a positive connection with the green message and to reduce the positive connotation with the red, raw meat. This places a large emphasis on the message that the stakeholder wants the audience to assimilate into their lives. Ethos is defined as a rhetorical appeal to credibility or morality. Both of these images use a strong appeal to ethos. Both have a clear claim for trust and credibility with the use of their logo in each image. It is very large and colorful in the image. Since the background is white, the audience is attracted to it visually. This shows the audience that they truly support their cause and that they are a trustworthy company. The first images also uses a claim to morality. The use of a young pig, matched with the text, creates a moral dilemma within the reader. The reader is put into a situation in which they are unsure if they should still consume meat if it means hurting something so young and cute. The second image uses morality in a more self-conscious sense. After reading the including statistic about what is included in chicken. The question brought into the minds of the audience is not whether is is good or bad for the animals, but whether consuming it is the right decision for their health. Many people have been socially adapted to the idea that meat consumption is the social norm. This image puts the social norm into question and Paul 3 the audience must make the moral choice of whether to believe the statistic and go against the norm or to blindly follow the norms set before them. The morality and credibility claims in the first images are powerful persuasion tool. Morality and trust will greatly push their agenda of the company, and most likely influence the audience to change. Realism is the use of reality and factual information. This is brutally pushed forward in the arguments of the stakeholder, and in the images they use to convince others to support their cause. The images present in both of their visual appeals is realistic, there are no signs of drawings or renderings. The first images uses a realistic pig, specifically a live piglet to better portray the emotional pain a person can experience when they can visually connect the meat they are consuming with the animal it directly comes from. The second images uses the raw chicken as if it were about to be packaged for sale. This is a common sight for most people, but by adding the additional information, the audience faces a very sudden realistic change. It literally changes a point in their reality. However, there is a bit of personification in the first image, which dampens the idea of realism that the live piglet presents. However, the brutal honesty of the second image provides an ample amount of realistic images, facts and situations. This will best persuade the audience that a change in diet is absolutely necessary for their reality to stay stable. While ChoseVeg may not be a for-profit company, they are focused on pushing forth their goals and missions. Their mission does require a major lifestyle change for most of the global population. In fact, percent of adult Americans consider themselves of Vegetarians).This leaves about 98% of the population that would need to be convinced that the goals of ChoseVeg are the best goals. This requires them to create a campaign strong enough to convince a defensive audience to follow along with their ideas. Paul 4 ChoseVeg chooses to approach the benefits of vegetarianism by focusing on how it helps animals, the health of the consumers, and the planet. The two images presented are both produced by the company to push the audience into a mentality in which they would be more welcoming to the idea of vegetarianism. They both contain colored text, which is a pathos appeal to emotion. They both contain ethos claims of both credibility and morality and they both contain elements of realism, which could partially be argued as logos claims. The main presence throughout the goals and propaganda is morality. They want their audience to believe animal consumption is immoral through mostly pathos arguments. This is then supported through logical statistics and ethical citations. These two images provide different appeals for the same issue, thus creating a larger chance of the company succeeding in their persuasion of the audience. There have been campaigns for vegetarianism for over a decade, yet only a small portion of the population is vegetarian. With all the reasons to be vegetarian, what reason would convince you to change your ways and believe that vegetarianism is the most moral choice? Works Cited The Color  Empowered By Color. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.empower- yourself-with-color-psychology.com/color-green.html>. Paul 5 The Number of Vegetarians Around The  Raw-food-health. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.raw-food-health.net/NumberOfVegetarians.html>. Saved! You Believe Their  ChooseVeg.com. N.p., 20 May 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.chooseveg.com/animals>.