Bishop 1 Lora Bishop Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Birth Control Costs Birth control methods have been around since before the 20 th century. They can be used for many different reasons including but not limited to: preventing pregnancy, make periods more regular, less painful, and lighter, lowering risks of certain cancers, and easing the symptoms of endometriosis. At one point in history, women had to fight for birth control methods to be legal. Now fighting to have their insurance cover it as well as be able to get it through Planned Parenthood. When talking about birth control, this could be referring to implants, patches, pills, shots, rings, IUDs, and the morning-after pill. On their website Planned Parenthood shares that, Parenthood is a trusted health care provider, an informed educator, a passionate advocate, and a global partner helping similar organizations around the world. Planned Parenthood delivers vital reproductive health care, sex education, and information to millions of women, men, and young people While they often find themselves in the news for many controversies, at the end of the day, all they provide is healthcare. Planned Parenthood argues that women should be able to receive all of these aforementioned birth control methods for affordable prices through different pieces of visual rhetoric that communicate emotions through colors, uses ethos by providing number based facts and appealing to the moral reasons behind it, and pathos to appeal to the emotions involved with birth control coverage. Bishop 2 Color is a very important choice in any advertisement or PSA. This is because, according to Sandrine Gill and Ludovic Le Bigot in their research article Life through Positive- Tinted Glasses: color is as an omnipresent feature of our environment and therefore presumably plays a role in information (9). Both of my images use color to drive home the point they are making. In my first photo, the most prominent color is blue. Considering that my photo is an infographic piece of visual rhetoric, it does not surprise me that they chose blue. According to the book The Beginners Guide To Colour Psychology by Angela Wright, a woman who studied both psychoanalytic theory and dynamics of color while in school, blue is perceived as many things including: intelligence, positivity, communication, trust, and logic (37). It should come to no surprise that Planned Parenthood would use blue when presenting factual information about birth control methods and how everyone benefits from them being affordable. In my second photo, the most prominent color is pink. Either the woman featured is wearing pink, is holding a pink sign, or both. In the previously mentioned study by Gill and Bigot, they studied to see how participants reacted to images when they were shown on either a green or pink background, and they found that, participants judged both pink and green to evoke positive emotions in general, and happiness in (Gill and Bigot 10). This shows that pink is used because it is generally considered a happy color and will create positive reactions. On a face value level, you can also take pink to refer to femininity. This is because in most cultures, pink has become associated with women/girls. Because this image features women fighting for rights, it would make sense that they would wear pink. Both colors have deeper meanings than most may think. According to Planned website, who use contraceptives to time and space their children have healthier outcomes because they are more likely to get prenatal care, Bishop 3 less likely to give birth prematurely, less likely to smoke during pregnancy, and more likely to breastfeed their This, along with the infographic they provide to sum up more information, appeals to the credibility behind why birth control should be affordable for women. For example, in image one, Planned Parenthood uses simple numbers to express the importance of contraceptives by showing that contraception saves taxpayers dollars. How much? In Minnesota, 46,000 unintended pregnancies can cost taxpayers about $72 million dollars annually. For my second image, while still using ethos, Planned Parenthood chooses to appeal to morals. It shows that birth control is used for health and care, not for anything else that may be up for debate. One side of the debate on who should pay for birth control believes that women should just not have sex if they want to risk pregnancy. This image is appealing to the morals side because it shows that birth control does so much more than stop pregnancy, which is why it should be considered a part of health care. These are just a few examples of how Planned Parenthood uses ethos by providing number based facts and by appealing to the morals of their audience in their visual rhetorics. A fact from image infographic that is on Planned website is that, Numbers of MN Women Are Unable to Consistently Afford Birth Control, Leading to Inconsistent and the number they give is astounding: 60% of women age 18-34. While this fact appeals to ethos, it also appeals to pathos, because they want the audience to understand that if birth control affordable, many women will not be able to receive it, even though it is an important part of a health care. According to Adam Sonfield, Kinsey Hasstedt, Megan L. Kavanaugh and Ragnar Anderson in their article, Social and Economic Benefits of Ability to Determine Whether and When to Have they found a lot of important findings. For one, close birth spacing and large families are linked with decreased Bishop 4 investment in parenting (Sonfield et. Al 51). Also, unplanned births caused increased conflict and decreased satisfaction between the two parents (Sonfield et. Al 51). These two findings are the negative outcomes that could happen for many women if they afford their birth control. Not only does this negatively affect the women, but the children as well as their close families. In my second image, it shows women at a Planned Parenthood rally. This appeals to ethos because you are able to see the women that are affected by the laws on how birth control is covered. One woman is holding a sign that reads, Body, My This lets the reader know that these women will be personally impacted by whether or not birth control is affordable. Birth control coverage is not a black or white issue. It deeply affects many women and Planned Parenthood uses its visual rhetoric to show that while appealing to their emotions. On their website, Planned Parenthood shares, fight for commonsense policies that promote health, allow individuals to prevent unintended pregnancies through access to affordable The fight for affordable contraception is so important to Planned Parenthood that they have this listed on their About Us page. Through different visual rhetoric, they try to convey messages about affordable contraception to different audiences. They do this through their use of color and their appeals to ethos and pathos. Their fight for affordable contraception over, but we can hope that through their images and information, it can one day can be a fight that women win. Bishop 5 Works Cited Gil, Sandrine and Ludovic Le Bigot. Seeing Life through Positive-Tinted Glasses: Color Meaning  Plos ONE, vol. 9, no. 8, Aug. 2014, pp. 1-13. 23 Feb. 2017 Planned Parenthood. Who We Are. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Planned Parenthood. BIRTH CONTROL: WE ALL BENEFIT (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Sonfield A., K. Hasstedt, M. Kavanaug, and R. Anderson. Social and Economic Benefits of Ability to Determine Whether and When to Have Conscience. Summer, 2013, Vol. 34 Issue 2, p51, 1 p. 24 Feb. 2017. Wright, Angela. The Guide to Colour Psychology. Kyle Cathie Limited. 1 Dec 1998. 24 Feb. 2017 Bishop 6 Bishop 7