Kaylie Stephenson 1 Kaylie Stephenson Erika Staiger ENC 1102 February 26 2017 Project 2: Intermediate PETA is a well known organization that fights for animal rights. They focus on four main issues, these include; the food industry, the clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry (PETA). Their main objectives advertising is relating humans to animals, and using controversial/sad images of animals in order to get their point across. My first image is an advertisement that portrays a sad animal in order to elicit emotions in the audience. My video is also made by PETA and it shows the strange behaviors that zoo animals frequently adopt. This video is used to educate people and also make them sympathize for the animals. PETA uses ethos, logos, and pathos in its advertisements in order to provoke emotion in the audience, thus urging them to go out and volunteer or donate to their cause. To begin with, PETA uses ethos in its advertisements in order to persuade the audience. Ethos appeals to the authors credibility or character. In the image, they include their logo in the bottom right corner. They also include their logo across the screen at the end of the video. By including their logo, they establish credibility. PETA has more than 5 million members, thus making them the largest animal rights organization in the world (PETA). Because PETA is so massive, many people recognize their logo or have heard of their organization. Consequently, they are more likely to believe what PETA is telling them. In addition, they also use logos in order to convince the audience by appealing to logic. In video, they talk about  and then they proceed to give the definition of it. [Last 2 PETA defines  as a physiological condition of animals kept in circuses and zoos. Symptoms of zoochosis include pacing, circling, swaying, and self injury caused by deprivation, loneliness, stress, desperation, and  (PETA). By giving this definition about the abnormal behavior that zoo animals adopt, it allows the audience to make sense of why they behave this way. Therefor, it appeals to the viewers sense of logic. Also, they include words like , , and  in their image. This refers to zoochosis. On the other hand, PETA uses many examples of pathos in their advertisements. Pathos appeals to the audiences emotions. In the image, the biggest example of pathos is the sad monkey trapped behind bars. Some other examples include emotion filled words such as: , , and  and the use of color to emphasize certain words. They do this by making the words so  yellow amongst all the other white letters. By changing the color, it draws the viewers eye to those specific words and makes them think about what exactly they mean. All together, these examples of pathos hope to induce feelings of sadness or madness in the viewer. By doing this, it makes the audience want to help the animals, thus making them want to then go out and help PETA in their fight for animal rights. In the video there is also plenty of examples of pathos. First of all, they use a bunch of videos that show animals behaving strangely and/or dangerously. They also use really intense music in the background. In addition, they also use emotion packed words in the video, these include: ,  and . These examples effect the audiences emotions thus persuading them to believe argument and encourages them to support their work. Also, there are articles that back up argument about zoochosis. An article written by Damian Aspinall (who is a conservationist) talks about the effects of zoochosis on animals. He says they [zoo develop behaviors known as - [Last 3 repetitively walking in tight circles, rocking, swaying and sometimes mutilating  (Aspinall, 1). He urges people to watch animals at the zoo and search for these odd behaviors. In addition, an article published in The New York Times discusses the pros and cons of zoos. Marta Holmberg says, Zoos provide animals with few opportunities to engage in natural behavior and little mental stimulation... animals may develop --a form of psychosis that can cause them to sway or pace continually, chew on their own limbs...or pull out their own fur or  (Holmberg 1). Therefor, argument is valid and based on facts. In conclusion, PETA effectively uses ethos, logos, and pathos in order to persuade their audience to support their organization. By using these appeals throughout their images and videos, they appeal to credibility, logic, and emotion. The audience then uses this information in order to form an opinion on the advertisement. goal is to make their audience feel bad for animals whenever they are being harmed, they use these rhetorical devices in order to do that. Ultimately, they hope that their advertisements will encourage people to support or become a member of their organization. [Last 4 Works Cited People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Are Zoos  New York Times Upfront, vol. 149, no. 5, 21 Nov. 2016, pp. 22-23. DAMIAN, ASPINALL. Look into the Eyes of a Caged Tiger - and You Will See a Zombie Victim of  Mail on Sunday, 11 Aug. 2013, p. 25. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bw h&AN=89648088&site=eds-live [Last 5 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4lbpEiltI4