Miller 1 Brandon Miller Prof. Sarah Basil English Comp. II February 19, 2017 Project 2: Intermediate Draft In times in the United States, a college degree and success seem to go hand and hand. As the demand for educated employees in the workforce continues to grow, so to does the need for a college education. With many jobs that now require their employees to have a minimum 4 year degree, a business market has been created surrounding college education. Obtaining a degree now presents one main issue to those that pursue it: high expenses. For many, a college education seems out of reach, but there is a stakeholder known as the Student Aid Alliance (SAA) that strives to help the financially incapable. The SAA is an organization that is dedicated towards the cause of helping college students seek and obtain an affordable college education experience. In order to do so, this organization works to gather support for need based grants. Rather than taking out loans or other forms of subsidized money that create debt, the SAA supports programs that give low income students money that they will not have to pay off in the future, such as pell grants. Their stake in college education sides with students and making their dreams of acquiring a degree financially possible. The SAA has created a motto known as Student (Student Aid Alliance) and their mission is an obvious one: give students in need more free monetary aid. They have worked to support this idea through the creation of advertisements that they have posted on both their website and the popular social media forums known as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. In addition to this, the rhetorical appeals such as Miller 2 pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos, they are able to raise awareness towards their cause of student aid. Pathos is a method of rhetoric that appeals to the emotion. The first image creates these feelings of emotion within the viewer in several ways. The image contains the words the next decade 2.4 million academically prepared students will miss out on graduation from bachelor degree programs due to lack of The idea of this image is to create a sentiment that makes the viewer feel bad for people that are unable to attend college because they have the financial capabilities to do so. The premise of this image is designed to create a sense of empathy and understanding that college is expensive and somewhat exclusive in a sense that only those who can afford can attend. It also shows that there are many qualified people in the United States that cannot attend school through no fault of their own. The background image, in addition to the text, provokes emotion as well. It shows several graduation caps flying in the air. Graduation is a day where students and their families get to celebrate an amazing milestone: several years of hard work have finally led to achieving that coveted degree. For many, graduation is a particularly special day that they will remember forever. By showing these caps flying through the air, the SAA is trying to create empathy and sadness within those viewing the image for there are several million students that will never get to experience the ecstasy that goes along with graduating from college. Like the first image, the second image uses several techniques to arouse emotion from those that view the advertisements. The second image contains the words let congress cut funding for student aid and prevent millions of students from achieving their dreams This image is also designed to elicit empathy from the viewer. By cutting Miller 3 programs designed to aid students, many will not be able to attend college which is a dream for so many young people throughout the world, let alone the United States. The background also helps to contribute to the emotions by showing an empty lecture hall. A college education is a truly unique experience. By showing an empty lecture hall, the viewer gets an idea of just how many people will miss out on this experience if the government refuses to support its college students. The rhetorical appeal that establishes credibility is known as ethos. In both images, the SAA works to establish credibility by placing their motto Student in the corner. This probably is not the best way of establish credibility, but a subtle one. By endorsing their statements with their slogan, it creates legitimacy in a sense that they are willing to back up the claims that they make. The ethos in image 1 draws credibility from a source known as the Committee on Student Financial It states that 2.4 millions students will be unable to attend college due to lack of resources and then cites the previously mentioned committee in order to establish credibility of the statistic that they listed. By citing their sources, this allows the viewer to do some follow up research to decide whether or not they find the information to be truthful. The second image makes a claim that congress will stop millions of students from achieving their dreams if they cut student aid. As previously mentioned, they attempt to establish credibility by having their logo, Student placed in the corner. Logical appeals are known as logos and the SAA attempts to implement this mode of rhetoric into their advertisements. Without thoughtful logic, advertisements can come across as unbelievable or untruthful, thus making the overall purpose ineffective. Both images use short Miller 4 sentences in order to get their main points across. The first image contains the statistic 2.4 million. This is the number of students that cannot attend college due to lack of financing. This information makes the audience aware of how many college students are being stripped of a chance to go to school and obtain a degree. It makes an attempt to place a numeric value on how many people will not go. The second image places the blame for lack of college funding on congress and the font is changed to blue in order to stress this idea. Rather than just say that students cannot attend due to lack of funds, this SAA highlights a different aspect/issue in regards to financial aid and suggest that the government is to blame. They have also placed the text at the bottom of the image. This is a popular method of garnering support using the social media site known as twitter. The more people that tweet the more support they are likely to gain. In time period, a college education is crucial and arguably essential if one wants to get a job that pays significantly above minimum wage. The issue of financial aid, therefore, could not be more timely. So many students are graduating with a burdensome amount of debt and it is estimated that the average college student finishes school with roughly 25,000 dollars in unpaid debt (US Department of Education). Students have become the ones that are going to balance the federal budget when they are forced to pay off their thousands of dollars worth of loans upon graduation. The first image states the next decade, about 2.4 million academically prepared will miss out on a college experience. By mentioning next this creates a margin of time in which people can bring about change, but this also creates a sense of urgency because such little time to achieve said change that allow these 2.4 million people. In the second image, a sense for immediate change is brought about by targeting Miller 5 congress. By targeting the government in regards to this issue, it makes the viewer feel as though change could, and should, be happening now. Their website also has many petitions that people can sign in order to bring immediate awareness to the issue. The college experience is a common dream that so many people throughout the world hope to someday achieve. In society, it has become something so much more than just a piece of paper, it is a way for people to universally better themselves through education. Not only does it create job opportunities, but those without a degree will surely find it difficult to get any job without a one. The college experience and the degree you get upon completing it, has become somewhat exclusive over the years. With the high expenses associated with college education, those that cannot afford it simply do not attend. The Student Aid Alliance is one stakeholder, however, that is attempting to Student by raising awareness and support towards the issue of lack of funding for those in need. With the use of advertisements and rhetorical appeals, the SAA is able to gain a growing network of support for students nationwide. Word Count: 1,490 Miller 6 Miller 7 Works Cited About  Aid Alliance , 21 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Postsecondary Student  Postsecondary Student Aid Study - Overview . US Department of Education, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.