BARNETT 1 Payton Barnett Sarah Basil February 23 2017 The World Wildlife Foundation Deforestation Ads Forests cover 31% of the land surface and are filled with a variety of life including many species of animals and plants (Earth Policy Institute indicators). These plants, including trees, create oxygen that we rely on for life, but the equivalent of 48 football fields of forests are lost every minute, adoring to the World Wildlife overview on deforestation. The World Wildlife (WWF) mission is to nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on (WWF home). The WWF works on achieving this goal by organizing their work into six areas, one of which is forests, and influencing funding and policies regarding forest protection. They help to create multi-million dollars funds to manage forests designated as protected. The WWF is known for creative ads that draw attention to how we treat out environment. The two images analyzed both focus on deforestation, they both are meant to induce fear and alert the audience to what is happening to our forests. While these images focus mostly on pathos, the website, which is in the caption of one of the images, is full of information regarding our environment. The World Wildlife Foundation uses these rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to spread awareness and call the audience to action in order to save forests. Ethos is referred to as the ethical appeal, meaning this rhetorical device aims to convince an audience of the credibility or character. In my first image, there is very little evidence of ethos. The only part of this ad that would count toward ethos would be the organizations name, WWF, in the bottom right corner. Though there much convincing of credibility, the 2 BARNETT WWF is already seen as a trustworthy company by the majority of people because it was first establish in 1961 and in first year five projects centering around protecting endangered animals were approved and carried out (WWF history). In the second image, again only the branding of the WWF is establishing credibility for the same reasons as the first image. Because this organization has been doing projects for over 50 years and are extremely successful and recognizable, they do not need to establish as much credibility as other brands might. Logos is the appeal to logic, and it aims to convince an audience by the use or logic or reason. In the first image there is very little literal logic, and anything that would be logical is something that the audience would have to infer. The logical tones in this ad stem from the photo itself, like seeing the trees arranged in the shape of a pair of lungs, which humans have and use to breathe, and the fact that humans use plants and trees that create oxygen to breathe. This progression from recognizing that people have lungs and need trees, then seeing the trees arranged as lungs and part of the lungs have been cut due to deforestation is what the audience is meant to understand. In the second image, there is a similar progression of logic, from the human cutting down the first tree which leads to the second and so on, until the last tree seems to land on the person who first started cutting trees. These logical thoughts are not introduced with any words. Pathos is the emotional appeal, and the aim of pathos is to persuade an audience by appealing to the emotions. Pathos is arguably the most prominent rhetorical appeal in these ads. Together with the previously mentioned logos and the logical progression of thought, the first image is meant to evoke fear in the audience. This image shows that without trees and forests, humans will die and that is meant to be a very scary thought because of the increasing amount of deforestation. In the second image, almost the same things come into play. The last tree falling BARNETT 3 onto the person is a domino-like karma effect; this person cut the first tree, which led to the second and so on, which led to the last tree. And this last tree will be the one to kill this person who represents humanity. Both images are meant to cause fear or panic and outrage in people, hoping to call everyone who sees these ads to action in order to lessen deforestation and the devastating effects on not only the environment but also humanity. Kairos, the last rhetorical appeal, is an appeal to timeliness. The first image shows the strongest appeal to timeliness because there is a caption in the bottom right corner right next to the title of the organization and a web link. This caption reads, too What this ad hopes to accomplish is a call to action, the WWF wants people to take up in arms and not stand by when it comes to deforestation. Even without the caption, the image itself also suggests this because of the slow destruction of the lung shape and how it seems this removal of trees has been happening for quite some time and it will soon consume the entire pair of lungs, thus killing us. The second image has no caption, but still has a strong sense of kairos. The last tree has not fallen onto the person yet and there is still time to save them. This image wants the audience to feel as if there if still something they can do in order to save not only the person that the tree is falling onto, but also the trees and forests themselves. The World Wildlife Foundation uses several rhetorical devices in their advertisements such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. In two specific images pictured below, all rhetorical devices were used. Pathos and kairos, appeals to emotion and appeals to timeliness respectively, were the strongest devices in these ads that called audiences to action by means of instilling fear in them. Ethos and logos were weaker appeals, ethics and logic respectively, but both were still used effectively. All in all, the World Wildlife Foundation brings attention to and informs audiences of how our forests are slowly declining, prompting audiences into action. 4 BARNETT BARNETT 5 WORKS CITED http://www.worldwildlife.org/ http://www.worldwildlife.org/about/history