Mwaliko 1 Brian Mwaliko Professor Erika Stagier English 1102 2/23/17 Britain Versus the European Union On Thursday June 23rd 2016 the world was hit by a shockwave of surprise after Britain decided to leave the European Union, this staggering event was immediately defined as Brexit. The British government truly had enough with messages such do you want to be governed from Brussels or by an elected British Per the British government, the European Union is a federation that solely holds the country back as they never benefit from it. This is because they did not cater for their goals and core beliefs. Among their core beliefs is the restriction of immigration, according to the union the country is supposed to allow their borders to be porous to immigrants from any country. Although the government argues that this policy gave rise to crime and terrorism. Another of their core beliefs is that by leaving the union the country would be able to redirect the funding they spent as membership fees to more important issues such as health care. Furthermore, the government was able to endorse these ideas by creating advertisements on their website and through the rhetorical appeals; Kairos, logos, pathos and ethos they are able to incite people against the union. The first image appeals to ethos by using statistic figures. The image states give our NHS the 350 million Euros the EU takes every Credibility is enhanced as the stake holder was able to provide an exact figure which makes the information provided seem more legitimate. The act of increasing the size and boldness of the text gives us the impression that the text is Mwaliko 2 screaming thus it captures our attention faster. After the image, has captured our attention, we get to pay attention to the million portion of the text and our minds jump into believing the information rather than critiquing it. The second image appeals to ethos by using three breathless statements. In speech writing three breathless statements are used to make an argument more compelling and seem more truthful. This is a tactic used by great world leaders as these statements have the effect of being catchy. The stake use of global trade. Democracy. makes the cause seem more truthful as they are issues that highly resonate with their target audience (TedxVerona). Simon Lancaster one of the top speech writers enforces this tactic having used it with successful politicians such as former Prime Minister Tony Blair. He also gives further examples of successful campaigns led by former U.S president Barrack Obama, who employed the same tactic and was able to impact many people by seeming more truthful than his opponent. The first image has made use of the rhetorical device pathos in two ways. First the stake holder used a heart rate symbol that is gradually decreasing then completely flat lines. The stake choice of symbol is quite strategic. They use the National Health Service as a scape goat by pointing out that 350 million Euros that is given to the European Union would rather be transferred to hospitals. This image brings out somber emotions as the stake holder succeeds in convincing their target audience that death would be the outcome if the funds are not re-allocated. The image has achieved to appeal to pathos by using the color red. Red is a warm and positive color associated with our most physical needs and our will to survive. The color exudes energy, it excites the emotions and motivates us to take action. (Empowered by Color). Empowered by color collect their information from extensive studies done by psychologists regarding the relationship between human beings and colors. Mwaliko 3 The second image made use of pathos in two ways also. The use of large capitalized font with the phrase, The capitalization of the text gives a screaming impression that conjures the sense that it is urgent to vote to leave even though it is not clear where they are leaving. The color red is also used in this image to evoke the same emotion that pushes the target audience to take action. Kairos is applied in the first image through use of the words, leave, take The words show timeliness by indicating a tone of urgency to the message. This message would encourage the stake target audience, to opt out of the European Union. In the second image Kairos is applied using the capitalized, Like the first image this statement brings a form of urgency to the image. The appeal to logic and reason is well brought out in both images. The first image appeals to logic and reason by providing a statistic figure, million The figure gives information that the target audience may not have had knowledge of. This would help them make a more informed decision. The second image appeals to logic and reason by highlighting three reasons, global trade, Democracy, This reasons are supposed to compel people to vote in favor of the stake core beliefs. Leaving the European Union will allow Britain to re-establish itself as a truly independent nation with connections to the rest of the world but remnants fear that Brexit will result in the country giving up its influence in Europe, turning back the clock and retreating from the global power networks of the 21st century. Brexit would bring some clear-cut advantages, said The Economist before the referendum. The UK would regain control over fishing rights around the , for example but it concluded that the most likely outcome would be that Britain would find itself a scratchy outsider with somewhat limited access to the single market, almost no Mwaliko 4 influence and few . Britain will remain a member of Nato and the United Nations, but it may be regarded as a less useful partner by their key ally, the United States. The American government said it feared that the European Union referendum is a dangerous gamble that could unravel with disastrous consequences for the entire  (The Week Junior Magazine). In conclusion, the British Government was able to succeed in convincing the people of Britain to vote to leave the European Union. Although the stake holder had promised rapid and exponential development, the price of the currency fell to a record low. This has led to the looming danger of inflation. This led to a chain of events, starting with the resignation of David Cameron as Prime Minister. Theresa May was quickly elected after that and she is working towards creating an independent economy that would not be affected by the Union. Mwaliko 5 (VOTE LEAVE,TAKE BACK CONTROL) Mwaliko 6 Works Cited Empowered by Color. The Color Red. 2017. 25 February 2017. <http://www.empower-yourself- with-color-psychology.com/color-red.html>. Speak Like a Leader. Dir. TedxVerona. Perf. Simon Lancaster. 2016. The Week Junior Magazine. The Week. 27 June 2016. document. 9 February 2017. VOTE LEAVE,TAKE BACK CONTROL. VOTE LEAVE. 2016. 26 February 2017. <http://voteleave-eu.com/>.