Vasylenko 1 Artem Vasylenko L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Racism in Sport Since 2001, UEFA registered 181 cases of racism during soccer games in Europe (Cleland & Cashmore, 2014). From then the situation did not drastically change and racism is a very acute problem in soccer nowadays which harms this sport a lot. Many fans and players do not realize that sometimes their actions unacceptable and do not allow soccer to develop like sport in general. However there is a very powerful and influential organization which tries to overcome this issue and make people forget about racism in soccer forever. The Union of European Football Associations or UEFA is the biggest soccer organization in Europe and in the whole world which regulates and manage soccer clubs and tournaments (White, 2015). Also, one of main goals is to challenge racism in soccer and they are the most successful organization in Europe which tries to do it. They believe that overcoming this problem is a responsibility of each player, fan, club representative or even usual individual who loves soccer and their main slogan is No to (Racism in Sport, n.d.). This organization uses very radical methods of solving this issue like banning clubs from taking part in tournaments, withdrawing points, putting ban on fans and finally club where racism exists is not allowed to play games with fans, mostly such clubs play games with empty tribune. In its advertisements UEFA uses visual rhetoric in the form of logos, pathos, kairos and ethos to persuade the audience that racism only harms soccer and does not allow to bring it to a whole new level. Vasylenko 2 When advertising for Image 1 UEFA uses pathos, kairos and ethos to show that we do not have a lot of time to solve this issue and all people who loves and respects soccer should come together and finally overcome it. In Image 1 the first thing that catches the eyes is the serious faces of soccer players who try to show how serious and acute this problem is. This is effort to engage the audience to feel something in relation to this picture and think about racism for a second and try to understand what UEFA wants to say in this picture. Using these serious and anxious faces they try to speak to the emotional side, pathos. Also, pathos is being used here because players looking at the reader like they are listening to the lesson or concentrated on something. Here they are trying to give the audience feeling like they have a capability of teaching players and the future of this issue is in their hands. This was made to give the reader the feeling of importance in the process of solving this problem. Moreover UEFA uses world-known soccer players who are very famous all around the world. Using such a famous players in the image shows the credibility or authority of the company which is called ethos. To have a successful advertisement it is very important to use ethos and UEFA uses it greatly. They show not only famous players but also team managers. It helps to grab attention of bigger amount of readers and show their advertisement to many people. Also the important factor of using ethos is that UEFA can attract people who are not interested in soccer and do not aware about problems which exist in this sport but they know some of these famous players and finally will try to help UEFA just because they are fans of one of the players. Additionally, UEFA uses timeliness to connect the audience with the advertisement. The fact that they use team managers, players and even referees both male and female shows that people of all ages, gender and status are involved in the process of solving this issue. UEFA uses kairos to show that it does not Vasylenko 3 matter who you are but you should help this organization to overcome racism because there is not a lot of time for this. Their advertisement shows that time is limited because racism harms soccer a lot and it should be stopped as soon as possible. When advertising for Image 2 UEFA uses pathos and logos to show the audience their opinion about racism and make people understand that it harms soccer as a sport in general. For this type of advertisement UEFA uses their slogan to and such a confident phrase which has negative background appeals to the emotions and make them worry about this issue. UEFA uses pathos for this advertisement and want give people who see it an understanding that this problem is very harmful and influences sport in a very bad way. This organization has a very negative relation to racism and they put their main slogan with capital letters and by doing this shown clearly their opinion and share it with their audience. Moreover, UEFA uses logos in this image because people can clearly see argument and make logical inference from what they see on the advertisement. People who are interested in soccer and are aware about some problems which exist in this sport would easily understand that UEFA meant when was doing this image. Notwithstanding that this organization already put their main slogan, they also added the word which is very important in the process of solving this issue. Without respect to people with other religion or skin color - it would not be possible to overcome racism because what causes it is disrespect and bad relation to people who are not different from you. Moreover, to show the authority and credibility of this Vasylenko 4 advertisement UEFA put its logo on and by doing this proved trustworthy. UEFA is the biggest soccer organization in the world which controls soccer around the world and their logo is well-known almost in each country. It is a great way to show credibility and being a trustworthy way of getting information for people. Finally, UEFA believes that for overcoming racism in soccer this issue has to be seen in the eyes of people as a necessity. This organization understands that racism can be banned by law and can be controlled by police, it is a problem among some people who does not understand that we are all equal and should respect each other. Some personal prejudgment and disrespect to other people should not influences sport. UEFA states are not responsible for your relation to each other, but we are responsible for your relation to ( Racism in Sport, n.d.). The visual rhetoric which was used in the first image was pathos, kairos and ethos. By using them UEFA shows the importance of this issue by appealing to emotions and also proves credibility by inviting famous players and team managers to take part in this type of advertisement. What made image 2 so influential was a great use of Pathos. Strong slogan which UEFA uses almost in all advertisements really grabbed public attention and made people support it organization ideas. UEFA has successfully used visual rhetoric in the forms of pathos, logos, ethos and kairos in both images to grab public attention on the problem of racism and show to people its values and beliefs. Vasylenko 5 Works Cited Cleland, J., & Cashmore, E. (2014). Racism and British Football in the Twenty-First Century: The Existence of a Colour-Blind of Migration Studies. Racism in Sport. (2017). Retrieved from www.uefa.org. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. White, T. (2015). is rife in English football with over 350 incidents from the Premier League to grassroots since 2012, investigation Vasylenko 6 Image 1: Image 2: Vasylenko 7 Vasylenko 8