Shtrom Andrii Shtrom 1 Professor Erika Steiger ENC1102 February 26, 2017 Shtrom 2 Nowadays, gun violence is a significant issue in United States of America. According to statistics, were 73,505 accidental firearm injuries, which means that there are twenty four injuries per 100,000 U.S. citizens for Research to Reduce the Threat of Firearm-Related Violence, 24). Because guns are legalized in some states, there are many instances of abusive usage of weapons. However, in fact of this problem, many stakeholders attempt to support gun control laws and stop the gun violence. For example, a big number of programs were created to address the problem of gun violence and they are responsible for its prevention in many social fields. These goal is to influence both gun holders and citizens that do not possess guns to use guns in a right way and encourage unarmed people to stay away from guns in order to avoid different examples of gun violence (Hurdy, 12). One of the most popular organizations, which also fights with gun violence and is respected by the government and society, is Brady Campaign. This main question is, if 3200 people die yearly in the United States, how many of them could be saved ? Thus, their mission is to reach the goal of decreasing gun violence until 2025 (Brady Campaign). Additionally, Brady strongly focuses on the unarmed citizens and safety. Brady Campaign has created two images in order to prevent the gun violence by using different rhetorical analysis techniques such as ethos, pathos, and logos to attract the audience attention to this specific issue. The first picture goal is to attract people to support Brady Campaign in order to reduce injuries by firearms. According to Rhetoric Matters, logos is as a statement or sentence on the image to persuade or convince certain kind of audience by using specific reason or logic. Starting with a quotation make everyone a which can be identified as logos, stakeholder wants to show the significance of the issue and demonstrate that nowadays many people become victims of uncontrolled gun holders. Ethos verifies the credibility, so author Shtrom 3 becomes reliable in the eyes of his or her audience that is convinced by the statements (Rhetoric Matters). On the top left corner of the image it can be seen that there is the sign two blue stars, and two red lines which are colored by the same color as a flag of United States of America. Thus, it is identified as ethos because Brady Campaign shows that they are patriots of their country and work for the benefit of America. Subsequently, the American audience finds Brady Campaign trustworthy stakeholder, which works for the country. Furthermore, there is a shape of female that can be properly identified as a child. According to the Brady Campaign, almost 18000 american children are injured or got shot each year, so stakeholder uses the shape of girl as a target to influence emotions and show how dangerous guns are and what consequences the usage of weapons may bring. Additionally, there are lots of bullet holes on the target that illustrates to the audience that innocent people and children are targets which go shot by armed uncontrol american citizens. Thus, this rhetorical appeal is known as pathos. Pathos is a rhetorical technique connected with an appeal to emotion. After looking on this image and the targeted shape of child, people especially parents became more concerned to the value of gun violence topic. The second picture calls on people to understand how significant is this issue in the United States in comparison with other countries. The quote Bless is identified as logos. In addition, Brady Campaign uses statistical evidence of guns murdered in Europe, Canada, Australia and United States of America. Ethos can be seen as pieces of patriotism on the image, for example a gun covered by a flag of USA and a strong statement Bless make the stakeholder as a very reliable organization which is ready to protect their native country and citizens. Additionally, on the left bottom corner there is a Campaign logo which convince people to trust them because their original logo is popular enough and attracts attention while Shtrom 4 looking on the image. Pathos can be seen in the statistics of guns murdered in other countries in comparison to America. When audience look at the second image, they can notice that in the United States of America there are 9,484 victims only in one year. However in Europe, Canada and Australia there is such a small number of victims killed by handguns which did not even reach the amount of 300 in one year. Thereby, the statistics presented on the second picture greatly influences the emotions of the American citizens and they become worried that their home country has the biggest amount of murders caused by gun violence in comparison with other parts of the world. Furthermore, a flag of America that covers the gun presented on the picture can also be counted as pathos because the stakeholder shows that America is symbolized as a country that allows people to possess guns. Also, there is a call to action on the bottom of the picture with a question to make a the link to their official website, so people just need to enter The Brady Campaign website and they would have an opportunity to support the stakeholder. Taking everything into account, Brady Campaign struggles to reduce the gun violence and prevent the number of deaths of innocent people that may be caused by firearms. Both of the images use the same rhetorical appeals such as logos, ethos, and pathos. However, these pictures aim to influence two different kinds of audience. The first image was created to influence and persuade people that have families with children that care about their safety well-being. The second picture can be related to all American citizens who care about their country and nation as a whole. The most common thing between these two images is a depiction of an American flag, which characterises the sense of patriotism. Hereby, Brady Campaign is trying to gain the support from the American society to make America better and a safer place to live and encourage citizens to utilize firearms in a reasonable manner so to decrease the gun violence that may potentially occur. Works cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence .Brady Campaign. Web. 26 February, 2017 Cassie, Sylvan Barnet and Hugo Adam. Bedau. Matters: Language and Argument in Boston, MA:Bedford/St. 2012. Web. 26 February, 2017 Priorities for Research to Reduce the Threat of Firearm-Related The National Academies Press. 2013. Web. 26 February, 2017 Hardy, Marjorie S. (2002). Behavior-Oriented Approaches to Reducing Gun . Future of Children . Woodrow Wilson School / Brookings 12 (2): 26 February, 2017