Truncale 1 Thomas Truncale Professor Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 - 046 26 February 2017 Standardized Testing For many years the topic of standardized consistent and perhaps dominant presence in education has been a very heated discussion. Fairtest, an organization of people dedicated to the misuses and flaws of standardized (Fairtest) has been working for years to accomplish their goals of diminishing the need and presence of standardized testing in the classroom. Utilizing certain methods of advertising has enhanced this process, as shown by both emphasis on certain rhetorical appeals depicting the testing methods as destructive. For example, in the first image provided, Fairtest uses the rhetorical appeal Pathos to tap into the emotions, shown by their wording of assumptions built into tests often wrong with Standardized tests?) In addition, the second image also uses the rhetorical appeal Pathos to convey their argument, shown by their word choice and suggestion of (8 Ways to Fight Testing Overkill) In using these different appeals in their advertising, Fairtest is suggesting that standardized testing has no place anywhere in the classroom, and that it is up to those involved in the process to exemplify, expose, and reform this aspect of education. Truncale 2 Founded in 1985 by Robert Schaeffer, Fairtest continues to work end the misuses and flaws of testing practices special emphasis on eliminating the racial, class, gender, and cultural barriers to equal opportunity posed by standardized tests, and preventing their damage to the quality of (Fairtest) The board and those involved in the Fairtest organization continue to encourage diverse strategies to try and eliminate standardized testing. These practices include discussing their issues with state officials, finding better alternatives to standardized testing which many consider destructive to education, opting out of tests throughout the school year, and much more. Those working at and with Fairtest to attempt to end standardized testing have proven to be effective in their practices. For example, in the school year of 2015, over 675,000 students opted out of standardized testing. (Fairtest) While this is a relatively small number considering just how many students attend school in the United States of America, 675,000 students could potentially be treated differently when attempting to apply for schools beyond elementary, middle, and high school. This presence of potential for different treatment could negatively affect many of these 675,000 students when trying to go to college. Because of the fact that so many students and parents feel that standardized testing is not as important in determine the future potential for students, many feel that the flaws of standardized testing should be exposed and reformed. In effort to rally their supporters, as well as gain new supporters, Fairtest utilizes advertising. Their different forms of advertising have proven to be effective, as the amount of students opting out of tests has shown. In the first image and advertisement that has been provided, Fairtest hopes to exemplify what is truly flawed about standardized testing. In Truncale 3 attempting to do so, they use many different rhetorical appeals. First, they use Ethos, the appeal to credibility (Examples of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos), by explaining to the reader that they can out more at wrong with standardized tests?) This particular area explains to the reader both that they are an organizational website with a purpose, as well as a place to find incredibly important information. Next, they use Logos, the appeal to logic (Examples of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos), by explaining that tests are not wrong with standardized tests?) This particular assertion is incredibly logical, as it is humans who are forming the tests for students, thus determining what they would want to include on the tests. In addition to these two rhetorical appeals, Fairtest also included Pathos, the appeal to emotion (Examples of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos) through their suggestion that assumptions built into tests often wrong with standardized tests?) This suggestion is incredibly controversial, as there should be no presence of cultural favoring in standardized tests that every student across the country is closely examining and taking. Fairtest clearly is attempting to expose their message that there are flaws present in standardized testing in hopes of growing their organization and influence. As shown by their first advertisement, Fairtest is using advertising to try and grow their base, as well as eliminate the presence of standardized tests in education across the country. Building off these goals, second advertisement entitled Ways to Fight Testing (8 Ways to Fight Testing Overkill) is aimed at displaying multiple ways in which both parents and students can fight back against the obligation to take certain standardized tests in order to move forward with their education. Fairtest uses ethos in this particular advertisement Truncale 4 by, similar to the first advertisement, explaining to the reader that they can more: (8 Ways to Fight Testing Overkill) They appeal to credibility by showing the reader they are a credible organization composed of very large amounts of information and statistics, all of which is displayed on their website. In addition to using ethos in this particular advertisement, they also use pathos. Fairtest appeals to emotion by using the phrase in their advertisement. (8 Ways to Fight Testing Overkill) Both students and parents of students will immediately feel interested in what Fairtest will have to say about the topic and how they will back it up, as students do not want to feel overwhelmed and unable to successfully do standardized testing, and parents do not want to feel that their children are being overwhelmed in school by standardized testing. Throughout this particular advertisement, Fairtest attempts to display to both parents and students what they can do to actually combat the standardized tests. In explaining to them that they can your children out of standardized state and federal reps to reduce and your school board to take a stand on (8 Ways to Fight Testing Overkill) the entire advertisement itself is an appeal to Kairos, the appeal to timeliness. (Logos, Ethos, Pathos, Kairos) The organization strategically displays everything that both parties can do, and suggests to them that it is best if they do them as soon as possible. Through these appeals, Fairtest is, similar to the first advertisement, trying to grow in support across the country. The organization of Fairtest is dedicated to exposing the injustices of standardized testing, and reforming the status quo regarding their presence in education. In attempting to accomplish these goals, Fairtest releases many advertisements that they feel exposes Truncale 5 standardized testing for what it truly is, and what we as citizens can do to reform or get rid of them as a whole. According to Pamela H. Zappardino, young women are discriminated against in scholarship competitions based on exam scores that the test own research shows to be (Zappardino 248) This is just one example of the many injustices Fairtest believes standardized testing improperly imposes on those taking them. Fairtest has been exposing these types of actions, as well as creating avenues for both parents and students to combat standardized testing since its founding in 1985 by Robert Schaeffer. (Fairtest) The Fairtest organization will continue to do so through advertising for the foreseeable future, as they hope to have a time when standardized testing is simply a distant memory of those involved in the education system. WORKS CITED About  About FairTest FairTest. Fairtest, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wrong with Standardized Tests  Wrong with Standardized Tests Infographic FairTest. Fairtest, 12 Dec. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 8 Ways To Fight High-Stakes Testing  8 Ways To Fight High-Stakes Testing Infographic FairTest. Fairtest, 22 Jan. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. More than 670,000 Refused Tests in  More than 670,000 Refused Tests in 2015 FairTest. Fairtest, 12 Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. YourDictionary, 21 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Logos, Ethos, Pathos,  Louisville.edu. University of Louisville University Writing Center, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Zappardino, Pamela H. Fairtest: Charting a Course for Testing  Clearing House, vol. 68, no. 4, Mar/Apr95, p. 248. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx? direct=true&db=aph&AN=9505070060&site=eds-live.