Raekwon Scott ENC1102.016S17 Professor Erika Staiger 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) is a non-profit organization that for over 100 years has dedicated themselves to safe-guarding the well being of student athletes and equipping them with the necessary tools in order to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and in life, by integrating athletics into a higher education. One way the NCAA is able to demonstrate their dedication to its student athletes through the use of visual rhetorical appeals. Two forms of visual appeals created by the NCAA which represent the main goal and mission, which is to support student athletes on the field and in the classroom are listed above. The NCAA accomplishes its main goals through the use of the four rhetorical appeals: Ethos, Logos, and Pathos, In order to help them enforce their message and establish their purpose to their audience. Ethos is the appeal to ethics and it is ultimately the means of trying to convince someone of the character and credibility of the persuader. Through the two forms of visual appeal chosen to represent the NCAA, the NCAA is able to establish credibility and trust by imploring to their audience over and over again, the fact that they have been helping collegiate athletes for over 100 years. The NCAA continually emphasizing that they have been assisting student athletes for over 100 years really helps to establish a strong sense of reliability and credibility among their audience. It allows their audience to feel that sense of trust. The audience is actually able to believe that because the NCAA has been assisting student athletes for so long that they must know what they are doing, thus again reestablishing that credibility. Logos is the appeal to logic, and is a way of persuading an audience with reason. In both of the videos presented by the NCAA they imply that thousands of collegiate athletes will be going pro in something other than their They also state that regular collegiate athletes and even African American college athletes are more likely to graduate. They also state that college athletes have higher and SAT scores than inbound athletes. It is apparent that they are making these claims because they want to make sure that their audience realizes that collegiate athletes are not just a bunch of jocks who are only in school for athletics. A visual appeal throughout both of the videos that the NCAA chose to include in the videos is the student athletes dressed up in lab suits and actually conducting experiments. Another visual rhetorical appeal would be the athletes actually raising their hands and participating in class lectures, it is through these forms of visual appeal that the NCAA is able to emphasize the message they are trying to get across to their audience. Pathos is the appeal to emotion and is a way of convincing an audience of an argument by enticing an emotional response. An element of pathos that is notable in one of the videos is when they repeatedly ask the audience viewing the video to ask themselves will they This demonstrates pathos because it is almost as if they are reaching out directly to their audience and giving them the power to decide what to do. Almost as if they are giving the audience a wake up call by comparing them to the athletes who are the ones taking action. By doing this it is as if the NCAA is issuing a call to action to their audience by saying that basically college athletes are going to go pro in many other things besides their sport so therefore it is up to you to take action and show what you can do as well. This is a demonstration of pathos, because asking the question what are you going to forces the audience to really take the time to ask themselves what it is they should be doing. Through the use of the Rhetorical visual appeals; Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the NCAA is able to fulfill their goal of demonstrating their dedication to student athletes, and safe-guarding the well being, and reputation of student athletes all while equipping them with the necessary tools in order to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and in life. For over 100 years the NCAA has been successfully representing student athletes to the best of their ability, and making sure that the reputation of their student athletes is one that is profound. For over 100 years the NCAA has had a lot of success influencing the way people perceive student athletes by making sure to always include the rhetorical appeals whenever trying to promote them. It is because of this that the NCAA has had such great success in representing student athletes, and will continue to do so for many years to come. Works Cited Rifenburg, Michael1. Supporting Writers: A Case Study of a Division I Athletics Writing Center and NCAA Academic  Writing Center Journal, vol. 37, no. 1/2, Spring/summer2016, pp. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/lo Santesteban, Cristian J.1, cristian@redpeakecon.com and Keith B.2 Leffler. Assessing the Efficiency Justifications for the NCAA Player Compensation  Antitrust Bulletin, vol. 62, no. 1, Mar. 2017, pp. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0003603X16688838. Sugiura, Ken. Lend Helping Hand: NCAA Program Benefits Local Schools, Helps Build Leadership  The Atlanta (Atlanta,2009. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.ed https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqKsrhkM2MU https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ltaRIJ0N2o