Kish 1 Natalie Kish Andrew de Carion ENC 1102-086 20 February 2017 Striving for a Healthier America Have you ever wondered if being overcharged for your medications? Or if getting all the Medicare benefits promised? The American Medical Association (AMA) is asking questions like these everyday so the public can rest assured that they are getting the best health care possible. While the AMA is composed of doctors from various fields, its members also include a House of Delegates and council members who are committed to forming a better public health system in the United States (Who We Are). Among other goals aimed at this prospect, the AMA has been a major part of health care reform in Congress since it was formed in 1847 (Who We Are). Since it was founded, the organization has participated in initiatives to resolve issues such as patient discrimination, setting higher standards for drug manufacturing, and patient safety when receiving healthcare (AMA History). The AMA continues to be at the forefront of Kish 2 resolutions to many of current problems with health care system. Two of which are represented in the images above: unwarranted high prices on prescription medications and a defective method of funding Medicare. These images persuade their target audience to join the strides toward healthcare reform by presenting an emotional appeal as well as one to timeliness while still letting their credibility shine through. The image on the left is an ad for the campaign in that is run by the American Medical Association. The campaign has three main goals: an explanation for the prices of prescription drugs, making those drugs affordable once again, and putting the patients first (Our Campaign). These goals are aligned with the overall goals of healthcare reform and making sure the best interest is always taken into account. The image on the right is a part of Medicare and is a grassroots campaign that was started by the American Medical Association in 2013 (HMT Mag). As a part of this campaign, participants are encouraged to take action through social media or by starting their own personal campaign. This operation is set up to accomplish the goals of healthcare reform in Washington. Both of these images put forth a logical argument based solely on the principle that they are advocating for something the majority of U.S. citizens want. The rhetorical appeals found in these images play a major role in the effectiveness of the ads and in turn, how well the campaigns are received by the public. An emotional appeal can be identified in these images in a variety of ways, the easiest to spot is the prominent features of both images. In the image on the left, the attention is drawn to a pile of pills sitting on top of some money. This is a representation of the high prices drug manufacturers are charging for prescription medications. This might shock the audience and cause them to realize something that they had not how much they are paying for their medications. Another important aspect of this image, yet one that is more subtle, is the bold white Kish 3 font that is contrasted against a dark background. Not only does the campaign want the audience to be impacted by the visual components image, but they want to make sure that their voice comes across loud and clear as well. The image on the right exhibits pathos to the audience through the humor of the message in the center of the image. Below the bolded white text there is a fine print that makes an amendment to the original statement. This informs the audience that the problems with Medicare have not been fixed and Congress is actually putting it off. Someone who agrees with this statement would find this type of ad amusing and it will cause them to take a liking to the campaign. Also, the humor in the image is only amplified by the red, white, and blue confetti and balloons in the background that are meant to be a sort of sarcastic An appeal to an credibility is a key element of all terrific advertisements and these images are no exception. The image on the left exhibits ethos in the hashtag in the bottom left corner. Hashtags are often used as a for a movement or trend to make something more recognizable to a broad audience. The hashtag is the name of the campaign so this lets the audience know that the image comes directly from the source. Since hashtags are also meant for sharing on social media, the audience is encouraged to share this image with their friends and family to increase awareness about the campaign. In the image on the right, an appeal to credibility is established because it bares the logo of the AMA and the official logo of the campaign. However, there is an important relation between the logo of the organization and that of the campaign: the colors. The AMA logo is purple as is much of their website, it is something they use in their branding. The color purple can also be seen in the logo of the Medicare campaign, this is a clever branding tool the AMA utilized to create an association between the two entities. According to the article written by Thellefsen and it is concluded that is a fundamental brand (197). The color purple forms a resemblance Kish 4 between the two images so one is associated with the other. This association allows the audience to form a connection between the organization and the campaign, giving it credibility. A key element of every campaign is the motivation of its members to take action immediately, both these images accomplish this in different ways. The image on the left demonstrates kairos through the wording of the text at the foreground of the image. The tone sounds very demanding, there is no introduction to the message and no excess words. The statement made is simply prescription drug no frills or fuss. The bold, large font also creates a sense of urgency or anxiety in the audience, motivating them to take action. In the image on the right, the appeal to timeliness is quite obvious in the logo. The campaign is advocating for Congress to fix Medicare now. The image implying that the problem needs to be fixed at any time, or a few years from now, stating that Medicare needs to be fixed immediately. In addition, the bold font and bright, red banner create a sense of urgency in this image as well. To sum up the appeals used in the images above the most prominent is that to emotion, while making a strong case for the credibility of the AMA. The images also instill a sense of urgency in the audience to take action, a key component of any notable advertisement. The target audience for these images is anyone who is fed up with the current healthcare system in the United States and seeking change. These images not only accurately reflect the goals of the AMA, but effectively relay their message to the target audience to join their strides towards a healthier America. Kish 5 Works Cited American Medical Association. 2016. www.ama-assn.org/ama-history. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017. HMT Mag. launches Medicare grassroots Health Management Technology. NP Communications, LLC. 10 Sept. 2013. www.healthmgttech.com/ama- launches-fix-medicare-now-grassroots-campaign.php. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Truth in Rx. American Medical Association. 2016. truthinrx.org/our-campaign. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Thellefsen, Torkild and Bent. brand associations Sign Systems Studies. Vol. 34 No. 2. EBSCOhost. 2015. pp. 191-206. 10.12697/SSS.2015.43.2-3.03. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. We American Medical Association. 2016. www.ama-assn.org/about/who-we-are. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017.