Claudia Vizcarra Robert Ryan ENC 1102 Project 2 The top 5 non-profit organizations that provide reproductive health services are Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA), Guttmacher Institute, Center for Reproductive Rights, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), and National Abortion Federation. (guidestar.org) All of these organizations aim to present information and resources covering sexual and reproductive health topics. The mission of Planned Parenthood is to provide comprehensive reproductive and complementary health care services in settings which preserve and protect the essential privacy and rights of each individual, to advocate public policies which guarantee these rights and ensure access to such services, to provide educational programs which enhance understanding of individual and societal implications of human sexuality, and to promote research and the advancement of technology in reproductive health care and encourage understanding of their inherent bioethical, behavioral, and social implications. (plannedparenthood.org) Planned Parenthood encourages these goals using advertisements that involve the use of rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to ensure capture of the attention and delivery of every message. The purpose of the first image is to inform the audience that teen birth rates are at 40- year-low after launching the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy. The first advertisement also displays Hillary Clinton, a very recognizable and esteemed public figure. The picture announced that Clinton supported and helped launch this national campaign. The purpose is of the second picture is to assure the LGBT+ community that Planned Parenthood cares about quality health care and education. The advertisement ensures that no one will be discriminated against and that everyone will receive care, no matter what. To establish credibility, the first image features 2016 Presidential Election Candidate Hillary Clinton. Hillary Clinton has served as secretary of state, U.S. senator from New York, first lady of the United States, first lady of Arkansas, a practicing lawyer and law professor, and an activist. (hillaryclinton.com) called for the expansion of Planned funding for nonabortion health services and for federal funding of abortion, and she name-checked transgender health issues and reproductive justice (msnbc.com) The first image also has a Planned Parenthood logo in the corner to legitimize the advertisement and claim it as their own. The second image has Planned website link that is tailored specifically to Greater Washington and North Idaho, where the image was initially advertised. The image also has Planned logo presented twice. One of the logos is grouped with a message advocating for the LGBT+ community, while the other logo is grouped with the website link which sends the message that Greater Washington and North Idaho stand with the LGBT+ community. The color pink in the first image leads the audience to think the advertisement is geared towards women since pink is often associated with women and maternal figures. for why strict color-gender norms set in at all, Philip Cohen, a sociologist also at the University of Maryland, thinks they are, essentially, the outcome of a marketing (livescience.com) The image immediately grabs the attention of its viewers and makes them feel more inclined to sympathize and rejoice in the launching of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy. Inserting a photo of Hillary Clinton in black and white ensures that the message was the most prominent aspect of the advertisement, even though a public figure like Clinton is right beside it. The second image image contains the traditional rainbow coloring which is associated with the LGBT+ community to show that Planned Parenthood supports and stands with the oppressed community. This incites powerful emotion from anyone affected by rules and regulations that negatively target the LGBT+ community but also fills the audience with a sense of safety. The image also includes the phrase, care for ALL. No matter which promotes acceptance of everyone, regardless of any characteristics. The first image uses Hillary credibility to convince the audience that the statistics are accurate. Viewers of the image affiliate high rank and status with Planned National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy and are subconsciously persuaded to accept the numbers. The second image ties in Planned LGBT+ advocacy with the phrase, care for ALL. No matter which is meant to encourage unity. Planned Parenthood takes advantage of the world-wide web and keeps up to date with any methods that lead to important information regarding sexual and reproductive health topics. The first image contains a hashtag (#PPact4Hillary) that can be used to spread awareness on social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. The second image contains the website for the organization to ensure that people have quick access to all the information and resources in the area. Planned Parenthood aims to guarantee that everyone is able to access their centers for comprehensive reproductive and complementary health care services. Work Cited Marrow, Jasmine. New Rankings Announced: Top 25 National Reproductive Health, Rights, and Justice  GuideStar Blog. N.p., 23 Oct. 2013. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned.  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 21 May 2014. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Everything you need to know about Hillary  Hillary Clinton Bio Hillary for America. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Carmon, Irin. Hillary Clinton and Planned Parenthood unite after weathering the  MSNBC. NBCUniversal News Group, 10 June 2016. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Wolchover, Natalie. Why Is Pink for Girls and Blue for  LiveScience. Purch, 01 Aug. 2012. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.