Zimmerman 1 Matthew Zimmerman De Carion ENC 1102 February 26 2017 The Use of Visual Rhetoric by the CDC Advertisements are one of the key ways for large organizations to spread their ideas to the public. One such organization is the Center for Disease Control and prevention, or CDC. One of their most important ad campaigns are ads that help spread information about the current opioid abuse epidemic. In recent years, the number of opioid users has dramatically increased but the number of patients that are receiving care has not (Opioid Basics). This means that the rate at which these potentially addictive drugs are being prescribed and abused is also increasing. This can be traced back to drug companies which have to sell a large number of drugs in order to stay in business due to the large costs of research (Nuijten, Mark). The CDCs response is to use ads to educate the public about the hazards of opioid abuse. The ads made by the CDC employ ethical, emotional, as well as logical appeals to get people more interested in helping prevent the epidemic as well as help those already affected. One of the most important things when trying to advertise something is establishing some form of credibility. The CDC using ethical appeals in their ads for this purpose because if their audience does not feel that they are credible they would have no reason to listen to their ideas. The primary way the CDC uses ethical appeals in their ads is by making sure their website is very visible in the ad. In both image 1 and image 2 the CDCs website is in clear view. By placing the website link in such an open place, it allows for a viewer to easily follow up on the Zimmerman 2 information seen on the ad. The link shows the viewer that the CDC is open for more research to be done, where as an organization that was not credible would not want you to be able to find more information and would seek to distract you from looking past what is presented. The CDC also attempts to establish credibility by showing off the fact that they are a government organization. Most people believe that the government provides truthful information because that is their responsibly, also the CDC is not affiliated with a political party, both points may help build trust regardless of a political views (Mission, Role, and Pledge). Image 1 goes even further by telling the viewer to consult with their doctor, who is probably considered credible by the viewer and if the CDC and doctors are working together then the CDC must be credible. Once a viewer considers the CDC as a credible source they will be able to begin to connect with the content of the ad, and for most people this will be an emotional connection. In image one the CDC establishes an emotional connection in a few different ways. The first way is by showing a woman experiencing pain. From this he viewer is meant to feel sadness and sympathy for the woman and in turn do more research about the issue. The CDCs hope is that once more research is done more effort will be given by the person to help prevent and fix the issue. Another emotional appeal is how the ads text is phrased. It says your pain, manage your by using the word it attempts to place the viewer in the position of whomever may be experiencing problems related to opioids. The second image is similar to the first as it depicts a man who seems to be very distraught over his medication. Just like the first image the viewer is meant to feel an emotional connection to the depiction in the form of sadness or sympathy. The text in the second image is used differently however, as it is giving a statistic about overdoses. This statistic is attempting to give a deeper meaning to the ad as the man can be Zimmerman 3 seen holding a pill bottle and a viewer may assume from this that the man may be about to accidently overdose on his medication. This is how the CDC is trying to get the viewer to do more research into the issue of opioid abuse. The use of emotional triggers by ads made by CDC are very powerful because they directly communicate their message to the public These emotional appeals although strong may not have the same affect across the entire audience they are reaching. Some people may not be able to connect emotionally to the ads so the CDC make sure to also appeal to the logical argument against the use of opioids. In image one the main text that is seen a statistic that says many as 1 in 4 people receiving struggles with This quote appeals to the logical argument because shows a direct connection between taking them and being addicted to them. It also builds upon the emotional appeal as the viewer may now think of people they know and realize that any of them could also be struggling with the issue. Also in image one other ways of dealing with pain are given, this is done to show that there are reasonable alternatives to opioids for pain management. For a logical person knowing that there are other safer ways of treatment that may be just as affective would be a solid argument against the use of opioids. In image two the CDC attempts to do a similar thing by giving a statistic that attempts to show a correlation between opioid use and overdose deaths. A logical person seeing this correlation would be inspired to do more research into the issue and that is the CDCs goal. The use of visual rhetoric in advertisements is vital for an organization to communicate to the public. The CDC is no different and relies on connecting with a ethics, emotions, and logic to help show them the dangers of opioid abuse. Ancillary to these rhetoric devices is the appeal to the timeliness of the issue, it is implied in both images that failure to act on this issue may result in a potential overdose or death. No one wants to see this, but the Zimmerman 4 CDC makes sure to put that in the back of mind as they look at one of these images. Without the careful implementation of these rhetorical appeals the CDC would not be able to have an impact on a person and the opioid epidemic would have very little impeding its spread. Zimmerman 5 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Opioid Basics, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Nuijten, Mark Potential Impact of Current and Future Pharmaceutical Policy Changes on Cash Flows for Innovative Medicines Journal of Private Equity. Vol. 18, No. 1, 2014 Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mission, Role, and Pledge. 20 Dec. 2016. Web.26 Feb. 2017. Image 1: Image 2: