Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Veterans Require More Funding There is a lot of argument surrounding the treatment of military veterans and servicemen and women in this country, particularly when dealing with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Some people or organizations say that veterans receive enough funding or receive the best support that can be offered for dealing with PTSD. On the other hand, some say that veterans receive nearly enough funding and support for PTSD. This is an important topic for many Americans because it deals with the spending of tax-payer dollars for the health care costs of the veterans who are effected by PTSD. There are also a lot of stakeholders that are concerned with military-related PTSD. The two stakeholders, Military Connection and the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (USDVA), have fairly different views on the topic of treatment and support of military-related PTSD. Military Connection is an advocate for more military PTSD support while the USDVA claims there is sufficient PTSD support, given their funding. A possible solution to this problem is for both stakeholders to advocate in congress to gain more funding for the USDVA so this organization can supply more PTSD treatment and support for our veterans. Both stakeholders in this case are very different, not only in goals, but in affiliation. The USDVA is a government affiliated and funded organization, while the other stakeholder, Military Connection, is a privately owned company. Military Connection has concern for all issues surrounding the military and veterans, but is particularly concerned about the issue of combat-related PTSD that is caused by military service. The first claim Military Connection has regarding military PTSD is that there is not enough support offered to veterans and military personnel (Gregory, 1). This claim can be supported by research done by a team of psychologists and doctors from the Journal of Anxiety Disorders. The research team found that most trauma-based PTSD services are unable to reach military veterans and personnel because there are no primary care clinics near them that offer these services. As a result, many military personnel and veterans go without proper PTSD support and care (Cigrang et al., 1). Military Connection wants to change this trend. Another claim made by Military Connection is that the more psychological support veterans and military personnel get for PTSD, the more likely they will make a full recovery, or at least improve their condition (Gregory, 1). This claim is supported by research done by a team of psychologist and doctors from the Journal of Psychiatric Research. The research shows that building social and psychological support for soldiers mitigate PTSD severity by reducing negative posttraumatic (Zang et al., 1) which include feelings of incompetence, self-blame, and lack of trust in others. These findings suggest that if high levels of support are given to military veterans and personnel, they will likely recovery from the cognitive side-effects of PTSD. The other stakeholder, the USDVA, has a very different view on the issue of military PTSD treatment and support than does Military Connection. The USDVA is a government organization that deals with providing benefits and support to military veterans and personnel. Since the USDVA is a government organization it, therefore, relies on the tax dollars rationed to it by the United States federal government. Given this information, the first claim that the USDVA makes regarding military-related PTSD is that they provide the best PTSD support that they can, considering its funding (U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, 1). This is supported by the research of Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director of Government Relations at the Paralyzed Veterans of America. According the findings, the USDVA has developed an Enrollee Health Care Projection Model to help manage their given funds to provide all the services military veterans and personnel need (Blake, 31). By developing this model, the USDVA proves that it is attempting to provide all veterans with the necessary PTSD treatment services and support. Even though the situation surrounding the treatment of military-related PTSD and USDVA funding has been tense, there is still the possibility of finding a successful solution. There have been, in the past, efforts to expand the USDVA federal budget. In fact, the USDVA has receive record federal funding from Congress during the past decade. Unfortunately, the organization never seems to have enough funds and never receives its funding on time, so the money is never there when needed. The USDVA usually receives its funding three months after the start of the fiscal year (Blake, 31). For a compromise to work, both stakeholders need to work together in order to achieve the goals of the compromise. A possible compromise is for Military Connection to work with the USDVA to form a lobby group to lobby congress for more money for the USDVA. Both stakeholders also need to persuade congress to give the USDVA its funding on time. Unfortunately, this solution is not short term. It can take years before an effective lobby group can be formed and years before it yields results, so a short term solution may be needed. A possible starting point to implement this compromise is to promote a letter writing campaign. Both stakeholders can encourage people to write to their local congresspersons, asking them to legislate for more funding for the USDVA so it can provide PTSD-related services. Another possible starting point is for Military Connection, and other veteran oriented businesses and organizations, to organize fundraising campaigns so it can provide more services for military personnel while the lobbyist group works toward more congressional funding. Lobbying Congress and organizing letter-writing campaigns and fundraisers are compromises that will have definite benefits for both stakeholders. Forming a new lobby group and writing to Congress will benefit the USDVA because the organization will receive more funding so it can offer better services, over a wider area, to treat military-related PTSD. The fundraisers will benefit Military Connection because they will provide the money needed for the organization to offer more PTSD-related services to military veterans and personnel. It can then fill the gap by offering services in areas that the USDVA is unable to reach with current funding. The reason these compromises will work is because both stakeholders, while their claims are different, have similar interests and goals. Both of the stakeholders are interested in providing medical treatment and psychological services to military personnel and veterans and both are concerned about combat-related PTSD that effects our military personnel and veterans. These stakeholders also believe that there is a need to provide more information and compensation to those effected by combat-related PTSD (U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, 1) (Gregory, 1). In conclusion, there is strength in numbers when making change. This issue relates to anyone who is, or who knows someone, suffering from PTSD related to military service. Imagine if you were promised medical care to only be denied support and treatment when you need it the most. That is the situation some military veterans and personnel face when it comes to getting necessary treatments from the hospitals run by the Department of Affairs. If Military Connection, and other veteran advocates, could successfully lobby Congress for more funding, the USDVA would be able to reach out to and treat more people who suffer from combat-related PTSD. As stated before, there is strength in numbers. If all stakeholders work together, they could end the unnecessary waiting and denial of military PTSD treatment. (Word Count: 1221) Work Cited Blake, Carl.  Target: sufficient, timely, & predictable: veterans groups push for real VA healthcare funding  Paralyzed Veterans of America (2009): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cigrang, Jeffrey A., Sheila A M Rauch, Jim Mintz, Antoinette Brundige, Laura L. Avila, Craig J. Bryan, Jeffrey L. Goodie, and Alan L. Peterson. Treatment of active duty military with PTSD in primary care: A follow-up  Journal of Anxiety Disorders 36 (2015): 110- 14. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gregory, Debbie. for PTSD Awareness and Treatment: Military Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 20 June 2015, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/6040/resources-for-ptsd-awareness-and-treatment- military-connection/. Accessed 21 January 2017. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , www.va.gov/. Accessed 19 February 2017 Zang, Yinyin , Thea Gallagher, Carmen P. McLean, Hallie S. Tannahill, Jeffrey S. Yarvis, and Edna B. Foa. The impact of social support, unit cohesion, and trait resilience on PTSD in treatment-seeking military personnel with PTSD: The role of posttraumatic  Journal of Psychiatric Research 86 (2017): 18-25. University of South Florida. Web. 26 February 2017.