Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 3 March 2017 Potentially Harmonious Outcome of Musical and Social Connections The issue of mental illness is a sadly growing and contemporary epidemic in society, however there is always hope and a silver-lining in all circumstances. The issue at hand concerns the usage of music and social connections as two of multiple coping mechanisms in fighting mental illness. As mental health problems are an indefinitely growing epidemic, it is crucial for individuals to be informed of uplifting ways to compensate with their struggles. Much of mental illnesses focus on self-deprecating actions, and it is crucial to find ways to turn that negativity into a more positive outcome, possibly through music, social connections, and support systems. There are several issues that form around the aspect of mental illness and coping strategies. One major issue with the debate on music and social connections is that there are multiple strategies to cope with mental illness. Another stemming issue revolves around empathy; not one person can know exactly what another person is going through. Because of this, the main problem with the debate on music and social connections is that there are multiple strategies to cope with mental illness; one combination of coping may help one person, but the same method may not be beneficial to another. Consequently, the isolation factor in mental illness is also debilitating; coping through socializing may be very difficult for people, whereas music provides as an alternative and perfect coping method in solitude. The NAMI proposes the art of music as a way to compensate for the negative effects that emerge with mental illness, however the AMWA emphasizes the importance of uplifting social connections as a crucial Student 2 aspect on the road to recovery. Though these are two distinct coping mechanisms, the combination of music and social connections can be emotionally uplifting, help build friendships and connections, and work towards the path to recovery. The National Alliance on Mental Illness is a reputable source that encourages readers and individuals to associate music as a form of cathartic release, therefore emphasizing art as a hopeful form of treatment for mental illnesses. The American Mental Wellness Association encourages the act of social connections and building a foundational support system of people that bring out the best in someone. Both the National Alliance on Mental Illness and the American Mental Wellness Association stakeholders strive off the same will to inform individuals with information that will provide hope and encouraging steps to fight mental illness rather than suffer from it. They are genuinely concerned with the issue of all mental health related issues and formed an organization to do something about it. Both stakeholders share the need to want their vital information to help as many people as possible. Using music alone and independently may be necessary for the rough patches in life, however no one should battle mental illness alone; the art of social connections combined with music adds more flavor to life and encourages positive coping mechanisms. Music listened in isolation is important for peace, emotional release, and comfort, but making social connections with others through live music and concerts brings feelings of unity, celebration, peace and much needed support and comfort. The following two sources emphasize the aspect of music as an effective form of coping. According to Nancy Jackson, the underlying and invisible that relate to mental illness are the hidden symptoms of persistent loneliness, isolation, and grief which in result lower the quality of life. Through music, individuals with mental illness are able to Student 3 work out these issues because music offers a way for individuals to be to build relationships, and to re-experience the wholeness of their own humanity (Music Therapy and Chronic Mental Illlness). Those that suffer from debilitating mental illnesses struggle with an aching emptiness, and music often makes people feel alive in that they are able to express emotions through lyrics and melodies. The source also states that when music is used as therapy, communication through music comes with an outcome of building relationships, understanding oneself, and sources that lead to (Garred). This goes to show that music offers as a tool for self-help, as well as connection with others that results in an empowering and uplifting result. The webpage, Arts in discuss the usage of different genres of music to help decrease the severity of symptoms that come with mental illness. Stefan Gebhardt, M.D., Markus Kunkel, Ph.D., and Richard von Georgi, Ph.D., M.A. state that music impacts the psyche, and studies show music as a different coping mechanism for individuals with mental illness and those without. Results of those with mental illnesses music especially for either the reduction of negative emotions, or for relaxation and cognitive problem solving, whereas [individuals without mental are seeking positive emotional (Gebhardt, Kunel, and Georgi). It is important to note that the aspect of coping through music is a much less costly form of treatment than medication. Music therapy is viewed as a holistic, behavioral and cognitive approach to treatment that may prove effective to those with chronic mental illnesses (Jackson). She continues to write that this method of treatment can improves a social skills and symptomatic behavior, however the coping mechanism of music may little to identify and address the non-behavioral issues that tend to disrupt long- term (Jackson). Listening to music alone may help in the dark times, but the social aspect and other coping mechanisms are vital in building and maintaining a path to recovery. Student 4 According to the webpage Meaning of Social Support for Persons with Serious Mental the definition for the mental health recovery paradigm is process of change through which individuals improve their health and wellness, live a self-directed life, and strive to reach their full (Chronuster, Chou, Kwan, Lawton, and Silver). Recovery is a daily process and practice in which people improve themselves with the help of others. The use of support systems is key in that all individuals rely on others to trust, confide in, encourage, uplift, and provide advice to (American Mental Wellness Association). Sources also suggest that quality always beats quantity, and that a small amount of trustworthy people is key. In order to build and maintain a support system, one must know where and who to look for. Reaching out for help is one of the most difficult steps that get in the way of an individual wanting to get better, making the coping mechanism of social connections very challenging. As a compromise to this seemingly impossible crossroads of isolation and the road to recovery is the art of music. Music offers a pathway to those that often struggle alone, and through events like-minded people are brought together. The Journal of Music Therapy suggests Recreational Music Therapy as a means of coping, however the aspect of live music correlated with high rates of effective support from friends and therapists. Writer Michael Silverman states that live educational music therapy be a way to heighten psychiatric perceived social support concerning friends and perceptions of the The source Music Therapy for Severe Mental Illness: A Randomized Embedded- Experimental Mixed Methods combines both the aspect of music therapy and social mechanisms into one to prove a possible, effective correlation between these two seemingly distinct mental health coping strategies. A study was shown to test the combination of group music therapy, and results showed that group music therapy enjoyable; self-esteem was Student 5 enhanced; participants appreciated therapists and peers; and although challenges were experienced, the programme was recommended to (Grocke, Bloch, Castle, Thompson, Newton, Stewart, and Gold). The two seemingly incompatible coping methods of music and social connections play out as individually effective coping mechanisms, however also manage to work together through group music therapy, and music festivals or concerts, where individuals with similar tastes in music and mental health backgrounds are brought together to further connect and grow further into the road to recovery. Student 6 Works Cited Chronister, Julie, Chih-Chin, Chou, Kwong-Liem Karl, Kwan, Melissa, Lawton, and Kurt, Silver. Meaning of Social Support for Persons with Serious Mental Rehabilitation Psychology 60.3 (2015): 232-245. Web. 3. Mar. 2017. Davis, Lisa, and John, Brekke. Support and Functional Outcome in Severe Mental Illness: The Mediating Role of Proactive Psychiatry Research 215.1 (2014): 39- 45. Web. 3. Mar. 2017. Gebhardt, Stefan, Markus, Kunkel, and Richard, von Georgi. Role Musical References Play in the Modulation of Emotions for People with Mental The Arts in Psychotherapy 47.1 (2016): 66-71. Web. 3. Mar. 2017. Garred, R. Therapy: A dialogical Music Therapy. N.p., 2006. Web. 3. Mar. 2017. Grocke, D., S., Bloch, D., Castle, G., Thompson, R., Newton, S., Stewart, and C., Gold. Music Therapy for Severe Mental Illness: A Randomized Embedded-Experimental Mixed Methods Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica 130.2 (2014): 144-153. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Jackson, A. Nancy. Therapy and Chronic Mental Illness: Overcoming the Silent Music Therapy Perspectives 33.2 (2015): 90-96. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Productions, The American Mental Wellness Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Rawls, Natalia. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 29 July 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Student 7 Silverman, J. Michael. of a Live Educational Music Therapy Intervention on Acute Psychiatric Perceived Social Support and Trust in the Therapist: A Four- Group Randomized Effectiveness Journal of Music Therapy 51.3 (2014): 228- 249. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Warren, Molly. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.