Karabeyoglu 1 Nadir Karabeyoglu Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 26 February 2017 15NOW: Rhetorical Appeals To Support Minimum Wage Reform 15NOW is a grassroots organization and a prominently known stakeholder in the current minimum wage debate that is occurring throughout the United States. Their goals include eradicating income inequality by fighting to increase the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour (15NOW.org). The first image used by 15NOW to support their argument is the logo (see fig.1). The logo is bright red with the words and a check mark in the and an image of a young male with his fist in the air as seen below. The goal of this image is to inspire the audience to yell and make their voices heard to support the movement for $15 an hour for minimum wage. (Fig. 1 15NOW.org) The second image is from official Facebook page and shows 11 people wearing 15NOW logos and standing outside of the store Target and participating in a demonstration for an increase to the minimum wage (see fig. 2). The goal of this image is to show the audience Karabeyoglu 2 that a diverse group of people is working together to advocate for an increase in the minimum wage. (Fig. 2 15NOW Facebook.com) Both of these images from 15NOW are visual arguments that reflect the concerns that15NOW has about the urgent need for an increase of the minimum wage. The rhetorical appeals used in these images are logos, pathos, and ethos. Through the use of these two visual arguments that utilize four rhetorical appeals, the social justice organization 15NOW depicts the urgent need for the American public to participate in the minimum wage reform. 15NOW was founded in 2014 and their mission is to empower working people and activate them into a fighting movement for $15 an hour minimum wage (15NOW.org.). 15NOW has local chapters throughout the U.S. that advocate for and lead demonstrations to rally workers to demand an increase of the minimum wage (15NOW.org.). 15NOW also seeks to build a network of activists for labor that can lead organized demonstrations throughout the United States to raise awareness about their cause (15NOW.org.). Seattle city council member Kshama Sawant, who is a part of the Socialist Alternative group, is the founder of 15NOW (15NOW.org). The organization 15NOW is based on the belief that 1% of the population dominates the economic power and fighting to increase the federal minimum wage to $15 an Karabeyoglu 3 hour is a way to challenge the unequal wealth distribution in the United States (15NOW.org). 15NOW also seeks unity with other social justice issues including LGBTQ rights, rights, and rights (15NOW.org). 15NOW proposes that big business and large corporations take advantage of minimum wage workers, especially minority groups (15NOW.org). 15NOW is a grassroots organization that relies heavily on social media to spread awareness about their cause. The logo for 15NOW along with photos on their official Facebook page which show live demonstrations make a powerful visual argument for their audience to understand and advocate for their goal of increasing the minimum wage. 15NOW depicts the urgent need for the American public to participate in the minimum wage reform by showing two visual arguments that use the rhetorical appeals logos, pathos, and ethos (see fig. 1 and fig. 2). For example, Figure 1 uses elements of logos and appeals to the logic and reason by showing a man yelling with his fist in the air which suggests this issue is important and must happen immediately through the use of and the use of red. This image is logical because people can clearly understand that this organization wants $15 an hour now and is not willing to consider a small increase in the minimum wage. Also, the website is included with the checkmark which tells the audience to visit the website and vote on this issue. Elements of logos are seen in Figure 2 because the image shows people of varying ages and races working together to advocate for an increase in the minimum wage. This is an appeal to the logic that this issue impacts a diverse group of working Americans. Figures 1 and 2 both show how powerful the use of pathos is when creating a visual argument. For instance, the first image is showing a man with his fist in the air and his mouth open yelling and encourages the audience to yell and make their voices heard to support the movement for $15 an hour for minimum wage. The mouth being open also conveys outrage or anger at Karabeyoglu 4 the economic injustice of the current minimum wage. The use of red in Figure 1 suggests urgency and passion and the fact that the man is yelling also conveys that this issue is so important that it must be yelled to be heard. The image is imploring the audience to understand that issue is urgent while also advertising the website which is 15NOW.org. The image is trying to accomplish the goal of urging people to make their voices heard and demand an increase to the minimum wage. The checkmark is showing the audience that they need to make their voices heard by voting. The image is trying to accomplish the goal of spreading awareness that wages are insufficient and to encourage the audience to support an increase to the minimum wage. Elements of pathos are also seen in Figure 2 through the use of a mother with her young baby. This appeals to the emotions that a mother needs to earn a living wage to support her child. Sara Giskin, a columnist of Temple online newspaper and Philadelphia chapter15NOW member states women are over-represented in low-wage work and believes a raise in the minimum wage is an equality issue (Giskin). Also, the second image evokes empathy since it shows people standing together on this issue and it is not a problem that only impacts a small group of people. These elements of pathos are utilized to make the audience feel the urgency of this movement for social justice and gender equality. Ethos is another important rhetorical appeal that appeals to credibility or morality. The design elements that convey credibility in the first image are the use of red, which conveys passion and emphasizes the importance of this issue. The purpose of the design is to create a simple but straightforward message that makes an impact and makes the audience feel the message is credible. 15NOW has been deemed credible and has made significant strides in spreading awareness about their cause. For instance, in Minneapolis, over 68% of residents have asserted their support for a $15 minimum wage ordinance and believe this is a fight that workers Karabeyoglu 5 can win (Miller). 15NOW could not garner this type of support with a strong visual argument that conveys credibility. Ethos is apparent in the second image because the audience can see it is an actual photo of real people demonstrating together and shows how different people came together with a unified message. The photo is not staged and is authentic with some people not looking directly at the camera. This conveys credibility to the audience because the people are not posing, look genuinely happy to be together spreading their message and have spontaneously grouped for a picture. The use of ethos in these two images work together to demonstrate that people are unified behind the 15NOW logo. In conclusion, 15NOW conveys the urgency of their goals and mission through the use of rhetorical appeals in two images, which represent their visual argument. Elements of logos, pathos, and ethos are used in the images shown above to inform their audience that 15NOW is a powerful social justice movement that is more than money; it is a message of equality for American workers across the United States. These images are simple but powerful and implore their audience to hear their message. Karabeyoglu 6 Works Cited 15  15 Now. N.p., 2017. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. 15NOW.org 15NOW Official Facebook Page. Facebook.com. 8 Mar. 2015. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from https://www.facebook.com/15now/photos/a.741258732568748.1073741828.7197486380 53091/994861913875094/?type=3&theater Giskin, Sarah. NOW campaign fights to raise minimum  The Temple News. N.p., 25 Aug. 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from http://temple-news.com/opinion/giskin-15-now-campaign-fights-raise-minimum-wage/ Miller, Sara Nicole. With new coalition, Minneapolis Fight for $15 grows into unstoppable  Twin Cities Daily Planet. N.p., 09 Oct. 2016. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from https://www.tcdailyplanet.net/with-new-coalition-minneapolis-fight-for-15-grows-into- unstoppable-movement/