Student 1 Student Professor Lewis English Composition 2 5 March 2016 WC: P2 Intermediate Draft: A Pathway to efficiency Around the world, energy is needed and used every single day by billions of people. The largest issue is the type of energy needed to power the world. With a combination nonrenewable and renewable energy used, hopefully an agreement can be made to make energy the most efficient. We are running out of certain energy sources while creating more items that need energy. The problem is that what energy is the best to use. The stakeholder BP Global is all about maintaining oil as the main resource for energy. BP is a company that produces oil and has many locations that provide gasoline as well as maintain oil drill sites. The oil drills provide their product to sell to gas stations as gasoline as well as other companies like electric companies. The primary goal is to get you to invest in fossil fuels, to buy their product and believe that the only solution to the energy crisis. Fossil fuel is the largest energy industry and is the most efficient but there is an overwhelming decrease in oil production. Those that are in control of the oil are changing prices constantly. The stakeholder SolarPowerRocks is a company that advocates for Solar Power. It provides it consumers with information regarding laws, tax credits. The primary goal is to get investment into solar energy. Solar energy is renewable and becoming increasingly efficient but the technology to use it is very expensive. Thus creating distain between consumers and producers. Consumers that have a budget are scared away by the installment and equipment prices. The two stakeholders have the following in common: to obtain an effective way to power the world while making money and increase energy efficiency. The two biggest concerns for them both are how to convince consumers to invest and how to create the largest profits. The need for investors and the need for energy is what they are focused on. The most practical solution for these two stakeholders is to use a mix of both renewable and unrenewable energy sources, solar power and oil to energize our world. Having development and studies in both energy sources and to pass limitations on use of both will create less tension with the stakeholders. Using fossil fuels as a backup and developing more solar energy.