Celia Kaufman Professor Ryan ENC1102.57 26 February 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric In the argument for the decriminalization of prostitution, Amnesty International is an organization that has a bold opinion in the matter. Amnesty International is a self-proclaimed human rights organization that works with countries worldwide to promote human rights on issues such as armed conflict, human trafficking, and sexual reproductive rights for women globally. The organization uses media to influence countries, other human rights organizations, and millions of people globally using images on their website, such as one of their headers with a women participating in the march holding a sign saying for sex or of a woman going down an unclean staircase in an unsafe area to display the dangers sex workers face when doing their jobs in Argentina. By using these images, Amnesty International is portraying the dangers sex workers face in areas where prostitution and other sex work is not accepted and also displays the work the organization is putting forth to forward their cause. Amnesty International advocates for decriminalization of prostitution and the social, political, and economic acceptance of sex work in total. In the first image, a woman is wearing a pink mask carrying a pink sign with bold black letters stating for Sex as a representative for Amnesty International at the 2017. The sign being pink is important because pink is often seen as a feminine color and in this case, the organization is using the color as a symbol of strength for women as opposed to its normal connotation of delicacy and innocence as associated with femininity. This however is ironic for this organization specifically because of one of their main campaigns is breaking down gender roles and gender stereotypes, including the historic social ties between color and femininity and masculinity. Unless the organization made the sign pink with the intentions of the color as a symbol of feminine power, it seems as though they are falling into the gender stereotypes they are fighting against. By using the color pink, they are also excluding male sex workers, as if they are only representing woman when there are in fact a good amount of male sex workers around the world. The woman in the picture is wearing a pink mask and a fur jacket. This is significant because she is transforming herself into an anonymous woman who can be seen as representative for all females whether they are in sex work or advocate for the rights of sex workers. A large group of women wore masks when marching in the 2017 March on Washington to signify that women are unified and this picture is an example. The purpose of this picture is for Amnesty International to display their efforts in furthering this specific cause. The websites encourages men and women to help them in order to increase their sphere of influence and solve the issue that is restrictions on reproductive rights including the criminalization of prostitution and the unacceptance of sex work socially, politically, and economically. The entire website has images such as this for all campaigns the organization manages, so it is evident that this is their preferred method of reaching the public through media. The second image depicts a woman in a clearly dangerous area. The caption reads Doing is Not a in reference to sex work. The woman in the picture is wearing white, which is often times a symbol for innocence or purity, as in reference to angels. By displaying the woman wearing white, the ad is implying that the woman is not doing anything impure by participating in sex work and therefore it should not be criminalized. Having the woman dressed in white against a grimy and unclean background juxtaposes the two sides of the argument- the dirty scene representing the often associated with prostitution and the purity of the white clothing representing the argument that sex work does not fit into the stereotypes people believe. This ad used in a campaign to fight stigmatism of sex work in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Although prostitution is decriminalized, sex workers are not allowed to pick clients up in public, rent hotel rooms, and landlords are free to discriminate against sex workers and not lease them. The ad displays a woman in a secretive area, showing that sex work needs to be done in secret regardless of the fact that the act itself is decriminalized. The purpose of including this image is to make the point that there is nothing impure about sex work and to display the risks sex workers subject themselves to in order to do their job. Amnesty International uses images as their main source of media to get their message out as well as create visual representations of scenarios in order to give the viewer a better idea of what it may be like to be in the position or to display the efforts the organization has put forward to solve the problem of restrictions on reproductive rights, the decriminalization of prostitution, and the unacceptance of sex work globally. The human rights group takes pride in the strides made furthering the cause and encourages more people to support and join in on their campaign through the images they release into the media such as these two. Works Cited Sex Rights Are Human  Sex Rights Are Human Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. What Doing Is Not a  Amnesty International. Creative Commons License, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Image 1: Image 2: