Taylor Gruman Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 26 February 2017 ASA and Rhetoric Usage Logos, ethos, pathos, kairos. To some those words may not mean anything, but contrary to some belief, those four words have a huge impact on everyday life. Every company or organization has a purpose and those four words are the basic principle of how they gather people to support and understand their purpose. One organization in specific who uses this method is Americans for Safe Access (ASA). ASA is a group of people who are working together to spread awareness for the importance of medical marijuana. ASA was first started in 2002 by a patient named Steph Sherer. She was a patient that was using medical marijuana to help treat her symptoms and feels that it should be provided for those that it can help. It is currently one of the largest organizations that advocates for the acceptance of marijuana as a source of relief for medical patients. It is made up of citizens from all over the country, including professionals and scientists (SafeAccessNow). The first image above was used to show support for the Veterans Equal Access Bill. This bill is to veterans with recommendations and opinions regarding participation in their marijuana (Blumenauer). The second image was created to show support for a study that was conducted that supported the idea that medical marijuana is a better pain medication than opiates. The study explains that has analgesic efficacy with the low dose being as effective a pain reliever as the medium (Wilsey et al.) The two images above are created by Americans for Safe Access and both use ethos, pathos and kairos to persuade the audience to support the organization and the idea of medical marijuana for patients. Both images display a clear depiction of the use of pathos. In image one, the picture of the veteran, pathos is used to make the audience feel bad for all the veterans suffering. The veteran himself provokes the audience to feel respectful for the young man who fights for his country. Along with this, the expression and the way he is sitting in a cemetery is used to depict that he is upset. The vision of the depressed soldier, paired with the fact about veterans committing suicide, provokes an emotional response from the audience. The citizens that view this image are meant to feel sorry and upset for the soldier which intern helps to persuade them to support medical marijuana due to thinking that it will help soldiers suffering. Often times, citizens feel obligated to help soldiers to the best of their ability since soldiers fight to defend us every day. In the second image, the creator uses the picture of the football player to stir emotionsfor the audience. Football is one of the most popular sports in America so it provokes interest in the audience. The picture peeks the initial interest of the audience, which is then followed up with the statement out of 10 retired players suffer from pain on a daily (SafeAccessNow). This statement is meant to make the audience feel bad for the players and in turn want to take action to help those that are suffering. Statistics are used in both images to grasp the method of logos. Statistics help support an image because it shows the audience that there is scientific proof to back up a cause. In the first image, the creator starts by saying, veterans a day commit (SafeAccessNow). That statement alone grabs the attention because it is showing how many people are effected every day. That statement is then followed up with a 5% reduction in suicide rates in medical marijuana (SafeAccessNow). This specifically targets the logos aspect because it is showing the audience how effective medical marijuana is and how many lives it can save. People are more likely to see the logic in something when a statistic is presented to back up the information. Statistics are also used in the second image. The second image states in 10 retired players suffer from pain on a daily as well as million Americans suffer from chronic (SafeAccessNow). By stating this the creator is basically saying that 90% of retired players can benefit from medical marijuana. By using a statistic in which 90% of a group of people are effected, it is easy to see the logic in legalizing the substance. ASA is using statistics so that citizens who see this ad, will understand how many people can be helped which makes them want to take action. ASA uses both of the images to influence the audience to act immediately to help improve way of life. Kairos is evident in the veteran picture in several places. The picture is located in a cemetery which appeals to timeliness in the sense that it is showing that life is short and can end at any moment. It represents the veterans that are dying everyday due to suicide and more and more veterans are dying each day. This message is reinforced when the creator explains how many veterans die each day. The put the suicide rate in terms of days rather than years so that the audience will feel more obligated to take action right now rather than thinking that one day make a difference. A similar message is represented in the second image. ASA explains in the second image that people are suffering every single day and this could be helped by legalizing medical marijuana. Kairos is very evident because the picture is explaining how the sooner action is taken, the sooner these people have to suffer every single day. People will be quicker to support the cause when they realize how the longer they wait, the more difficult it is for the people that are suffering. The images above display three main forms of rhetoric, kairos, logos and pathos. With a combination of all three of these methods, ASA is trying to persuade citizens from all over the country to come out and support the cause. The method of logos grabs the audience and helps them to understand the importance of the situations. Pathos is then used to make the audience feel sorry for those that are suffering when there is a way that they could have a better life. Kairos closely works with pathos in these images because the audience feels bad for the victims and feel the need to act immediately since people are suffering every single day. Both images incorporate these methods very clearly. Works Cited for Safe Americans for Safe Access, www.safeaccessnow.org/. Blimenauer, Earl. Equal Access https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th- congress/house-bill/667/text Wilsey, B; Marcotte, T; Deutsch, R; Gouaux, B; Sakai, S; Donaghe, H. vaporized cannabis significantly improves neuropathic PubMed, Vol. 14, no. 2, 2012, pp. 136-148. doi 10.1016/j.jpain.2012.10.009.