Williamson 1 Camila Williamson Robert Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Advertisement in Euthanasia Life and death are both interpreted differently by everyone. Sometimes opinions are solely based on religion, culture, or other external beliefs that influence how these two things are seen upon. Therefore, euthanasia and other forms of assisted suicide are so harshly debated within society, creating opposing groups that fight against each other to be the popular vote. Compassion and Choices is a non-profit organization that fights to improve end of life treatment, expand education about assisted suicide, and ultimately, works towards the legalization of euthanasia throughout the country. the nation, we work to ensure healthcare providers honor and enable decisions about their (Compassion and Choices) This group focuses on gaining attention of the ill and the old, because those are the groups that are more likely to agree and understand their mission. Advertisement for this nonprofit group emphasizes the struggle of the terminally ill, and aims to touch the pathos of the viewer in order to create an emotional connection with the cause. Euthanasia has become even more controversial in the past couple of years because the lines between murder and assisted suicide have been blurred out by society and the media. of euthanasia argue that people have a right to make their own decisions regarding death, and that euthanasia is intended to alleviate pain and suffering, hence being ascribed the term They hold the view that active euthanasia is not morally worse than the withdrawal or withholding of medical treatment, and erroneously describe this practice as (Ebrahimi). Religious organizations and other cultural groups have fought Williamson 2 to create the illusion that euthanasia is just an euphemism for murder, and they believe that the legalization of it will bring a great wave of bad interpretation to it. Of course, the possibility of abuse of power in the medical field regarding euthanasia is always a risk, but the legalization of it would come with an extensive process to even be considered for it. Assisted suicide would also come with many laws and regulation to ensure its best implementation, and to prevent abuse of power as much as possible. Another aspect to consider when speaking of the legalization of euthanasia is the morality toll it wold take on those in the medical field that are implementing it. Doctors, surgeans and nursed joined the medical field to aid and save peoples lives, without agreeing in ending some. The legalization of assisted suicide, as much as it would still be considered helping the patient end their suffering, it is the opposite that those in the medical field swore upon. This is an aspect to be considered when talking about legalization and how these type of situations would be monitored and handled for the sake of those providing it. Doctors and nurses with no religious observance and stable mentality should be examined and granted permission to be able to help with the assisted suicide. This is not a thing to be taken slightly because the sanity of those that can cure is put on the line, but this can be easily handled with regulation and monitoring to ensure that the people in charge of the assisted suicides complete their job in the most professional and safe way. Compassion and Choices advertises mostly by providing captivating messages that attract the attention of the reader with its colorful and big font, and by using images of ill and old people. In this case, the organization gives logos as a simple message with a big meaning that everyone understands Williamson 3 and relates to. By emphasizing the message in the words life, death and choice, they are automatically aiming at the readers pathos. This makes the viewer consider their own life and death, or maybe the life and death of a close relative or friend that may be terminally ill or suffering. Ethos is seen in this advertisement in the small Compassion and Choices logo on the bottom right hand corner, and the Brittany Fund link on the bottom left hand corner. These things give the advertisement credibility, and it also incentives the viewer to research more about the topic. Since Brittany Maynard was a woman that fought the system to be allowed access to assisted suicide in 2014, the support her cause is still relevant and the use of the hashtag at the end of the message shows that this advertisement is relatively recent. This message appeals to everyone, and communicates a strong message for a strong cause. Other types of advertisement that Compassion and Choices utilizes are strong imagery to appeal to peoples pathos. In the case of this ad, the organization decided to show the core of what they are. By Including families in the picture, they are appealing to the viewers ethos. They do this so that people can picture their family and imagine how it would be like if they were in their situation. Having Compassion and Choices as a logo in their poster boards shows ethos, and Dr. Omega Silva giving her speech fall 2016 gives the advertisement Kairos, Logos and Ethos. This type of advertisement is sometimes more appealing to the eye of the viewer and it helps to convey the message better than words. The image of the elderly people having the support of the younger ones beside them is a way to show how assisted suicide is not a punishment or a sentence, it is a way to get rid of all the pain and suffering some people are going through. Williamson 4 Advertisement in euthanasia and assisted suicide is tricky. Sometimes people agree with it because of religious or cultural reasons, and the only way to show people what they are trying to convey is by making the viewers feel the pain and understand the suffering that they want to show. Its important to not only incorporate pathos in the advertisement, but also other types of rhetoric so it can become more reliable and supported. Kairos is extremely important, especially if the topic is recent and continuous, and if it is directed towards a younger audience. The fresher the information, the more appealing it will be for the younger generations, and the easier it will be to make them understand and agree with everything the message is saying. Pathos is clearly the most effective way to use rethoric in advertising, especially when it comes to nonprofit controversial topics such as euthanasia. Advertisement has a very important job in our day to day but an even more important job in trying to drive an entire society to follow a trend. Williamson 5 Cited work Digital image. About Compassion & Choices Compassion & Choices. N.p., Oct.-Nov. 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Digital image. The Brittany Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. About Compassion and  Compassion & Choices. Comn and Choices, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Ethics of  Australina Medical Student Journal. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.