Guseinova1 Vafa Guseinova ENC 1102 Andrew DeCarion 26 February 2017 Privacy is one of the most important value in all life. Privacy is an area of life of the individuals, which is outside of control of the state and society. Every individual in the US have rights to live without any control. This is the most generally accepted, natural and inalienable human right, the essence of which is that no one shall be arbitrarily spy on his or her life. The right in privacy implies the possibility to live in accordance with own wishes that should not provide the conflict with public interests, rules of law and morals. In addition to rights to live, all people deserve right to human dignity, liberty and security of person (Chen 5). The Stand Against Spying (SAS) is a coalition of organizations that supports freedom and democracy of the US citizens. Their goal is privacy for all people of the US. The SAS is fighting with mass surveillance by the National Security Agency (NSA). The SAS maintains that spying of millions the US people violates the US Constitution and international law (SAS.org.). According to SAS, that sweeps up the communications of millions of people violates the US Constitution and international (SAS.org.). Collecting records of communications through phone call, messages, or Internet, paints an intimate portrait of people lives. This organization maintains that mass surveillance is contrary to freedom and democracy which must be stopped nowadays. The SAS uses images which represent stop spying. So, the images use its provocative colors depictions to persuade the viewer emotionally, while also presenting a compelling logical argument. Viewers will find these images accomplish these things in a manner that upholds this reputation. Guseinova2 The purpose of each images SAS gives privacy for all American and stop spying on people (Glaser 3). By this images audience can understand that the spying is not good for the citizens. The SAS believes democracy and freedom thrive when Constitutional values and human rights are upheld. The images are trying accomplish that all people, regardless of nationality, believes, have a basic right to privacy and freedom of association. In both images there is ethos. In order to convey to the audience that the image is qualified enough to speak or write publicly about spying, he or she must announce or make known the relevant educational or research based background they possess, as well as any other pertinent information. So, in the first image the first thing that gets into your eyes is bright color background. According to Sandrine and Bigot, blue color on the background of image is symbolizing trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, truth (Sandrine & Bigot 4). Also, blue is a color that is linked with confidence. Therefore, it means that the US citizens can absolutely trust the work. Also, from first image we can see so many eyes which represent the spying. In the middle of image there is a big eye. Instead of pupil hand which symbolizing stop action. So, this eye is symbolizing stop spying of the US citizens. In the second image this is ethos too. In the image this is a big green airship. Airship is the symbol of a brighter tomorrow and freedom. This makes the US citizens believe that one day they will get absolute privacy form NSA. The airship is green colored which is symbol of harmony, peace. And this color has strong emotional correspondence with safety. So, the SAS is very peaceful organization which represent democracy and privacy for the US citizens. On the airship we also see the NSA abbreviation. Abbreviation means that the SAS wants prohibit the NSA. illegal spying bellow on the airship say that the NSA should stop work from undermining international encryption technologies and standards and hacking into technology companies, and Guseinova3 of course stop spying on live. Also, from image we can see that on airship there is rainbow. Rainbow is symbolizing freedom of speech and equality of everybody no matter who are you and what are yours believes. Exactly this are the SAS perspectives, for these values the SAS is fighting with the NSA. The pathos approach to argumentation surrounds the more emotional aspects of the issue, such as heavily controversial matters as well as ones that audience members may feel most passionate about. Both images have pathos. First image making audience be in trust with the SAS. We see on the image 1 big eye with stop hand action. The SAS is promoting idea that spying is not good and should stop because we are living in democracy society. Second image making audience to think and understand that NSA is doing illegal work. Also, the NSA respect the US citizens. Spying is bad for the US citizens and this issue should stop. In conclusion, SAS maintains of their goals and mission through the use of rhetorical appeals in two images, which represent to audience visual argument. Elements of pathos and ethos are used in the two images shown above to inform their audience that SAS is fighting against spying, fighting for freedom and privacy for all the US citizens. These images represent the US perspectives, and these images are powerful and explore their audience to hear their message and goals. Guseinova4 Image 1 Image 2 Guseinova5 Works cited Chen, Rui. Living A Private Life In Public Social Networks: An Exploration Of Member  Decision Support Systems 55.(2013): 661-668. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Feb. 2017 Gil, Sandrine and Ludovic Le Bigot. Seeing Life through Positive-Tinted Glasses:  Plos ONE, vol. 9, no. 8, Aug. 2014, pp. 1-13. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0104291. Glaser, April. One Way to Stand Against Spying: Meet With A  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., 21 May 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 SAS: Where Do Your Representatives Stand on Illegal  StandAgainstSpying.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.