McDonald 1 Robert McDonald Robert Ryan ENC 1102 February 10 2017 Thesis: Apple in response to a very public request for information case, has generated a Information sub-page within its page. The purpose of this essay is provide a critical analysis of the graphics and prose used to support these graphics to determine how this aligns with core values and the effectiveness on the consumer. Apple is easily one of the most recognized names in the world. As a large technology corporation they have built a brand that is known for its simplicity, reliability, and phenomenal functionality. This is only further amplified as these principles are littered throughout their business; whether products, services, website, or brick and mortar store each unique item is built on the same principles and convey the same clean message that Apple has come to be known and loved for. Under the guidance of Steve Jobs their mission statements was simply, make a contribution to the world by making tools for the mind that advance This clear, unbiased internationally driven statement was the key driver of their organization for many of their most prolific years. Apple unambiguously wanted to help the world by creating tools that spearheaded the development mankind. While Apple is largely a United States based company, for many years now they have always had a global focus and perspective. Currently, they provide services to almost 40 countries across the world which is about 20% of the total countries. Of the Top five most powerful countries ranked by US news, Apple sells to four of them only excluding Russia. In participating in so many global markets that are sometimes conflicting, Apple like branding McDonald 2 has to be simplistic, concise, and in many cases as possible take of position of what they feel is in the best interests of the consumers globally and what they feel is the right thing the to do. In this volatile political climate across the world, this a complicated and often blurry line to tow because often times their consumers are supporters of both sides. More recently since Tim Apple CEO, takeover, Apple has updated their mission statement to focus more on the products and services that they offer while still keeping the world perspective they used to have, designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with  (Investopedia.com). Tim Cook as CEO is the primary person that leads the opinion and actions Apple takes when controversial issues arise. This was no different than when apple faced a highly public request for information case from the FBI. Apple acting the best interests of all of its consumers globally took the position that it would not acquiesce to the request and help them retain the data from the phone, but since that case apple has published some data and advertisement on their website that address privacy as it relates to government requests. With global perspective this is a critical analysis of the effectiveness of the images and prose that supports those images in relations to Apples opinion and its affect on consumers. McDonald 3 First, these images are consistent with the simplicity and conciseness that the apple branding is known for. The main points are highlighted and more details are offered if you care to know McDonald 4 more. Imagery alones lends itself to Credibility. Another aspect that lends itself to the credibility is the font. The font, like the branding is the clean and simple san-serif font that they have been known for. Additionally, the colors used adds to the credibility because Apple users are used to seeing both the blue and green colors in the native Iphone and Macbook apps that apple has created like Iphotos where all these colors exist in the logo. Visually, the main image and adjoining text also fits within the golden ratio perspectives which is another reason the image is so visually pleasing because the proportions are quite literally perfect. The messaging behind the first image breaks down the types of requests that Apple receives, which is educational in the fact that many probably know that there were different types of request. Most consumers probably lumped all the requests together. The image also indicates that only 6% are account requests because the case that apple fought the FBI on was an account request not the much larger 94% of requests which was a device request. In the FBI case, Apple argued it had the duty to protect the privacy of the consumers and its technology. In the image and from reading the accompanying explanation, one can deduce that 94% of these device requests are in no way related to the FBI case that Apple was fighting because device requests are requests from law enforcements acting on behalf of their consumers. As a consumer who may have been upset with apple for not releasing information to the FBI, not so upsetting because at least for 94% of the requests they do release the information when on behalf on the consumer. As a customer who values their privacy, it a relief because all these requests are authorized by the consumer beforehand again alleviating the tension one might have felt around privacy. The account requests could make a user that is pro-privacy uneasy, but many individuals still believe in the validity of the justice system so at the point that only 6% of these cases Apple is obliged by the government to follow just small enough that it eases the tension. That and, the fact that it also indicates that they only provide smallest amount of information possible again reassuring those strict pro-privacy individuals they are doing there best to protect the privacy of their users and indicating to pro-government McDonald 5 users that they comply with requests when mandated. Finally, Apple highlights that 0.00612%, it is the percentage of their consumers affected by requests of any kind. As if either side alleviated enough on their position their last ploy is to show how unlikely an individual is to be affected by something like this and hope that the individual takes a, in my backyard As presented on the Apple web page, the second image is subsequent to the first image and addresses National-Security Orders from the federal government. With this image, a five star rating is also presented as recognition that they received from the Electronic Frontier Foundation for protecting the user privacy rights. As National Security is a hot button topic right now, this image serves to inform the consumers there are very few cases related to National security and beyond these requests in regards to other organizations they have the highest rating possible from the Electronic Frontier Foundation for protecting user rights and privacy. As mentioned earlier, consumer base is very diverse and multi-national so they must do their best to protect alleviate concern from all their consumers including the individuals from other countries. This image acknowledges these requests are made, but does not indicate the action taken on these requests when they are made because it legally mandated that they cannot disclose this information. Because Apple consistently appears transparent, people have more confidence in trusting the information that they give out; more so than if the government were to give the same message. National Security is frightening topic for many and while this image tell much it does address the issue instead of trying to cover it up or leave people completely guessing. This alleviates concern from the consumer and the 5 star rating helps to gain further buyin from the people that were not as trusting of Apple from the beginning. Finally, Apple is navigating a complex and diverse consumer base that it must carefully address in creating stance on even more complex issues such as security. The images apple used to address the topic with security were consistent with clean branding and direct, transparent prose. By being transparent, addressing the tougher topics, and making consumer McDonald 6 interests a primary focus, Apple may not have caused consumers to take a particular action, but Apple did solidify consumer confidence in the brand and that is why they continue be the valuable technology company on earth. the little things. McDonald 7 Works Cited Apple. Mission Statement61 Results  Mission Statement - Apple. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Investopedia. What Is Current Mission Statement and How Does It Differ from Steve Original  Investopedia. N.p., 23 Apr. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Score, How We. The 60 Best Countries for  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Staff, Creative Bloq. The Guide to the Golden  Creative Bloq. Creative Bloq ART AND DESIGN INSPIRATION, 23 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.