Wallace !1 Desirae Wallace Ms. Heiser ENC1102.068S17 1 March 2017 Animal Testing is Human Testing When it comes to science, animal testing has aided in making many discoveries, from life- saving things like medicine to luxury goods such as cosmetics. When it comes to animal testing for cosmetics, there are organizations that are completely against it and demonstrate their position on the matter through various methods. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an international animal rights advocacy organization that have been trying to end all forms of animal cruelty, including animal testing. Because there are alternatives to animal testing, PETA strives to send the message across that animals are being abused for no reason, and they do so through various advertisements and articles. Through different rhetorical visuals with their articles, they target the general public by eliciting strong emotions, having celebrities sponsor their cause and giving a sense of urgency toward their overall message. Both visuals have the same end goal: spread the word about how cruel animal testing is. PETA, though, has different messages in each that use varied rhetorical appeals. A common appeal PETA favors is pathos, for audiences are easily manipulated when overwhelming emotions are targeted, especially when it comes to animal cruelty. Just addressing the first advertisement, pathos is heavily used through a multitude of details. To begin, the image itself speaks without words due to the fact that there is a naked and harmed man curled up on the floor, an expression of suffering taking his features entirely. Said man, Dave Navarro, is an American Wallace !2 musician for Addiction and Red Hot Chili Peppers that is known particularly by younger generations for his body art and style. clear that PETA is trying to target younger (and certainly American) audiences by having him in this photo since he is more likely to be known by someone younger than someone older. Additionally, those that are younger are more impressionable and, according to a study by doctors Stephen Kellert and Joyce Berry, are more opposed to animal testing than older people (Kellert, 53). Navarro sits curled up and vulnerable on the floor after appearing as if he has been a victim of some of the tests animals go through for cosmetic testing (the text on the image sheds light on just a few of the experiences coincides with his injures). The bluntness of the details nudity, blood, vulnerability is in favor of pathos, for no way the targeted audience can have no emotional reaction to the image, whether remorse, disgust, anger, or anything else. PETA aims to have the audience want to help end animal testing, so by having a human subject appear to experience the cruel treatment that animals supposedly go through, the audience is expected to be inclined to want to help another being in pain. These desires to want to help Navarro are supposed to transfer over to wanting to help animals, thus having the audience help in ending animal testing. Even the text on the image (words like and are used to get emotional responses, for killing is associated with murdering and pleading can be portrayed as begging for the lives on behalf of the animals. Since the audience is expected to feel guilt from using products that supposedly result in murder, PETA hopes that gives them more of a reason to go cruelty-free, especially with PETA urging the audience to see the morbid truths of animal testing through the whole advertisement. Wallace !3 Pathos is again used in the second image, but this image as brutal as the first. Once again, a human subject is used to aid in eliciting strong emotions from the audience. The audience this time is a European one, particularly the general public (since a known celebrity is used) and the European Commission (the institution of the European Union responsible for proposing legislations). Since the European Commission is in charge of legislations in the European Union, it makes sense as to why PETA would have them as one of its audiences. As for how PETA uses pathos to reach out to its audience, the organization follows a similar idea to the one it used in the first image: using a human subject to appear injured in order to make the audience guilty, woeful, disgusted, etc. Kimberly Wyatt, an American singer from the group The Pussycat Dolls (known by older and younger generations), is portrayed as beautiful on the left, while on the right she is legitimately reflected in the mirror with some of the cruel effects of animal testing. Her injuries in the mirror still look gruesome and practically say is what it really looks like to use cosmetics that test on The mirror effect can demonstrate that non-cruelty-free cosmetics, while making the user appear beautiful, reflect poorly on the user, exposing the true ugly side of beauty. Additionally, seeing an innocent woman appear abused and injured can make the audience uncomfortable with the idea of using products that test on innocent animals. The parallels between humans and animals that PETA uses in its images is what strongly portrays pathos in an effective manner, for the targeted audiences usually like to see humans treated inhumanely. PETA uses this to its advantage to make its audience feel the same about animals when it comes to animal testing. To add on, a hint of logos is used in both advertisements due to the words choices mentioned earlier along with the main notion of having a human subject. Logos relates to thinking, and the Wallace !4 models being vulnerable and abused in advertisements make the audience think of the questions if they were testing on humans? Would I want them to test on another being that has emotions and can feel just like humans This helps to amplify pathos but surely gets the audience to think about animal testing in a different way. Even the words used in the second image can encourage thinking in the audience, for the paradox of ugly side of can make the audience question if cosmetics are really meant to represent beauty if its at the expense of another living thing. Again, this can support pathos because the audience can frown up the that comes from products that are tested on animals, changing their opinions and emotions simultaneously. Another rhetorical appeal that PETA uses in both of these images is ethos. Ethos deals with credibility, so used to convince the audience of the credibility of the advertisement. PETA uses itself as a credible source by having their logo on each image. Since PETA does support the message on each image and is supported by international governments, the organization is a credible source to itself. In regards to the first image, Navarro is the celebrity that is supposed to be credible and, luckily for PETA, he is. According to an interview with Eluxe Magazine, Navarro discovered the horrors of cosmetic animal testing to be and when he was researching the fur industry and thus decided to be part of The Humane Society of the United campaign (Kearney, Dave Navarro Speaks Out On of Navarro has remained cruelty-free since -- even going so far as to urge his fans to do the same as him. As for former Pussycat Doll Kimberly Wyatt, she also went cruelty-free, coining her as a credible sponsor for images. She started her own cosmetic company called BM Beauty Mineral Cosmetics with the mindset that she to inflict Wallace !5 harm on anything or anyone, especially animals that have a (PETA UK, Kimberly Wyatt Shows the Ugly Side of the Beauty Since both celebrities stand true to claims, PETA successfully used ethos to make its images more credible rather than having false authorities the cause. The final rhetorical appeal that will be addressed is kairos, and PETA only uses it in the second image. Kairos refers to time, and in the second image, the notion of not postponing the EU ban is brought up. The EU ban, in simple words, is the ban in Europe that prevents cosmetic companies from testing on animals in Europe. According to Michelle Thew, the Chief Executive of the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, the European Commission proposed and attempted to put parts of the EU ban into action before 2013. Since the full ban effective, France apparently challenged what existed of the cosmetic animal testing bans by going against these temporary bans (Thew, 27). France, of course, be penalized for this since the EU ban was not set in stone, thus why the second advertisement by PETA came to be. As mentioned before PETA is addressing the European Commission with this advertisement, urging that the ban takes place sooner rather than later, especially since certain countries taking the idea of the ban seriously. Saying postpone the EU is a straightforward message from PETA that uses kairos directly. In conclusion, PETA strongly relies on rhetorical appeals to make the messages of its advertisements have a stronger impact on the targeted audiences. By doing so, PETA demonstrates that audiences are easily influenced by rhetorical appeals, making it easy to convince the audience of main goal. Rhetorical appeals matter because they clearly influence the everyday lives of mankind someone sees an advertisement with their favorite Wallace !6 celebrity on who that urges taking action on it and then they are suddenly more inclined to follow the message of the advertisement. Humans are emotional creatures, so only natural that this would happen; however, it usually happens without the audience knowing. But if the audience knew the power of rhetorical appeals, then would these devices have the same effect? Learning about rhetorical appeals effectively can aid not just businesses or organizations, but also an individual: a single person can use them to persuade another of their opinion or even to have a full grasp on the motives of anything that uses persuasion. It may be typical now that people are experiencing rhetorical appeals without knowing, but learning to use them effectively can make statement that much more significant. Wallace !7 Works Cited Kearney, Lauren. Dave Navarro Speaks Out On of  Eluxe Magazine. Eluxe Magazine, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Kellert, S.R.; Berry, J.K. Knowledge, Affection and Basic Attitudes toward Animals in American Society; National Technical Information Services: Springfield, VA, USA, 1981, pg 53. PETA UK. Kimberly Wyatt Shows the Ugly Side of the Beauty  PETA UK. PETA UK, 02 Dec. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Thew, Michelle. Once More Unto the  Chemistry & Industry, no. 18, 24 Nov. 2008, p. 27. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/ login.aspx?direct=true&db=aci&AN=501492805&site=eds-live.