Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Food Waste: Problems, Solutions and Compromises Food waste is a problem that is pervasive in many parts of the world. The food industry is responsible for some of the problems. Food waste is a problem found predominantly industrialized nations (Gruber, Holweg and Teller). There is massive amounts of food waste worldwide that a solution is necessary to help prevent more waste. The two stakeholders for this paper are End Food Waste Now & Think Eat Save. While having some differing ideas the two stakeholders have some common ground at which this paper will try and make a compromise between these two grups. The stakeholders disagree on how the solution for food waste should be achieved. The proposal from this paper is to combine activism and lobbying for legislative change to achieve heightened public awareness of food waste. The two positions on how to combat food waste will be explained in this section of the paper. The first stakeholder: End Food Waste Now, supports activism and people volunteering to help combat food waste. Their approach revolves around people volunteering to achieve awareness in the public and reduce the environmental strain of food waste on ecosystems. As an organization they help people get access to groups that help combat food waste and show people what they can do to help too. The second Think Eat Save, position is that legislative action is necessary to solve the food waste problem. They want to lobby congress to enact legislation that helps stem the food waste that big corporations are creating. In addition to laws that would help force people to be more green and have recycling for food waste separate form trash waste. Both stakeholders think it is important to reduce food waste, but differ on how they plan to achieve this goal. They also agree that public awareness on the food waste issue needs to be increased and that it is essential to large scale improvement to the situation. There is a potential compromise that can be reached between these two stakeholders, which revolves around similar goals despite differing plans. The current solution is to do a mix of both, but goals are not getting done with this compromise. There exists a better compromise to be reached between these two stakeholders, in this section the outline will be made for an optimized compromise. The demographic that is most likely to contribute to food waste is young adults Ferrari, Secondi and Principato p8-18. 11p.) The public, especially the youth, being informed would drastically help prevent food waste and reduce the current problem at hand. One of the main concerns of the is primarily this, informing the populace of food waste. The proposed compromise then will be a campaign to draw public Student 2 awareness to the issue of food waste, this will address the concerns of both stakeholders. The first stakeholder will have increased pool of people interested in solving food waste through activism and volunteering. The second stakeholder will be more likely to get legislation passed that helps prevent food waste. Both stakeholders would benefit from the outcome will sacrificing very little of their core beliefs. The tricky part is getting both sides to come together and work on this common goal. Since they will not directly be benefitted from this compromise, but indirectly benefit from the compromise. Calvo-Porral, and claim that one third of all food becomes waste. The article describes the positive benefits marketing has had on food waste in developed countries. The findings from this article would support the solution; food waste can be reduced with marketing or in other words increased public awareness of the problem. Thus the compromise will be centered on an ad based campaign to raise food waste awareness. The practical implementation of this compromise must include both parties coming together and starting a campaign against food waste. This could include advertising or activism including both goals. The campaign would target the youth, since they cause the most food waste but at the same time are more likely to become activists for this cause once they learn of it. The counter claims against this are centered on alternative ways to solve the issue of food waste. One solution proposed in an article by Koonchun, Sooking, Pehchiong and Kimho; is to separate food waste form landfills using an electrostatic separator. The idea behind this solution is to separate out the food waste so it can be used for other things or be organically recycled into the environment. There are plenty of cases where this can be beneficial such as re-enriching the soil in places that have been over farmed. The problem with this solution is that it is not economically efficient to do so. There is no incentive for the corporations that operate these landfills to separate out the biomass. It is also infeasible to move large quantities of spoiled food for very low benefit result. The main critique of this solution therefore is that it is very impractical at this stage. Maybe once the public is more aware of the problem or legislation is passed to incentivize this activity, there could be a use for it. The current stage of the food waste crisis demands quicker, more obtainable solutions. Another proposed solution by: Salemdeeb, zu Ermgassen Kim, Balmford and Al-Tabbaa is to use food waste as animal feed. This study has gives a mixed opinion on the benefits of using food waste as animal feed. The waste is reduced due to animals now consuming it and therefore breaking it down, but it could have a negative impact on the animals. Food waste can often be contaminated with fungus or bacteria which would be bad for the food industry. Overall it is too hard to have good quality control of food waste, to the point it would be okay for animals to eat it regularly. The compromise I proposed would lead to a positive result for both stakeholders, while minimizing the compromises that would need to be made in other solutions. The solution is also a lot more fleshed out and studied, whereas other plans are more theoretical or impractical to implement. Practicality is important to reaching a compromise that will lead to a good outcome. The importance of the compromise first addressed will have many more attainable goals than Student 3 those two more recently mentioned. The compromise that is best for both stakeholders, equally is the best compromise. Increasing public awareness through an ad campaign benefits both stakeholders equally, while neither has to compromise on their core beliefs to achieve this success. The only necessary component is the cooperation between the two, to reach this mutual goal. This paper too will work as the intended compromise of the two stakeholders. People will read this paper and be informed of food waste and help spread the word to others hopefully. The positive note that I can leave the paper with is knowing that more people are informed with food waste. Since informing the populace about food waste is the most important part of the compromise. Overall the suggested compromise reaches a good middle point between the two stakeholders that previous and current other compromises did and will not attain. (WC: 1201) Student 4 Works Cited List Gruber, Verena; Holweg, Christina; Teller, Christoph a Waste! Exploring the Human Reality of Food Waste from the Store Journal of Public Policy & Marketing Spring2016, Vol. 35 Issue 1, p3-25. 23p Koonchun, Lai; Sooking, Lim; Pehchiong, Teh; Kimho, Yeap. Characterizing a Novel Food Waste Recovery Process Using an Electrostatic Separator. Polish Journal of Environmental Studies. 2016, Vol. 25 Issue 5, p2227-2232. Calvo-Porral, Cristina; Chema. Can Marketing Help in Tackling Food Waste? Proposals in Developed Countries. Journal of Food Products Marketing. Jan2017, Vol. 23 Issue 1, p42-60. 19p. Juan-Antonio; Ferrari, Guido; Secondi, Luca; Principato, Ludovica. From the table to waste: An exploratory study on behaviour towards food waste of Spanish and Italian youths. Journal of Cleaner Production. Dec2016 Part 1, Vol. 138, p8-18. 11p. Bernstad Saraiva Schott, Anna; Wenzel, Henrik; la Cour Jansen, Jes. Identification of decisive factors for greenhouse gas emissions in comparative life cycle assessments of food waste management an analytical review. Journal of Cleaner Production. Apr2016, Vol. 119, p13-24. 12p. Salemdeeb, Ramy; zu Ermgassen, Erasmus K.H.J; Kim, Mi Hyung; Balmford, Andrew; Al- Tabbaa, Abir. Environmental and health impacts of using food waste as animal feed: a comparative analysis of food waste management options. Journal of Cleaner Production. Jan2017 Part 2, Vol. 140, p871-880. 10p.