Vega 1 Leonardo Vega Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC1101 Sec 008 Mar 5, 2017 US Pro-Tennis Decline in the Global Arena Tennis greats Connors, McEnroe, Sampras, and Agassi made the USA the most successful nation in the tennis Open Era. Unfortunately, since 2003 our tennis power has shifted from great to a mere (Foster). American tennis has transitioned into a serious low point in recent years. Between 2000 and 2010, there was only one Grand Slam winner, Andy Roddick who won the 2003 US Open. The Slam drought worsened after 2010, with no American reaching the semifinals in over seven years. For over ten years, the struggle experienced by the American tennis circuit has been a topic of loud contention among players, coaches, and tournament directors. Coaches and players blame situation with the on a poor approach to technique and tactics, compounded by the lack of clay court training (Konigsberg). Directors take issue with the below-average inconsistent rigor used to certify coaching professionals. One point of common ground however lays on the weak multi-level approach, which fails to grow the popularity of the sport by not promoting tennis to all youths equally, not just the and create a plan that supports their gradual development deep-rooted in commitment to excellence not just profit (Kamperman). The conversation surrounding the decline of American tennis has not changed much since 2002 because it continues to call attention to the same weaknesses US male pro-players must overcome to regain competitive global standings: more consistent exposure to high performance clay-court training, highly-qualified and accountable coaches, as well as more diversified and inclusive sponsorship opportunities to grow within the sport. Vega 2 A successful clay-court season, which includes thirteen tournaments, among them three Masters and the famous French Open, is paramount for a tennis pro-player to maintain high rankings within the ATP World Tour. For more than ten years, clay-court dominance has been an elusive accomplishment for all American male tennis players on the pro-circuit, contributing to the steady decline of US tennis in the global arena. One of the greatest American tennis players in Open Era, Pete Sampras, winner of thirteen major titles by 2002, never consummated the dream of winning the French Open. The problem affecting the decorated American player was simply the failure to practice more on clay-courts at home, and play more warm-up tournaments on clay before the main French event. With almost no clay-court training facilities in the US back then, and zero funding provided by the USTA to build pro-level, clay-based tennis courts, Pete Sampras possibilities to ever win the French Open were beyond (Foster). Twelve years later, American male tennis players continue to lack the proper clay-court training needed to be competitive on clay-surfaced pro-tournaments. Noah Rubin, a US top-youth tennis player, winner of the 2014 Wimbledon Tennis Championship, a fast- pace grass-court competition, failed to qualify for the French Open tournament, only two months earlier. Rubin joins the long list of clay-court unprepared US players that fall against the slow- surface challenge. In an article written in 2015 by Eric Konigsberg of the New York Times, Pat McEnroe, General Manager of Player Development, elaborates on the importance of building regional clay-court hubs for more American players to grow up training on the slow surface so that they can learn to a slower and higher-bouncing used so effectively by European players who often dominate during the pro-tennis clay-court season. That same year, the USTA created the Equipment and Facilities Grants Program, which was thought to be an answer to the much-needed funding to build and maintain true professional grade, clay-court Vega 3 facilities. Unfortunately, the small $15000 grants are simply not enough funding to cover the cost of building organic clay-base courts in local tennis centers, let alone pro-training facilities and US pro-tennis players have endured on-going struggles to train in proper clay-court facilities at home, which has contributed to their many loses on clay-surface professional events. From Pete Sampras in the early to Noah Rubin in 2014, the poor clay-court season results of the American men has significantly reinforced a steady decline in the global arena. For over ten years now, tennis experts content that the slump experienced by American male tennis pro-players on tour could also be attributed to the lack of qualified US tennis coaching professionals. Lawrence Kleger, Head Coach of the John McEnroe Tennis Academy in NYC, points out that coaching education going back to 2000, has not with the tennis advancements in other countries, and has failed to provide the proper platform to support a strong future for male pro-players in US tennis (Konigsberg). Like their European counterparts, American coaches have not been made accountable for keeping their credentials and necessary training up-to-date, to avoid a fine and possible USTA termination. Even more significant to the development of American tennis is that professional coaches in the US have never been required to obtain a special clay-court certification to make sure our male pro-players no longer continue to fall short on clay-based ATP World tournaments. In 2002, BCC writer J. Foster suggested that Pete coach, Paul Annacone, lacked the experienced and ability to teach the American how to adjust his powerful play-style from the faster hard and grass courts to the slower clay surface. According to Lawrence Kleger, the problem of underqualified tennis coaching professionals continued by 2015 (Konigsberg). He called for the USTA to allocate special funding to sponsor an oversees training exchange program for US coaching professionals Vega 4 at the ATP World Tour level. So far, the USTA has created a Professional Coaching Development Grant, which focuses on a basic coaching certification process that supporting the development of the sport at the community level and No USTA moneys are currently allocated toward the expansion of clay-court coaching certifications in the US, which continues to weaken the value of pro-level coaching staff, contributing to the decline of US tennis in the global circuit. One of the strongest arguments surrounding the decline of American male tennis players in the world standings has been the inadequate sponsorship and deficient pro-training opportunities. Since 2009, the USTA Recreational Tennis Division has provided grants which focused primarily in funding non-profit organizations at community level, such as parks and recreation facilities and school districts. Their main intent was to develop tennis programs for children and promote diversity in the sport. But with only one office located in USTA headquarters, it was very difficult to account for local moneys accurately, to ensure the and those grants were supposed to support (Kamperman). That all changed in 2015, when the USTA Multicultural Grants Division opened six regional hubs around the nation, that would more effectively managed the allocation of direct funds. The most important USTA sponsorship improvement has been the creation of the High-Performance Grants Program, which identifies as the single most significant hurtle preventing multicultural players from accessing the sports of tennis in the US and Here the USTA focuses on funding individual top-youth players attending prominent tennis academies in the US, who have been to lead the return of American male tennis players to the global top rankings (Konigsberg). The success of the USTA sponsorships depends on the success of the American tennis academies and their coaches in encouraging talented high-quality players who Vega 5 can produce long term results in the pro-tour. The problem is the one-size-fits-all approach of American whose main goal is to turn young talent too quick into the pro- circuit, without the proper long-term coaching support, even though the USTA suggests players first go to a four-year college program and then join the pro-tour (Konigsberg). Despite the advancements in USTA sponsorship programs, from 2009 to 2015, for high performance player development, American tennis academies have yet to produce a winning formula that ensures coaching patronage and support for experienced male tennis players in the pro-circuit. Until that happens, the US tennis may continue to decline in the global arena. In conclusion, US pro-players have endured a steady decline in the ATP World Tour standings since 2002. We have seen improvements made by the USTA to provide better sponsorships for high-performance players. Despite those advancements, the cookie cutter formula used by American tennis training academies have consistently failed to develop male players that can endure long-term success in the pro-circuit. This is primarily due to the lack of clay-court training and adequate coaching support that has plague the US pro-players for over ten years. Therefore, from between 2002 and 2015 we have continued to see a decline of American male tennis players in the global arena. Vega 6 Works Cited Foster, J. Soils BBC News, BBC, 23 May 2002, news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/tennis/French open/1952120.stm. Accessed 8 Feb. 2017. Konigsberg, Eric. U.S. Tennis Rise The New York Times, The New York Times, 22 Aug. 2014, www.nytimes.com/2014/08/24/magazine/can-us-mens-tennis- Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Kamperman, Kurt. Awards over $400,000 in Recreational Tennis Grants to 45 Non- Profit Organizations across the USTA, 15 Aug. 2009, Accessed 9 Feb. 2017. and USTA, 2015, www.usta.com/About-USTA/USTA-Awards/grants/. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017.