Rodriguez 1 Andrew Rodriguez Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 27 February 2017 The Acceptance of Esports as an Official Sporting Event The concept of Esports or electronic sports has been around as long as video games themselves have. Video games have always fostered a sense of competition and comradery wherever they go. This concept can be seen as early as the classic arcade cabinet where people would watch local players battle it out for the highest score. Since then the popularity of video games has skyrocketed and so has the technology that comes with them. With the addition of the home console and the internet players can engage in multiplayer game modes. These game modes foster the true spirit of Esports where players can come to compete head to head with other players. These kinds of multiplayer games have become increasingly popular to the modern gamer and often times have communities of over one million active members. However, while the concept of competitive video gaming has existed for a long time, the social acceptance is fairly new. The conversation regarding whether or not Esports is considered a true sport has drastically changed over the course of the last ten years. In these last ten years Esports has gone from something that was seen as a trivial hobby to a lucrative, and highly competitive business that has garnered worldwide attention. Due to its increased popularity, we are seeing major Esports events sell out entire stadiums where millions watch players compete for prize pools over ten million dollars. Furthermore, we are seeing professional sponsors, teams and even Rodriguez 2 professional treatment for these athletes. Because of this, the public opinion on Esports has changed to fit the views of traditional sports. For the longest time Esports or video games as a whole were something that was purely personal in nature. People would go to the store and buy a game or spend money in an arcade so they alone could play the game. After all, one of the biggest selling points for a video game is getting to experience it for yourself. Ten years ago, nobody would have ever dreamed that the concept of watching others play games would take off the way it did. This leads me to the popular streaming service known as Twitch. Twitch TV is an online platform where by simply making an account anyone can go online and stream themselves playing video games. This platform became so successful that it was in part directly responsible for the increase in popularity of Esports. The potential of this platform was so apparent that in the year 2014 amazon purchased Twitch for almost one billion dollars. This extremely successful 24/7 streaming service allows gamers from all over the world to watch others play games. As a result of success many Esports championships such as the ESL Pro League stream their tournaments for all to see. Often times these tournaments garner millions of viewers worldwide. These events are so popular they even have sponsored ads by and Buffalo Wild Wings played. The popularity of these tournaments combined with Twitch results in some Esports events gaining more viewers than the NBA finals. Andy Swanson the VP of Twitch uses poker as an example for success. He says use poker as an analogy quite a bit. People have been playing poker since the 1800s, but it until people were able to watch it from the outside on television that it blew Furthermore, as success increases more people learn about the world of Esports not just in certain countries but globally. This is serves to make Esports a more well-known and professional environment. Rodriguez 3 Due to this enormous increase in popularity Esports is becoming more lucrative and more successful. This means that all of Esports is beginning to get treated more professionally including the players. One example of Esports getting treated more professionally is a deal made with Xfinity and the team Evil Geniuses. The deal states agreement has Xfinity as a brand sponsor during ESL broadcasts and tournaments, and will see Comcast supply training facilities with Gigabit Pro internet (Tribbey 12). Here we see that Xfinity is agreeing to sponsor the team Evil Geniuses and even go so far as to provide them with high speed internet for their training facilities. This brings me to my next point about how the athletes are treated. It is now normal practice for all Esports athletes to be sponsored by a team and to be given financial stability through a contract. Furthermore, as mentioned previously these teams provide all players on the team group housing to foster strong team bonds. These athletes can each get their own individual sponsorships and have enormous fan bases. In South Korea one article compares Esports athletes to professional super stars. This article states, of the most popular title, the complex real-time strategy game, Starcraft, are superstars. Teenage girls mob them, they have their own clothing lines, (Keith Stuart). These athletes are considered the epitome of athleticism in their country and get treated as such. However, this attitude is beginning to spread because now Esports athletes are beginning to get taken care of in the same way as traditional athletes. One article states, China, eSports is recognized by the General Administration of Sport, and players reside in gaming houses that are dedicated to training them. They have the best coaches, hand-eye co-ordination specialists, psychologists and agents at their (Jacobs 30). These athletes are taken so seriously that they are given everything they need to be Rodriguez 4 successful. This quote shows how far Esports have come in certain countries and helps to prove that Esports is quickly progressing its way into the future. In conclusion, the views of traditional sports now more closely coincide with the current state of Esports. This is a result of the massive increase in popularity, the enormous prize pools and the huge fan base. Athletes are happy to be competing and the love for the sport is intense. The conversation regarding Esports has drastically changed in the past 10 years and it will only continue to change for the better. Rodriguez 5 Works Cited Jacobs, Jana. WELCOME TO Esports: MORE THAN JUST A  Finweek (2016): 30- 34. Business Source Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Technology: Get ready for sports to turn Unreal: Could we soon be tuning in to videogame tournaments rather than the big match? Some countries already  The Guardian (London, England) 2008: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. C., T. Swanson: Esports An Opportunity For  Broadcasting & Cable 146.20 (2016):. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Tribbey, Chris. Watching People Playing: Game  Broadcasting & Cable 146.24 (2016) 12-13. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.