Griman 1 Christopher Griman Mrs. Tisdale ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Police Accountability in U.S. Society In 2016, 228 people of color were shot and killed by police officers (Wiliams n.p.). However statistically only forty-one officers have been charged for their crimes of police brutality in the past seven years (Elinson n.p.). The system of law enforcement has been corrupted over time, as it can be seen police departments are not training their officers efficiently. Due to the irresponsibility of law enforcement agents, the rotten apple theory has become a commonly used term when discussing police accountability. The discussion around police accountability in the U.S. has changed because of the recent unnecessary excessive force on African Americans and even children. For the last one hundred and fifty years, police institutions have been protecting citizens in the United States. However, truthfully police have largely contributed to the death toll especially in cases when the individuals involved are unarmed. This has led to the rotten-apple theory: psychological explanation which places the blame for incidents of misconduct on a few misguided (Lersch n.p.) Although law enforcement officials are aware that there are many officers involved in incidents of misconduct, those in charge do not act appropriately in these situations. This is due to the tight relationship between police officers and government officials, who overlook such incidents like excessive force or improper tactics. Griman 2 Judson Jeffries adds to the several ideas that Kim and Tom have spoken from before. Jeffries explains how number of incidents of white police use of excessive force against black men have seemingly shown little sign of (Jeffries n.p.) Jeffries incorporates a theory called trigger this is were a police officer has one trigger for whites, where they would not shoot without reasonable evidence, and one for African Americans, where they are more likely to fire on sight. Overtime this theory has changed as it is displayed in a study conducted in the 1970s. The analysis discussed the fact that white police officers were seven times more likely to kill African Americans than whites; this number increased to nine times more likely by the 1980s. This trend has created a mass protest known as the Black Lives Matter movement. It consists of retaliation against the white community forcing inferiority in the black community. This subordination is directly highlighted in law enforcement, as the majority of victims included in police misconduct cases are African Americans. This backlash movement against officers has led to the courts and the people calling for police departments to mandate policemen to wear body cameras. Additionally Gene Grabiner discuses how reform needs to occur in law enforcement agencies, specifically with the United States Police Department. The conversation has changed because not only is the public challenged, but so is the country itself economically. Grabiner adds that the system cannot be updated until serious issues such as poverty, and unemployment is fixed. The need for change within law enforcement agencies has led to the development of the term This program empowers individual citizens to influence law enforcement agency standards by complaining on issues that need to be addressed within the department. However, Griman 3 governments usually overlook civilian oversight programs, as after a crisis is resolved, the program is rendered useless and usually dissolved due to lack of support. Kami Chavis Simmons states that police misconduct has become institutionalized within the agency, however, the conversation has changed as the corruption has been addressed by the US government. Simmons explains, although it is important to have governmental support and local entities must play a more active role in implementing institutional reform of these agencies, and they must have the flexibility to develop locally tailored police accountability (Simmons n.p.) The need for police accountability has recently increased in the US due to the trend that demonstrates an unnecessary force exerted on African Americans. The trend, which began with police officers largely, contributing to the death toll of the racial group, has developed to the formation of numerous theories to justify the development. These theories include the rotten apple theory; designating the blame for the murders on a few individual officers who can be considered and the two trigger finger; the idea that officers have a finger for whites and a finger for African Americans, where they are more likely to shoot the later. This police brutality has come with significant backlash in the form of the Black Lives Matter movement and the implementation of civilian oversight programs in many agencies in the US. As discussed in the paper, police accountability should not be something where blame can be substituted to an unsound individual, but rather a system where all officers are held accountable for their actions of hate against the black community. Griman 4 Works Cited Williams, Janice. Police Shooting Statistics 2016: Were More Blacks And Hispanics Killed By Cops This Year Than In  International Business Times. N.p., 30 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Elinson, Zusha, and Joe Palazzolo. Police Rarely Criminally Charged for On-Duty  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 24 Nov. 2014. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Lersch, Kim Michelle, and Tom Mieczkowski. Violent Police Behavior: Past, Present, And Future Research  Aggression And Violent Behavior 10. (2005): 552-568. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Jeffries, Judson L. Police Brutality Of Black Men And The Destruction Of The African- American  Negro Educational Review 52.4 (2001): 115-130. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Considering Police Body  Harvard Law Review 128.6 (2015): 1794-1817. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Simmons, Kami Chavis. Cooperative Federalism And Police Reform: Using Congressional Spending Power To Promote Police  Alabama Law Review 62.2 (2011): 351-403. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Griman 5