Mihm 1 Mason Mihm Ms. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 2 March 2017 views surrounding the benefits of parents involving their children in sports since 2010 Obesity, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, the list of health-related illnesses goes on and on. However, to drastically reduce these fatal health issues for future generations, there is one simple change parents of the world can make. That change is, involving their children in physical activity. Although this is an easy change to make, parents must be informed. The current issue is that parents are unsure if they should involve their children in sports/physical activity or not because they are not aware if the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. To no surprise, lots of research has been done. The research, overwhelming, supports the decision to involve children in physical activity. Substantial health benefits in childhood and adulthood have been observed, as opposed to children that do not participate in physical activity. Since the 2010, global conversations surrounding the benefits of parents involving their children in sports has not changed because research still proves the correlation between physical activity and healthy lives. However, the conversation has gotten broader and more diverse. In 2010, research surrounding this topic focused on the connection between physical activity and health in children, as well as how activity levels have a long-term effect on their future adult lives. Research conducted by Ian showed how Canada created recommendations to increase physical activity because they were aware of the numerous health benefits. Although the overall conversation has not changed, according to Ian Mihm 2 Janssen, Canada believes that children increase the time they spend on moderate-to- vigorous intensity physical activity by 30 minutes per day, and over a 5 month period progress to adding an additional 90 minutes of daily physical (1). By the end of research, results indicated that even modest amounts of activity could have health benefits on the children. On the other hand, research also analyzed how childhood physical activity would affect the children when they become adults. According to Colin Boreham, the author of the article, The Physical Activity, Fitness and Health of Children, is a biological carry-over effect into adulthood, whereby improved adult health status results from childhood physical activity. In particular, childhood obesity may be a precursor for a range of adverse health effects in adulthood, while higher bone masses in young people reduce the risk of osteoporosis in old (915). This is not a hard concept to grasp, however, it requires people to view childhood physical activity from a different perspective. As one can tell, the conversation surrounding childhood physical activity is getting investigated for the long-term benefits as well as present ones.