Pina 1 Marcel Pina Ashley Tisdale Composition I 1 March 2017 Euthanasia: A Controversial Topic All Over The World Multiple views always show up when discussing ideas, emotions, and even facts, but how do you determine whether an idea is correct or incorrect? The topic of euthanasia has long been discussed among many, especially in the area of ethics, when in reality it is a completely advantageous practice. Euthanasia is defined as a practice undertaken by a physician, which intentionally ends the life of a person at her explicit request. This practice has been a controversial topic all over the world and in all the years, in this essay I will talk about the pros and cons, the real definitions of euthanasia, all the types of euthanasia, voluntary, non-voluntary, involuntary, passive and active, about the ethical issues that have been a real problem in society, in this part we will have the for statements and the against statements, there will be a part about the legal aspects and in here there will be also a for and against part, and at the end will be a part of why euthanasia should be legal. to the World Medical Association euthanasia is the conscious and deliberate carrying out of an act with the clear aim of ending the life of another person under the following conditions: the subject is a legally competent informed person with an incurable disease, who voluntarily requests that his life be ended; the physician concerned knows of the state of the subject and his wish to die and commits this act with the primary intention of ending his life; and the act is carried out with compassion and not for personal (658). In this citation we have the definition of euthanasia, in this practice are 4 types, voluntary that is the decision of the same Pina 2 patient, non-voluntary that is when the patient does not decide, involuntary that is if the patient is not consent and finally the passive and active. Active is when the euthanasia is performed when the medic does something to make the patient die and the passive is when the medic pay attention to the patient or stop helping the patient. In this essay there will be a main question, euthanasia should be legal in the U.S? This is an issue in the U.S because there are some states that allow this practice. Another states and when the people really need to use this practice, they have to complete a lot of paper work to move to this states and for this reasons and other, like the people who is not in favor because the ethical issues. Because of that now I will be talking about ethical issues. Even though many claim that it is unethical due to religious reasons, the church actually contradicts itself because according to the bible, the church says that God is the only one capable of giving and taking away life. Nevertheless, the church also states that God made humans capable of making their own decisions as long as the outcome is beneficial. In the case of euthanasia, it becomes completely beneficial when the doctor releases patients from the pain and agony they might be suffering. So if by applying euthanasia patients are being released from their suffering and there are also other benefits seen economically and emotionally, why is it still considered wrongful? Economically speaking, Euthanasia can certainly be beneficial because the families can stop spending money on treatments and hospital accommodations, and it is also an emotional gain due to the fact that they can now let their loved one rest in peace. They are given mental peace, since now they know that their relative has gone to a better place, where he or she will no longer be in pain. Dr. Brian L. Mishara claims that psychological need for both honor and dignity has no time. (430) Pina 3 ethical problem remains, however, that if the wish is not uttered (and in any case it may not be clear that it is uttered freely), nobody can presume to know what the particular person would or does wish internally, and to guess his wish in this most important matter to end or not to end life is at the very least unprofessional and (661) Dr. Monika Ulrichova in this comment states that the against comments are because of this and the people use it to fight against this practice.