Alhail 1 Abdulla Alhail Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 03/01/2017 NORML and Marijuana Legalization NORML, which is a nonprofit organization, is working to raise public opinion to make marijuana a legal product. It provides information that educates people to stop the arrest of smokers, thus providing them with legal information on marijuana reform laws. The major goal of this organization is to legalize the responsible use of this plant by adults so as to advocate for safety, convenience, and quality and emphasize the low cost of marijuana to the users The two given images seek to promote and support the safe use of marijuana. The images target those who sell, distribute, or sell marijuana in the world. The images reflect mission to defend the use of marijuana among its consumers, clearly illustrating that marijuana is not for everyone thus considering it not to be crime. Therefore, the provided images help to promote the interests and goals of stakeholders concerning the need to legalize the use of marijuana. In 1970, the NORML organization was established for the purpose of enhancing public awareness in America, especially of those people who were against the prohibition of the marijuana smokers. Eventually, NORML succeeded in decriminalizing minor offenses of marijuana cases while also managing to drop penalties in other countries. It can be shown in the images that stakeholders support the legalization of marijuana. Marijuana, when used by Alhail 2 responsible adults, is not a crime, thus emphasizing the importance of freedom for marijuana consumers. Since the law accepts the responsible use marijuana by adults, the images support the mission statement of NORML that advocates and fights for the rights of consumers. The images relay the message of the importance of legalizing marijuana. NORML still continues to fight for the reforming of state and federal laws on marijuana. NORML eventually added another foundation focused on supporting advertisement campaigns that were publicly educating the society concerning the marijuana law. It also provides legal help and support to those who have become victims of the current laws. The given images appeal to the general public, conveying the message that consuming marijuana cannot be considered a crime. The target audience of the two visual images involves common grown-up citizens and the authorities like the police and lawmakers. The statement on the first image it is not a attempts to appeal to the emotions of the target audience to get acceptance and approval of the use of marijuana. The images by means of pathetic appeal tend to evoke the sense of empathy to the people who were punished by law for the marijuana consumption so as to find common ground with the target audience (Fike 115). The concept is reflected in mission aimed at fighting for the legalization of marijuana as well. The word in the verbal part of the second image involves an ethos as another rhetoric strategy since it tries to portray a positive image of the organization to be able to gain the approval of its target audience. It is promoting safety as legalized marijuana needs to pass the standard requirements as stated by the NORML mission. The use of these two images is to raise the public awareness about marijuana they are consuming. The green color used in the pictures represents a healthy Alhail 3 and greener earth. The images stress the importance of marijuana to the society and environment. It can be beneficial to the community as it is an excellent fiber and an alternative fuel source that is cost-effective. Marijuana is easy to manufacture and cultivate. Moreover, it benefits the soil where it grows and does not spoil it. Research has been conducted on the effect of marijuana on soil, and positive results have been received. The soil where that marijuana grows proves to be fertile. Moreover, when looking at environmentally-friendly benefits, marijuana can produce hemp paper, which can substitute the paper made from wood. The use of hemp paper will drastically reduce deforestation by almost a half (Fike 117). Marijuana is also known to be medicinal as it can lessen the size of malignant tumors and eradicate cancer. Legalizing and regulating marijuana use will create job and economic opportunities as it will be the leading cash crop (Adler and Colbert 42). The criminalization of marijuana has promoted massive levels of violence, and it has failed to protect the youth from accessing it. Its criminalization is ineffective and problematic like the prohibition of alcohol. Arresting and prosecuting marijuana consumers prevents the police from investigating real crimes that need attention. There have also been reports on racial discrimination, which show that blacks accused of marijuana possession are more likely to be arrested than whites. Criminalization of marijuana has ruined a countless number of lives as many Americans are put in the criminal justice system 428). Therefore, the statements not a and reflected in the verbal part of the images are aimed at changing the negative image of marijuana consumption and reconsidering its role in society. The two images act as a tool to emphasize the need for the legalization of marijuana. Alhail 4 Regardless of the numerous criminal penalties imposed on marijuana use, they have not stopped its use. Moreover, there is no existing evidence to prove that such sentences have efficiently reduced its use. This prohibition has made the control of marijuana impossible as illegal marijuana sellers operate anywhere and also sell it to minors. Marijuana has been known to be much safer than alcohol as there has not been recorded any overdose, unlike alcohol, which causes hundreds of deaths due to overdose. When comparing between marijuana and alcohol, marijuana is less likely to inflict serious health consequences as it is non-toxic and one cannot die because of overdose. NORML is not promoting the use of more drugs through its campaign, but it is advocating that responsible marijuana smokers should not be arrested. In recent years reduced drunk driving and tobacco smoking has been achieved through educational campaigns and not by prohibiting their use and arresting adults who use them. The same principles and approach should be applied to be able to control and gain the responsible use of marijuana. It is not the use of marijuana that leads to negative consequences like violence, arrests, and imprisonment; it is prohibition that is the main factor that results in these consequences. Moreover, hemp and marijuana are two different plants. Hemp is a substance that is obtained from the plant Cannabis Sativa. This plant is described as a tall and slender plant that is usually intended for industrial use. The industrial hemp has a small percentage of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) making it less intoxicating. In conclusion, the message behind the two images is that marijuana should not be considered a crime, yet it is not for everyone. Many people have always opposed marijuana Alhail 5 consumption and believed it to be illegal. The reason behind their thinking is based on the fact that it has long been known to be illegal. Nevertheless, lately more Americans have started objecting to the arrests of adult marijuana smokers. With the image, the information is more of the awareness about marijuana. America will have less biased opinions of its use and understand the benefits that could be achieved from legalizing it. The only way in which NORML will be able to achieve its legalization is through engaging more and more consumers and non-users in advocating for it to convince the elected officials of the difference between marijuana and other dangerous illegal drugs. Marijuana has a lot of positive benefits, and its criminalization lacks legitimate arguments, thus emphasizing the need to have this crop legalized. Alhail 6 Works Cited NORML, 29 June 2013, norml.org/about. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Adler, Jonathan N., and James A. Colbert. Use of Marijuana Polling New England Journal of Medicine, vol. 368, no.22, 2013, pp. 22-86, doi: 10.1056/NEJMclde1305159 Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Fike, John. Hemp: Renewed Opportunities for an Ancient Critical Reviews in Plant Sciences, 2017, pp. 1-19, doi: dx.doi.org/10.1080/07352689.2016.1257842. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Patrick K. Marijuana and Social Control: Escaping Criminalization and Embracing Deviant Behavior, vol. 34, no.6, 2013, pp. 423-43, doi: dx.doi.org/10.1080/01639625.2012.735608. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Alhail 7