Torres !1 Alexandria Torres Erika Staiger ENC 1102 26 February 2017 World Wildlife Fund Propaganda The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is an advocate against deep water oil drilling and uses ads to show the message. WWF has created many ads for a countless amount of the conservation work, though two of them stuck out during the ongoing battle of offshore drilling. One is an image of a pelican who is choking on oil with a dead fish at his feet with the words lives at the cost of the second use of propaganda is that of a video discussing why ocean drilling should not be allowed within the Arctic Ocean called Arctic Drilling Cold-Keep Oil Under the Both of these ads use rhetorical appeals to display message to the public. Firstly, the rhetorical appeal of Ethos is shown within both the photo and video. The use of Ethos is simply done by putting the World Wildlife logo and name simply on the propaganda. WWF is has been around for fifty plus years and works in more than eighty countries around the world; therefore it can be concluded that WWF is pretty well known. The organization is also one of the largest non-profit conservation groups in the world. Patrick Sullivan from the Non-profit Times states, Wildlife are rated the most trusted nonprofit partners for (Sullivan). Therefore, having the World Wildlife logo is on both the photo and video, showing that WWF approves the message and therefore gives the message credibility from a credible source. Torres !2 Furthermore, Logos is used within the WWF video Arctic Drilling Cold-Keep Oil Under the to inform the audience of the dangers of deep sea drilling within the Arctic Ocean. During the beginning of the video, it states facts of all of the organisms that rely on the Arctic Ocean. The video then goes on to discuss the water warming within the Arctic. Then the video moves into more serious events of oil spills, and why the organization feels that drilling in the Arctic Ocean is dangerous. The main reason the video claims is that the Arctic Ocean unlike the Gulf of Mexico is uninhabited; therefore, it would be even harder to clean-up the spill than for instance the BP oil spill due to ice and harsh weather. WWF then goes on to discuss the Obama administration drilling lease within the Arctic Ocean. An article by students Caper and Kristin Noelle discusses what Arctic Drilling dangers and compromises to help prevent theses dangers from occurring. The students state melting of Arctic sea ice, caused by climate change, presents opportunities for access to new oil and gas reserves in the Arctic. With access comes the risk of damaging the unique and fragile Arctic environment and threatening already vulnerable Arctic communities and indigenous (Noelle). This is message is almost exactly the same message as WWF, with more research within the paper. There is also another article that also states the damage that is caused by oil drilling in general from students at the Ocean University in China, oil spills cause damage to marine biological, fishery, seawater, tourism and mineral resources to various extents, which contributes to the lower quality and value of marine (Mei). The use of logos within the video is a very strong appeal to the audience because it informs them of things they may or may not know about ocean drilling, while also starting the mission of WWF against ocean drilling. Torres !3 Moreover, the rhetorical appeal of ethos is by far the strongest used appeal throughout both of the World Wildlife propaganda. For example, the video uses tone and music to cause the audience to feel sad for the indigenous people and animals of the arctic. The video also shows images of whales, polar bears, and other Arctic animals covered in oil. Though the image of the pelican very bluntly uses ethos. The image shows a pelican covered in oil choking up oil as well, with a dead fish at the bottom and the words lives at the cost of If that does not hit the audience in the heart, who knows what will. The article by Mei and Yin states The motive for huge economic benefits of oil industry owners and oil shipping agents for surpassing their sins of ecological (Mei). By showing the audience that the need of oil by first world countries is causing beautiful animals to die hits home for a lot of people. The use of dying animals is strictly ethos because no one wants to see a dying animal, especially if they are the cause of it. The World Wildlife Fund is known for its movements dealing with nature conservancy. The organization is a well trusted non-profit organization, therefore by having the WWF logo on any of the propaganda proves ethos. Also, WWF does a good job of always using logos in the videos to help the audience better understand the message being portrayed. Furthermore, the main rhetorical appeal that WWF is known for using is pathos. The organization uses pathos by showing animals covered in oil and dying to break the hearts of the audience. The World Wildlife Fund uses rhetorical appeals to show its true passion against deep ocean drilling in both the images and videos. Torres !4 Video Link : https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=rMYpG0m51F8&list=PLP27HyDShLKjfH-5vMEjiXlmop1f09iST&index=1 Torres !5 Work Cited Mei, Hong, and Yanjie Yin. Studies on marine oil spills and their ecological  Journal of Ocean University of China 8.3 (2009): 312-16. USF Online Library . Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/10.1007/s11802-009-0312-5>. Noelle, Kristian. Oil and Gas Development in the Arctic: Softening of Ice Demands Hardening of International  N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. <http:// eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ehost/detail/detail?sid=6bc4af87-4e73-4a08- %3d%3d#AN=502106409&db=lft>. Sullivan, Patrick. Influence, Credibility, Effectiveness Measured in New  The NonProfit Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <http://www.thenonprofittimes.com/news-articles/ influence-credibility-effectiveness-measured-in-new-poll-2/>. WWF. WWF Oil Spill Campaign Pelican . Digital image. WWF, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <http:// airduster.deviantart.com/art/WWF-Campaign-Pelican-Oil-Spill-215471704>. Wwfus. YouTube. YouTube, 05 Oct. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=rMYpG0m51F8&list=PLP27HyDShLKjfH-5vMEjiXlmop1f09iST&index=1>.