Jacobson 1 Taylor Jacobson Maria Theodosiou ENC1102-050 26 February 2017 Intermediate Draft- Visual Rhetoric The National Collegiate Athletic Association (more commonly known as the NCAA) believes college athletes should not be paid and should remain amateur athletes. They believe in this because they want athletes to focus on their grades as well as their sports, creating the culture that working hard in school and in sports should be treated equally. This culture is one of the main goals for NCAA and their athletes to create a better environment and community for college athletics. Some of the common values they believe in is promoting leadership, fairness, sportsmanship, and excellence in academics (NCAA). There are two intriguing photographs that capture most of their values, the first discussing grade point average and academic success with a jersey hung up in a locker room, and the other one creatively discouraging consuming caffeine and other substances to keep the game fair. Because the NCAA requires and stands for strong academic performance, good sportsmanship, and fairness in the sports, they campaigned to raise awareness of these issues and display some of their core values by using clever images with phrases. The NCAA has seven core values they strive to achieve for all the athletes. The values include balancing all of their academics, extracurricular activities, and their sport; carrying out integrity and sportsmanship; not only balancing schoolwork and athletics but excelling in both; creating a sense of community; having an inclusive culture; showing respect; and showing leadership (NCAA). The specific values of the two images being analyzed, revolves around Jacobson 2 sportsmanship and fairness, and excelling in academics and athletics at the same time. The main values addressed in the images involve GPA and using prohibited substances, like caffeine. To enforce a specific GPA student-athletes must maintain, the NCAA started up a campaign and enforced a rule of or Take a in August of 2016 (Guevin). The NCAA began making campaign ads, like the first image, once their new rule was announced last summer (2.3 or Take a Knee). These images help their old and new campaigns and rules get more attention, specifically to the athletes. The NCAA uses these images to appeal to a certain audience and aims to raise awareness among the sports world. For the first image with the jersey, they are aiming to get the attention of the college athletes themselves. The lonely jersey in the dark locker would mostly get reactions out the athletes, because they do not want to see their jersey hung up when they should be wearing it in a game. For the second image, taking place in a coffee shop, the audience is most likely the athletes, but also families, supporting organizations, and NCAA sports fans. All of these people would recognize the that the NCAA compared to disqualifying athletes for breaking a rule outside of their sport. The specific aspect aiming towards college athletes are the two college students at the center of the image, with different facial expressions, reacting to the or the caffeine and substance rule. The NCAA is trying to say to the athletes that they may not like the rule, but it has to be put in place to stay aligned with the NCAA core values. Their core values apply to the athletes, therefore much of their audience in their campaign ads is implied to be the athletes. To show that they have the authority to enforce these rules on these rhetorical images, the NCAA provides ethos by using their logos, campaign websites, and referees pictured in the second image. Their logo is in the bottom right hand corner, in the regular bright blue color. For Jacobson 3 the first image, the other bottom corner has their campaign website to encourage success among NCAA athletes: or Take a With these aspects, they show that they have the authority to not only encourage athletes to keep their academic eligibility but lets them know that they enforce this rule. There is a small paragraph towards the bottom, explaining how the NCAA will not allow athletes to play if they are not working hard in the classroom. For the second picture, there is a referee a flag on the giving athletes a reason to follow the rules. The athletes follow what the referees call during games and matches so it was logical to put referees in a campaign ad to discourage drugs and caffeine. For the most part, referees make accurate calls because of their training, so they have the credibility to stop the athletes from doing something wrong. In real life, it is not in their job description to stop an athlete from consuming caffeine, but by putting them in an image with college students drinking coffee, the NCAA gives the message to athletes that they can be punished for cheating or breaking the rules. The ethos displayed helps establish a credibility that enforces new and old rules for the athletes. The main logos used in this photo is in the central message and the number on the jersey. The NCAA reasons that if you cannot get a 2.3 or above, then your jersey is going to be hanging in the locker room until you get your grades up. With the message if a superstar, this is one number you be able to get they appeal to opponents that a talented player could not overcome. They apply the logic that you can be the best player in the country, and be able to best all of your opponents, but if you cannot get your grades up, that is one opponent you get around: 2.3. The NCAA supplies extra information the audience might not know about eligibility at the bottom, in a small font paragraph. If the players see this ad, they might see another point of view from the perspective of a player sitting on the sidelines, disappointed. Their jersey is probably hanging in the locker room, like in the photo, in the dark, Jacobson 4 all because they could not overcome their most important opponent in the opinion: GPA. Seeing this point of view, they can logically figure out how they need to stay off the bench and be able to wear their jersey every game. This photo appeals to logic by comparing breaking rules outside of the sport to breaking rules while playing the sport by using the referee. The NCAA compares an athlete consuming caffeine to breaking a rule on the field. There are not actually going to be referees when you buy coffee, but the NCAA uses this to say that just because a referee is not there does not mean you are not breaking the rules. They use an in-game scenario to represent the cause and effects of breaking these certain rules. You get in trouble for breaking rules in the game and you also can get in trouble breaking rules outside of the game. Again, the NCAA uses a small font paragraph towards the bottom that gives additional information on the rules, and the consequences involved. They use logos to imaginatively and respectfully campaign for their goals on GPA and other eligibilities. To add to their campaign photos, pathos is used to make the audience feel an intended emotion about the topic. For the first image, the audience is intended to feel disappointed or sad if athletes do not meet the required GPA, because they cannot show off their talents in a game. By showing the primarily dark blue jersey against a shadowed locker, the audience is meant to feel deep emotions about not playing. The athletes might feel especially disappointed and sad if they are not allowed to play, and the NCAA supporters want to see college athletics perform at their best, with all of the athletes eligible. If one is supporting a certain team, but their favorite player is not playing due to GPA, they are going to feel sad about it. Having the jersey hanging up in a dark locker with the haunting number on it also might motivate the athletes to bring up their grades so they can put on that jersey every game. They will be motivated to get good grades so they do not have the jersey hanging in the locker room with disappointment hanging over their Jacobson 5 heads as they sit out of the game. For the second image, the audience is supposed to feel the same way as if a ref made a real call in a real game. There are going to be fans who are outraged and angry at the call, but they cannot go back and change anything or affect what gets called. College athletes might be angry or frustrated that they cannot consume or do certain things because of their athletic commitment and they will definitely be angry about a referee telling them they cannot have a vanilla latte, like the girl in the middle. She appears to on the phone, angrily venting to someone about her frustrations. The coffee is literally right in her hand but she cannot drink it due to NCAA rules. Often, when a player or coach does not agree or enjoy the call being made by the referee, they are angry and hostile. The referee calls a flag on the girl buying a coffee, which is meant to cause frustration, but then the NCAA acts as a referee with their calming message at the bottom the right call. Play It is similar to a referee calming down an angry coach, who has frustrations on certain calls, not because they were not the right call, but because of bias and they want to fight for all of the calls the referee makes. Even though the referee made the correct call of the NCAA realizes people are still going to be upset about it because of their biases of wanting to drink coffee, like other college students. In this ad, the NCAA daringly prods at frustration in its audience, but uses a calm student in the background and a reasonable message at the bottom to ensure that even if it makes people mad, still the right call. The NCAA uses the emotions to influence the athletes to make the right decisions and other audiences to encourage athletes to make the right decisions. The NCAA appeals to timeliness or kairos in the first image, informing the players that they need to do well in school now to be able to play in their sport later. They even provide two links to websites that gives them more information on the rule of a 2.3 or higher and its campaign, Jacobson 6 which suggests urgency. The picture specifically appeals to urgency with the big 2.3 on the dark jersey, suggesting to students to take action now with their grades before their jersey gets hung up in the locker room on game day. In the second image, the NCAA appeals subtly to kairos in this image. It is not blatantly obvious because athletes do not necessarily need to do this in a certain time period or urgently. They are just expected to follow the rules all of the time. The sense of urgency comes in the small paragraph telling students to call the Drug Center and ask which substances are not allowed, to prevent them from breaking a rule and being disqualified from their sport. If there is ever a time they break these rules, they are not allowed to play. College is a limited time period in an life, so missing out on games because of a broken rule is crucial. Game situations prepare athletes for future opponents or tough opponents, improve their skills for possible professional aspirations, and should be something they enjoy doing and would not want to miss out on. By using a sense of time or urgency in their campaign, the athletes and supporting figures are persuaded to act and to follow the rules and values even better. In order to create the image that the values and rules are necessary to have, the NCAA gets away with using logical fallacies to influence audiences even more. The first image uses post hoc ergo propter hoc because the jersey sitting in the locker room, not being used because of ineligibility could be a variety of reasons (Purdue Owl). The jersey very much could be sitting there because the athlete did not have good enough grades but also it could be because of injury or maybe the jersey is getting ready to be worn before a game, but has not been put on yet. They use this fallacy to apply that receiving below a 2.3 will result in ineligibility eventually, but creating immediacy and urgency, the athletes are persuaded to act sooner rather than later. The second image uses a slippery slope with the girl drinking coffee, because there are a lot of Jacobson 7 variables and events in between drinking coffee and getting suspended (Purdue Owl). The girl would have to consume a certain amount of caffeine or coffee to be suspended, and she would have to be caught as well. She also might be having hot chocolate, a decaffeinated coffee, or another decaffeinated drink. This slippery slope implies that ingesting too many banned substances can lead to a disqualification, scaring athletes into getting informed and following the rules. The NCAA ultimately wants the athletes to be safe, educated, and happy in their college academics and athletes. By using many rhetorical devices, they successfully convey urgent, but subtle messages to encourage athletes and people associated with them to follow their rules and values. They made athletes more cognizant of what is at stake for them to be able to play their sports by displaying their main goals in these persuasive images. By influencing many different people, especially athletes, to act a certain way according to their values, they can gradually pull their audience on their side of not paying college athletes, and keep the game fair and safe. They believe in their position in the paying college athletes debate for certain reasons, and they want others to know their stance and their views, so they can be supported and so the rules can be followed. This visual rhetoric will help to create a better sports world, with more hard work and less cheating and breaking the rules. WC sorry, Ms. Theo): 2,391 Jacobson 8 Jacobson 9 Jacobson 10 Works Cited or Take a NCAA, http://www.ncaa.org/static/2point3/. Accessed 25 February 2017. Brizee, Allen, Weber, Ryan (1995-2017). Purdue Owl, https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/659/03/. Accessed 24 February 2017. Guevin, Ethan (2013). Keep Playing Baseball, New Rules for NCAA: 2.3 or Take a Knee, https://www.keepplayingbaseball.org/new-rules-from-the-ncaa-2-3-or-take-a-knee/. Accessed 26 February 2017. NCAA Core NCAA, http://www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values. Accessed 23 February 2017.