Watts 1 Craig Watts Ms.Ricketts Comp 1 28 February 2017 Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) has caused the suicides of hundreds of professional athletes. CTE is described as a brain disease caused by repetitive brain trauma (McKee et al. 2009). In football, if a player gets too many concussions it could lead to CTE in the future. This disease has ruined many lives .For example, Ken Stabler, Tyler Sash, Frank Gifford and Mike Webster were professional football players that have committed suicide from the disease CTE ( Bellware, 2016). time, the degree of safety to which football should adhere in order to prevent CTE has changed. In addition, from Dr. discovery of CTE to present day research, perspectives have shifted. After the surge of awareness in CTE, future tests are currently being made to screen for CTE in football players. It appears that perspectives on CTE in athletes have changed over time. The degree of safety to which football should adhere in the order to prevent CTE. For instance, in 2010, writer Habib explains how the NFL is starting to cut down on all the helmet to helmet hits. The league has got out of hand with the helmet to helmet hits the illegal hits they started calling games on sunday black and blue sunday. The league began fining and suspending first time offenders. The league started suspending and fining players that made an illegal hit like a helmet to helmet hit for the first time to get the message across to the players in the league, that illegal hits will not be tolerated Watts 1 anymore. Some of the players wonder if the NFL is getting to soft? Over the years the discussion has changed over the years. In 2016, the writer Kubota discusses the recent research that was found. He discusses how concussions may increase the risk of health problems later on in life. Such, as getting to many concussions could cause the development of Dementia and other mental diseases. Dr. discovery of CTE to the present day research has shifted. For instance, in 2010 writer Hanna et al discussed how doctor Bennet Omalu raised awareness to the NFL about CTE after examining the brain tissue of various deceased former NFL players Mike Webster, Terry Long, and Andre Waters. Writer Hanna discussed how Dr. Omalu found out that all three of the deceased NFL players have all had repetitive concussions in their NFL career. The symptoms include slight mental confusion, general slowing in muscular movement, hesitancy in speech and tremors of the hands ( Hanna et al.,2010). In 2016, writer Abreu et al discusses how understanding of CTE has really advanced, since 2002, when Dr. Bennet Omalu first discovered CTE in the brain of former NFL player Mike Webster. He continues to discuss how that there is a link between the neurological discusses and exposure to repeated traumatic brain injuries. Writer Abreu et al explains that challenge is no longer the acceptance of CTE as a diagnosis associated with former NFL players who committed suicide, but rather an account of symptoms reported with exposure to identical repetitive head traumas before death, for former and current NFL players and other athletes in collision sports( Abreu et Watts 1 After the surge of awareness in CTE, future tests are currently being made to screen for CTE in football players. Writer Alosco et al, 2016 talks about how Olfactory dysfunction is a frequent early sequelae of neurodegenerative( Alosco et al,2016). He also talks about how the Department of Neurology examine NFL players for brain injuries. Ninety-five former NFL players ( ages 46-69) and 28 same age controls completed a neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric evaluation as part of a National Institutes of Health-Funded study( Alsoco,et al,2016). Now it is clear that the opinions on the effects of CTE have changed throughout the years. Over time, football has had to adhere to a higher degree of safety in order to prevent CTE. It first started when Dr. research began to increase the awareness of CTE. His research has opened eyes. Now, tests are being created to screen for CTE in current football players and current retired football players.Clearly, as time goes on, the views on CTE are constantly evolving based on new information. Watts 1