Agudelo 1 Maria Agudelo Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Death with Dignity National Center The legalization of euthanasia has been a controversial topic for the past couple of years, due to the ethical and moral dilemmas that accompany it. Euthanasia is also known as and is defined as act or practice of killing or permitting the death of hopelessly sick or injured individuals in a relatively painless way for reasons of (Merriam-Webster Dictionary). Currently, it is considered a criminal offense in all but six states; however, this does not stop organizations such as the Death with Dignity National Center to advocate for it. The Agudelo 2 Death with Dignity National Center, is a nonprofit organization that fights to expand the freedom of all qualified terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions, including how they die. The organization also fights to promote Death with Dignity laws around the United States based on the groundbreaking Oregon model. This organization strives to bring a unique brand of advocacy and political strategy to end-of-life care policy reform Us: Death with Dignity National Ever since the Death with Dignity National Center was funded in 2004, it has managed to pass the Death with Dignity laws in states such as California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington. Through the use of images and powerful stories, the Death with Dignity National Center continues to advocate for terminally ill patients who wish to be able to make their own end-of-life decisions. Examples of the images used by the Death with Dignity National Center can be seen in the beginning of this paper. Both images intend to persuade the audience to take a stand and support the legalization of euthanasia, by utilizing rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. The first image, displays the picture of a woman who seems to be delivering a powerful speech through her microphone. The Death with Dignity National Center uses the rhetorical appeal of pathos by displaying the image of a woman and pairing it with the that states will either die with the law in place, or fighting for The image and the quote together, make the audience feel empathy towards the woman, because she must care a lot about the cause to be willing to die fighting for it. Furthermore, the company adds a link at the bottom that invites you to read story which makes the audience feel intrigued and want to learn more about the person in the image as well as the cause. On the other hand, the second image displays two clocks with the word The rhetorical appeal of pathos can be seen in this image because the two clocks are strategically placed there to make the audience feel alarmed by the Agudelo 3 urgency of the matter. The Death with Dignity National Center wants the audience to realize that their cause is something serious that requires action to be taken immediately and that they are eager to have others join their cause. Lastly, the clocks are paired with the word which encourages the audience to be compassionate of the cause and donate some funds. The audience members may feel worried about the cause and its urgency and are drawn to donate, which is why this image seems to work together so well. Both images utilize pathos to make the audience feel empathetic towards the cause and feel more connected to it, to the point they decide to donate. Another rhetorical approach used in these images by the Death with Dignity National Center is ethos. An example of ethos can be seen on the first image when it states by putting that simple sentence there the organization gives the audience some sort of credibility. The organization is inviting the audience to read more of her story, in order to understand her reasoning for supporting this cause. It also insinuates that it is something honest and relatable, because if this woman is willing to open up and share her detailed story then it must be something real. The second image, displays ethos in a subtler and not so obvious way. By placing the word donate, the organization is telling the audience that they are relatable source and if the audience is willing to make a donation, then their money will actually be used by the organization to support the cause. Since these images were found on the website, it can be suggested that the use of ethos is not their main concern, because they already have multiple things proving their credibility embedded on their website, such as their section and several others. Other rhetorical approaches are used in different images to attract an audience and relay a specific message, logos being one of them. The first image displays the rhetorical approach of Agudelo 4 logos by simply adding the quote will either die with the law in place, or fighting for This quote shows the audience the harsh reality of this issue, by showing them that there are people in the world who are truly passionate and have strong feelings towards the cause. The quote shows the audience how passionate the woman in the picture is, in fact she is willing to fight for it until the end. This persuades the audience into believing that it is a very important cause that has a huge impact in the life of others, especially those with terminal illnesses or life-long diseases. The image of the woman with the microphone and the small button that says also persuades the audience to learn more about the cause. The second image on the other hand, utilizes logos in a more obvious and logic way. The image shows to clocks which without a doubt is persuading the audience into believing and understanding that the subject requires their action immediately. By putting these two clocks there and adding the word to the image, it is persuading the audience into believing that their donations and their help is needed as soon as possible because the subject is time dependent. The organization strategically used this image and paired it with the word donate, because they truly believe that the more money is donated the quicker they are able to spread awareness for the cause and possibly even get the Death with Dignity Law passed in other states. The last rhetorical approach, is that of kairos. Kairos is the appeal to time or urgency, and the Death with Dignity National Center makes sure to use it in the majority of their images. The first image, uses the rhetorical approach of kairos by simply adding the quote will either die with the law in place, or fighting for This quote, serves to make the audience understand that the situation depends on time. Most terminally-ill patients are given a few months or if they are lucky years to live after their diagnosis, and that is the purpose of this image and the quote. It shows the audience that the woman with the microphone knows her days are limited, and she is Agudelo 5 so passionate about the cause that she is willing to fight for it until her last one. This makes the audience understand that this situation needs to be addressed with urgency or at least in a timely manner. The second image, addresses the rhetorical approach of kairos more obviously. The organization chose to use a photograph of two clocks with the word The clocks are a worldwide symbol for time and the one on the right is often associated with an alarm clock, which means that people will often link images of clocks with a sense of urgency. The image itself makes the audience feel like this is a very sensitive topic that requires immediate action. It gives the audience the sense of urgency when it comes to the cause, and by adding the word donate it makes the audience believe that their donations and support are needed immediately. Essentially the Death with Dignity National Center makes use of all four of the rhetorical approaches throughout the majority of their images. The rhetorical approaches are used in several images throughout their website, and this can be seen in the two images discussed above. These approaches are used mainly to persuade the audience into supporting, learning more, and making donations towards the cause. The Death with Dignity National main goal is to advocate for terminally ill patients who wish to be able to make their own end-of-life decisions Us: Death with and this is supported by the images used throughout their website. By continuing to use images and utilize and implement all the rhetorical approaches, the Death with Dignity National Center might successfully begin to raise more awareness for their cause. (Word Count: 1477) Agudelo 6 Work Cited Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017