Pradeep Yadav Cat Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 22 February 2017 CHANGE IN PERSPECTIVE ON RENEWABLE RESOURCES TAKING OVER NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCES AND AFFECT ON ECONOMY My topic is about how switching from non-renewable resources to renewable resources affects the economy. We have always been dependent on non-renewable resources such as petrol, diesel, coal, natural gas and many others. Due to their rapid reduction and usage we have started to run out of the non-renewable resources due to which we are turning to renewable resources such as wind, water, sunlight, geothermal and wave energy, but it affects the world economy and as well as the economy of different countries very differently. Converting the renewable energy in usable energy is a very complex mechanism and at the same time requires skilled and professional labor force and a lot of capital. Changing from non- renewable resources is very money consuming which directly affects economy. The economy has always been going up and down since we have had a sight of losing all our fossil fuels and ending up using the renewable resources which can always be used again. The economy is being affecting due to all the countries turning to the natural and renewable resources. Growth in Overlapping Generation Economies with Non-Renewable Resources (2005) vs. What Is Stopping the Renewable Energy Transformation and What Can the US Government Do (2015) The economy of a country for future depends on how efficiently and judiciously the non-renewable resources are utilized today which will lead to a steady-state growth rate for the particular, Stiglitz analyzes the sustainability of a long-run positive growth rate in a model la with exhaustible resources as essential inputs and with exogenous technological progress and savings. economic growth which depended upon the natural resources scarcity was overcome by the neoclassical economics in the 1970s, according to the, Club of Rome. where Stiglitz analyses that the stationary depletion rate of the non-renewable resources is endogenously given by the savings rate. With endogenous growth models the sustainability of the positive long run has been analyzed. Management should be taken in account while we are to analyze the natural resources sustainability. This journal very well tells about how till date the economic system depends on the one-time use fossil fuels and and different other material resources, it is about how can the United States maintain the future well-being of the country and how the planet on whole depends upon the United We need not only to make these processes more energy efficient, but to power them with renewable sources if we are to develop a long-term sustainable economy. Enhanced energy efficiency can help us reduce demand as we reach peak production capacity. The United States is required to play more strategic and future-oriented role to bring the renewable - resources-based economy in the forefront. As energy is the core of the sustainability, the modern economy is based on energy and all the processes are to be made more energy efficient. While the progress, the United States has made is that it will be adequate and fulfill 80% of the energy demand till 2050, well there are some problems as well due to technology development. While funding the basic science and reaching out for extensive research in this field is highly required at this time which will directly influence the United States economy and the world economy in total. On The Relation Between The Endogenous Growth Rate Of The Economy And The Dynamics Of Renewable Resources (2009) vs. On Equilibrium In Resource Markets With Scale Economies And Stochastic Prices (2012) The journals talk about the two important endogenous growth models for the growth of any economy which are, exogenous technical progress in dematerialization and the second is the accumulation of renewable natural resources and how it is possible to combine permanent economic growth with permanent growth of environmental Introducing one more differential equation to account for renewable resource dynamics makes it difficult to get general analytical solutions and much of the profession continues to find it tasteless to rely on computer-aided There is no transitional dynamics, which means there is nothing such as steady growth. Whereas technological progress and innovations are very important in improving the efficiency of the technologies which are important for the long run and help in lower energy use intensity. The paper has a new perspective about how the expansion of human intelligence and understanding can lead to expansion economy. In this paper, Charles F. Mason, the writer of the journal shows the existence and the characteristics of the equilibrium in a non-renewable resource where extraction processes are the most complex and the market price may vary instantaneously switch between producing nothing and producing some positive level, thereby convexifying their He tells how scale economy works. Well there is a very broad explanation for the economy affected how and by the renewable resources taking over the non-renewable resources. While coming the truth there are huge fluctuations in a market place due to this but any how the market place smoothly adjust according the critical point in where the firms turn from active to inactive extraction.