Alfalatah1 Sarah Abdulkadir Alfalatah Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 3 3/3/2017 Criminal behavior and Mental Illness Researchers studies have varied over the years in determining if there is a relationship between criminal behavior and mental illness. Both earlier and later sources focus on establishing what is the relationship between mental illness and criminality; however, they consider different factors that affect criminality and use different methods to find a relationship. Earlier sources that were before 2010 showed that a lot of people with mental illness were arrested more often based on having a mental disorder, and believed that being mentally ill increased their chance of criminal behavior. Recent research focused more on analyzing and paying attention to other facts that could lead to criminal behavior and was more open to other effects other than just being mentally ill. Earlier sources were more narrow and focused on aspects that could be linked to psychiatric and mental facts. The recent research is broader and considers other facts that do not necessarily imply mental illness and their effects on criminal behavior. Over the years, researchers have been studying the possibility of committing crimes because of mental illness and tried to prove if mental illness does increase criminal behavior or not. Before 2010, there was a criminal hypothesis that implied two major possibilities for committing crimes. According to John Junginger, the first possibility for criminal behavior was Alfalatah2 that mentally ill individuals were more often to be arrested and incarcerated than the majority of society. The second possibility was that being diagnosed with a mental disease increases criminal behavior. Substance abuse was also taken into consideration for affecting criminal behavior in this study. Raters analyzed if a participant committed crimes directly or indirectly because of mental illness or substance abuse. Results show that mental illness and substance abuse have a minor effect on criminal behavior, but the possibility of committing a crime because of substance abuse is more likely to happen (882). After 2010, researchers considered more factors for criminal behavior other than mental illness. Drug addiction, alcoholism, and contact with criminal justice, were all considered as reasons for increased criminal behavior by Matt Vogel. Being diagnosed with a mental illness does slightly increase an possibility of engaging in criminal behavior. Results from research showed that being diagnosed with a mental illness does not necessarily determine that the person will commit any sort of crime, but it is a criminogenic risk factor. There are always more factors to be consiered that could influence violent behavior other than having a mental disorder.(344). A study that was published in 2010 had participants who suffered from mental illness and others with stable mental health. Jillian Peterson studied a hypothesis that implies the main reason for criminal behavior is psychiatric symptoms. Results from the study imply that only 7% of the participants support the hypothesis; the majority of the participants do not commit crimes based on mental illness. Both groups have demonstrated criminal behavior effected by emotional reactions to a certain situation, lack of restraint, loathing for others, and drug addiction. Peterson mentions at the end of the article that considering all the other risk factors that lead to criminal behavior and not just focusing on mental health problems could help to lower the rate of Alfalatah3 criminality. A later study by Na Zhu after 2010 studied individuals who have attention problems in particular ADHD. The study analyzes and examines the differences between 36 forensic and non-forensic patients from different mental health programs. Some researchers believe that mentally ill patients do not have a higher risk for engaging in criminal behavior. The study found that criminal behavior had higher rates in patients who have ADHD; however, results did not show a significant connection between criminality and attention problems. Analyzing how the studies and research changed over the years provides us with more information and knowledge on what is the relationship between criminality and mental illness. The studies do have a consistency and relate to each other in many ways, but they also analyze situations with different perspectives and methods. All of the studies try to understand if mental health problems increase and effect criminal behavior. The earlier sources were more focused on proving that mental illness does cause criminality and mostly did not consider other factors that could lead to criminal and violent behavior. Results in earlier sources show that criminal behavior results from more than just being diagnosed with a mental illness. The later sources considered through-out their studies other factor like drug addiction, alcoholism, family abuse, and contact with the criminal justice system. Some studies have shown that mental illness does increase criminal behavior, but the majority of the studies show that mental illness has a minor effect on criminality and people engage in criminal behavior based on different factors and reasons. Alfalatah4 Citations: 1- Vogel, Matt. Illness and Criminal Sociology Compass, vol. 8, no. 4, 2014. pp. 337-346. doi:10.1111/soc4.12140. 2- Junginger, John, and et, al. of Serious Mental Illness and Substance Abuse on Criminal Psychiatric Services, vol. 57, no. 6, 2006. pp. 879-882. doi:10.1176/ps.2006.57.6.879. 3- Zhu, Na, and et, al. Role of Inattention in the Relationship Between Mental Illness and Journal of Forensic Psychology Practice, vol. 13, no. 4, 2013. pp. 315-325. doi:10.1080/15228932.2013.817888 4- Peterson, Jillian, et al. Offense Patterns as a Function of Mental Illness to Test the Criminalization Psychiatric Services, vol. 61, no. 12, 2010. pp. 1217-1222. doi:10.1176/ps.2010.61.12.1217.