Garrett Kriston Intermediate Draft II ENC1102 A Documentary and Their Fight on Gendercide a is a documentary on the gendercide issues around the globe; however, much more than a film. The staff of the film put together an awareness webpage for others to learn the facts of gendercide and to also go as far as to take action on the situation. The term gendercide is a play on words with the term referring to the killing of a specific gender, which in most countries is girls and woman. An extreme cause of gendercide is forced abortions, targeting mainly developing girls. Forced abortions are one of a few solutions to some child policy laws, only allowing one born child per household. To the staff of the a documentary (referenced as IAG), they are outraged on the fact that countries are not only forcing women to abort their child, but how girls in the womb are susceptibly higher to abortion by a large factor. mission is to abolish forced abortions across the globe by using visual facts and advertisement to connect forced abortion with sexism and death. IAG is project and documentary created to educate the public on a genocide, one that many people are unaware of, that is happening all over the world, specifically in China and India. million females are missing [and because of Also, in the UK, about 60,000 abortions occur every year. [Stop The IAG project has not only recorded a documentary on the issue, but has also waivered petitions for those to sign, attempting to end the tragic genocide. Also, proceeds from the film and links on their website are used to collect donations to strengthen their mission. Their documentary the stories of abandoned and trafficked girls, of brave mothers fighting to save their and also shows how woman are forced to abort their baby girls. The most powerful image that the IAG project created was the advertisement poster for their documentary. Many film posters contain text at the top as a for their audience; theirs says the words three deadliest words in the followed by the film title, a This ironic statement obviously attracts the audience, as many view the words a or even a to be a joyous time. It allows the viewers to ask themselves the question, and why exactly do you mean with additional confusion after visualizing the pink balloon directly over a tombstone and grave. This confusion actually draws the audience in, wanting to know the explanation behind the irony. Without knowing the synopsis of the documentary, logos in the visual rhetoric can lead to answers. The pink balloon and film title suggests the exciting news that many woman would like to hear: pregnant with a baby girl. With the balloon directly above a grave, this suggests death, probably death of the baby girl. But when does the girl die? The fact that the title says a shows that the death is roughly in the same timeline as the time the woman finds out having a girl, tying the movie to some type of death inside the womb, possibly abortion. One detail staring the audience directly in the face, although many might be unable to see, is the font of the film title. The font is in the style of an old typewriter, the kind of font that is used when typing the names in birth and death certificates. The font is bland and emotionless, rather than bubbly and (like the a posters you see at a baby shower). One last thing to notice is the few feet of underground that the poster shows. To backtrack, and quick fact, tombstones can be placed in the ground in memory of a loved one, but sometimes, a person buried there because of severe complications like a body that took too much damage in a war for example. Although babies and young children can be placed in a casket and buried, aborted obviously cannot be buried. The fact that the ground shows no body, casket, etc. it can be seen that nobody is buried in that grave, probably because the individual died (was aborted) in the womb. The rhetoric from the movie poster can be interpreted to get an idea of not only what the film is about, but the blandness and death that can be associated with it. The second figure is more of a factual addition to the first where the first image more clearly described the nature of what the documentary was about and the complications in other countries, and the second is more of a explanation. The large male in the middle of a picture of China elaborates the dominance of the country. This rhetoric is supported by the ratio also attached to the image: 140 males to 100 females. At a small scale, this seem too harsh, but at a population of 1 billion people, about a difference of 200 million from males to females, which just randomly happen. 200 million is an extraordinary difference. This fact speaks out to the audience showing that population ratio is being controlled somehow, and not by deportation or by random, but by abortion and murder. The image also contains text which states years of One Child 33 years of forced abortion, forced sterilization, and (in italics and bold). The text uses an equals type of correlation. Both sentences start with years intending to equalize the two endings of each sentence with one another. In this example, One Child Policy is correlated with Forced Abortion, Forced Sterilization, and Gendercide. This comparison brings to the conclusion that the IAG project and documentary is fighting more than just gendercide and abortions, but more or less fighting the One Child Policy laws, because ultimately, these laws are causing consequences and violating human rights. Reviewing the rhetoric and the mission of the IAG, gendercide and forced abortions lead to sexism and death. The population difference and the movie poster clearly show the malevolent consequences happening in countries around the world because of child policy law. Although some might agree with these laws, human rights should never be taken away, as well as treating one race dominant over the other to the point of murder. These rhetorical images show the facts, logic, and emotion that captures an audience, directing them toward the point of view against gendercide. Many women and individuals have their own opinion on abortion, whether to have one or completely deny it. Everyone should agree that all humans should have the right to make their own decision and be treated equally, no matter the race or sex. This genocide is one that is happening in this generation, yet many people are clueless that gendercide exists. IAG hopes to use their advertisements, facts, and documentary to spread the word and abolish the Gendercide. Cited Http://www.itsagirlmovie.com 2012. http://www.stopgendercide.org 2014. Http://www.itsagirlmovie.com