Pike 1 Danyelle Pike Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 March 1, 2017 Center for Food Safety and the Right to Label The Center for Food mission is centered around environmental advocacy and protecting human health. They promote organic production of agricultural goods, and aim to educate the consumer about organic foods and products. Their stance on GMO is that the consumer should be completely informed on what they are consuming and where it came from. They believe that the consumers have rights to transparency. The GMO controversy is surrounded by the negative implications to individual health and environmental safety. They believe that the United States should follow the progressiveness of other nations such as, the European Union, China, Russia, Australia, who are among the fifteen nations who have laws set in place requiring the labelling of GE foods (Center for Food Safety). The technology used to create GMOs have altering effects on the plant as well as the soil and organisms that interact with it, such as insects, animals and humans which is why CFS is advocating for mandatory labelling so that consumers are consciously aware of exactly what is going into their bodies. The two images being presented highlight their overarching stance in the argument which is the negative implications of GMOs and why they labelling should be mandated by the FDA. Figure 1 shows a tractor ploughing through a barren field preparing it for replanting, the initial words on the image say, EPA, which is the abbreviation for the Environmental Protection Agency, urging them to stop the allowance of Neonic seed coatings that are killing bees. Neonic, which is an abbreviation for Neonicotinoid, which is the most widely used insecticide in the Pike 2 world, they affect the central nervous system of insects resulting in paralysis and death. According to Beyond Pesticides the EPA has put out statements relaying the uncertainty of Neonics affecting bees in particular, however the scientific studies that were done on these pesticides were not specific to just one insect, thus their is not valid. The Kairos of Figure 1, is due to the specificity of the PSA, they have targeted the Environmental Protection Agency in particular, because of their publicly displaying their uncertainty in the negative implication of bees due to the use of Neonics. Additionally, the fact that the tractor is ploughing the ground indicating that the land is being cleared to plant new seeds is another Kairos rhetorical appeal because it is indicating the beginning of another replanting cycle that has negative implications on not only the bees but the environment on a whole. The use of the phrase is another rhetorical appeal that highlights the fact that CFS has new evidence of the environmental impacts of Neonic coating. Figure 2 shows a man in a field, wearing a gas mask which is an implication of the negative implications GMOs can cause to the body. The image is also calling to another organization, World Food Prize, and highlighting the negative implications of GMOs, this one directly addresses the issue associated with GMOs. The words of the image highlight the the fact that the GMO business is based around profits and not humanitarian efforts as it is claimed to be. The Kairos rhetorical appeal is centered around the call to action of the text in the imagery. The symbolism in both images appeals to goal which is to show the effects of GMOs. The bareness of the land in Figure 1, highlights many things, firstly, the emptiness shows the effects GMOs can have on the environment on a whole, the dirt from the ploughing also gives an illusion of the mass industrialization and mass production surrounding planting and harvesting GMO seeds. The inclusion of the bee allows the audience to visualize the actual insect Pike 3 that is being affected, these appeal to pathos, they make the reader feel more sensitive to what is being discussed. Figure 2 has a more literal approach to highlighting the dangers associated with GMOs, the visual of the man in the mask can be interpreted in two ways, because he is in a suit, he is very representative of the big seed companies, such as Monsanto and Syngenta, who are aware of the dangers but are protecting themselves instead of the collective society. He could also represent society and them being exposed to the chemicals associated with GMO production, either way the emotional appeal of Figure 2 emphasizes the stance CFS has on GMOs and why they are against it, and advocate labeling of the goods. These emotional appeals force their audience to have visual representation of what is actually happening, they demonstrate that they affect not only human beings, but animals that help to sustain our environment and the environment itself, the earth being barren symbolizes death, the gas mask represents the poisonous effects that are as a result of the use of Genetically Modified technology. Both images have aspects of Logos, Figure 1 includes the fact that they have conducted a report on the net loss due to Neonic seed coatings that can be found on their website for anyone who wants to see statistical research based data, it is in the forefront of the image which gives the impression that they want people to know that they have done research on the issue so that it seems unbiased. Figure 2 also appeals to logos as it includes actual current events, which is the award nomination from World Food Organization, this gives creditability and a factual basis for current event that people may not be aware of. Including a factual basis for their imagery shows the public that the organization is not just releasing statements and out of a completely biased opinion surrounding the topic. Furthermore, these images were released from the organization, their logo is very Pike 4 pronounced so it is easily identified by the public, which adds to the credibility of the statement. They have included the research that they have done in Figure 1, and made it very pronounced, which makes the PSA seem legitimate, them including the EPA alludes to the fact that they want higher bodies who are associated with the issue involved as well and not just attacking agencies based on their position in the stakeholder argument. Center for Food Safety has effectively highlighted the dangers associated with the use of Genetic Modification and the negative implications that have affected many aspects of our environment. They were able to effectively show how the process of GM engineering can effect animals, humans, and the land used to cultivate it. Additionally, they were able to show how the GMO industry is based heavily around profits, rather than which they claim to be about. This is their basis for advocating for labelling of GMO goods, they are standing by their goal as an organization which is consumer safety, that is their bottom line. They were able to portray that through these images, through their use of pathos, logos, Kairos and ethos, they were able to show the audience the reality of what happens behind these GMOs that are heavily used in the food industry that they may not be fully aware about. These images spark a conversation and would possibly make the public take interest into the matter so that a change can be made for the health and safety of society. Pike 5 Work Cited Beyond Pesticides. Bee Protective: Pollinators and Pesticides. 2016. <http://www.beyondpesticides.org/programs/bee-protective-pollinators-and- pesticides/chemicals-implicated>. Center for Food Safety. CFS Legal Petition to Label GE Foods . n.d. 20 January 2017. <http://www.centerforfoodsafety.org/issues/976/ge-food-labeling/the-cfs-legal-petition- to-label-genetically-engineered-foods>. Hidden Costs of Toxic Seed Coatings: Insecticide Use on the  Online Report. 2015. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Voluntary Labeling Indicating Whether Foods Have or Have Not Been Derived from Genetically Engineered  Guidance Document. 2015. Pike 6 Figure 1 Pike 7 Figure 2