Paul Delbecq Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 29 January 2017 Early Draft Composition I Martial arts have gone through considerable changes during the last hundred years. According to the book Martial written by Neil Horton, a martial art is a sport or skills of self- defense/attack with Asiatique origin mainly from Japan; Judo, Aikido, Karate, Kung Fu are some examples. Martial arts are systems of combat practices that were originally created for self- defense, military and law enforcement applications, but also for spiritual and entertainment purposes (Horton, Neil. 29 Jan. 2017). It is also considered a cultural heritage in countries in the Far East. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, Four decades ago, martial arts were more about forms, katas, and traditions. These forms were often a way to practice without any opponent. This was a problem since practitioners had no real experience when needed to use their skills to fend off an assault in real life (Lawler, 2003). However, a lot has changed since then and people have lot more resources and options to learn about the many different martial arts techniques. People around the world now practice martial arts at a young age as a competitive sport or an activity. It is a great sport/activity because it keeps the martial arts practitioners physically active and has proven health benefits. It is also good for the mind as it instills self-confidence, reinforces the personality, and develops strong values and disciplines to the martial artist. It also helps to strengthen the character and maintain life in a more peaceful and stress-free manner. Nowadays, there are many martial arts schools and practitioners available, plus there are also numerous resources online. The rise of martial arts in combat is a reflection of the progress that our society has made based on efficiency, entertainment and virtue of strength. With the change in social construction and principles, the present-day combat of martial arts resonates in rise. The new systemization of martial arts combat in the spheres of fitness, art competition, art performance, etc. are under global spotlight. What are the advantages of practicing a martial arts and how it changed over time? Annotated bibliography. Horton, Neil. Japanese Martial Arts, Chichester: ePubDirect, 2005. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web.29 Jan. 2017. This is an ABC book with a good overview of all the various Japanese martial arts techniques. It describes the characteristics and differences of each arts without going too much into details. Though not a comprehensive study of martial arts, it has a good concise introductory treatment of each combat system. Some of the Japanese combat systems mentioned in this book are Aikido, Aiki-Jutsu, Iaido, Jo-Jutsu, Judo, Ju-Jutsu, Karate, Kempo, Kendo, Kenjutsu, Kyudo, Naginatado, Ninjutsu, Yari-Jutsu, Sumo and others which are less known. In the very end of the book, it talks about the most common Japanese martial terms. This is very useful and informative for those who are learning any Japanese combat system. This book will help me a lot in my future research because it talks concisely about the main characteristics, benefits and usefulness of all the martial arts. Lawler, Jennifer. Martial arts for dummies. New York: Wiley Pub., 2003.Print This book illustrates martial arts techniques with an in-depth focus on beginners or amateurs. It incorporates the many different styles of fighting, so readers can decide on which style of fighting they want to focus on. From Karate to Kung Fu to Tae Kwon or any other style, this books contains everything in a compendious manner. Though it is difficult to thoroughly compartmentalize something as broad as martial arts, the author makes a good effort into it and divided it into five parts. Even the chapters can stand on their own, so readers will not lose track even if you skip part I or start with Part III. It also talks about what movies to watch and what to expect from a good instructor, so learners can get the best possible results. The book Martial Art For Dummies was published by John Wiley & Sons publishing company in November 2002. The author of the book is Jennifer Lawler. She got her Ph.D. in medieval literature from the University of Kansas. She is the author or co-author of more than 30 non-fiction books and novels, including the award-winning Dojo Wisdom. Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Bruce Lee: Jeet Kune Do: Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way: Editorial Paidotribo, 2007. Print. Bruce Lee Jeet Kune Do is the book that presents the martial art Jeet Kune Do which was created by Bruce Lee himself described in his own words, notes and writing. This book is a complete and comprehensive presentation of this unique martial art. Jeet Kune Do was the most effective and realistic martial arts in its time for real combat. It was a subversive new path to the martial arts in its time. This book presents Bruce commentaries and notes on the nature of combat and succeeding in life through martial art. Bruce Lee also talks about the importance of a positive mindset during training and life in general in order to be succesful and happy. There are also many questions that every martial artist must ask himself/herself that Bruce Lee asked to himself and tried to explore as part of his own self improvement. This book will help me to and talk about the many benefits of martial arts, mainly the benefits that it has on the mind, as it instills self discipline, self- knowledge, well being, confidence, strengthening the personality, and many other benefits. Bruce Lee studied Kung Fu in Hong Kong under the legendary master Yip Man. After attending the university of Washington as a philosophy major. He established a kung fu institute in Oakland, California, in 1964, to teach the art he later named jet Kune do. From a young age and thought out his seven- year of television and film career, he wrote prodigiously on many topics that attracted his attention, especially philosophy. John Little is the world foremost authority on the life and work of Bruce Lee, his training method, and his philosophy. Thomas, Steve. Martial Arts as A Model for Nonviolence: Resisting Interpersonal Violence With Assertive Force. The Conrad Grebel Review 33 ;1 (2015) :72-91. ATLARELIGION Database with ATLASerials. Web 29 Jan. 2017 The article reinvigorates the idea of dealing violence with peace and compassion by using the martial arts techniques. It analyzes situations where innocent lives are attacked by aggressors and how to deal with such situations without causing significant harm to the attacker or the target. It takes a very humanistic approach on how to deal with violence. The article talks about the reverence for life a practice shared by almost all world religions and the importance of human life. It also provides many links for readers to get more in-depth understanding of approach to non-violent means to defuse a crisis. It questions the extent to which a person can hit back when attacked, emphasizing that human lives are at stake. In short, the writer has done a wonderful job in putting together different views in regards to dealing with unexpected violent situations and how to minimize the harm to every human life involved, including the and thereby using martial arts as more reliable, non-lethal ways to fend off attacks. He also makes a point of using martial arts effectively and not to misuse it. The article was published in the journal The Congrad Grebel Review in 2015 by Steve Thomas. He is the Mennonite pastor and a graduate of Hesston College of the Goshen College and Associated Mennonite Biblical Seminary. He is currently a pastor at the First Mennonite Church in Middlebury, Indiana. He co-founded the Peacemakers Academy in Goshen, Indiana and has been working as a peace educator for the past 13 years. Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Striking thoughts: Bruce Wisdom for daily living. Boston: Tuttle Pub., 200. Print. It is a book that gathered all the philosophic thoughts of Bruce Lee who was one of the greatest martial artist of the history. A book that demonstrates how martial arts is not just an activity of attack and defense that get you in shape but also a way of life. This book is mostly philosophical and not a technical manual for fighting. This book contains all the philosophic thoughts of Bruce Lee about every aspects of the life. It is considered to contain the secrets to Bruce success and rise to fame with over 800 entries, covering more than 70 topics. The topics range from philosophical thoughts, existence, time, reality, the laws, death etc. to ideas, perceptions, the ego, concentration, spirituality, happiness, adaptability, adversity, motivation, health and many others. Those thoughts are organized and titled by John Little. Bruce Lee studied Kung Fu in Hong Kong under the legendary master Yip Man. After attending the university of Washington as a philosophy major, he established a Kung Fu institute in Oakland, California, in 1964, to teach the art he later named as Jeet Kune Do. From a young age and throughout his seven-years of television and film career, he wrote prodigiously on many topics that attracted his attention, especially philosophy. John Little is the foremost authority on the life and work of Bruce Lee, his training method, and his philosophy. Ertonghen, Jikkemien, and Marc Theeboom. The Social-Psychological Outcomes Of Martial Arts Practise Among Youth: A  Journal Of Sports Science & Medicine 9.4 (2010): 528-537. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Many people describe martial art involvement amongst the youth as controversial. Some argue that there are increased levels of aggressiveness and antisocial behavior amongst participants of martial arts, however, others refer to enhanced personal and social opportunities for participants. The review revealed that there is no clarity in the duality regarding martial art effects. This review has helped me to understand the social and psychological benefits of martial arts, especially for the young people and it is going to help me talk about my martial arts more in relation to the social and psychological aspects.