Rodriguez Rojas !1 Roxana Rodriguez Rojas Instructor Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 3/4/17 Animal Agriculture Throughout the years, researchers have shifted their view on the way in which meat and animal products should be produced, the ways in which their emissions are measured, and their attitudes towards animal agriculture. The effects animal agriculture has on the environment is a relatively new research field because, for many years, people did not really think about what the real consequences it can have on the world. Researchers have changed their view on which would be the most beneficial way to raise animals for meat production for the planet. Pre 2010, researchers wanted the practice to draw inspiration from the actual lifecycle but it is now believed there is a better alternative to that proposition. In the article that focuses on greenhouse gases gets their information from previous studies. Post 2010, researchers decide to measure emissions themselves to get accurate information for their work. Attitudes towards animal agriculture has also shifted in the past two decades, authors are much more harsh on these practices because the effects of this kind of agriculture has devastating effects in some cases. The debate on how animals that are used for meat production should be raised has been going on for years. In their article from 2010, and Webster advocated for animals to be raised in a way that is as basic as it was 10,000 years ago. that emulated nature would be the same: deriving its inputs as renewables; wasting nothing; diverse; balancing crops (plants) against livestock They believed this would decrease food shortages because this Rodriguez Rojas !2 structure of raising livestock and crops are dependent on each other. There should always be more crops than livestock in this practice to ensure that in case there are less crops being produced, then more livestock can be used as sustenance during those times. The stance on how animals should be raised, however, has changed since then according to newer articles. Instead of coming up with ways to deal with lowering waste and emissions, researchers are wanting to come up with ways to utilize these emissions in an effective way. Digestion (AD) is nowadays widely used as a source of renewable energy and AD facilities can easily treat a wide spectrum of organic waste (Russo and von Blottnitz, introduction). This is one of the ways emissions and waste can be controlled and taken out of the environment. Researchers know that society has too high of a demand for meat so instead of rolling back on production, as earlier arguments suggest, later arguments advocate for the control of all emissions from production facilities. Measuring greenhouse gas emissions through the years have also changed. Pre 2010, researchers in this article relied heavily on research done by other notable works. Abdalla and Lawton got their claims from why certain policies were put in place. They also use logic for their argument. Every living animal or human exhales carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, and rising world population means a rise in the demand for food so, naturally, it during the last decades due to the overall increase in the number of livestock and the relatively low rate of adoption of technology to reduce Since then, there needed to be a way to actually measure these emissions to try and get some more credibility in this field. Recently, researchers have found a method to actually measure GHG emissions in an accurate way. In his research, Sharifi used Life-Cycle Assessment, technique to assess the environmental impacts Rodriguez Rojas !3 of a product, process, or activity over its life Life cycle assessment methodology). This is a very effective method for measuring these impacts and can be used for many different kinds of sources. This methodology can also show the amount of emissions different sectors of animal production has. Although this methodology was created for industrial production impacts, it has since been adapted to animal agriculture and now used as a more effective way to accurately measure GHG emissions. Over time, attitudes towards animal agriculture have also changed. Before 2010, and Webster were confident that animal agriculture could be a good thing if practices were changed. They talk about ways in which animal agriculture can be improved and what humans are doing wrong, but, if the world were to follow their suggestions then there would be plenty of food to go around. The authors mention that methane problem also and problem of feeding the and 14) goes away. This optimism for a better future changes after 2010 because, through the Life-Cycle Assessment, it is easy to see the true impact animal agriculture has on the environment. Sharifi states that half of GHG emissions are mainly due to agriculture This statistic is alarming and every statistic found throughout this article looks grim. Although this article wants to improve upon animal agriculture practices, it does acknowledge the fact that changing animal production processes in this society is very difficult with a rising world population. In conclusion, researchers have shifted their views on a variety of aspects of animal agriculture. Ideas to improve upon animal agriculture have changed, the ways in which measuring emissions have changed, as well as attitudes towards animal productions have changed. Over the years, researchers have had to adjust their methodology and form new ideas Rodriguez Rojas !4 based upon the growing world around them. The world population has grown exponentially and innovation is in high demand for all kinds of food production.