Smoking has been around for as long as people can remember and it use to be a social norm. Smoking is used to look cool, relieve stress, and get the daily dose of nicotine in an system. The traditional style of smoking is from a conventional cigarette, but around the year 2000, e-cigarettes and vaping trends have skyrocketed. Within the past 20 conventional cigarettes have been criticized for causing harm to human health on many different levels including damage to the lungs, heart, and other body organs. Before 2000 cigarettes had no comparison but since e-cigarettes became popular there has become a research question; how cigarettes and e-cigarettes are different and similar? Due to health concerns, researchers have analyzed all aspects of both types of cigarettes and used the data to make conclusions of how much damage both conventional cigarettes and e-cigarettes can cause. Smoking in school bathrooms back in the 80s used to be a normal thing, but since then there have been may regulations placed on cigarettes by the FDA due to common health concerns. When e- cigarettes first started around 2000 they could be used in public places, but since the studies were held, they are now banned to be used in places other than smoking sections (Elliot). Humans are in both types of cigarettes use because we use to not know the health effects until someone has been smoking for decades and they already have the health effects that are unknown (Elliot). From the research, Elliot still believes that cigarettes need to be regulated even more because there are still way too many health concerns. The second change throughout the years of smoking has been the characteristics of the types of cigarettes and how they affect human body. Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot did a research study on the characteristics of smoking including how strong of a vacuum is required to produce smoke and release aerosols in e-cigarettes (55). The study showed that conventional cigarettes required a lower vacuum to produce smoke, which is easier on the lungs, compared to e-cigarettes. The study also showed that e-cigarettes are inconsistent when it comes to nicotine levels because they start out strong but tend to die out around the 10 th trial (Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot 55). Before 2000, this study have been relevant because e-cigarettes have been around and the new technology that goes with them have been created. Along with nicotine levels, the ingredients in cigarettes has become a new trend in health and how e-cigarettes have fewer health concerns compared to cigarettes (Alawsi, Nour, Prabh 30). Researchers Alawsi, Nour, and Prabh found that e- cigarettes contain fewer carcinogens than conventional cigarettes, which means that secondhand smoke, atherosclerosis, lung, and heart problems are less likely to be found in people who use e- cigarettes compared to conventional smokers (30). Another huge breakthrough in cigarette research is the oral health effects. This is the latest research in e-cigarettes and the conclusion is that e-cigarettes are extremely harmful to the mouth, but they do not have physical effects like conventional cigarettes (Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley 45-54). Sherry says that a smile is the very first thing a person notices about someone else and if they look at a conventional mouth, they can easily see the brownish/yellow color on their teeth and the decay of the tooth itself (50). When researchers looked deeper into the mouths of e-cigarette smokers, they saw damage to the epithelial cells in the mouth cavity and broken DNA in many of the cells (Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley 45-54). Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley also concluded that e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes both can cause mouth ulcers, mutations, and possibly cancer (45-54). Nicotine itself has played a huge role in all types of cigarettes because it is toxic to living cells (Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley 45-54). Nicotine is also known as a because it is highly addicting and not good for the human body whether it is smoked directly or inhaled from second hand smoke (Alawsi, Nour, Prabh 30). In conclusion, conventional cigarettes have been the base of smoking for as long as people have been around and recently new technology introduced e-cigarettes and vaping for a healthier, but still effective way to get nicotine. They differ because conventional cigarettes are more consistent with nicotine, but they also contain more carcinogens which can lead to major health problems down the road. They also are similar because they both can have health damages and they both produce nicotine. Researchers have concluded that not one type of smoking is better than the other because they both have positive and negative aspects that differ from the other type. So, when it comes to smoking, ask yourself if you should smoke a conventional cigarette, e-cigarette, or if you should even smoke at all.