Intermediate draft Jordan Reed ENC Comp 1 Mrs. Ricketts March 1 2017 In 1999 speculation was brought up if teachers should be armed, because of a horrific massive shooting that occurred in Colorado at Columbine high school. This shooting consisted of students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold they murdered 12 students and one teacher, injured 21 additional people and three more were injured while attempting to escape the school. A lot of sources seem to be against teachers being armed in schools and would rather put more time in getting extra security in schools. The question was would that help or hurt schools in the future and is just increasing security more beneficial than having teachers and staff armed in schools across the United States. There have been many school shootings before the Columbine shooting, especially several overlooked incidents around 1998 including shootings in Paducah, Kentucky, Jonesboro, Arkansas and Springfield, Oregon. , according to Jennifer 1999 article. No legislative action was taken when these shootings happened to prevent further incidents until Columbine. Fredrick does mention multiple alternatives instead of teachers having guns in school, and proposed putting security guards around the school for safety of the kids, installing metal detectors so no student or teacher may come into the school with any kind of weapon to harm anyone, and also having a search of lockers and backpacks to make sure that no foul play is going on inside the schools at all times. In 1999 it seemed Intermediate draft that the public was against having guns in school and arming teachers was not a commonly talked about idea around those times. At that point in time many believed that These methods were very simple and could be done in all schools. Eight years later in Joe and article he explains that people still felt like teachers should not have guns in school, and argued that guns in school will have a negative effect on everyone in schools and also will affect the students learning process. Agron mentions Nevada senator Bob proposed bill, the first of its kind, that would allow teachers to carry guns in classrooms; Beers stated that this would serve as a prevention strategy to decrease school violence by allowing teachers to defend themselves and students against immediate threats in the classrooms. However, Agron explains that teachers carrying weapons on top of the security guards would put many more lives in danger and that the security was more trained than teachers, and good enough to prevent shootings, much like argument in her article. Even though Agron shoots down bill, it shows that after the many mass shootings in schools from 1999 to 2007, people began voicing their opinion on the idea of arming teachers. I talked about how things in 1999 and things in 2007 differ and how the different things were opinionated to have a solution for guns in school. Would that help or hurt schools in the future and is just increasing security more beneficial than having teachers and staff armed in schools across the United States. the question im asking here and the question that many articles try to answer