Andre Boothe Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts English Comp I 5 March 2017 Intermediate draft Stop and frisk is a major police policy that originated in the but was not a common practice until the This policy allows officers to stop, question and search anyone they find suspicious of carrying a weapon or dangerous object. Since this practice is based on suspicion and not evidence it has raised as a contested debate topic. During this time views have shifted on the constitutionality, effectiveness and fairness. From 1960 to today the constitutional view on this topic has shifted a few times. During the early a case of stop and frisk occurred when police stop, checked, and arrested and group of men waiting by a jewelry store after finding weapons on them. Once again due to the arrest being based on suspicion and not evidence the debate on stop and frisk started and reached the supreme court in the Terry V Ohio case in 1968. The result was that the jewelry store check was not constitutional due to lack of reasons to probable .Instead the court gave an explanation of the proper way to conduct stop and frisk. The new ruling an officer can conduct a brief investigatory stop when the officer has a reasonable articulate suspicion that criminal activity is (Belin pp 1502).Researcher David harris agreed with this ruling since it gave a clear window on what the constitutional friendly way of doing stop and frisk was. However more post studies from Jeffery Belin showed that many stop and frisk cases were not done under the Terry V Ohio ruling. As a result outraged citizens filed a lawsuit that escalated to another supreme court case Floyd V New York in 2011. The case ruled New stop and frisk method unconstitutional since records where showing possible sign of racial profiling and not crime prevention. As a result the NYPD had to revise their stop and frisk policy and add retraining sessions on the method. Jeffery Belin was satisfied with this result because it revise the policy without outright remove it from the rulebook. Stop and frisk also has been around for New record high and low crime periods. Thanks to data collected during both times the expert opinion on the effectiveness has changed. For instance during the New York had record high crime and homicide rates. Due to this the stop and frisk was used much more often. Based on Andrew research on the the boosted use of stop and frisk helped to lower New crime rates to record lows by the early Andrew Gelman goes as far to say the approach during the has been widely credited as a major source of the sharp crime (Gelman pp 813) However David research had a different view on stop and effectiveness since his research in the showed that the rate of arrest the method produced was low compared to the total amount of people who were stop and frisked. So much that despite the rate of stop and frisk going up each year from 2002 to 2011 only 12 percent of stop and frisk cases lead to arrests. Furthermore certain cities like Brooklyn only had a 6 percent arrest rate from stop and frisk cases since many people found with weapons there were carrying them for self defense not to commit crime. All the researchers agreed that in the stop and frisk greatly help New York but in the on data is showning dimishing returns with the method. Likely the most recent argument on stop and frisk is whether the practice and use of can be considered fair. Jeffery research showed that in the neither the police nor people had any balance issues with stop and frisk. Thanks to the crime wave of the and the broken window policing method or method focusing on stricter policing on smaller crimes along with larger ones not reducing the crime rate enough people and police where open to try anything. However David research of the showed that stop and frisk during this time was possibly being used unfairly. This is since on average from 2002 to 2011 about 80 percent of the total friskies were either Latin American or African American raising the racial profiling question. He also voiced that the incident that caused Terry V Ohio and in recent cases sometimes abused to in deliberate efforts to control and assert power over black (Harris pp 859).Overall he felt stop and frisk under the supreme courts rules was fair but still debatable whether the use of it was fair. All in all stop and frisk was created to stop crime but has ran into issues been agreed on by various experts and researchers on the still highly contested on if truly constitutional, effective, and fair as a policy. With more research and possibly more court revisions we can create a stop and frisk policy that can consistently satisfy these three factors. Sources Belin, The Inverse Relationship Between Constitutionality and Effectiveness of New York Stop and . Boston University Law Review, Vol 94, pg 1495- 1520,2014,Accessed 5 March 2017. Social Science Research Network Gelman Andrew, Fagan Jeffery, Kiss An Analysis of the Police Stop and  Policy in Context of Racial Journal of American Statistical  ,Vol 102,September 2007,pg 813-823. Accessed March 5 th 2017. American Statistical association. Harris, David. Across the Hudson: Taking The Stop and Frisk Debate Beyond New York  .N.Y.U Journal of Legislation and Public Policy,2014. Accessed March 5th 2017. Social Science Research Network. Rivera, Ray, Baker AL, Roberts, A Few Blocks, 4 Years, 52,000 Police .The New York Times,July 10 2010, http://liblog.law.stanford.edu/wp- content/uploads/2012/10/Over-4-Years-Nearly-52000-Police-Stops-in-a-Few-Brooklyn- Blocks-NYTimes.pdf.Acessed 19 February 2017