Chris Barr Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Student athletes on college performance In the United States there are 4,140 colleges and universities. (infoplease) Many of these schools have athletic programs. Student athletes are a diverse population within most of these colleges/ universities and many of these student athletes are held to a different standard compared to the student body. Today, the demands on student athletes are much heavier than they were in the past. Due to this change many researchers have began to study college athletes on academic performance. In the past 17 years researchers came to a concise agreement regarding student athletes academic performance, which is that any many cases athletes academic performance is not affected by participating in athletics. There has been no change in this conversation due to National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) requirements for student athletes. In the early 2000s there was many studies being conducted that analyzed student academic performance. In 2006, a research studied student athletes and came to the conclusion that these athletes are not different from the regular student body( Umbach &. Palmer). In the article Athletes and Effective Educational Practices: Winning Combination or Losing Paul Umbach and Megan Palmer stated, Student-athletes across a large number of colleges and universities do not differ greatly from their peers in terms of their participation in effective educational According to the article Well-Being and Sport-Related Identities in College students has been identify to diagnoses with depression and it is increasingly growing in the United States. Study conducted by Joseph Hoffman and Kathleen Miller in 2009 shows student athletes have a lower rate of depression and suicide because of physical activities (335). Another study shows that female athletes are at higher risk than male to attempt committing suicide the ratio is female three times as likely as a male. In the late 2000s there was a conversation about student athletes performing in academic on the collegiate level. In 2016, researcher did a study to find out was there a difference from female vs. male on there academic success. According to Kurt and Alex studies they found no statistical differences in athletic or academic identity across division and sex. Analyses were conducted for the revenue- producing sports. Results. GPA is directly by their athletic versus academic identity, the athletic context including the and the seriousness with which they view academics. Cross-equation joint testing found no statistical differences in athletic or academic identity across division and sex (142). Another discussion researcher wanted to research high school student athletes transitioning to college there freshman year. The authors Discusses ACT/ SAT predictors for how well student athletes will perform in college. According to Multilevel Multivariate Analysis of Academic Performances in College Based on NCAA The multilevel results show that (a) high school grades are the best available predictors of freshman college grades, (b) the ACT and SAT test scores are the next best predictors available, (c) the number of high school core units taken does not add to this prediction but does predict credits attained, (d) college graduation rate has a second-level effect of a small negative outcome on the average grades, and (e) nonlinear models indicate stronger effects for students at higher levels of the academic variables(57).