Yang 1 Lingyi Yang Erika Staiger English Composition II 2/27/2017 Animal show More and more people like to enjoy life, like rare animals, like watching animals. In recent years, the national animal show (circus) increasingly large scale, abusive performances of animal cruelty, meet the eye everywhere very. Many zoos and circuses specialize in capturing or cultivating specific animals for commercial use. They make animals perform a series of activities. But the process of taming animals is often the case: punishment, training, reward, punishment... In many of the relevant reports, there have been wild animals killed or injured during training. Behind every seemingly happy animal show is full of animal blood,Hunger and freedom of the club and body so that the original animal against nature and lost its vitality, become entertain people consumer  at the same time, watch the animal shows the audience mostly do not understand the animal performance behind the bloody. As a result, more genuine love of animals to create a variety of animal protection site, and released a variety of advertising. Advertisements use different ways to remind and tell people that animals should be stopped. For an advertisement, the first impression is often tragic.In the first picture, he shows that the head of a whale is flat, which means that the whale is trapped behind the glass. The average life expectancy of Orcas up to 50 years, up to 90 years in Yang 2 Ocean Park, but often Orcas live no more than 20 years. Multiple reasons for the short-lived killer whales. One can only lead to whales because affected by gravity injury, disability of dorsal fin in the shallow pool activities. The health of the stand and dorsal fin orca, killer whales in the Ocean Park are almost weak necrosis of the dorsal fin. The future of marine conservation organization president once said, maybe we are no longer need to such huge, complex, intelligent, wild animal in captivity; not only imprisoned is not natural for them, will lead to abnormal behavior. Perhaps we have learned enough lessons from their captivity. (Black fish) the second chapter is the picture of a tiger was lifted, like a puppet. This straightforward description of the animal lost self and freedom in the show. The straightforward image depiction evokes, distressed animal. Ethos is an important indicator of increased credibility. Below the picture of the company name and organization name, so that the picture adds credibility. And to show the real name of the company, so that people at the same time sympathetic, with the desire to continue to explore or help. This is the way to increase the credibility of the image, so that the purpose of action. Color is also a key point for people to understand the purpose of the author. Blue blue and heavy. Black pain and frustration. Show a lack of recognition of animal performance. While looking at the picture, the corresponding color will produce the corresponding emotional effect in the brain. Will make the audience more questions, do you treat animals? Are the animals really free? Do they really look like the show? Are the aquarium animals really protected? Straightforward pictures Yang 3 and pure color can let the audience have more association. Through the propaganda activities, people understand the company hopes to watch animal performance is to build your happiness on the other beautiful freedom of the suffering of the people, understand the significance of performing and animal refuse, actively around to watch the animal shows the concept of communication. Thus, people can do not play in the zoo to watch any form of animal performances and actively report similar behavior. Animals in nature should be an equal member of the big family of nature, and become a faithful friend of human beings. Treat animals well, from refusing to perform! Yang 4 (2016). Exploiting Circus Animals. The New York Times. p. A24. Nocjar, C., et al. The Social Defeat Animal Model of Depression Shows Diminished Levels of Orexin in Mesocortical Regions of the Dopamine System, and of Dynorphin and Orexin in the  Neuroscience, vol. 218, 30 Aug. 2012, pp. 138-153. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.05.033. Yang 5 Yang 6