McMahan 1 Justin McMahan Angelica Aranda ENC.1102.033 Due: 3/5/17 American Lung Association against Smoking Since the invention of cigarettes, cigars, pipes, smoking has been a popular topic to debate when it comes to lung health. There are many organizations that are against smoking and its effects on lungs. One of those organizations is the American Lung Association, the American Lung Association is the leading organization working to save lives by improving lung health and preventing lung disease through education, advocacy and research. For more than 110 years, the American Lung Association has led the fight for healthy lungs and healthy air, whether searching for cures to lung diseases, keeping kids off tobacco, or fighting for laws that protect the air we all breathe (American Lung Association). In 1904 Henry Martyn Hall, Edward Livingston Trudeau, Robert Hall Babcock, Lawrence Flick came up with the goal of a world free of lung disease with the mission to save lives by improving lung health and preventing lung disease and thus the American Lung Association was founded (American Lung Association). This group gets there word out through many outlets, with advertisement images as their main voice. Two advertisement images the American Lung Association have made public are a drawing of an elephant on a man and a picture of two match boxes with lungs on them looking slightly different on each box. Both images represent the goals of the company in the fact that it each image shows how better your life/lungs will be if you stop smoking. McMahan 2 This stakeholder argues for a world fee of lung disease and one way they got their goal/cause across was Image A. Image A shows an elephant on top of a man with a cigarette in its mouth and a cigarette in the mouth who is getting crushed with dialogue at the top that says 35 Million Americans have quit smoking and have taken a big load off their and and This Advertisement is basically a way to get people to quit smoking. This image conveys that goal of quitting smoking through many ways, the primary ways are Logos, Kairos, Visual Rhetoric and Audience Consideration. Image A shows audience consideration through the adult getting stepped on, the elephant and the vibrant color blue. The audience projected for this advertisement can be anyone, from adults to teenagers to kids who understand what smoking is. for adults in the way that it shows an adult with a cigarette getting stepped on by an elephant, for teenagers because the vibrant color blue could catch their eye and make them read and understand the ad and lastly for kids through the elephant, this animal can peak a kids interest. This image can also show Visual Rhetoric, visual rhetoric is an argumentative strategies conveyed through images or design; includes aesthetics, color, media and typography. This image is a design that includes aesthetics, color, media and typography to convey the argument of stopping smoking to help with lung health. This ad shows aesthetics and color through that it is art, this is a drawing not a real picture with colors to convey the message. Also this image shows media and typography though that this image will get out to the media and style will be appeared in a printed matter but visual rhetoric and audience are the minor ways of promoting their goal the major ways are logos and Kairos. This image appeals to logos in the way that it appeals to logic and reason (Emily Lane). Logic and reason are appeal to this design in the way that when you smoke the effect on your lungs, heart and chest feel like an elephant is on top of you and if you quit the effect of quitting is McMahan 3 like that weight of the elephant getting off you, so quitting smoking has great effects in the way it make you feel better. This image also appeals to Kairos in a similar way, Kairos is appeals to timeliness (Sawchyn). Timeliness appeals to this in the way of the life, if you quit smoking now that elephant will get heavier or will step on the person smoking harder and kill them through its effects on the lungs mainly but if you quit you can save yourself now from smoking and its effect on your lungs. This ad is basically a way that the American Lung Association can get their mission across of preventing lung disease and improving healthy lungs and ultimately achieving their goal of a world without lung disease. Image B is similar to Image A, but is different as well, it is similar in its goal and intent but different in the picture and portrayal. Image B is a picture of two match boxes with drawings of lungs on them, with the American Lung Association logo and dialogue saying strike, another This picture advertisement is another way to get people to stop smoking and help with this goal. Image B though uses a stimulus of smoking which is matches and depiction of lungs to convey to the audience. This image uses many Rhetorical deceives to state a point, this image uses Ethos, Pathos, Logos, Kairos to show the audience what this group wants from them. The audience for this image ranges more towards adults and late teens who smoke. Essentially the message of the image is every match you strike to lit to smoke another scar will be on you lung and it is shown but the match strike on the lung on the second box. This image uses Pathos because it appeals to emotion (Kendra Gayle Lee). Emotion is used in this ad because it makes the audience feel sad and depressed in the fact that if they smoke or know someone who smokes, every time they they are scaring their lungs which can turn to death or lung disease. Ethos is also a factor in this ad in the fact that there is an appeal to credibility (Mclntyre), credibility is shown through how real this image is. This image is not McMahan 4 childish, the main object is a real stimulus and the logo is on the ad. Logos and Kairos are shown through the reasoning of the image, there is logic (Emily Lane) and timeliness (Sawchyn) to this picture through the reasoning. The logic is every time you strike a match to start smoking you are striking your lungs, it is a correct play on words to what really happens to your lungs. Kairos is used in the fact of every time you strike a match you are striking your life expectancy by striking your lungs. Timeliness can also be factored in this ad making you quit smoking because the sooner you quit the longer live. Image B is another way of advertisement for the American Lung Association to prove their mission and achieve their goal of a world free of lung disease. To sum up, the relationship between Image A and B are similar in their purpose and intent with the American Lung Association logo on both and they both are advocating against smoking and advocating for a world free of lung disease but are different in the fact that one is a real photo and the other is a design. These different narrative though pose the same answer to the issue at hand. The issue of lung disease because of smoking needs to be addressed, it is a major issue now of days with the more people smoking and ads are one way the American Lung Association can help in the fight and promote their cause and be one step closer to their goal to benefit the world. Word Count: 1289 McMahan 5 Works Cited American Lung Association. Our History. 2017. 2017. 28 February 2017. American Lung Association. Our Mission. 2017. http://www.lung.org/about-us/mission-impact-and- history/our-mission.html?referrer=https://www.google.com/. 28 February 2017. Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre.  2017. Myreviewers. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. 28 February 2017. Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan Mclntyre.  2017. Myreviewers. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. 28 February 2017. Mclntyre, Jessica McKee & Megan.  2017. My Reviewers. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. Sawchyn, Allyson Hoffman & Alysia.  2017. Myreviewers. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. 28 February 2017. McMahan 6 https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/04/b7/c7/04b7c7fd2d62fbcdfd90de6714895507.jpg Image A http://www.welovead.com/en/works/details/ca4ElqtE Image B