Ibraahim Badat Elizabeth Ricketts ENC1101-010 March 5 2017 The Effect of Steroids on Professional Sports Knut Jensen was a Danish cyclist and, the first athlete to die in professional sport. Jensen died in 1960 at the Summer Olympics in Rome. The cause of his death was a fractured skull. He passed out during a race due to abnormally high blood levels, leading to his death. The presence of amphetamines was found in his blood and they were ruled as the reason behind his extreme blood levels. Anabolic steroids were initially created to treat the medical condition Hypogonadism in 1932. Hypogonadism is a disease that decreases the amount of testosterone in the human body, and steroids helped in that they increased the testosterone concentrations. The first group of athletes who began experimenting with steroids were bodybuilders, approximately a decade later, steroids had made its way into Olympic sports, and still its effects, good or bad were relatively unknown as only a small percentage of athletes were making use of the drug. After the death of Knut Jensen several other athletes died from steroid use and this prompted sports governing bodies to put rules in place to prevent steroid use. The use of steroids in professional sport has unleveled the playing field, and has created a sense of doubt among those who succeed in sport, whether they have or used steroids. Steroid use was initially seen as a problem with easy solutions. The death of Italian and Dutch cyclists was the eye openers into the harms and dangers associated with the use of steroids. The death of Knut Jensen was the first death in an Olympics due to drug abuse, but it was the death of Italian cyclist, Tommy Simpson in 1967, which sparked the Olympic committee to establish rules against steroid use. 1968 was the first year athletes were drug tested at the Olympics, both at the Winter Olympics in Grenoble, France and the Summer Olympics in Mexico City. According to the article Regulation In Professional written by Sarah Heisler, when the Olympic committee had begun their steroid testing procedures, it was very mild. Athletes had to have a urine test done and passing that would determine their eligibility in being able to compete in the games. A urine test is extremely easy to pass, and according to Heisler, over consumption of water and charcoal tablets can completely clean out an individuals system. This meant that athletes could continue doping until a week before having their urine tested and have negative results come back. The Olympic committee along with various other sports governing bodies had to create new ways in which they could test for drug use more effectively. Two different methods were implemented according to Heisler. The first was the committee testing athletes who were most likely to compete, 6 months in advance of the games, and all by urine tests, this was seen as ineffective as urine tests were easy to pass. The second method and the method used today was randomly blood-testing athletes 3 times within a year prior to the games and immediately before the commencement of the Olympics. The talk of steroid use had died down around the with an odd case every year or two. In 2003 the first talk of steroid use in Major League baseball came up. This sparked a number of sports bodies to begin changing their approach to steroid use. The use of performance enhancing drugs was widespread and the world of sports finally understood how big of a problem steroid use was. MLB players such as; Hank Aaron, Tom House, and Mike Schmidt all confessed to having used steroids in their career. They spoke about how they were not the only athletes involved with steroid use. President Bush at the time had added steroids to his agenda when talking about the war on drugs. The Anti Drug Abuse Act was signed to outlaw steroid use with regards to the general American public. In 2003 Robert Millman was prompted to write an article for the American Journal on Addictions, with regards to steroid and nutritional supplement use in professional Athletes. Millman emphasizes how widespread steroid use is, from the general public to professional athletes. A lot of athletes start off by using natural supplements, which increase their health and athletic performance. These supplements are fully legal, and the average gym goer uses these supplements too. The article references a study done by Millman himself, in which he interviews athletes who have been found guilty of steroid use. The majority of these athletes admitted to having used natural supplements such as creatine and Whey protein, but they did not gain the necessary edge they wanted, which resulted in them going to steroid use. The use of natural supplements is seen as a gate way to using more extreme supplements such as Anabolic Andergonic Steroids. While Steroid use among professional athletes has not stopped completely, athletes themselves have seen the negative effect of steroid use. There have been medical advances in steroid creation, and some athletes have taken advantage of these advances as they continue to use steroids. Steroids have been around since the and scientists have finally been able to see the long term effects of steroid use. A noticeable effect, seen in most bodybuilders is the bodies inability to create testosterone. Because steroids provide unnatural amounts of testosterone to the body, our bodies begin to stop the natural production of testosterone, to account for the influx of the chemical. Bodybuilders have been seen to lose all their muscle mass as soon as their bodies stop receiving steroids for mire then 6 months. The long term effects of steroids are not only physical, but steroids have been shown to have effects on its users mental health too. According to a study done by Swedish professor Andrew Lindqvist, steroids have a very negative impact on a humans mental health. His study, retrospective 30-year follow-up study of former Swedish-elite male athletes in power sports with a past anabolic androgenic steroids use: a focus on mental was published in, The British Journal of Sports Medicine. Lindqyist explores how athletes who had either admitted to steroid use or were fond guilty of steroid use have had mental health problems too. The study focused on athletes from various sports and, they results were highly in favor of steroid users having experienced long term mental health issues. Athletes such as Rupert Gerber had acquired mental health diseases which led to their death. The cause behing these diseases was that there are certain mutations associated with types of steroids and these mutations if they do affect their users have harmful effects. Steroid use is no longer a problem in the way that it pertains to the integrity of sport. Steroid use has shown to have harmful effects on the human body, not just physically but mentally too. Future research of steroids should focus on the benefits, and ways to create leagues or unions that allow for steroid users to compete in. These athletes that do in fact use steroids still have remarkable abilities that should not be overlooked. Heisler, Sarah R. Steroid Regulation In Professional Sports: Sarbanes-Oxley As A  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, vol. 27, 4 May. 2009, pp. 199-241. HeinOnline, http://www.heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle= hein.journals/caelj 27&div=9. Accessed 13 Mar. 2017. Millman, Robert B. and Nutritional Supplement Use in Professional American journal on Addictions, vol. 12 no. 6, 2003. ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.steroids.2012.11.009 Lindqvist, A. S. retrospective 30-year follow-up study of former Swedish-elite male athletes in power sports with a past anabolic androgenic steroids use: a focus on mental British Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 47, no. 15, 2013, pp. 965- 969, http://bjsm.bmj.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/content/47/15/986. Accessed 19 Feb. 2016. Engelberh, Terry. final frontier of anti-doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping Sport Management review, vol. 18, no. 2, 06 Sep. 2013 ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.smr.2014.06.005