Barnhill 1 Renee Barnhill Professor Staiger ENC 1102.005 26 February 2017 Pro-BSL Organization The Dogsbite organization is a stakeholder that is for Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL), in which the companionship of certain breeds is banned. Their primary focus are pit bull breeds such as the English bulldog, American Staffordshire terrier, and the bull mastiff. The organizations moto is dogs let (Dogsbite website). This moto refers to these breeds lock jaw, which is a trait that allows them to lock their jaws around something. They use victim attack stories that are posted on their website as a way to sway their audience to agree with their beliefs that these breeds are too dangerous to be allowed as pets. Dogsbite followers also believe that these breeds are too dangerous to have as pets and should be banned altogether, this is the only way to fix the dog attack problem this country is facing. This false dilemma is one of many rhetorical appeals this website uses to gain the audiences trust. The Dogsbite organization incorporates images that also contain rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos and kairos to get the audience to agree that these breeds are dangerous and BSL is the only way to end this dog attack epidemic. The dogsbite organization uses pathos, emotional appeals, in their images to grab the attention. Many of these images are connected to a victim story, these images attract the attention allowing for a higher chance of these viewers to read the victim stories associated with the image. The first image is an example of an image that is linked to a victim story. In this case, it is a photograph taken of a memorial. The image shows how fatal Barnhill 2 these dog attacks can be when a pit bull breed is involved in an attack. The organization use pathos in this photo and others like it to prove to the audience that these breeds are dangerous and in some cases deadly. This gives the audience a sense of fear that they correlate with these breeds. The other image uses a different approach but still gives the audience the same sense of fear that is correlated with these breeds. The second image uses a chart with the percentage of dog attacks form different breeds but it is zoomed in to where the audience can only read the percentages of attacks correlated with pit bull breeds. Both these images use a different technique to apply pathos and give the audience a fear of these breeds. Another rhetorical appeal that is used is kairos, this is the use of time. Though the first photo does not give a sense of timeliness or use of kairos the second image uses kairos to show that attacks are still relevant today. The image is a representation of an dog bite fatality chart this shows that these incidents are still relevant in current news. The dogsbite organization has been updating this chart every year since 2005. This chart is from data that was gathered from the CDC, eyewitnesses and victims of these attacks (Dogsbite website). This gives the audience a sense of relevance to this topic and makes it more likely for them to take action and agree with the organizations beliefs or at the very least read more about their views on this issue. The third rhetorical appeal is logos, the use of logic. Though the other two rhetorical appeals are there this appeal is one that can be manipulated to make an audience believe a certain way. This is the easiest appeal to prove false. The second photo uses logos to show that pit bull breeds cause more attacks than any other breed between 2005 and 2015. The chart states that pit bulls were accountable for sixty-four percent of the attacks within those years (dogsbite website). This information is used to spook the audience into believing that these breeds are more Barnhill 3 dangerous than any other breed and therefore they should be banned as pets to keep people safe. However, there are a few problems with this claim starting with are not a set breed but instead it is a label given to any canine with a certain set of physical traits. This already gives these breeds an unfair disadvantage on this chart because the category is actually many breeds clumped together under this label. In a psychological study, it was seen that the average person cannot accurately identify a breed solely on appearance (Gunter, Barber, Wynne). This means that both victims and eyewitnesses cannot clearly identify the attackers breed. Another concern that comes up regarding this image is all the attacks that go unrecorded do to the lack of severity or the size of the breed. Many attacks that are caused by a small breed such as, the Jack Russell terrier, go unrecorded in many public documentations though these dogs are more likely to show aggression then larger breeds (Pratt 858). These pieces of information go unstated in the Dogsbite set of data. The organization uses the photo to appeal to an logical mindset. Without doing any outside research the audience might see this chart as credible and logical therefore leaving them to believe the ideas created by this organization. When a stakeholder posts a photo or image in its argument it is always to benefit that argument. For the Dogsbite organization these images are supporting their belief that breed- specific legislation against pit bull breeds is the only way to protect the public from fatal canine attacks. The first photo gives the audience an emotional appeal that allows them to have a feeling of fear towards these breeds and sympathy to the victims that post their stories on the website. Appealing to the sympathy and fear this organization can use these emotions to get the audience to believe the same beliefs as this organization. The second image is made to appeal more towards the audiences logical and timely mindset. With kairos it proves that this problem is Barnhill 4 still a reoccurring issue that has not been handled. While using the logical appeal to consider the chart which in turn also causes the audience to fear these breeds. This organization however had a few flaws in their chart that make their logic bias to their viewpoint on this topic. Overall, the Dogsbite organization uses various rhetorical appeals in images to provide more evidence that supports their beliefs. Barnhill 5 Work Cited Gunter, Lisa M., Rebecca T. Barber, and Clive D. L. Wynne. in a Name? Effect of Breed Perceptions & Labeling on Attractiveness, Adoptions & Length of Stay for Pit- Bull-Type  Plos One 11.3 (2016): n. pag. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Pit Bull Attacks - Victims of Dangerous Dog  DogsBite.org - Some dogs let go. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Pratt, Heather K. Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take a Bite out of Canine Penn State Law Review 108. (2004): 855. LexisNexis Academic Law Reviews. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Barnhill 6