Juan Rodriguez Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 3/5/2017 Tracing Conversations over Time Hip-Hop scene has shifted very rapidly in the last 20 years. It has gone from completely nonexistent to one of the largest metropolitan centers for Hip-Hop, Rap and music in general. Before 2010, the music that came from Atlanta was categorized as music because of the stories told through early musicians such as OutKast and Goodie Mob, additionally Atlanta was relatively unknown and lacked the respect of cities like Los Angeles and New York. After 2010, Atlanta rap became synonymous with talented musicians and popular culture. It grew a large southern following and people were finally proud to be from the south. In this time, something that did not shift much is the lifestyle of African Americans in Atlanta. Blacks have continually struggled with fewer opportunities and resources than whites but continue to celebrate their heritage. As musicians from Atlanta began to record, promote and distribute their music, there were very large generalizations made about what southern music was. Listeners of the genre dubbed it music due to its seemingly foreign content. At the time, those who listened to and reviewed popular music lived in either New York City or Los Angeles, California. Neither of these cities is near the south or truly understood being southern and the lifestyle that those in Atlanta, Georgia carried on. They painted rap music as uncultured; full of poverty, sex, drugs and the misunderstood southern drawl. Miller explains that one of the largest issues surrounding this time in American history was the presidency of Bill Clinton. It seemed as though inequality problem, not one of government (Miller 41). A Democrat, Clinton seemed to be more progressive than previous Presidents, but the racism that surrounded the war on drugs as well as his conservative reforms on the welfare system clearly targeted poor blacks. On the other hand after 2010, southern music seeks to praise and promote southern culture. According to Jason southern culture is one of resistance and overcoming (Nichols 91). Atlanta rappers continued to tell stories of southern preset and past but, this time, they did so celebrating their heritage. Hip-Hop music in the incorporated various moves and dances, which is another form of self- expression enjoyed by blacks. Since the time of slaves, blacks used dances as a way to escape the struggles they experienced. These movements represent masculinity and are testaments to the world that African Americans will not hang their heads any longer. Additionally, the importance of southern Hip-Hop evolved from being undermined to being well respected in the rap community. Before 2010, Atlanta really had no pull in terms of prominent artists that could hold the city down. So So Def Recordings record label Chief Executive Officer Jermaine Dupri even commented in 1993 that from Atlanta, hard to get respect from people in New York and In that time, Atlanta was not very developed, much of Georgia was seen as a wasteland filled with blacks and racism, and the music that was being released at the time only helped to perpetuate the stereotypes. It was not until the late and early that rappers such as Organized Noize began to release chart-topping hits, such as the TLC classic putting Atlanta on the map. After 2010, though, Atlanta, Georgia grew to become and continues to be one of the largest cities in the world for Hip-Hop/Rap music. After the success of early musicians, large recording corporations such as Universal and Sony Music groups began seeking groups and acts to sign recording contracts. These compromises, also known as could be worth millions of dollars, elevating these once humble hometown folk to celebrity acclaim. Cultural gatekeepers such as Jermaine Dupri and his label So So Def now either wholly owned by or in joint operating agreements with major corporations such as Universal, Sony, and Warner Music (Balaji 315). This elevated the status of the city to new heights and created wealth and power within a town which had once been overlooked. Though this shift in time from before and after the year 2010 brought with it many changes, some of the things which should have changed, never did. One of the problems which was not resolved was race inequality. Both before and after 2010, blacks in the south continue to have a lower quality of life than their white peers. Before 2010, there was very much deep resentment in African Americans due to the pains of slavery. Blacks felt they were discriminated against by whites. They lived in segregation and they even earned different wages. Southern rap songs before 2010 clearly painted pictures of the pain and suffering that Africans were subjected to whilst enslaved in (Miller 17). With the rise of Atlanta as a musical superpower, it seemed as though the African American community would advance. After 2010, the situation for blacks did not necessarily get better, but there were some pivotal differences. While blacks still carried a lesser quality of life than whites, African Americans used their learned talents, dancing and singing, as a form of expression and rebellion. Nichols compares southern rappers to those black men in the times of slavery who were subjected to acts of torture including lynching, violence, involuntary servitude and (Nichols 226). In order to escape the prejudice against them, blacks created music and dances that helped them escape the everyday struggles of merely having a darker skin complexion. Though the quality of life has not significantly shifted for blacks, there is more black representation and black influence on popular culture. To conclude, Hip-Hop/Rap has created significant changes for the city of Atlanta, Georgia. It has shifted both the negative stereotypes regarding southern blacks and their music, as well as the prominence and importance of southern music in a nationwide context. On the other hand, the quality of life for southern blacks has not significantly improved over this time frame. Nonetheless, Atlantans have created a mecca for Hip-Hop music in their city, simply by promoting their beliefs and culture. There is no question that the influence of southern music, and especially music from Atlanta, Georgia continues to this day.