Carandang 1 Elyssa Carandang Professor DeCarion ENC 1102.086 26 February 2017 Mothers Against Drunk Driving Car accidents are appalling, but car accidents under the influence of alcohol are completely unacceptable. One non-profit organization that is against this type of irresponsible behavior is Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). Their mission is end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes, and prevent underage (MADD). Mothers Against Drunk Driving believe that the legal drinking age should not be lowered under the age of 21 due to the fact that those of age still act irresponsible with alcohol in their system. Nowadays, organizations all over the world use visual or audio advertisements to get their point across to different audiences. In regards to rhetorical appeals, MADD leans towards the element of pathos since they are aiming to connect with different audiences about the dangers and irreversible effects that drunk driving can cause. In one image, a student misses their graduation and the rest of their life due to a drunk driving incident. Carandang 2 In another image, a car is flipped the of an alcoholic beverage because one individual made the irresponsible choice to operate a motor vehicle. Although these two images have different focal points, MADD depicts the dangerous effects alcohol can have on an individual through powerful advertisements that use the elements of ethos, logos, and pathos. Carandang 3 The element of ethos is portrayed in the two images due to a personal experience the founder went through. Patricia Melody Loewit-Phillips and Abbie Goldbas wrote an article about the Mothers Against Drunk Driving organization and their history and impact it has on society. In one paragraph, Loewit-Phillips and Goldbas stated that drunk hit-and-run driver with four previous drunk driving was the individual who was responsible for the incident (63). Because of this traumatic experience, Lightner was inspired to form MADD to help prevent other mothers from losing their children or other loved ones to drunk driving. Throughout the years, MADD has created a campaign to eliminate drunk driving that includes three steps: support our heroes, sober to start, and secure the future (MADD). Since social media has become a very popular platform over the years, organizations like Mothers Against Drunk Drivers use visual advertisements that are shown on websites, televisions, and magazines to spread their message and beliefs nationwide. MADD takes credit for the two images above by having their logo in the right hand corner of both images. The first image is credible due to the fact that the founder of MADD lost her teenage daughter in an unfortunate drunk driving incident and can easily demonstrate her credibility in this situation. In the second image, MADD shows their credibility by portraying the effects of driving under the influence. Logos is portrayed through the two images in similar ways. As an appeal to logic, the first image portrays a graduate that smashed into a glass frame that represents a car windshield. Placed at the bottom of the frame are congratulatory flowers and the diploma in a pile of broken glass. Not only does this image have the element of logos, but it also has a hint of irony. The caption for the first image is make it a grad to In general, graduation ceremonies are supposed to be filled with happiness and praise for all the accomplishments a student has made in their respected universities and/or high schools. The irony that is portrayed Carandang 4 in the first image is that no one will forget the grad not because of their accomplishments, but because that they were killed in a drunk driving incident. In the second image, the phrase the is placed on the top center of the photograph with the word in yellow, matching the color of the alcoholic beverage. The main focal point of the second image is the alcoholic beverage with a car as its topping. When someone orders a beverage the they want the beverage served with ice. In this advertisement, the ice represents literal rocks. The irony that is portrayed in the second image is that the individual in control of the car crashed into a pile of rocks due to the fact that they had an alcoholic beverage on the rocks beforehand. The second image appeals to logos because the logic MADD wants to bring to light is that one small alcoholic beverage can lead to a terrible car accident with irreversible effects. Out of the three elements that are portrayed in the two advertisements endorsed by MADD, the element of pathos plays a huge part in the non-profit campaign to eliminate drunk driving. As an appeal to emotion, MADD uses a high school or college graduate as a prime example to connect the argument with different audiences. The girl who was portrayed as a graduate could have been older sister, a faithful girlfriend, or a first born child. The girl was killed by an irresponsible act right before her life even started. Chances are, the graduate had aspirations and dreams that she could not wait to fulfill. Because of drunk drivers who are irresponsible of their foolish actions, the girl would forever be known as grad who will never be From then on, people will only remember the girl as the graduate who was killed by a drunk driver. In the second image, the car that is portrayed as flipped on the rocks of an alcoholic beverage appeals to different kinds of emotion. At a first glance, an individual could view this picture and nonchalantly dismiss it as another careless act due to alcohol. Other people could look at this picture and actually think twice about operating a Carandang 5 motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol. The second image could have deeper meaning and portray an intoxicated individual who committed vehicular manslaughter because the intoxicated individual had other people in the car accompanying them. One drink on the rocks could result in a fatal car accident, as portrayed in the second image. The audience should also take into account that the intoxicated driver could have also harmed innocent lives on the roads and could have possibly severely injure or kill the individuals in a car that happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time. Mothers Against Drunk Driving are known to portray pathos the most, rather than any other rhetorical appeal in hopes of convincing different audiences to feel a personal connection with their mission statement. Although the elements of logos and ethos are slightly portrayed in the two images shown, the element of kairos is portrayed more in the first picture rather than the second. In the first image, the caption itself has an appeal to timeliness. make it a grad to represents a never ending memory of the graduate who was killed in a drunk driving incident. As mentioned before, the graduate will forever be remembered for her unfortunate cause of death, rather than her accomplishments she achieved while she was alive. In the second image, the element of kairos is not represented like in the first image. The caption of the photo, the lacks timeliness because it only focuses on how the action was preformed, rather than when or how long the action lasted. Even though kairos was not an important element in advertisement, ethos, logos, and pathos are used to persuade different audiences that drunk driving is completely unacceptable. Word Count: 1240 Carandang 6 Works Cited Blake Hadley. MADD: On The Rocks. 2007. Coloribus. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/madd-on-the-rocks-10486855/>. Calder Bateman. MADD: Make It a Grad to Forget. 2006. Creativity. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://creativity-online.com/work/madd-dont-make-it-a-grad-to-forget/6641>. Loewit-Phillips, Patricia Melody, and Abbie Goldbas. Mothers against drunk driving (MADD): history and  International Journal of Childbirth Education, vol. 28, no. 4, 2013, p. 62+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1& it=r&id=GALE%7CA352490743&asid=4d7abad12ff8fe4abfac5b5469f55246. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. MADD. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. <http://www.madd.org/>.