Jozua Martins Professor DeCarion Enc 1102 2/26/2017 Captivating the Nation According to statistics, 42% of Americans have had a friend or relative who suffers from a terminal illness (NHDD). New treatments and medicines are being developed on a daily basis, but they are frequently stagnated in the clinical trial stage of testing by the United States Food and Drug Administration (F.D.A.) for a wide variety of reasons. The major concern with this is that by shutting down these new treatments, the F.D.A. often terminates the last hopes that dying patients have. Over the past several years a movement supporting the rights of the terminally ill has been coined the Right to Try, with one of the main supporters being The Goldwater Institute. In order to gain public support for The Right to Try movement the Institute was able to captivate the hearts and minds of audiences nationwide in several different major campaigns, which include a website and a published book. While The Institute used many different images in their campaigns for The Right to Try, some became more iconic to the public than others. In order to inform the public about The Right to Try movement through digital media, The Goldwater Institute designed a website that held all the information about the cause readily available in one place. On the homepage of this Website there is close up face image of a young, blonde, boy in a Fire Fighter Uniform who is obviously sitting on the inside of a firetruck. Along with the image is a caption that reads McLinn is 5 years old. He wants to grow up and save lives. We need your help to save This real life story gives credibility, or ethos, to the cause that is being fought by the Goldwater Institute due to the fact that it proves that there are undoubtedly many more people affected by this issue, just like Jordan. As the audience continues to reflect on the image, it is sure that the young boys, coupled with the statement from the Institute asking for help, will affect their appeal to emotion, or pathos. What this emotional appeal does is connect the reader to the story of the young boy by telling a personal story that anyone can relate to. As the audience sees this image of the young boy with a dream they are likely to be reminded of themselves when they were younger, or of a young person who is currently in their own lives. This causes the story of Jordan McLinn to be more than just a story, but a reminder of dreams and aspirations that they once had as children. This forces the audience to face the reality that Jordan is a young boy who is facing a terminal illness, and who is out of options, which is where the logic, or logos, of the image comes in to play. The reason that the Right to Try, movement was founded was to support terminally ill patients who have exhausted all other options in clinical treatment but may still survive due to research drugs that are developed each day around the world. The issue with this is that the F.D.A. does not allow the patients to try these research drugs, out of fear that they will harm the patient. Accompanying the image of Jordan, is a statement that reads to Try can help Jordan, and millions of terminal patients like him, get the life-saving medicines they need before too As one reads through the statement it is only logical to deduct that the medication that is being discussed is the last hope for the terminally ill. The Goldwater Institute prides them on being an organization of forward thinkers (Goldwater Institute) and appealing to the rationality of their audiences is absolutely crucial for an organization like theirs due to the fact that most of their battels are faced in courtrooms. However, this image also largely capitalizes on the rhetorical appeal of time, or kairos, to get point across to the audience. By adding the statement too to the image, it creates a sense of urgency within the audience. This urgency will motivate the audience to seek possible was to take action on the matter as soon as they can, for they now know that time is running out for those who are terminally ill. The image of the young Jordan will forever be one of the hallmark campaign images of the Goldwater Institute, but it is not the only method that they used. In order another effort to pursue the notion that The Right to Try was a noble cause, the CEO of the Goldwater Institute, Darcy Olsen, wrote a book highlighting her state-by-state campaign. Due to the fact that this book was written by the president of the Goldwater Institute, and the fact that it implicitly outlines so on the cover, it can be inferred that the audience knows the book comes from a point of authority, thus Ethos is being fully utilized. Along with the name of the author, the book cover displays the phrase the Federal Government Prevents Americans from Getting the Life-Saving Treatment They This phrase clearly outlines what the main focus of the book will be about and appeals to the sense of logic, or logos. It does so by clearly stating that the Federal Government is preventing Americans from receiving medication, allowing the audience to rationalize that the Federal Government is impeding the Right to Live outlined in the constitution. From this conclusion it would be very easy for the audience to realize that the Federal Government is the antagonist in the terminally ills fight for life. The last element of the image includes a nearly empty, orange, prescription bottle with a lock on the lid as well as a single pill at the bottom. This image is meant to appeal to the sense of emotion, or pathos, due to the fact that seeing a locked pill bottle frustrates those who see the image. This frustration is rooted in the fact that the audience fully knows that the pill in the bottom of the bottle represents a possible cure for a terminal disease, and the lock senselessly prevents access to these remedies. The image of the single pill at the bottom of the bottle also entertains the sense of urgency, or the rhetorical appeal kairos. This is due to the last pill in the bottle representing the last chance for terminally ill patients, thus allowing the audience to fully realize the dire situation that many of these terminally ill patients are in. The book cover for Right to Try by Darcy Olson was meant to fully embody the struggle of the movement named after, and it successfully did so by employing all forms of rhetorical appeals to captivate the audience of the book. As the Goldwater Institute continues to fight for the rights of terminally ill patients across the United States, they are sure to model the images in their campaigns in the same fashion as the two previously discussed. This allow for the institute to capture the hearts and minds of their audiences, successfully gaining support for their cause. As the their struggle goes on it becomes more and more important that the Right to Try movement gains nationwide support as quickly as it can, for a lot of the patients they are fighting for have much time left. Sources Cited Goldwater Institute  About. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Olsen, Darcy. Winning the Right to Save Your Own  Wall Street Journal - Eastern Edition 27 Nov. 2015: A15. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Prescription Drugs: Drugs Marketed in the United States That Do Not Have Required FDA Unapproved Prescription Drugs: Drugs Marketed in the United States That Do Not Have Required FDA Approval. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.