Shanise Emanuel ENC 1102 De Carion 2/26/17 The Christian Coalition For decades, the concept of religion has been narrowed down into different divisions. A popular sect of religion is Christianity, and it has grown immensely to the point where there are organizations that support the religion. The Christian Coalition is a political organization that is pro family and shares the Christian faith amongst the community. They protest anti-Christian beliefs and try to convert people to Christianity. The advertisements and/or images used for this organization are informing the public of why they should become a part of the organization. Each image shows the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The Christian Coalition uses the rhetorical appeals to grasp the attention of the public, so that people will be encouraged to join their organization. The advertisements made by the Christian Coalition had to be ethical, so that the Christian community appears reliable. The first advertisement is on the side of a bus with people on the bus. It is stating definitely is a God. So join the Christian party and enjoy Some people would find that this source is credible because there is a mention of God; or those who believe in God would find this to be credible. However, the advertisement has the organizations logo on it in small print, and a number to text to join the Christian party. These factors all go towards ethos for this organization. The second advertisement is the Christian logo and this portrays the appeal of ethos by providing the audience with the date which says This shows that how long the organization has been around, so the audience is aware that the Christian Coalition has experience in their field of work. Another way to get the attention is to use an emotional connection as a way that the audience can relate to the organization. Pathos is demonstrated to the audience in the first advertisement by making the presumption that everyone feels the need to enjoy life. Also, the advertisement is using passive aggressive wording to convince the audience that they will have a better life if they join the Christian party. The second advertisement uses words such as faith, tradition, and values, to show understanding and to relate more towards family values. Logic is used for both advertisements as well, but in different ways. The first advertisement, as was pointed out earlier, is on the side of a bus. This would use logos because if the Christian Coalition wanted more people to see who they were, they would put the advertisement in a place with many people. In a city, people take the bus almost every day therefore they would see this advertisement in repetition and possibly be persuaded to join the Christian party. The second advertisement which is the logo for the Christian Coalition uses a sensible format. It includes the name of the organization, what they stand for, and what year they were founded. All these qualities would lead people to believe that this organization is well thought out and believable. The usage of time for the advertisements is unique. The second advertisement obviously says the date founded, but that is not the construct of time that is referred to. The organization most likely decided to create their format in a way that was modern for this time period. The advertisement does not use just words; an image of a star is added to grasp the attention. The first advertisement uses also uses a modern way to send a message to the audience. Instead of just printing out an advertisement, the Christian Coalition decided to use a technique that was modern and put the advertisement on the bus. The Christian Coalition utilized the rhetorical appeals to spread their message to their intended audience. This way it persuades and informs the audience to become involved with this organization. Word Count: 644 Works Cited Combs, Roberta. Welcome to the Christian Coalition. 2017. <www.cc.org>.