Mallory Wood ENC 1102 Prof. Angelica Aranda 5 March 2017 There are many organizations dedicated to the preservation of the environment and the animals. The World Wildlife Fund is a nonprofit organization who strives to do just that. Their mission statement is: mission is to conserve nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on (worldwildlife.org).This stakeholder encourages people to put in the effort to restore what has already been destroyed and also to stop others from further destroying the planet. The advertisements aim to reach the public using various rhetorical appeals to convince people that something has to change. This paper will discuss two images used to portray this message. One of the images used deals more with the goal of saving animals and prevent extinction while the other demonstrates their efforts to save the environment. Image one displays an elephant with its back half represented only as bones. The image also includes the statement you wait the only place to see an elephant will be a This image displays all four rhetorical appeals, though some were more prevalent than others. Ethos was displayed in the image as the inclusion of information about the work the organization has done with elephants shows that they have experience and knowledge of the issue at hand. Pathos is shown in this image by the use of the skeleton and the words, this allows viewers to feel sad and concerned for the animals and what they could do to help so museums will not be the only way to see the animals. Kairos is indirectly used by having half of the body being decayed, it is more directly included in the part of the statement urging the viewer to not wait any longer to do something about the crisis. The use of logos was in showing that the animals are dying which should be more than enough reason for people to do something. Image 2 is a simple image with lots of meaning. It displays many trees in the shape of a pair of lungs with an area of dead trees. This image uses ethos in showing how trees are essential to living and they are essentially the breath of life as they provide oxygen. The brown, dead area of the lungs shows how deforestation affects the Earth, and this is doing so this shows how destructive humans are to the environment. Cars are also shown in this area of the image which shows their contribution to the destruction. Pathos was evident in the way the trees were formed into lungs, this gets a person to realize how severe the damage being caused on the Earth is as they can relate it to the body. This also brings about the realization of that destroying the source of breathing will harm people as well as the environment. Kairos was also indirect in this image as the urgency is depicted with almost half of one of the lungs already dead and in order to prevent more death, action needs to be taken right away. Logos was shown in much the same way as in the firs image which shows that the Earth is being destroyed and as it is home to so many different animals, this destruction needs to be stopped. The images use the same rhetorical appeals in many of the same ways. The main similarity is that they both show a slow death, the lungs are slowly dying, as is the elephant. The organization effectively uses the images to represent their goals as a person does not need to have much prior knowledge to understand what the images are saying. The rhetorical devices assist in doing so effectively as people react a certain way to certain things. The organization not only wants people to take immediate action, they also want people to be made more aware of the situation, which the images highlight for the viewers. After analyzing the images it can clearly be seen that the use of rhetorical devices is an effective way of presenting information to people in order to get certain reactions.