Smith 1 Sydney Smith Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 6th 2017 In 1973 Roe vs. Wade, a law that banned states from setting regulations on abortion in the first trimester of pregnancy, started major controversy in the United States (McBride). There are two views as it pertains to the abortion debate and they are Pro- Choice and Pro- Life. Those supporters of the Pro-Choice movement believe that women should be free to make decisions about their own body without fear of persecution. On the other hand, there are those who think that abortion is murder of a human being; they are Pro-life supporters. Women who have had or considered abortions did so for their own personal reasons, reasons that cannot be regulated by public law. The National abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League is a pro-choice organization that believe that abortion should that fights to keep abortion safe and legal(NARAL ). The NARAL believes that the problem is conceived by people who are not considerate of situation. The two pieces of visual rhetoric supports the idea that women should be liberated to make decisions of their body. The NARAL displays their belief that the guiding factor for abortion laws should be based on health and their ability to make their own decisions through the two images and there repressed meaning. Image A is the logo for the NARAL and it is an illustration of the Statue of liberty. The Statue of Liberty is a representation of freedom and democracy (National Park Services), in essence they believe that all woman should have those same standards. Thus, this is an example of ethos appeal. According to www.bbc.com, a pregnant woman should have the right to ownership over her own body, the right to decide her own future, and should have the right make legal decisions without moral or legal intervention (British Broadcasting Corporation Smith 2 Sydney Smith Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 6th 2017 ). Image B depicts a picture of a pregnant woman with a baby inside in her stomach followed by the words body, her This is an appeal to pathos and logos because the tone of the words suggest that the choices regarding her body is intended to be her choice and there should be no other way. It is also an appeal to Pathos because every woman can see it from a personal point of view and ask themselves, what if I was in this situation? In image A the text A Pro- Choice suggests that the NARAL works toward the idea of promoting their ideas throughout the country. Both image A and B share the same audiences. The first obvious audience would be appealing to women. In image A the replica of the Statue of Liberty can act as inspiration for women to realize their inner strength. In image B, the illustrator uses the body of a woman bearing a child, which also acts as an appeal to women. In addition to women I also feel as if the message is intended for men. In image B, body, her is a phrase that stresses the feminine pronoun which acts as subliminal message to men. Likewise, the text in image A is directed to the entire country including men. The US government is also an audience the stakeholder intended to reach. Not only do they discuss the vitality of the Federal role in the abortion debate, they also use their visual image as a technique. The website says, All three branches of the Federal Government can gave an impact on choice. The president and his administration can affect the policies in several ways. Congress writes laws. The supreme court decides whether laws are Moreover, in image A the phrase Smith 3 Sydney Smith Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 6th 2017 is suggesting that governing bodies and laws must be in accord with the ideas of the pro-choice movement. Although there are no specific settings shown in the images, Both images A and B has specific situations that are relatable to many people. For example, the pregnant woman in image B has a deeper meaning than just a pregnant woman. Pregnancy is state of being or situation that most women and families will experience. Each woman has a different story or a different reason for getting pregnant. Studies show that 50% of pregnancies in america are unplanned and 43% of pregnancies end in abortion (Bonham). What would happen if abortions became illegal? The truth of the matter is the population will increase faster than the economy can manage and women will find an illegal way to end their pregnancy that can be fatal to the mother. Furthermore, the likelihood of a mother not being able to care for a child due to the fact that the choice was taken away from her, increases the chances of the vulnerability of neglectful situations. Unfortunately, there are children conceived as a result of sexual assault. According to the New York Times 1 in 5 women have been sexually assaulted (Rabin). Most women abort babies conceived by rape because of the emotional distress that the child can cause. It is a reminder of the egregious events that has taken place in that life. The NARAL shares a story about a 13 year old girl who was raped by a man renting a room in her home. At 19 weeks she found out that she was pregnant and had an abortion at 20 weeks. life could have been changed at an early age had abortions not been available to her. The figure in image A was illustrated to have her head held high and looking out. Hence she is depicted as strong, hopeful, Smith 4 Sydney Smith Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 6th 2017 and resilient which is what the stakeholder wants the audience to be. In image B, and the figure of the body is highlighted in red. This technique is used to reiterate its significance and correspondence between each other. The NARAL effectively depicts their values and beliefs through images A and B. Both of them use the techniques of rhetorical appeals to grasp their intended audience through Pathos, Logos, and ethos. The goal of the NARAL is to continue the fight for women to be able to make choices as it relates to their own body without legal interference. As governing bodies change and the beliefs of politicians change, the NARAL continues to fight for Pro- Choice America. Image A Image B Smith 5 Sydney Smith Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 6th 2017 Reference: Smith 6 Sydney Smith Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 6th 2017 Bonham, Adrienne D. The Shriver Report. 21 10 2013. 5 2 2017. <http://shriverreport.org/why- are-50-percent-of-pregnancies-in-the-us-unplanned-adrienne-d-bonham/>. British Broadcasting Corporation . Ethics Guide. 6 1 2014. 5 3 2017. <http://www.bbc.co.uk/ethics/abortion/philosophical/introduction.shtml>. McBride, Alex. PBS. 6 May 2005 . 1 march 2017. NARAL . NARAL Pro-Choice America . 5 January 2017 . 1 March 2017. <http://www.prochoiceamerica.org/what-is-choice/abortion/>. National Park Services. Statue of Liberty. 8 6 2016. 4 3 2017. <https://www.nps.gov/stli/index.htm>. Rabin, Roni Caryn. The New York Times. 14 12 2011. 5 3 2017. <http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/15/health/nearly-1-in-5-women-in-us-survey- report-sexual-assault.html>.