Shelton 1 Ashley Brooke Shelton Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 03/05/17 Vision Project for Equality Gender equality and equal rights for women, a long discussed issue, is an issue that has recently taken a front seat in the news. One stakeholder that can be identified as a supporter of equal rights for women is the Vision Project. This project, started by Devin Mitchell, is a journalistic photography documentary whose goal is, as stated on their website, help veterans heal by providing them with a (VVP). The photos that make up this project depict military service members standing in front of mirrors. The image in the mirror shows, in theory, how the individuals see themselves. Shown below are two images selected from the project that display military service women and how they see themselves. For the purposes of this analysis, the image with the woman fixing her hair will be identified as image A. The image of the family with the baby will be known as image B. Both of these images show women as they see themselves, as part of the military. This supports the idea that women are just as important as men in this aspect. This is a very accurate representation of what the Vision Project stands for. Mitchell is currently an undergraduate student from Los Angeles, California studying sociology. Mitchell, along with Brad Ivanchan, and Mylee Cardenas put this project together. They traveled up and down the west coast in search of stories and lives of veterans to represent through the photographs that they were taking. One main objective of this documentary was to represent military veterans of all genders and sexual orientations in their home environment in a Shelton 1 way that is free of bias or judgment. The idea was to show where they are now in life, and where they were earlier in their life when they were active in the military. Along the top of each image included in this project, the individuals name is listed along with the branch of the military that they served in. This project relates to the issue of equal rights for women in the military because it exemplifies plainly how common it is for women to be veterans. The military is not a job that is reserved for men only. Women are entitled to the same rights and opportunities as any man. The Vision Project does a good job at supporting this point of view and further blurring the lines of gender inequality. The targeted audience for this project and these images is anyone who believes that men are superior to women in the military and that women do not deserve the same rights and opportunities as their male counterparts. In order to further understand the message behind each image, the rhetorical appeals of Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos will be utilized in the analysis. According to the online text, Really Ethos can be defined as method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the rhetor) attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman et al. 27). Logos can be defined as appeal to (Hoffman et al. 32). Pathos can be defined as appeal to (Hoffman et al. 37). Kairos, a rhetorical appeal less commonly mentioned, is defined by Really as appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman et al. 41). Of course, these definitions come from just one source, and as Purdue OWL puts it, the four rhetorical appeals, Ethos, Logos, and Pathos, are fairly loose in their (Welcome). Shelton 1 In image A, a mother and father are seen holding their baby girl in front of a bathroom mirror. In the reflection however, the same woman can be seen, but without the baby and the man. The woman is dressed in military attire and this is meant to represent the way that she sees herself. The rhetorical appeals that stand out in this image are Ethos and Pathos. Because of the military connotation associated with this image, automatic credibility is employed. The military is one group of people who represent authority and high levels of respect. Pathos is evident in this photograph through the depiction of a baby. Babies evoke emotion in almost everyone because of all of the innocence and love that they represent. In image B, a woman is seen standing in front of a bathroom mirror helping her two young daughters with their hair. Again, we see in the reflection the image of the same woman but dressed in her military attire. The rhetorical appeals that stand out in this image are, again, Ethos and Pathos, as well as Kairos. Ethos, as previously mentioned, is evident through the nature of the military connotations. Pathos is seen through the two young children, and Kairos is seen when you consider that the girls are getting ready for some type of event that is happening soon. In conclusion, these two images seen below do a sufficient job at representing the Vision Project and its mission. Not only do these two images appear similar in nature, but they are both an accurate representation of how women are equally represented in the military, as they deserve to be. Shelton 1 Image A Image B Shelton 1 Works Cited VVP by Devin  Veteran Vision Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. http://veteranvisionproject.com/ Hoffman, A., & Wiggs, K. (2016). Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu. Welcome to the Purdue OWL. (n.d.). Retrieved March 05, 2017, from https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/