Freixa 1 Carolina Freixa Erika Staiger ENC1102 005 Sunday, February 26, 2017 People for Ethical Treatment of Animals Advertisement Analysis Each year thousands of animals are brutally tortured in laboratories for cosmetics testing. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals, also known as PETA, is an animal rights organization that their attention on four major areas where animals suffer the most; in the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories, and in the entertainment industries (PETA). PETA wants to show society how bad it is to test on animals. One of the ways they do so is by advertisements. PETA has created ads to deter society away from buying cosmetics that have been tested on animals. They do this by connecting with emotions. These images are trying to convey sadness. They want the audience to feel sad, upset and hurt at these images to make them act upon their feelings. By having these animals and people looking sad, it will move people instead of showing them happy things and sending the wrong message. It is important to showcase the sadness in the advertisements because testing cosmetics on animals is not a happy subject. Medical research on animals began in the late and has continued into the present. Although many laws have been passed to further protect animals, there are still many inconsistencies within the laws and boundaries for the treatment and use of animals for cosmetics testing. For example, U.S. Animal Welfare Act excludes purpose-bred birds, rats, or mice, which comprise more than 90% of animals used in (Ferdowsian 2011). Although it is a positive aspect to have passed a law on animal welfare, this is not enough to stop the cruelty that is being done to animals in medical research. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals uses Freixa 2 rhetorical appeals in their advertisements to effectively get their message across. By using ethos, pathos and logos PETA successfully conveys their message in print advertisements. In both images, PETA attempts to persuade the audience by using credible celebrities. In the first picture Jessica-Jane Clement is the celebrity which demonstrates authority on the topic and assuming she approves of the message being conveyed. Jessica supports PETA and says you want to influence people, you must lead by example. I think doing this campaign will show people how important this ban (Clement 2016). Therefore, giving PETA a credible celebrity to help spread the word. The advertisement was created by PETA to promote the ban against selling products that have been tested on animals in the EU. They want to reach out to society and promote the ban against animal testing or else which use rabbits like Sammy (in the ad) and thousands of rats, mice and guinea pigs in cruel and completely unnecessary experiments will continue to profit by selling their products in (PETA 2016). In the second picture, actress Sofia Sisniega is the celebrity in the advertisement. She is a popular figure which conveys authority and promotes people to follow in her footsteps. Sofia promotes PETA and by having beauty is written on her in the photo she is conveying a strong message to the public about her views on animal testing. realize that harming animals by buying these (Sisniega), Sofia states in her interview with PETA on her campaign. Seeing as many people look up to these celebrities, it is an effective way of advertising for people to copy and follow in their paths. These people are not only celebrities but they are strong female figures which helps in PETAs mission in using ethos in their advertisements. Pathos is very prominent in both of these images and for PETA in general. By using images of cute sad animals, it appeals to emotions. Everyone loves animals and Freixa 3 especially want to help them if they are in need. In the first picture Jessica is hugging the bunny and showing love towards Sammy (the bunny), this will make people feel happy that she is showing love towards the bunny but by using the words like bunny should suffer for this makes people sad and therefore will act upon those feelings. In the second image the actress, Sofia Sisniega, is naked with the bold writing beauty is cruelty this appeals to emotions by giving confidence and showing them they are beautiful without makeup or using cosmetics tested on animals. The bunny in the bottom right of the picture also appeals to the emotions because it is cute and no one would want to hurt the cute little bunny. Both of these images show naked women which is a bold statement showing inner beauty and creates confidence within people to show them they need animals to enhance their beauty. Just having a healthy bunny in the photo shows people how cute they are and would not want to hurt them for their own selfish reasons. In picture number one, logos is not very prominent because there is no need for anything else to portray their message. By using the other elements, it is enough to convey the idea. Logos is a rhetorical device that uses convincing and persuading by using reason and logic however advertisement number one has no use for this device. In picture number two on the other hand it states year, countless animals are poisoned and killed in cruel and archaic product This is giving the audience reason to not use products that have been tested on animals. Logos is only in effect in the second advertisement seeing as PETA has used other elements that are more useful and prominent. Overall PETA uses more ethos and pathos to convey their message to society. By targeting emotions and using celebrity endorsements PETA effectively shows society that we do not need to buy cosmetics tested on animals. Freixa 4 Works Cited Testing Cosmetics and Household Products on  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/cosmetic-household- products-animal-testing/>. Ferdowsian, Hope R., and Nancy Beck. Ethical and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and  PLOS ONE. Public Library of Science, 7 Sept. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0024059>. Jessica-Jane Clement: No Bunny Should Suffer for  PETA UK. N.p., 02 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org.uk/blog/jessica-jane-clement-no-bunny-suffer- beauty/>. Sofia Sisniega Urges Shoppers to Choose Only Cruelty-free  PETA Latino. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.petalatino.com/en/features/sofia-sisniega-urges- shoppers-choose-cruelty-free-products/>. Animals Used in  National Anti-Vivisection Society. N.p., 12 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.navs.org/what-we-do/keep-you-informed/science-corner/areas-of- science-that-use-animals/animals-in-testing/#.WLNmYhjMyb8>. Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://literarydevices.net/logos/>.