Polston 1 Will Polston Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Rhetoric Enhancing Appeals One may think that they have full control over whether they want to buy a product, when it is the advertisers using rhetoric appeals to have the audience bite the theoretical bait that is advertising. Companies incorporate rhetoric appeals into their advertising such as ethos (establishing credibility), pathos (appeal to emotion), logos (an appeal to logic) and kairos (appeal to timeliness) to make their products even more appealing. General Nutrition Center is a suspect in this advertisement brainwashing. General Nutrition Centers is a nutritional store devoted to the betterment of their clients through vitamins and supplements. This company makes a good portion of their money selling muscle boosters and performance enhancers to professional athletes. By utilizing these rhetorical appeals, General Nutrition Centers has influence many of athletes to order supplements or performance enhancers from these appeals, and their crafty ways of utilization. In their logo and the picture provided from their website, many of these appeals are prevalent and express how General Nutrition Centers manipulates their audience. Whether it is the use of certain colors or the professional look of their logo, these pictures elicit certain emotions and show the professionalism of their company. Polston 2 The first image is the company logo of General Nutrition Centers. Customers are greeted with the big letters in red every time they encounter a General Nutrition Centers, with their simple, yet effective slogan Though the logo of the company may come off as simple, there is still a lot of underlying messages engrained into the image. These messages become more prevalent when one thinks of the rhetoric appeals. First off in the company logo is the use of ethos, the rhetoric appeal that establishes credibility in a person, place or object. From appearance alone, General Nutrition Centers greets customers with a logo that simply looks professional. The font of the letters, with the motto below along with the crisp look of the logo gives off the impression that this company knows what they are doing. Also, following up with ethos, the company motto of strengthens the credibility of the company as well. With this motto, General Nutrition Centers is advertising that their products and supplements will better your way of life and lead their users to a healthy lifestyle. Next rhetorical appeal in this logo is pathos. From first glance, this image seem to have much else to it than what is right in front of the audience, but small things in the logo could elicit some feelings from the way it is portrayed. For example, the slogan brings light to the logo, making it seem more relaxed and comforting. The slogan produces a utopian image within the head, making it seem as if taking enhancements and supplements will overall increase your morale. Finally, logos is the final appeal active in the logo for the company. Again, like the last two rhetorical appeals, the logos in the image is within the slogan. The iconic slogan is an appeal to logos because if the company products help one live a well lifestyle, why would someone pass on that opportunity? It only makes sense to take a supplement that will better life. The audience supposedly misses out on the opportunity to live a fulfilled life when they do not take supplements from General Nutrition Centers. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness is lacking in Polston 3 this logo. Regardless, most rhetoric appeals are utilized in the logo of General Nutrition Centers and the appeals are so secretive that one could miss them easily, even though they are being influenced by it unconsciously. Next is image 2, which consists of a man running a football while gritting his teeth and while carrying a defender on his back and the words Sports are displayed across the image. With these words written across the image, it can be assumed that the man running the football is a user of the sports nutrition supplements from General Nutrition. Like the last photo, this image provides multiple rhetoric appeals as well. Ethos leads off in the rhetoric lineup included in this photo. The man with the football carrying the defender on his back as he runs is a testimonial within the advertisement. Though the audience may not know who the man in the image is, he shows that the products from this company are effective with his run and effort, and is endorsing the products by being on the image. Many players in sports today could be drawn to this image due to the man pulling that defender along with him, causing sales to go up from young athletes. Second is the use of logos in the advertisement. The term expresses the use of logos, for it expresses that these supplements are better than most other supplements. General Nutrition makes top tier supplements that are even more advanced than the other brands, so why would one take any other supplements when General Nutrition makes the best? Also, regarding logos, the running back contains logos himself. If taking these supplements makes a player run this hard on the field and makes him this hard to bring down, why another athlete want to take these supplements? Finally, pathos is the last rhetorical appeal prevalent in this image. Pathos, the appeal to emotion, is shown in the players face as he is running. The gritting of the teeth on his menacing face shows the hard work and dedication this player must get as many yards as possible on this run. His effort and strength wows the audience Polston 4 and the dedication to his running could spark the dedication in an audience member to work just as hard as the man in the picture. By adding this man into the picture, many audience members will be in total shock or amazement over the fact that a man can run this hard and be this hard to take down, just from taking the nutritional supplements brought to them from General Nutrition Centers. Yet again, this image does not seem to show any kairos. Not many images on this website have an appeal to time on this website. After considering the images available on the General Nutrition Centers website, the rhetorical appeals may seem hidden, yet they all have a massive effect on the audience. Whether an image appeals to the emotions of the audience, to timeliness, to the credibility of the company or the logistics as to why one should use their product or invest in their company, the appeals are undeniably prevalent. Something as small as words across a picture, the appearance and colors in a photo or the face that a player is making in the image can change the opinion of the audience and influence many spectators to become consumers. Though General Nutrition Centers lacks the use of Kairos in their advertisements, at least the two posted in this essay, all the other rhetoric appeals have a high frequency. By using all the following rhetoric appeals, General Nutrition Centers has become the top selling nutritional supplement and performance enhancement distributor in the country, all thanks to minute details that may often go unnoticed to the common eye. Polston 5 Works Cited Advanced Sports Nutrition. 2011. Pittsburgh, PA. http://www.gnc.com/home/index.jsp . Accessed 25 February 2017. GNC Logo. 1997. Pittsburgh, PA. http://gnc.mediaroom.com/index.php?s=27058 . Accessed 26 February 2017. Official Site Lower Prices for  GNC. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.