Jhaveri 1 Ismail Jhaveri Erika Staiger Composition II 26 February 2017 The use of Rhetorical Appeals in DNC Commercials Every election cycle contains a mass amount of political propaganda. Every candidate spends millions of dollars to influence people to vote in their favor. The US elections are held every four years and presidential campaigns usually run about 5 to 6 months before the elections are held in November. During this time numerous political ads are created endorsing multiple candidates. The Democratic National Convention also known as the DNC are one of the largest political parties in the US whose objective is to get their candidate elected. They endorse their candidate through the use of commercials that use ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to influence voters into voting for their candidate instead of other candidates. The first rhetorical appeal, ethos, is the credibility of the video and the information it presents. In the first video credibility is brought in the form of Joel Sollender, a World War 2 war veteran who was captured by the Nazis. Sollender in the video is responding to a statement made by Trump that John Mccain is a war because he was captured. Sollender is a credible source since he himself was a prisoner of war and gives a first hand account of why should be considered war heroes. opinion is more credible than Trumps because Sollender has experienced war and being a POW while Trump has not. The ad uses Sollenders status as a veteran to make Trumps claim seem ignorant to the burdens of POWs and lowers Trumps credibility. The second video uses the status of President Johnson in order to increase the credibility of the advertisement. Presidents with high approval ratings are generally seen as Jhaveri 2 intelligent individuals with a higher than average knowledge of the political system. Johnson at the time was running for his second term and already had a reputation for being a good president. According to David Coleman From November 1963 through May 1964, his approval rating was around 75 percent or This meant that people trusted Johnson and were more likely to believe in his message. However ethos is not the only way to connect with voters. Pathos is used to connect to the audience on an emotional level. In the first video pathos is used both through visual and auditory effects. The music in the background of the advertisement sad, slow moving, low tempo music. According to a study done by the Frontiers Research Foundation instrumental sad music can evoke strong emotional responses in listeners. (Eerola, Vuoskoski, & Kautiainen The sad music was used to increase the emotional impact of the commercial and have the audience empathize with Sollender. The imagery and diction used by Sollender also increased the emotional impact of the commercial. When describing his time in the prison Sollender said was mainly hunger, and cold, and worrying whether the Germans were going to hurt us This quote allows the audience to imagine the state of German prisons during World War 2 and allows them to empathize with the veteran. The 2 nd video heavily uses pathos to create fear in the audience. At the time Lyndon B. opponent Barry Goldwater had proposed the use of nuclear weapons in Vietnam. The commercial begins by showing a little girl picking off the petals of a flower. The little girl is supposed to appeal to adults with children of their own. Then a nuclear bomb goes off implying that the girl died in the blast. This video was supposed to make people parents especially fear for the safety of their children and want to stay away from pro-nuclear policies that Goldwater represented. The nuclear bomb blast was also completely unexpected which increases the surprise and fear when watching the ad and also mirrors the sudden destruction that nuclear Jhaveri 3 bombs can create. The use of pathos is used to emotionally influence the audience into voting for their candidate through visual and auditory imagery. Another rhetorical appeal is logos. Logos employs reason and logic to appeal to the audience. In the first video logos is used to give credibility to the veteran. The video states that the veteran was captured in 1944. Dates and numbers fall into the use of logos because they refer to facts and the specification that Sollender was captured in 1944 gives more validity to his story. The second video uses deductive reasoning in order to push its message. The ad makes the claim that the use of nuclear weapons will destroy everything and Goldwater wants to use nuclear weapons. So through deductive reasoning if using nuclear weapons will destroy humanity and Goldwater wants to use nuclear weapons then voting for Goldwater will destroy humanity. This argument is called a syllogism and is indirectly used in this commercial. The final rhetorical appeal is kairos, which is an appeal to time. Elections occur on certain days so many political ads contain kairos by telling you to register to vote immediately or to vote in November. In the video for President Johnson at the end of the video a voice says Vote for president Johnson on November 3 rd . The stakes are too high for you to stay The statement is both sets a deadline and references to the impending doom of nuclear destruction. The creation of a deadline informs the audience of when Election Day begins and to act on that day. However the reference to impending doom creates urgency in the message and makes it stand out to the audience. The presidential election can shift the political balance for up to 4 years. That is why political parties such as the DNC place so much importance in an influential ad campaign. Through the use of logos, kairos, pathos, and ethos political parties can influence the electorate Jhaveri 4 into voting for a particular candidate by weakening how the public views other candidates and strengthening how the public views their own. Video 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RaxNEzA3jRs Video 2: Works Cited Coleman, David. Presidential Approval Ratings,  Research. Research, 05 Aug. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Eerola, Tuomas, Jonna K. Vuoskoski, and Hannu Kautiainen. Being Moved by Unfamiliar Sad Music Is Associated with High  Frontiers in Psychology 7 (2016): n. pag. Web. Hillary For America. Youtube. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RaxNEzA3jRs>. TheCourtJestersClub. YouTube. YouTube, 26 Dec. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.