Melissa Anne Bernal Instructor Ryan ENC 1102-001 26 February 2017 Analysis of Rhetorical Appeals in Alexander Bell Association Advertisements It used to be that Deaf people were not considered part of mainstream society. They were broken, abnormal humans; not welcome and not worthy enough to be a part of society. When Alexander Graham Bell started teaching students he realized that they could learn to speak, work, and function like anyone else. Through memorization and repetitive speech therapy these young children learned how to communicate; they could finally talk with their family and friends. It was an incredible breakthrough for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing community. Eventually the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing was created through a merge of multiple associations in 1956. Their mission was and still Advancing Listening and Spoken Language for Individuals who are Deaf and Hard of main focus is always the betterment of Deaf people by helping them and giving them options to learn to speak, one of these including the Cochlear Implant (CI). The CI is an electrical implant that connects to the brain and teaches it to sound through the brain rather than the ears. AGB has shown effectiveness in their advertisements for the promotion of CIs, through the use of rhetorical appeals such as: pathos, ethos, logos and kairos. The first advertisement of the mother and her son screams pathos, pathos, pathos. The audience that the advertisement is trying to reach is rather large, because it includes: parents of deaf and hard of hearing children, those children themselves, and anyone who can donate to the association to help ensure that these families can continue to receive these treatments and help. The advertisement states, MY DEAF SON HEARD ME CALL HIS NAME. HE SPOKE THE WORDS, LOVE Beginning the advertisement with the word shows investors and family that it is possible for Deaf children to live a successful life through the implantation of CIs, and that it is a solution for today, not something that takes years. The bolded words as well as the words LOVE connect to the audience with pathos due to the fact that when someone receives the news that their child is Deaf or Hard of Hearing, their immediate thought is they can never hear me, or speak, they are missing out on so much. But AGB wants to let the audience know that with CIs all of that IS possible. Parents can hear their children speak and they can actually communicate back to them verbally. There is also the fact that the phrase, LOVE inevitably warms the hearts of the audience. Below the main text, AGB states that if anyone wants to offer monetary support they can do so by contacting them. AGB made a very wise marketing technique by not including any values of monetary support, nor what percentage will go to the these children because a 2011 study by the University of Pennsylvania shows that when presented with advertisements that contain rational (statistics and numbers) as well as emotional appeals, it takes away from the emotional appeal since having both is (Armstrong, Evidence-based Advertising). Another article also stated that having a balance of the two also lowered the power of in comparison with the commercials that did not contain such a balance. (Stewart & Furse 1986). The last method of pathos was the picture itself. The mother and son being face to face show a new level of connection, of intimacy and any mother can say that the connection and love for her child is like no other. That is what this picture is trying to portray. The son is wearing a batman cochlear implant which appeals to the children in an emotional way since it shows that the cochlear implant does not have to make them different or uncomfortable from wearing something strange, rather it is another way they can express themselves and what they like. The advertisement is credible because it is marked with the AGB logo and website, that way anyone who sees the advertisement will know that it is supported by a real association. The second image shows a grand difference compared to the first. The second main focus is to connect with their audience through logic and subtle touches of pathos. The audience AGB intends to reach through the second image is solely donors to the AGB association. As the audience reads through the advertisement, the statistics pull at the strings of their hearts, making it known that loss is the most common sensory disability in the This sentence is obviously the appeal of logos, but also pathos because it lets the audience see that Deaf and Hard of Hearing people are not as uncommon as often presented. The next few facts present the donors with a very possible solution according to AGB. Making sure that [newborns are tested at 1 hearing technology applied by 3 and how early family can start intervention (6 Each of these steps shows that although the Deaf life will be different from the life that does not mean that it will hold him / her back. AGB wants to show investors that the earlier children can receive CIs, the better it will be for them in the future. a child to reduced costs for special education and improved wage-earning In the end AGB ends the pulling of hearts strings with one flair of kairos, can make it possible for children with hearing loss to Achieve Their Investors will see that it is possible for Deaf children to live a life of success through the implantation of CIs; all that they need is awareness and donations. The advertisement has the rhetorical appeal of ethos because it is marked with the AGB logo and website; the primary purpose of this is for the investors, to know that their money is going to a professional association and not something that will rip them off. AGB did not just use rhetorical appeals to grab the attention of their investors; they also used the stimulus of color. According to Purdue Owl, color Red is largely associated with danger, aggression, stimulation, and (Purdue University, Color Theory Presentation) In other words the color grabs your attention, in this case, the red is placed as the background of the 1, 3, 6 month section, which mainly talks about incorporating hearing technology to help young infants. AGB strategically used this color to let investors get straight to the point and emphasis the importance of CIs. Both the image of the mother and son and the image containing statistics main goal is to make the audience, whoever they are, see that cochlear implants and hearing technology, improve the life of Deaf and Hard of Hearing and allow them to be much more successful in life. Not only did AGB incorporate rhetorical appeals in their advertisements but they used the power of colors and photographs to also get their message to their audience(s). The work that AGB is doing to better the lifestyle of Deaf and Hard of Hearing children and people is one that will go in the history books, they are truly doing everything they can to help, and stopping at no costs. Works Cited Alexander Graham Bell. Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing. . Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Alexander Graham Bell. Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing. https://www.agbell.org/Document.aspx?id=532 Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Armstrong, J. Scott, Scholarly Commons. 07 Apr. 2011, Stewart, David W. & David H. Furse (1986), Effective Television Advertising: A Study of 1000 Commercials. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books. The Purdue OWL. Purdue U Writing Lab, 2016.