Herman 1 Madison Herman Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 23 February 2017 The Marijuana Industry through NORML The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana laws, or NORML, aims to be voice for Responsible Marijuana Smokers (NORML). Founded in 1970, the organization provides a voice in the public policy debate for people who believe in the legalization of marijuana. During the 1970s alone, NORML led to the decriminalization of minor marijuana offenses in eleven states and marijuana penalties in all (NORML). In a video by the founder of NORML, the speaker uses rhetorical appeals such as Logos, Ethos, and Kairos to advocate for marijuana legalization. In another media source by NORML, they use Ethos, Logos, and Pathos as strategies to attract an audience to their cause of marijuana reform laws. NORML is the largest, and the oldest, marijuana legalization organization nationwide, and together the group is able to lead successful efforts in reforming state and federal marijuana laws and legalizing the use of marijuana by (NORML). In a video on Twitter coming from NORML, a marijuana reform organization, Ethos, Logos, and Kairos are introduced to the audience in order to promote marijuana legalization. Representing ethos, the organizations founder himself Keith Stroup speaks out in favor of marijuana legalization nationwide. Using logos, he explains that as of October 2016, marijuana was legal for recreational use in four states and Washing D.C. Now, in February of 2017, according to Elizabeth Nelson in the Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, marijuana has passed Herman 2 legalization laws for recreational use in seven states and D.C. It is also legal for medicinal use in twenty-eight states and the District of Colombia (Nelson). In some states, it is not legal for medicinal or recreational use, however the drug has been decriminalized below a certain amount for residents of said states. Marijuana has passed so many reform laws, especially for medicinal use, because of the many symptoms and disease effects marijuana can treat. Some of the symptoms easily treated with cannabis include seizures from epilepsy, muscle spasms, insomnia, depression, poor appetite, and glaucoma (Nelson). What many people do not realize is that medical marijuana does not necessarily get one high; Cannabidiol, or CBD, an ingredient found in cannabis that offers the medical benefits but no the psychoactive of pot, meaning a patient can obtain the benefits without other consequence (Nelson). Stroup aims to bring forward responsible smoking habits of marijuana users and since the birth of the organization 46 years ago in 1970, NORML has been there to help pass marijuana legalization and emphasize the idea of responsible smoking from the beginning. To promote timeliness and a fast-acting audience, founder Keith Stroup uses Kairos in his video, saying to and help take marijuana reform laws to city councils, state legislators, and congress as well. Any donation from marijuana supporters, he says, helps towards the passing of marijuana legalization and dissipate the negative connotation associated with the drug from its hopeful legalization. In a second image by NORML, ethos is used to establish credibility by endorsement from Joe Rogan. Rogan is a comedian, actor, sports commentator, and podcaster. In the image he is quoted saying one has died from pot in over 10.000 years of use. People say you can abuse marijuana. You can abuse cheeseburgers. Does that mean we should close Burger (NORML). Rogan uses pathos by bringing humor to the issue at hand and establishing a relaxed atmosphere between the speaker in the photo and the audience who is seeing the picture. By Herman 3 using humor, Rogan is able to make a valid point and stab at a serious subject without upsetting others, saying marijuana may be but so are other things, like cheeseburgers, but that does not mean the government shuts down Burger Kings. Finally, logos is found in the picture with the first statement by Rogan, one has died from pot in over 10,000 years of Christopher Aanstoos in the Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, writes that is the most widely used and oldest illegal The marijuana plant dates back to cultivation in 8000 BCE in China (Aanstoos). Originally used for making textiles and paper, it then was used for its (Aanstoos). Eventually marijuana was used in India to reduce anxiety, where the drug had its first appearance as a medicine of sorts. Centuries later, in the is when the marijuana debate began to really pick up again. Organizations were formed, such as NORML, to reform marijuana laws because of the Harrison Act in 1914 (Aanstoos). The Harrison Act imposed recordkeeping and taxation requirements on the sale of opium, morphine, cocaine, and previously popular (Aanstoos). Marijuana was included in the Harrison act being that it was a narcotic, although it had similar reputation for or other dangerous effects (Aanstoos). The bodily effects of cannabis that often occur in users normally include reddening of the eyes and decreased intra-ocular pressure, dry mouth, feelings heat or cold, increased heart rate, and muscle relaxation (Aanstoos). The effects of marijuana can take place within minutes when smoked, or up to two hours after having been eaten. Other forms of cannabis ingestion include orally in pill form and by vaping marijuana. Since the first use as a medicine, it has since then been used to treat even severe diseases and symptoms worldwide. Such include nausea from diseases such as Disease or general nausea, muscle spasms, insomnia, anxiety, Herman 4 glaucoma, and even eating disorders (Nelson). Even since 8000 BCE there have been no reported deaths of overdose from marijuana or significant health defects associated with the drug, which is part of the reason why NORML is promoting cannabis responsibility and legalization. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or more simply NORML, aims to change the way society views marijuana smoking and the responsible use of marijuana by (NORML). Since the birth of the organization forty-six years ago, NORML, a nonprofit organization, has been working hard to promote responsible marijuana smoking and take reform laws to congress in the hopes of legalizing marijuana across the country. According to founder Keith Stroup, marijuana was legal in four states and D.C. as of October 2016, and is currently legal for recreational use in seven states and D.C. as well as twenty-seven states for medical use. With the help of Stroup to establish credibility and ethos, logos and Kairos are also used by Stroup in his advertisement to Americans to help him take marijuana reform laws to congress and pass legalization. In addition to the video, Joe Rogan, a comedian and public sports figure, endorses a picture by NORML where ethos, pathos, and logos are used to state a fact of marijuana; in the past 10,000+ years marijuana has been around, there have been no reported deaths in the history of the drug. Using the rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws is able to promote a society with safe, responsible marijuana use and persuade their audience to assist them in the fight for recreational marijuana legalization. Herman 5 Works Cited Aanstoos, Christopher.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health. , 2015. USF Library. Ebscohost. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Nelson, Elizabeth M. Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health. , 2016. USF Library. Ebscohost. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. NORML, NORML Foundation, 2016. USF Library. Ebscohost, norml.org/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017.