Wang 1 Evangeline Wang Instructor Andrew De Carion ENC1102.085S17 25 February 2017 Renewable Energy: The Tangible Advantages Wang 2 By consuming natural capitals from the nature, humans have obtained tremendous amount of energy to sustain the society. Nonetheless, the decreased oil production and deteriorating environment trigger a continuous debate in energy. That is, whether or not fossil fuels should be replaced with alternative energy becomes a controversial topic. One of the groups involved in this conflict is the American Council On Renewable Energy, or ACORE. They dedicate to the promotion of renewable energy and believe it can ameliorate the environmental crisis and make the society truly sustainable. Thus, the two images from official Twitter convey both the sustainability of renewable energy and its adequate opportunity for careers and incomes. ACORE utilize rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to convince their audience that clean energy has promising potentials that can benefit the whole society. Wang 3 Each image elaborates its ethos in a different way. For example, the first images shows its credibility by giving specific numbers and respective explanations. The image tries to estimate the energy savings, job opportunities and bill savings of using clean energy, however, it does not just give the viewers simple numbers, but additionally explains how they calculate and get these numbers with certain conditions. As a matter of fact, a further explanation seems to be more credible than a single word or number. Meanwhile, according to the original tweet, the second image means to show the capacity of wind power has increased, making it the largest renewable resource in the U.S. It applies ethos with the reference to the American flag and the clear blue sky. The flag makes sure the windmills and workers are contributing to American society, and the blue sky in the background endorses the idea that wind power is renewable and clean since it does not pollute the atmosphere. ACORE also attempt to invoke the emotional attachment to renewable energy with the images. The most evident pathos for the first image are the facial expression of the worker in the middle and the picture of cash at the right hand side. The worker in the middle is smiling while looking at the equipment. This means this employee is enjoying his work, and might further indicates working for the clean energy industry is a pleasant experience. On the other hand, the dollars indicating saved bills give a sense of frugality, and somewhat imply a kind of In other word, saving is another practical way for people to get incomes, so the viewers may eagerly want to get involved in order to save money and get incomes. In addition, the color of the numbers and capitalized words is green, which can be directly associated with or and gives a relaxing, Wang 4 natural visual effect, which makes the viewers feel comfortable. Therefore, the audience may have cheerful and positive feelings for this industry. The second image appeals emotions with the harmonious, beautiful view of the image. The flag gives a sense of solemnity and honor; the aligned workers give a sense of unity while the clear sky and wind turbines make a natural, peaceful view. Together these elements make the wind power plant itself as well as people working at this place a lovely workplace, which attracts and comforts the viewers. Logical analysis is another way that ACORE use to persuade the audience. For the first image, renewable energy does seem to have satisfying energy supply, employment opportunists and potential savings/incomes as the image adds reasonable conditions under each number to explain the potential of renewable energy. Moreover, the supplements can be regarded as causal statements as they are making assumptions and predicting outcomes. For example, by saying lifecycle energy saving when assuming average effective useful life is 12 also means that if people keep using wind power for 12 years, 36,000 GWH power will be saved. Likewise, the other two supplements encourage people to use clean energy because it will help them find jobs and save money. As for the second image, the logic is established by the overall view of the image. If the capacity of a wind power plant were small, it would not require such amount of employees to run the plant. Thus, it is logical that a large power plant has this many employees. In fact, according to Global Wind Report 2014 - Annual Market Update published by Global Wind Energy Council: of the end of 2015, the worldwide total cumulative installed electricity generation capacity from wind Wang 5 power amounted to 432,883 MW, an increase of 17% compared to the previous (11). Hence it seems valid and reasonable that wind power becomes the leading renewable resource in the U.S since its capacity is increasing significantly each year. At the same time, the image emphasizes the sustainability and reliability as the environment in the image is clean. Typically, the stereotype for workers is that most of them work in a dusty environment. However, the working environment of the workers on this image is open and natural. In other words, the blue sky and the clarity of this image indicate this workplace is free of pollution, thereby further prove that wind power is very reliable and environmental. ACORE use a appeal of timeliness as well to propose an instant engagement in using renewable energy. This feature is particularly highlighted in the first image since most part of the explanations is based on a prediction of future. The statement consume energy bill savings of $3.1 billion from 2016 to presents a significant potential of considerable savings from to the future and might make the audience want to start to use clean energy right away if they want to save money. The second image suggests kairos by giving such a wonderful view of nature and the power plant. When people want to protect the ecology and live in a healthy environment, they will possibly start to consume clean energy as the air pollution will not exist anymore and they can breathe in fresher air. As the audience, we can tell from the images above that proper rhetorical appeals are very essential in advertising and promoting. ACORE uses the images to make the audience trust their beliefs, feel involved, want to act instantly, and understand why they are advocating for Wang 6 their beliefs and policies. Overall, ACORE have utilized plausible explanations, pleasant visual effects and potential of being benefited to defend their position as a stakeholder. Without the comprehensive application of rhetorical appeals, stakeholders might be unable to effectively convey their beliefs, values, and therefore fail to withstand a conflict. Likewise, it is important for the audience to comprehend the meanings behind each appeal in order to have objective insights. Words Count: 1238 Wang 7 Works Cited @ACORE. reducing #energy waste, Minnesota could save $3.1 billion and create 15,000 new Twitter, 13 Feb. 2017, 2:00 p.m., https://twitter.com/ACORE/status/831261725223698432 @ACORE. #wind #power surpassed 82,000 MW, making it the largest #renewable resource by installed capacity http://bit.ly/2l2B0dN Twitter, 23 Feb. 2017, 7:00 a.m., https://twitter.com/ACORE/status/834779898761838592. Global Wind Report 2014 - Annual Market Update. Global Wind Energy Council, 22 April 2016.