Aljuboori 1 Ahmad Aljuboori Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 intermediate Edward Snowdan goal is to tell people the truth, but he never tried to promote his idea or advertise it in any ways. He did not create ads or posters to show his points of view. Nevertheless, Edward Snowden has a solid promotional campaign, which is maintained by his followers and supporters. The only thing Snowden took care of is rhetorical strategy. The statements he did are full of rhetorical appeals and these affected people spontaneously. From ethical points of view Snowden experienced a lot of struggles, particularly in determining of his actions. There are always two sides, right and wrong, and everyone decides which one is right or wrong for them. From one point of view, it is ethical to be honest and tell people the truth, but at the same time, from another point of view, it is extremely unethical to contradict your own country and break the law. Snowden chose people, democracy and liberty. By this means, he attracted a huge amount of followers, who brought all their visual campaigns to public in order to support and help Snowden in his goals. Newspaper posts, YouTube ads, internet images, billboards on the streets, all of them were created by the followers and have the same purpose to help bring the justice in the world. First image that cannot be unnoticed is the remix of famous poster with Obama on it. The original image, called was created by Shepard Fairey and represented Obama in 2008 presidential campaign. The original image consists of Barack portrait in Aljuboori 2 tricolor (blue, red, beige) stencil technique with the words or underneath (Copyright Battle Over Obama Image, BBC.Com). supporters took this poster as a basic of the final image. They included the most famous quote We but with the funny ending. The whole sentence appears as a main attribute of the poster and goes by We Can Read Your These words have a strong context. They remind people of past elections, campaign, choices America made along with current happenings, which involved surveillance programs. This context should have brought the idea of guiltiness. The purpose of these words is that people should realize how wrong they were, and how they were tricked and deceived by the government. Also, the meaning of these words should bring some type of fear in minds that there is no such a thing as internet privacy anymore. The were not chosen by accident. Creators could use to your phone or your but the point was to make an accent on specific internet source, such as e-mails. Another small thing that is very easy to ignore is the tiny symbol on jacket. In original poster, the symbol represents party and liberty, but in this version creators substituted it with the symbol of two triangles. White triangle, which probably stands for freedom, impales blue-red triangle, which are traditional colors. Some people refer this symbol to the broken hope, while others think it is the sign of justice. Finally, there is a terrific and the most incredible part of this poster Google glass on face. Google Glass is a device that can do all the things smartphone does, even though it is only managed by the voice, and this computer looks like the fancy glasses (Newman, PCWorld.com). Google is the corporation that has been accused multiple times for illegal surveillance. Moreover, there were rumors that google works as a supplier of National Security Agency. However, there is no legal evidence and any kind of proof. Nevertheless, the decision of Aljuboori 3 including Google Glass in this type of issue is a very smart move, which obviously influences the rhetorical appeal by its credibility. Second image that is tremendously interesting to consider is the advertisement on the Washington D.C. bus. This ad was provided by non-profit organization which expresses thankfulness to Edward Snowden for his actions and bravery (Edward Snowden Ad Spotted on DC Bus, VoiceOfRussia.Com). First thing that comes up to the mind is location. This ad is on the streets of the US capital. Argument becomes even stronger because of it its appearance right in the heart of the country. Washington is literally the face of the country. It is a place where the White House is, a place where decisions are being made, so there is no better place for this campaign to appear. Locate the numerous ads on the buses mean to capture the whole attention, because the busses are always moving and people unintentionally pay attention to the ads. The text on the ads makes the message simple and clear - the People Oppose the Surveillance State and Say Thank You, Edward Creators decided to use different fonts, to emphasize different aspects in the own way. the font represents its gracefulness and greatness, the Surveillance State and font shows persistence and seriousness, and You, Edward phrase was even highlighted and zoomed in 3 times to show the respect and thankfulness to Edward Snowden. At the bottom of the ad there is a website, where all information and updates on the case appear. The main reason why the link is provided is to bring the credibility. Ethos (credibility), Logos (logic), Pathos (emotions) and Kairos (appropriateness) are the main components in the creating a strong rhetorical appeal (Moxley, Yirinec 51). They play a big role in all kind of images and given examples are not the exclusions. First image has logos, because of its context and chosen components, which create a strong, thoughtful argument, and Aljuboori 4 pathos, because it brings certain emotions, such as anxiety. Second image has ethos, because of its creators and their credibility, logos, because of its arrangement and location, and pathos, because it affects feelings, particularly proudness. Finally, both images have kairos, because it is a current issue, and these poster and ad are extremely appropriate today. Consequently, we see that these images reflect goals in different ways. First image conveys the message of accusing the government on spying, whether second one encourages actions. In both cases, these are the main aims of the presented stakeholder. Therefore, these are the examples of how the images can support the goal, attract attention and influence people. Aljuboori 5 Works Cited Copyright Battle Over Obama  BBC News. 5 Feb. 2009. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Edward Snowden Ad Spotted on DC The Voice of Russia. 26 Nov. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Finn, Peter; Horwitz, Sari. U.S. charges Snowden with . The Washington Post. 21 Jun. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Moxley, Joseph, and Yirinec Jennifer. Network, Collaborate, Compose: College Writing in the Digital Age. University of South Florida, 2013. N.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Newman, Jared. Project Teases Augmented Reality. PC World. 4 Apr. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. World Internet Users Statistics Usage and World Population  World Internet Users Statistics Usage and World Population Stats. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.