Whitcomb 1 Nathan Whitcomb Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 2/26/17 Whitcomb 2 In the past few decades, high fructose corn syrup has been plaguing the food and health industry with numerous debates about its effects on the human body. These debates stemmed from a study in 2004 which noted a correlation between increases in high fructose corn syrup (HFCS) and obesity rates (Bray et al.). One stakeholder that has played a big part in this debate is the organization Citizens for Health. Originating in 1992, they are an organization that focuses on and advocates for food and health issues. Their goal in the HFCS debate is to restrict and even potentially eliminate its use in food products. Through infographics on their website for food issues (foodidentitytheft.com), noted their reasons for opposing HFCS which include its effects on the human body, how much HFCS is consumed, and how produced. In both infographics, most of the rhetorical appeals are used in an attempt to provoke fear and distrust of high fructose corn syrup and its effects on the human body in order to reduce and even eliminate its use in consumer food products. In the first image, ethos is attempted to be established through studies regarding HFCS and references to credible organizations such as the FDA and the Corn Refiners Associations. It notes how in 2012 the FDA, a governmental organization that regulates food and drug products, declined a petition set forth by the Corn Refiners Association in 2010 to allow corn syrup to be labeled in a manner similar to sugar (FDA). The image also cites various studies regarding HFCS, such as the study by Bray et al. from 2004 that discusses the correlation between increases in HFCS use and rates of obesity. With regards to ethos, the second image is quite contrary to the first in that it use reputable organizations or studies to build ethos. In fact, there appears to be no references to credible organizations (putting the name of the website does not automatically add credibility). Whitcomb 3 For both images, pathos is made by displaying the effects that high fructose corn syrup has on the human body. The first image does this in several key ways. Firstly, it notes how HFCS is commonly used in items that many people love and consume every day such as soda, cereal, bread, and ice cream. This may be an emotional piece of information for parents who have kids that consume such products daily and thus consume large amounts of HFCS every day. Further, they may become concerned for their diet after seeing what the image has to say about HFCS. Secondly, it discusses how HFCS affects the human body. It notes how HFCS your triglyceride levels and LDL (bad) and how liver damage occurs due to how goes right to the It also references the study performed by Bray et al. which describes a correlation between HFCS consumption and obesity rates. The second image takes a similar route in how it attempts to appeal to emotion by relating HFCS to the human body. Rather than using studies like the first image, it shows just how much HFCS is used in several very popular soft drinks. While a relatively simple demonstration, a powerful demonstration because it puts the sugar content on the label into perspective and thus helps people understand what putting in their bodies. Additionally, in a manner similar to the first image it can also be particularly powerful for parents who have children that consume soft drinks often. Similar to the way they attempt to build ethos and pathos, the two images also attempt to build logos through how HFCS affects the human body. The first image makes several statements regarding the effects of HFCS. Firstly, it tries to reason that because HFCS is made from corn by chemistry, not a natural sweetener and thus should not be treated as such. This is likely an attempt to appeal to people (especially parents) who make a conscious effort to make their diet as natural as possible. Secondly, it tries to directly reason that HFCS should not be used Whitcomb 4 because of its effects on the body: increases your triglyceride levels and your LDL (bad) and how goes right to the liver causing liver While similar in nature to the first noted appeal of logos, it goes further in that it says that there are direct consequences to consuming HFCS. Additionally, while the first appeal could be argued as more focused on certain demographics (such as health-conscious people), this appeal is far more likely to persuade people of other demographics due to the way it directly points out the effects of consuming HFCS. The other appeals in this image use references to credited organizations and studies to prove the point that HFCS is not natural and a healthy alternative to sugar. Studies such as the one from Bray et al. are used in order to back up the claim that HFCS is not healthy, but instead has been correlated with an increase in obesity rates. Their wording of these statements regarding a correlation between HFCS and obesity rates are somewhat on the edge of suggesting causation; if they pushed the point any more become a false cause fallacy. To reason by authority, the image also uses the response to the Corn Refiners petition to label high fructose corn syrup as rather than fructose corn (Agri-View). In their response, the FDA states that: HFCS and sugar are not equivalent by every parameter, are not metabolized by the body similarly, and do not even have the same form (sugar is crystalized, HFCS is an aqueous sweetener) (FDA). Compared to the first image, the second image takes a more simplistic approach with regards to logos. Its main appeal involves the amount of HFCS that is put into popular soft drinks. It attempts to reason that every soft drink is a syrupy drink by displaying an image containing the amounts of HFCS that three very popular soft drinks contain. This is also done in order to demonstrate just how much HFCS is consumed by people who drink soft drinks. Whitcomb 5 For both images, kairos seems to be the one appeal that is used the least (if at all). In the first image, the appeal seems to be related to HFCS being correlated to an increase in obesity rates and linked to the decline of the honey bee. Thus, the call to time would be that unless action is taken to decrease or reverse rates of HFCS use, then obesity rates and honey bee deaths are likely to rise. This appears to be somewhat of a false dilemma fallacy because it appears that saying that a decision must be made: to decrease HFCS usage, or to face rises in obesity rates and honey bee deaths when the issue is far more complicated. The second image, on the other hand, appears to have no elements of kairos. While these two images present quite a lot of information, their modes of persuasion all appear to be fairly consistent with each other. It appears that the same elements were being used for multiple modes of persuasion, although they did differ to an extent. Additionally, they also consisted of some logical fallacies such as the false cause and false dilemma fallacies. While the second image needs more elements of ethos and kairos, both images seem to be effective at raising awareness about high fructose corn syrup and just how much of it we consume on a daily basis. Works Cited Bray, George A., Samara Joy Nielsen, and Barry M Popkin. Consumption of high-fructose corn syrup in beverages may play a role in the epidemic of obesity. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 79(4): 537-543. April 2004. Fyksen, Jane. refiners petition FDA for use of as alternate name to fructose corn www.agriview.com/news/crop/corn-refiners-petition-fda-for-use- Whitcomb 6 Agri-View. Accessed 2/26/17 www.foodidentitytheft.com/hfcs-infographic-2015/. Food Identity Theft (Citizens for Health). Accessed 2/25/17 www.foodidentitytheft.com/a-spoonful-of-hfcs-is-neither-ok-nor-especially- Food Identity Theft (Citizens for Health). Accessed 2/25/17 Landa, Michael M. to Petition from Corn Refiners Association to Authorize as an Alternate Common or Usual Name for High Fructose Corn Syrup Food and Drug Administration (FDA). www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/CentersOffices/OfficeofFoods/CFSAN/CFSANFOIAElectroni cReadingRoom/ucm305226.htm. Accessed 2/25/17 Word Count: 1394