Michael Hampton In all my years of playing football I have never knowingly encountered or shared the same field with a homosexual football player. Some may say homosexuals should not be allowed to play football or maybe in some cases some players would refuse to be on the same team as a person who is homosexual and quit the team. But who is to say they are not good enough to play on the team because of their sexual preference? Throughout the history of the NFL there have been very few cases of accepting a gay player. The possible reasons the NFL might have for not accepting gay players reflects society not accepting the gay community, or simply that fear comes from ignorant prejudice. As football has not been traditionally accepting of homosexual players, still to this day as a result of our unaccepting society the NFL is not accepting of homosexual players. In the history of the NFL, the league known to accept gay players. Players would keep their furtive gay life a secret. A former NFL player, Roy Simmons, kept his furtive gay life a secret while he was in the NFL, but that secret last long. Years after he retired he appeared on a national tv show and announced he was gay.His family, friends, and former teammates were all in shocked and jaws-dropped. In 1997, Roy Simmons got the news that he was HIV positive.(Orth,2003) NFL teams that accept and support members of the LGBT community can help change view. However, it still took 12 days after the Orlando massacre for three NFL florida teams - Buccaneers, Dolphins, and the Jaguars - to donate $400,000 to the OneOrlando Fund (Blum, 2016). After other major sports league donated the NFL just followed instead of being the first to reach out. This shows the NFL is still not supportive of the gay community because even after the biggest massacre in American history it still almost took them two weeks to offer Michael Hampton support. In this way the NFl continues to fail at all fans feel comfortable regardless of their sexual preference or gender identity , therefore the assumption is that sport is still not welcoming environment for LGBT (Blum, 2016) The NFL is not very accepting of gay players. The history of the NFL has shown it. The acceptance of a gay player can bring negative attention to the NFL and a team organization. Situation like these makes the NFL look bad to the gay community and to the society in general for not accepting players base off of their sexuality.