Student 1 Bennett Lanni Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Supplements within Bodybuilding Supplement use within bodybuilding has become prominent within bodybuilding society. There are hundreds of thousands of different products on the market created by various different companies. However, there is a large debate on whether or not these supplements are actually necessary in order to achieve maximum muscular strength and growth. This debate is an important contemporary issue in bodybuilding society due to the fact there is constant research and internal discussion on whether supplements such as protein and creatine are completely necessary in order to gain the maximum amount of size and muscle strength. When major stakeholders argue in regards to this issue, two main sides arise. The first being one side that argues various legal supplements most definitely enhance and increase muscular strength and size, while the other side of the issue retorts with the idea that supplement usage is unnecessary, because all of the supplements that are sold are available through nutrient sources within a clean, protein rich strict diet. The first stakeholder involved in this argument is Rich Piana and his 5% Nutrition Company, which back the idea that supplementation is necessary, as 5% Nutrition relies heavily on this idea in order to sell their supplement products. The second stakeholder is JackedFactory, a stakeholder arguing that supplements are necessary and can be obtained through a strict diet and meal plan, which they sell. Both of these stakeholders have valid points, however there is a Student 2 compromise that could be reached. Bodybuilding is a sport built around proper upkeep and training of the body both inside and outside the gym. In order to achieve the best physique possible and obtain gains in both strength and muscular size, it is vital that one follows a strict diet. However, research shows whey protein is one of the most helpful supplements if for whatever reason a dictated amount of protein could not be reached through diet means alone. Also, creatine has been scientifically researched and determined to have a very large effect on muscle strength and size. So, it is necessary to maintain a strict diet as well as supplementation through whey protein and creatine in order to achieve maximum effectiveness when beginning a bodybuilding curriculum. The goal of the first stakeholder, Rich Piana and 5% Nutrition is to push the use of supplements within bodybuilding with the statement that supplements is the only way to achieve maximum physical fitness and reach physique goals in order to further the sales from his company and increase revenue. His reasoning behind the name is that he caters to the of people that are out there actually doing whatever it takes to fulfill their dreams, to accomplish their goals, and to live the type of life they want to (Rich-piana.com). This appeals to the idea that supplements are necessary in order to achieve weightlifting goals and increase strength. One of his products is his own blend of Creatine Monohydrate, which he describes as one of the best supplements for strength training. This is backed by a public research article presented by the Sports Nutrition and Therapy Journal of America. This study researched the effects of creatine on strength training over the course of a 12 week period. The results showed, participants significantly increased their muscular strength, fat free mass (FFM), muscular hypertrophy and total muscle CR concentrations over a control group. It was suggested that the significant effects recorded were accredited to an increased total CR pool, enabling a Student 3 greater regeneration of ATP between exercise (Dorrell, Gee, Middleton). The journal article also performed an research experiment on creatine usage and intermittent high intensity exercise, the results again showing a beneficial impact, muscle power output and PCr resynthesis increased following completion of supplement (Dorrell, et. al). The second stakeholder, JackedFactory, presents meal plans and fitness advice with the goal To promote bodybuilding that consists of nothing but a highly strict diet in order to obtain all essential proteins and amino acids with the POSSIBLE inclusion of a good sports vitamin (daily multivitamin). The main arguments put forth by the stakeholder is that supplements are unnecessary and everything can be obtained through a strict, healthy diet consisting of a wide variety of healthy foods and supplements are a market scheme and mainly all not beneficial. The only supplement JackedFactory does support is a multi-vitamin due to strenuous effects to the body, most of your nutrition will be coming from whole foods, it is important to take a multi-vitamin in order to fill in the gaps. The stress of bodybuilding on the body cannot be (JackedFactory.com). The philosophy of JackedFactory is backed by a research article located in the U.S. National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health Journal. An Article published there by Melvin Williams discusses the idea of a whey protein supplement, and presents research that it is not necessary in athletes, Academy of Sciences concluded that in view of the lack of compelling evidence to the contrary, no additional dietary protein is suggested for healthy adults undertaking resistance or endurance exercise. Sports nutrition scientists do note that even if athletes need more protein, the recommended amounts are compatible with the current Acceptable Macronutrient Dietary Recommendations percent of energy from protein) and may be easily obtained from natural foods in the (Williams). It is stated that if an athlete requires a higher amount of Student 4 daily protein it can be easily obtained through diet. Also, the article suggests that protein obtained from dietary means is more beneficial due to its natural inclusion of amino acids, protein is composed of 20 different amino acids which, if ingested individually, have been theorized to possess ergogenic potential and have been marketed as sports supplements to physically active (Williams). A proposed comprise to satisfy both stakeholders is, in order to achieve maximum muscular size and strength, and reach peak physique for any individual, a strict and healthy diet plan is necessary along with the inclusion of two highly important supplements, whey protein if it cannot be achieved through dietary means, and creatine. This compromise benefits the first stakeholder because it states that the two most important supplements are necessary and would allow for consumers to be led to purchase from his market. The compromise also benefits the second stakeholder because it states physique goals cannot be met without a strict diet plan and allows for consumers to view and purchase their meal plans and states a healthy diet is definitely necessary in order to achieve size and strength and muscle and supplements alone could not achieve this. This compromise is backed by an extensive study conducted within the Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition, which states, will respond best to consuming 2.3-3.1 g/kg of lean body mass per day of protein, 15-30% of calories from fat, and the reminder of calories from carbohydrate. Eating three to six meals per day with a meal containing 0.4-0.5 g/kg bodyweight of protein prior and subsequent to resistance training along with a creatine monohydrate supplement and whey protein isolate post-workout will provide the best nutritional (Helms). Another article published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition discusses ketogenic diets along with creatine supplementation concluded that a mixture Student 5 of creatine along with a low-carb high protein diet produced high physique results, directly compared 2 diets: a ketogenic very-low carbohydrate (KLC) diet with CLR supplementation and a nonketogenic low-carbohydrate (NLC) diet. They concluded that the KLC with CLR supplementation diet was most effective in reducing body weight and insulin (Krilanovich). If this compromise was presented to both stakeholders, it could allow them to reach an agreement and also create revenue for both stakeholders. Individuals would see that supplements are necessary (Rich company) and would also see that a proper diet plan is necessary as well and buy meal plans from JackedFactory. Consumers who wish to begin their life of bodybuilding and better themselves physically can look to both stakeholders in order to help them reach their goals. Daily exercise and fitness throughout life is imperative in order to stay healthy, and some individuals take this to the next level and pursue the sport of bodybuilding. There are millions of novice bodybuilders across the globe who wish to begin their journey, and it is necessary they know what is truly required in order to be successful. (WC: 1,405) Student 6 Works Cited Dorrell, Harry, Thomas Gee, and Geoff Middleton. An Update on Effects of Creatine Supplementation on Performance: A  OMICS International. Sports Nutrition and Therapy, 17 Mar. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Helms, Eric R., Alan A. Aragon, and Peter J. Fitschen. Evidence-based Recommendations for Natural Bodybuilding Contest Preparation: Nutrition and  Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition. BioMed Central, 12 May 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Krilanovich, Nicholas J. Benefits of Ketogenic  The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 01 Jan. 2007. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Jacked Factory. The Definitive Natural Bodybuilding Guide for Building Muscle Jacked Factory, 09 Dec. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Rich Piana 5% Nutrition. Rich Piana 5% Nutrition, 2017 Williams, Melvin. Dietary Supplements and Sports Performance: Amino  Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition. BioMed Central, 2005. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wolfe, Robert R. Protein Supplements and  The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. American Society for Clinical Nutrition, 01 Aug. 2000. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.