Joseph Buckler Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Games for Change Games for Change was created in 2004 with the goal of promoting videogames as a tool for humanitarian and educational efforts (Games for Change). Their organization is spread throughout the world, with major chapters in North America and Europe, and both chapters work to create positive social change through the use of videogames. Games for Change hosts events all over the world, and they use social media and their websites to promote these events. Their logo (the image on the left), for example, shows a play button with the organizations name, implying that they promote the playing of videogames. The image on the right is a promotion of an event held in Latin America, a festival focus on the benefits of games and their use in education, health, entrepreneurship, civic society and cultural (Games for Change). This promotional pictures depicts South and Central America as being made of different objects and symbols, such as gaming controllers, books, musical notes, and many other things that they promote as an organization. Both of these images use relatable and recognizable images to appeal to their sense of logos, pathos, and kairos. One of the appeals that both images use is logos through the use of symbols to relate to the viewer and help create an understanding of their goals before reading more. Both images rely on symbols to create a logical connection with the viewer to establish meaning, and in the first image specifically, the play button is used to represent action. This call for action through the use of a play button directly relates to Games for Change motto: Connect, Research, (Games for Change Europe). By basing their logo image on a play button, they are using the recognition of the symbol to encourage people to take action and promote videogames, connect people with one another, encourage research in game development, and incubate passion and understanding for videogames. In the second image, the use of symbols is also used to create the understanding that videogames can also be a base of education for people. In the image, traditional educational tools such as books and scientific tools are shown as making up South and Central America, but creative tools such as videogame controllers and musical notes are also include. This implies to the viewer that creative outlets can also be used for education. A similar logical appeal that both images take advantage of is the use of the color red. Red often represents energy and action, and by including this color in both images, Games for Change is encouraging action in promoting videogames as a positive tool in society. Another rhetorical appeal both images take advantage of is the use of pathos to create a feeling of support and action in the viewer. In the first image especially, this sense of action is felt. Through the inclusion of the play button, the viewer feels like action needs to be taken and that they are a part of the movement. Although their logo is relatively simple, a lot is communicated to the viewer. Another key part of the first image is the use of the color red. In this case, red is used to encourage a feeling of energy and action, but also make the viewer feel the passion and determination behind the organization. As a non-profit-organization, Games for Change relies solely on the support and passion of those involved in their efforts, and their logo helps get this feeling across to their audience. The second image also uses the rhetorical appeal to pathos to create feelings of support within its viewers. Like the first image, the second image also takes advantage of the color red to create a feeling of passion and determination in the viewer so they understand how passionate Games for Changes is in their humanitarian and educational efforts. The event featured in this picture specifically benefits from this use of pathos, as the event is intended to on the benefits of and how games are used to STEM (1 st Annual Games for Change Latin America Festival). By using red to induce feelings of passion, the viewer can understand the impact this event has on the community and how much effort Games for Change puts into their events. Red also signifies and creates a feeling of excitement in the viewer, and encourages them to feel the excitement that the event created. On the ending night of the Games for Change Latin America event they the most exciting games for change in Latin (1 st Annual Games for Change Latin America Festival). By creating this feeling of excitement within the viewer, they can experience the event even though they may not have actually been there. Both images also appeal to the sense of kairos through calling the viewers of the images to action and encouraging them to act in favor of social change through videogames. Image one accomplishes this feeling of action needing to be taken through the shape of the play button. By basing their logo on this shape, they encourage their viewers to start taking action now and to start having a positive impact on their community. Their logo implies that they need to wait to take action, but that they can start taking action now. Had their logo been done on a pause button, their viewers feel the need to take action as soon as possible, but whenever they have the time to do it. Humanitarian efforts cannot be put on hold, and the shape of their logo conveys this. The second image also appeals to this sense of time through the inclusion of the Portuguese word for By exclaiming this word, they are encouraging to be change, or their communities for the better now, and to take action now. Instead of seeming like a boring statement, the word is transformed into a call to action, appealing to the sense of kairos. The use of red in the image also appeals to this sense of kairos as red is often related to excitement and energy. In this case, red is used to get their viewers excited about making a difference and encourage them to start as soon as possible. Games for Change is an organization that has a positive impact through videogames and technology throughout the world. They host a wide range of events and encourage everyone to make a change in their own communities. By using images such as their logo and advertisements of events such as the Games for Change Latin America Festival, they can encourage people to take action and support their movement. Through incorporating rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, and kairos, they are able to effectively pass along their message to a wide range of people. Words always necessary to pass along a message, and their use of these two images proves just that. Word Count: 1224 Works Cited Annual Games for Change Latin America Festival, December 8 - Games for Change, www.gamesforchange.org/2011/12/games-for-change-latin-america-2011/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. for Games for Change, www.gamesforchange.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. For Change Europe Promote Connect Research Games For Change Europe, www.g4ceurope.eu/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.