Friese 1 Meghan Friese Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 Composition 1 2/27/2017 The Great Barrier Reef The Great Barrier Reef has been in constant decline for as long as researchers have studied it. Its extensive ecosystem and ability to enable life has drawn many diverse sea creatures to the coral reef. The main ability the reef gives to its surrounding creatures is life. The reef is off the coast of northeastern Australia and covers nearly 132,974 square miles. The expansive reef is home to over 600 various types of soft and hard coral (Bowen). The astonishing area covered by the reef makes it a candidate for the largest living structure on Earth. The impressiveness of this habitat, enabler of life, and living chain of coral is what drew me to research more about it. While learning about the extensive history of the reef I began to question its origins as well as its effects it has on our world. What exactly does the reef offer to its surrounding environments, and how has it changed throughout time? The movement that most consider when preserving the reef is removing all human aid. According to the article Ecosystem health of the Great Barrier Reef: Time for effective management action based on evidence, before 2010, researchers believed that any human interaction with the reef would greatly damage it. The startling decline of the reef led researchers to put the idea into head that diving the reef or even studying it will be its likely cause of death. Studies after 2010 contradict the previous idea stating that data found was contradictory in the sense that the coral built up a resilience in the area that was touched by While human contact does destroy the reef (if carelessly applied), it also Friese 2 reinforces the reefs defense system. The human interaction with the reef could be viewed as both a negative and positive effect. Another idea that has changed over time pertaining to the Great Barrier Reef deals with water purity. Before 2010, numerous scientist believed that reef was being destroyed directly by humans(Bowen). However, after studying our progressively heating Earth, scientist realized that water problems could also be a factor. The main problem associated with the bleaching of the reef is water temperature. Pollution has caused the water in the reefs area to become too warm for the coral to survive(Wooldridge). This revelation has led to the government of Australia taking action. Hopeful processes being put into place to save the reef include minimizing waste as well as the reduction of pesticides in the surrounding area. The government of Australia has never been able to of the reef due to the implications it would have on society. Before 2010 the government was held back by citizens upset on the effects aid to the reef would cause them(Pearson). While the intentions are good, they were struggling in implementing plans. Environmental problems in relation to the government typically takes a backseat to other forms of politics. After 2010 the government began to act upon their ideas. Many implications have been added to governmental policy in order to lessen the deterioration of the reef. The Long Term Sustainability plan is the main focus for the Australian government right now. This plan involves many smaller components. To lessen the impact humans have on the reef, the government in focusing on how they can help. Water quality, greenhouse gasses, and human disturbance are all areas that are being focused on(Allen). There have been many changes in beliefs and plans for the Great Barrier Reef. Each of them involve the impending declination of the reef. Over time, researchers have begun to focus Friese 3 on the Instead of focusing on human interaction with the reef, scientist are now focusing on environmental problems as the causation of bleaching. They are now implementing plans involving chemicals and waste instead of plans banning humans from the reef. Hopefully the newfound knowledge and ideology on how to save the reef with be beneficial in years to come. James, and Margarita Bowen. The Great Barrier Reef. [Electronic : History, Science, Heritage. n.p.:Cambridge, UK ; New York : Cambridge University Press, 2002., 2002. Friese 4 University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Brodie, Jon, and Richard G. Pearson. Ecosystem Health Of The Great Barrier Reef: Time For Effective Management Natalie Stoeckl a,n , Marina Farr a , Silva Larson a , Vanessa M. Adams b,c , Ida Kubiszewski d , Michelle Esparon a Robert Costanza d. Ecosystem Services. Vol. 10. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web. Scott A. Wooldridge. Marine Pollution Bulletin. Vol. 58. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web. Maynard, Jeffrey A., et al. Great Barrier Reef No-Take Areas Include A Range Of Disturbance  Conservation Letters 9.3 (2016): 191-199. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Dale, Allan P., et al. Research Article: Risk Analysis Of The Governance System Affecting Outcomes In The Great Barrier  Journal Of Environmental Management 183.Part 3 (2016): 712-721. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.