Student 1 Student ENC 1102 Professor Lewis 5 March 2017 A Better Place for the Homeless Homelessness is a growing issue within society, especially within The United States. In 2012 alone, 633,782 people within the United States experienced homelessness, and the numbers have only increased since then (Sheffield). As the rates of homelessness rise, the government is struggling to figure out how to solve the issue. The solution that many states or individual cities turn to is criminalization of the homeless in order to get them off of the streets. An important stakeholder within this issue is The National Coalition for the Homeless, (NCH) an organization who insists that criminalization is not the correct way to go about the issue of homelessness, but instead believes the solution is to create more state and federal programs. Another important stakeholder is the Venice Stakeholders Association, (VSA) who believes that criminalization is a useful strategy because it removes the homeless from the streets. Both stakeholders see the growing rates of homelessness as a high priority concern, though their ideas about solutions are contrasting. Approaching the idea that both stakeholders would like for the homeless to be off of the streets and out of neighborhoods could help to propose a compromise and employ a collaborative effort to solve the growing issue of homelessness. A key stakeholder in the issue of criminalizing the homeless is the NCH, whose main goal is to build a movement to end homelessness NCH believes that one of the key aspects of ending homelessness is to stop criminalizing laws put in place by governments, Student 2 and to build more housing. Because of lack of affordable housing, hundreds of thousands of people are forced to live in public spaces (Tars). In order to reduce the number of people living in the streets, NCH calls for construction of more public housing. Criminalization often targets homeless when they are sleeping in public areas, such as on benches or in parks. The NCH views such criminalization as intentionally the... innocent conduct of the and should be therefore stopped. The stakeholder NCH sees criminalization as harmful toward the homeless population, and is fighting against it through the plea for construction of more public housing. The organization aims to stop homelessness through housing for all. Another stakeholder within the issue of criminalizing the homeless is the Venice Stakeholders Association. This main goal is to improve neighborhood safety and beautification within Venice, California the The VSW believes in criminalization of the homeless, because they fear that homeless people will push them out of their communities if they do not push homeless people out first (Udvarhelyi). The organization fears that letting homeless live on the streets without punishment will cause the area of Venice to become unsafe and unattractive. VSW calls for to occur (Chesnay), a form of criminalization involving fines or potential incarceration when the law is broken. Penalization of the homeless would involve them being fined when sleeping in public and disobeying other regulatory laws. The stakeholder would like for the homeless to be off of the streets and out of their neighborhoods by any mechanism necessary, and they have found that the most successful way of doing such is through criminalization and penalization. Student 3 Both the NCH and VSA advocate for the homeless to be off of the streets, but in different ways. The NCH wants to help the homeless get into public housing and calls for the construction of such housing, meanwhile, the VSA advocates for the homeless to be removed through penalization and criminalization. Efforts have been created previously to create a solution, such as the creation of tent cities, temporary structures that provide simple shelter to the homeless (Loftus-Farren), although more renovations would be necessary for the tent cities to become a full solution. While tent cities are a good short term option, a permanent solution to the living situation of homeless is of high priority. The tent cities also only tend to appeal to one stakeholder, the NCH. The VSA is left to deal with the often unsightly tent cities within their neighborhoods still. A compromise between the NCH and VSA would be more effective at solving the problem of homelessness. A compromise between the two stakeholders could consist of the creation of a housing community typically for the homeless. While there are current public housing locations throughout the country, only one housing community seems to exist. Camp Quixote is a tent-site turned homeless community in Olympia, Washington that has had great success (Reslock). The site features many tiny houses, a communal building with showers, a kitchen, and a laundromat, as well as a community garden. Such a community not only presents the homeless with a place to live, but also a sense of community and a place to better themselves. Creating a compromise between the NCH and VSA could be based upon Camp Quixote. A solution based upon a slight tent-site approach would appeal to both stakeholders. Creating a more permanent site with many tiny houses would not appeal to both the NCH and VSA because the homeless would be off the street, and the site would have regulations and a Student 4 pleasant appearance. To maintain the safety of the site, rules would be put in place such as requiring every person to be sober and keep up with the maintenance of their area, as well as the communal areas. The rent would be based on a percentage of the homeless salary, such as 30%, and each resident would have to maintain a clean criminal record while at the facilities. While the site seems like it would be costly, $8,000-$10,000 are saved per year per homeless person housed, due to fewer emergency room visits, hospital stays, jail time, and ambulance rides (Reslock). Simple math indicates that savings of at least $8,000 multiplied by the 633,782 people experiencing homeless is well worth the costs of building the sites, which would particularly appeal to the VSA. Logistically, the costs needed for the sites would include land, construction costs, permits, and other services - many of which can be donated through various charities. The tiny house communities for the homeless are beneficial to both stakeholders, as they remove the homeless and place them into effective and sightly communities, instead of the dirty streets. Although the NCH and the VSA have differing views about how to properly deal with the homeless, they both would like to get them off of the streets in some way or another. A collaborative plan between the two stakeholders would provide for a solution that benefits both through the removal of homeless from the streets. Creation of a tiny house community for homeless would benefit the NCH, since one of their main goals is to provide housing for the homeless. The sites would also benefit the VSA since the homeless would no longer be roaming their neighborhoods, and instead would be placed into housing units with strict regulations and cleanliness standards. If the collaborative plan is ignored by one or both of the stakeholders, then the rates of homelessness will only rise and the safety levels of cities will decrease. If the Student 5 collaborative efforts are attempted and addressed, rates of homelessness will decrease, community tax dollars will be saved, and the cities will begin to become more beautiful and attractive. (WC: 1,214) Student 6 Works Cited About  Coalition for the Homeless . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. www.nationalhomeless.org/about-us/ Chesnay, Catherine T., Cline Bellot, and Marie-ve Sylvestre. Taming Disorderly People One Ticket at a Time: The Penalization of Homelessness in Ontario and British  Canadian Journal of Criminology & Criminal Justice , vol. 55, no. 2, 2013., pp. 161-185. Accessed 24 February 2017. the Swamp, Mike, and Stop Attracting More Homeless to Stakeholders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 March 2017. http://www.venicestakeholdersassociation.org/2016/11/drain-swamp-mike-and-stop-attracti ng.html Loftus-Farren, Zoe. Tent Cities: An Interim Solution to Homelessness and Affordable Housing Shortages in the United California law review , vol. 99, 2011., pp. 1037. Accessed 24 February 2017. Elizabeth M. M. The Cruel and Unusual Criminalization of Homelessness: Factoring Individual Accountability into the Proportionality Texas Journal on Civil Liberties & Civil Rights , vol. 12, no. 1, 2006., pp. 233-275. Accessed 24 February 2017. Reslock, Debbie S. Housing for Planning , vol. 82, no. 2, 2016., pp. 34-38. Accessed 24 February 2017. Student 7 Sheffield, Jonathan. Homeless Bill of Rights: Step by Step from State to Interest Law Reporter, vol. 19, no. 45, 2013., pp. 8-17. Accessed 5 March 2017. Tars, Eric S., et al. Can I Get some Remedy?: Criminalization of Homelessness and the Obligation to Provide an Effective Columbia Human Rights Law Review , vol. 45, no. 3, 2014., pp. 738-771. Accessed 24 February 2017. Udvarhelyi, va T. We Push Homeless People Out, We Will End Up Being Pushed Out by The Criminalization of Homelessness as State Strategy in Antipode , vol. 46, no. 3, 2014., pp. 816-834. Accessed 24 February 2017.