Leah Hansil ENC 1102 Adam Carter February 26, 2017 As humans, we constantly think about our next meal but more often than not, we think about whether the ingredients in our meals have been genetically modified. Although, an organization that has put a lot of thought into this calls themselves GMO Free Florida. Its goal is to have all genetically modified foods properly labeled because it believes the consumer has a right to know. In the long run, the organization hopes to ban all genetically modified organisms (GMOs) completely. The organization, GMO Free Florida, adds photographs to their website that use rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos and that aid in getting support for the banning of GMOs. GMO Free Florida has been educating the public on the issue since 2010 and now has upward of 15,000 subscribers and 30 volunteer groups across the state of Florida. GMOFF is against this newfound science because the experimental procedures used to change the DNA of the food are not made known to the public. It is also unknown if the consumption of these foods will lead to any short term or long term safety issues. The seeds are patented and therefore unavailable for testing. The only testing for GMOs are by the same corporations that create and profit from their (GMO Free Florida). This being the case, it is easy to believe the full truth may not be released as it may result in a drop in sales. This patent also affects farmers who do not have strict permission to use the technology. If seeds were to drift from one farm to another and are found in a field not owned by the corporate organizations who also own the patent, the local farmer can be sued. To show support of these local farmers and also raise awareness for these issues GMO Free Florida creates events for the community such as marches, rallies, film nights, and pot lucks. Also on the website, images with multiple rhetorical appeals can be found to also rally up support for the cause. Logos is an appeal to logic and is used to convince through reasoning and the first image uses this in a very effective way. The entirety of the advertisement is made up of facts and statistics with the title being Wants GMOs The information is organized in a way that takes these facts and makes them more exciting to look at. GMO Free Florida has done this by taking ten different statistics and making them into the shape of the United States. Not only does it have words actually making up the picture but there are also facts such as than one million Americans have called on the FDA to label GMOs. Pathos is an appeal that gains support through an emotional response. The first image uses subtle accents of pathos through its overall message. Statistics and facts that show how many Americans support this view which makes the viewer feel as if it is an important issue that they should be a part of. The advertisement has a bandwagon-like approach showing that this is what everyone wants and therefore you should want it too. It can be brought so far as to say it challenges the patriotism as well by giving the feeling that if you are an American, you should want GMOs to be labeled like the rest of us do. In the second photo, the emotion appeals are a lot stronger. The background is a daunting grey color symbolizing that what is happening in the picture is not good and potentially dangerous as well. The only object in color is the picture of the corn. This shows that unmodified corn is the only thing pure and non-threatening. Meanwhile, the corn is being injected with many different needles. This advertisement uses pathos perfectly as the needles are associated with many different unpleasant feelings. It brings to mind the office which often times reminds of us the fear of bad news. Also, the needle itself is a object that brings us literal pain. Ethos represents credibility as well as ethics. In image number one, the first showing of credibility is the color choice. The background is blue which is a universally favored color. In an article written about the psychology of color, blue was said to to trust, honestly, and dependability, therefore helping to build (Vijapure). It makes the audience feel as if they can trust the information being presented to them, in this case, the statistics. It also uses other well-known and trusted data such as the Federal Drug Administration (FDA). Finally, these images use kairos which is an appeal to timeliness. By presenting the information in a way that makes the viewer feel uneducated about the issue compared to everyone else, the viewer is compelled to on the as soon as possible. In society, knowledge is an indication of superiority. Those who are not educated about the issue look at the advertisement and feel as if they need to read up because so many others know information that they This also brings along the sense of being left out. According to the advertisement, 90% of Americans want GMOs labeled and it calls for the reader to feel that way too right now so that they are part of the majority. In the second article, the feelings given by the article make the viewer want to do something about the issue right now. No one would want to eat what is in a needle at a office so the overwhelming emotion creates an urgent feeling about stopping this process. As technology advances and time goes on, genetically modified foods are becoming more and more relevant. Some believe this to be dangerous to our environment and our people. GMO Free Florida advocates for the labeling of all GMOs so the people can make educated decisions about what enters their body and for the ban on all GMOs in the environment at all. Through their public advertisements that use logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos, they are effectively and efficiently educating and gaining support for their stance on genetically modified organisms. Works Cited GMO Free Florida. gmofreeflorida.org/about/ 29 January 2017 Vijapure, Padmavati. Meaning in LinkedIn. 12 December 2015. www.linkedin.com/pulse/color-meanings-business-psychology-colours 25 February 2017.