Lu 1 John Lu Mariama Changamire ENC1102 23 February 2017 Immigrants Should Not be Isolation Immigration has always been a hot topic in United States, some people support it, while some people oppose it. Nowadays, Trump defeated his opponent, became the current president of the United States. Unfortunate, Trump does not support the immigration project, even he joined in against group. He declared news on his immigration home page that he has to ensure the interests of local Americans, and he will resolutely drive away illegal immigrants (www.donaldjtrump.com). This is a nightmare for immigrants, even if the legal immigrants have also been implicated. Fortunately, there are organizations support immigration in United States, and they provide services and helps to immigrants, such as Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement. CIVIC is an immigration group, which working to end U.S. immigration detention, also they help immigrants that are treated fairly and do not be isolated. According to the group shows that there are over 400,000 immigrants disappear into vast network of 250 jails and private prisons across the United States every year (www.endisolation.org). Thus, this shows the situation of immigration is not optimistic, and immigrants are isolated in United States. Therefore, the CIVIC group has released two images on their web pages, both of them state that immigrants should have humanities right, and they should not be isolated by United States. In image A, the author appeals that there should end isolation to immigrants in United Lu 2 States, and the organization want to call more people to join them, and to help immigrants receive fair treatment. As image A shows that there are some people protesting, and most of them are holding signs. Among them, there is an old woman hold a sign; it is a sentence came from black leader Martin Luther King, and it shows that lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that According to McKee, and McIntyre state that is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating his own credibility or Megan, and Jessica 66). The author uses ethos here, the purpose is that to get more trust from audiences, and to make the image is more credible. In addition, there are some sign show like that with and As Appeals to Emotion states offers a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held (Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre, 70). The author uses pathos here, his purpose is that to affect the mood of audiences, and to make audiences resonate with the image, thus to achieve the purpose of convening people to join the organization. Also, the image A shows that the protesting is located in a suburb, not a downtown. The author also uses pathos here, because the place of protest is desolate, there are not green meadow and tall building; there is only yellow land, this will make audiences feel sympathetic. Moreover, this shows their organization is not enough strong, and they need more people to join them. In general, the organization uses pathos and ethos to support the image, and they try to invite people to join their organization, and to tell more people that immigrants are isolated, they need more helps to get out of trouble. In image B, the author informs to people that some immigrants are isolated, and they Lu 3 do not have humanities in detention center. According to CIVIC shows that if immigrants want to contact outside from detention center, they are charged 5 dollars per minute for communication, even more frightening is that there are more than 160 immigrants have died in detention center (www.endisolation.org). The author uses pathos here, he want to shows the living of immigrants is bleak in detention center, just like the no color image B. According to pathos states that or other forms of media, they use images to affect the mood of the (Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre, 71). The author uses black and white to affect the mood of the audience, to make the audience feel sad when they look at the image. In addition, the author taken the photo from low to high, leading to the black wall seen like very tall. Also the top of the wall has a barrier, this means that this is a wall immigrants can not to climb, they are isolated on the other side of the wall. Furthermore, the author uses kairos to support his image. According to Lee, McKee, and McIntyre said is knowing what is most appropriate in a given situation; for our purposes, think of it as saying (or writing) the right thing at the right 63). At this time, Trump issued a policy to against immigration, leading to there are many immigrants are implicated, which include immigrants who are isolated in detention centers. Therefore, the organization published this image at a right time, and using kairos to appeal people that pay attention to immigrants who are isolated by detention center. To sum up, the author uses pathos and kairos to support this image, and he try to appeal people pay attention to immigrants who are isolated by detention center, because they do not have humanities in detention center. Most importantly, CIVIC group advocates that people should pay attention to Lu 4 immigrants who are isolated, because they lost equal rights in detention center, and they are living in dire dilemma. Both of images indicate that the topic is serious, because there are many people are serious and sad in image A, they held some signs, to appeal people pay attention to immigrants who are isolated. In image B, the black and tall wall also shows this is a serious topic. The relationship between these two images is that both of them show some immigrants are isolated, and they lost equal right when they are living in detention center. In conclusion, the CIVIC is a group, which working to end U.S. immigration detention, also they help immigrants that are treated fairly, and do not be isolated. In addition, the organization appeal people pay attention to immigrants who are isolated, and to help them to get equal right. Moreover, immigrants should to learn how to protect themselves by legal channels, also the US government needs to develop reasonable laws to protect immigrants who are isolated by detention center. Finally, image A and image B are good supports from CIVIC group, they will help the organization to have more members, and to make the organization more stronger and credible. (Word Count: 1212) Lu 5 Works Sited Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement. N.P., n.d. Web. 1 March 2017. www.endisolation.org Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. By Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Ethos: Appeals to Authority and  Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed. Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, and Jessica McKee. Kairos: Appeals to  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Trump Pence. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 March. 2017. https://www.donaldjtrump.com/policies/immigration Lu 6 Image A http://www.endisolation.org/blog/ Image B http://www.endisolation.org/detention-stories/