Daniel Engel Professor Elizabeth Ricketts English Composition 1 4 March 2017 Mental Health Within the Military Over 43% of service members deployed to Iraq in the early 2000s experienced Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, also known as PTSD. Symptoms of PTSD include nightmares, vivid flashbacks, and other symptoms caused by specific triggers such as sound and smells that can cause one to experience extreme distress. The mental stability and welfare of the military was not seen as a necessity until around the 80s, when PTSD was first identified as a serious issue with those deployed and exposed to severe combat. Due to increased military activity and deployment abroad in the past twenty years, there is a clear correlation between higher levels of PTSD among service members. Not until recently has the mental health of the family unit in the military been brought into the discussion of mental stability. Mental health and mental disorders within the military and military families have become a much more prevalent area of research within the past two decades due to the increased military activity and deployment globally. When the mental welfare of those in the military is discussed, it is mostly on the individual serving and looks over the effect and impact it can have on the children when an adult is in this profession. With the beginning of the war in Iraq in 2001, the U.S. military experienced far heavier deployments and overall conflict than it had it the past 30 years. (Alfano et al. 18) The massive increase in deployments not only had an effect on the service members but on the families and children of those they left behind, some for years at a time. Throughout a deployment, there are three very distinct stages: Pre- deployment, deployment, and reintegration. (Military One Source, 2012) The pre- deployment involves the mental and emotional preparation for the separation and complete change that will occur. The deployment involves the entire time the service member is away at their station over seas, and the reintegration involves the numerous adjustments and struggles to return to the regular cycle of military life back home. Until recently, the effect this had on the children of those deployed was not analyzed as much as their mental health was. Within the past two decades, the increase in military deployments has shown a numerous amount of children in the military that have signs of cognitive and developmental disorders in the wake of the absence of a parent in a very stressful time. The influence of a profession can have strong impacts on the children, both negative and positive. In the study conducted by Mallory Lucier-Greer in 2014, the focus was based upon the work factors and amount of stress a parent in the military may experience and the outcome that has on adolescents specifically. (Lucier-Greer, 421) Again, in the past many have not focused on the mental stability of the children or even spouse of those serving in the military. According to the study by Greer, military children are split evenly between developing mental disorders due to their profession, and being extremely resilient and not developing any mental illnesses. Due to increasing prevalence in mental disorders in the entire family unit of the military, future research in this area would not be a surprising outcome to the results discovered in recent years. In a study conducted in 2007 by James R. Riddle assessing the mental health of those serving in the military in 14 different countries, the United States had the highest rate of mental illness within their military out of all of them. (Riddle et al. 192) Nearly 26% of all mental illnesses in the United States from 2001 2003 were military personnel, and nearly 28% of all hospitalizations were military personnel. (Riddle et al. 192) A large portion of these hospitalizations was those requiring 24-hour surveillance and the need for constant supervision was highly necessary. As we have seen in the past, in countless wars and conflicts in the past century, the United States has been considered almost the world police and is almost expected to intervene and provide aid all over the world. Due to this expectation of involvement, U.S. service members are subject to an increasing amount of stress due to the ever increasing amount of militaristic deployment due to conflict in the past twenty years. (Riddle et al. 193) As related in the study conducted by Greer mentioned earlier, the relationship between the duties required in the military can greatly affect those serving and their family as high level of stress and anxiety are constant. A study involving multiple service members of varying races, ages and genders was conducted in 2010 assessing the rate of PTSD soldiers deployed. This study, conducted by Jennifer J. Vasterling, looked at the rate and symptoms of PTSD before, during, and after a complete deployment abroad. (Vasterling et al. 41) This assessment did not include the family unit but specifically focused on the individual deployed. The rate of PTSD symptoms began to increase right before deployment and most of the time got increasingly worse the more time one was deployed. Symptoms of PTSD once returning varied greatly among those surveyed, but it was clear that those who experienced higher levels of combat experienced far more severe and continuous symptoms of PTSD. (Vasterling et al. 49) By the end of the Iraq war in the late 2000s, the conversation involving PTSD among those serving in the military was a very relevant and pertinent topic considering it affected so many Americans and their loved ones. Mental health and mental disorder within the military and military families have become a much more prevalent area of research within the past two decades due to the increased military activity and deployment globally. Overall, the importance of understanding the complexity of the requirements within the military is key. The factors that contribute to the stress that service members experience and the mental welfare of them and their families often goes unnoticed. Works Cited 1. Alfano, Candice A., Simon Lau, Jessica Balderas, Brian E. Bunnell, and Deborah C. Beidel. The Impact Of Military Deployment On Children: Placing Developmental Risk In  Clinical Psychology Review, vol. 43, February 2016, pp. 17. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1016/j.cpr.2015.11.003. Accessed 4 February 2017. 2. Lucier-Greer, Mallory, Amy Laura Arnold, Rebecca Neilann Grimsley, James L. Ford, Chalandra Bryant, and Jay A. Mancini. Parental Military Service and Adolescent Well-being: Mental Health, Social Connections and Coping among Youth in the  Child & Family Social Work, vol. 21, no.4, 2014, pp. 421-32. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1111/cfs.12158. Accessed 26 January 2017. 3. Riddle, James R., Smith, Tyler C., Smith, Besa, Corbeil, Thomas E., Engel, Charles C., Wells, S. Timothy, Hoge, W. Charles, Adkins, Joyce, Zamorski, Mark, Blazer, Dan. Cohort: The 2001-2003 Baseline Prevalence of Mental Disorders in the U.S. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, 2007, pp. 192-201, ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.clinepi.2006.04.008. Accessed 18 February 2017. 4. Vasterling, Jennifer J., Proctor, Susan P., Freidman, Matthew J., Hoge, Charles W., Heeren, Timothy, King, Lynda A., King, Daniel W. Symptom Increases in Iraq Deployed Soldiers: Comparison with Nondeployed Soldiers and Associations with Baseline Symptoms, Deployment Experiences, and Postdeployment Journal of Traumatic Stress, vol. 23, issue 1, 2010, pp. 41-51. Wiley, doi: 10.11002/jts.20487. Accessed 18 February 2017.