Alondra Galvan Ricketts ENC 1101 2 March 2017 1 in 68 children are diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Researchers have been viewing the same qualities in diagnosis and misdiagnosis of children with ASD. Autistic children share the lack of motor control, coordination, communication, and socialization. These researchers have also partaken in spreading Dance Movement Therapy as a form of relieving the deficits occurring in the diagnosed children. Over the 21st century, researchers have changed the way they manage the diagnoses and have evolved the activities used to target the deficits like using rhythmic patterns, mirroring, and synchronization. These activities have always helped in the therapy sessions but the response in these sessions have gradually changed and has allowed researchers to reveal misdiagnosis. Rhythmic patterns have been used as an intervention for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder but the level of effectiveness has changed over time. In 2010, psychologist Baudino researched a case study of a little girl named Lisa. In this case study, the therapist used rhythm during their sessions together and Lisa responded very well to the rhythmic patterns. The therapist stated rhythm and within her repertoire and preferences revealed ways of being disconnected from her emotional and psychological (Baudino 125) Building upon the idea that this child is showing disconnection, in 2013, autism consultor Amos explained that diagnosed with ASD often appear to experience states that fluctuate more widely and more often, sending them out of sync with typical daily This portrays how rhythmic patterns are a component for children with autism. Baudino and Amos describe the effects of rhythm towards bettering attachment, communication, social understanding, and motor coordination. In 2014, therapeutic instructor Martin describes rhythm as a way to facilitate interaction and communication and to help organize the thoughts and feelings. These researchers lived to show how rhythm can help the misdiagnosed children and other children with disabilities. Researchers coincided to show how over time rhythm positively affected the lack of communication and socialization that children with autism live with. In Dance Movement Therapy, mirroring has been a key component because it is the action of knowingly embodying the movement of another person, object, or feature. In 2010, Lisa was misdiagnosed with ASD and a case study showed how she reacted to sessions dealing with mirroring. Clinical psychologist Baudino illustrated aim is to mirror and echo in order to create a place of reflective Compared to psychologist Scharoun who stated that mirroring allows for a child to visualize their body, and interact with a therapist on a more developmental and emotional relationship. Both researchers established common ground on the most effective activity to pinpoint a self-awareness. Scharoun further developed mirroring by manipulating the activity to show how mirroring bettered children in interpreting and establishing relationships. Baudino exhibited behavior completely different after they used mirroring. Lisa became more reliant and fond of the therapist because she was mirroring actions. Researchers have determined that mirroring Alondra Galvan Ricketts ENC 1101 2 March 2017 children and allowing them to take the lead has effectively bettered building relationships. Mirroring has been effectively used as an activity in sessions and has erased major defects in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Synchronization allows for control in the body and has been used in Dance Movement Therapy sessions throughout the 21st century. In 2007, the Andrea Rizzo Foundation spread intervention sessions to children in primary schools. Their main focus was to use synchronization amongst a bigger group of kids to enhance interaction and ability to connect with (Tortora 54) This researcher goes on to explain the environment of the group sessions and how children become more social and responsive. On the other hand, in 2014 psychologist Scharoun built off of the Synchronous Movement Profile which was established by Costonis. Costonis built this profile to changes in synchronous movements through 214) Scharoun also details how synchronous movement find body placement and relationships. Synchronization is introduced to us at birth by our caregivers who we take body language, verbal language, and personality traits from. Synchronization has developed as a key component in Dance Movement Therapy and researchers agreed to the effects of this activity and how it is intervening in All in all, throughout the 21st century research among Dance Movement Therapy as an intervention for misdiagnosis or therapy for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder has not changed but has evolved. Researchers have used the rhythmic patterns, mirroring, and synchronization but have expanded the qualities of these activities to justify motor coordination, socialization and communication. These researchers will continue to use these activities as a form of therapy but through case studies they hope to improve the effectiveness and to decrease the misdiagnosis amongst children. Become aware of children in your neighborhood who suffer from Autism Spectrum Disorder.