Ajayi1 Hadijat Ajayi Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Impact of the Digital Revolution Social media became a very common conversation starter when it first emerged just a few years ago. As the internet has expanded and evolved to become what we know of it today, the coordinating concept of social media has proved to be a popular trend. Scholarly conversations and studies around the realm of social media has been on the up and up, and is now more relevant than perhaps ever before. From 2009 to 2017, the conversation surrounding social media has not only increased in frequency, but also has emerged in sophistication. Early conversations simply asked why social media is used, how often, and by whom it was used. As studies regarding social media progressed, distinct vernacular became associated with specific aspects of social media and challenges of the advantages and disadvantages of the digital world settled into everyday opinions. In 2009, studies show interest in how and why social media sites are used. During this time, Facebook was the most dominant online site that was used for the leisurely activity of coordinating with friends, family, and sometimes, strangers, or potential associates. Members of the online community now had access to multiple avenues to post their personal profile and engage in public, and private conversation on these sites. Social media has since proved to allot for a significant amount of time for users. Studies suggest social media is a necessity as it aids to the development of adolescent. In 2010, new social media sites emerged. The presence of these sites resulted in the diminishing of the monopoly held by pioneers such as Facebook or Ajayi2 MySpace. Sites such as LinkedIn, became just as common place as any other social media, but aimed to serve a new purpose. Social networking sites can be described as applications that enable users to connect by creating personal information  that are used to connect with friends and colleagues (Kaplan, 63). Networking sites utilize User Generated  to create these profiles in order to have a more professional method of connecting potential associates. This evolution establishes social media as an everyday activity, so much so, that it has transformed from being solely associated with leisure, to a business platform. Before social media became a regular outlet for marketing, the advantages and disadvantages are questioned in regards to social media usage. Research suggest that social media has a significant impact on the psychology of an self-identity. The opportunity for instant feedback can act in self-serving or harmful ways towards  (Belangee, 131). Examining benefits and drawbacks of social media use has proved to be subjective. While some choose to fly submerge themselves into social media, others choose to use the sites sparingly. Those who frequent social media are more likely to appreciate the refuge provided within social media. Whereas, there are other audiences who may potentially stand in stark contrast to individuals who do not hold this belief about connection with  (Belangee, 131) and therefore acknowledge more of the disadvantages proposed via use of social media. In the years following, leading up to an article published in 2016, marketing via social media sites became a point of interest.