Lamusse 1 Kelly Lamusse Erika Staiger ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Diego Garcia: The Loss of One-Thousand Five-Hundred Homes Diego Garcia was the largest and only inhabited island in the Chagos Archipelago; a group of sixty small islands located in the Indian ocean. In 1965 all islanders were evacuated and sent to the neighboring island of Mauritius. This horrific eviction occurred to enable the US military to build one of their most important air and naval base in the Indian Ocean. After such an injustice, the Chagos Refugee Group (CRG) was created to help and support to all the who lost their homes, to promote their welfare and protect their interests. According to the chair of the organization, Olivier Bancoult, there is a dire need to further and preserve the Chagos island culture and Bancoult mentions that after losing his home, there was a sudden threat that his cultural heritage would fade away. The CRG uses pathos, logos, ethos and Kairos in both images to raise awareness about the Diego Garcia issue, and give the Chagossians hope that they will soon return to their native land. The first image is successful in conveying ethos to the audience, primarily due to the presence of Amal Clooney in the photo. Clooney is one of the most popular UN ambassadors and lawyers; the photo also includes the chair of the CRG, Mr. Bancoult as well as many other important UN members. Since such powerful and influential people are involved in the Diego Garcia case, the audience immediately understands how serious but credible the issue is. Moreover, everyone is dressed in a formal and sophisticated manner which stresses the trustworthiness of the group. However, David Snoxell, the acclaimed coordinator of the Chagos Islands parliamentary group, Lamusse 2 argues that such potent people not have proper regard to the interests of the Snoxell believes that the Chagossians should be wary about the true reason why each person becomes involved in the case. Ethos is also present in the second photo; the march is done by those who personally experienced the loss of their homes. This is not a propaganda shot since the islanders are directly displaying their true anger about the unfair situation. Rebecca Rotter and Laura Jeffrey, two social anthropologists from the University of Edingborough, recall in their article that everyone present was an islander protesting against the US military presence on the homeland. Logos is also present in both images. To begin, the marchers and protestors show us that the islanders are angry; the Chagossians were treated unfairly and they shall fight until they receive sufficient compensation. As the audience we are exposed to the idea that the US military are acting inhumanely and that something must be done. On the other hand, Rotter and Jeffery believe that level of participation is the women argue that not enough people are present and captured in the photo to demonstrate how many people were affected by the eviction. Without a major crowd, the reader will not take the protesting seriously (Rotter and Jeffery 3). In the second image, the UN ambassadors show the audience that the Chagossians need support since they are up against one of the most powerful nations in the world. The US military are strong, and therefore the islanders require a stronger team to fight for their rights. Although the United Nations is logically viewed as an ethical organization who are working in favor of the Chagossians, they could be worried that a resettlement might upset the Americans (Snoxell 120). Both images further utilize pathos to convey specific emotions. The marchers effectively evoke pity and sadness; the islanders look tired and old. The signposts stimulate hope and anger, but the Lamusse 3 solidarity in the photo makes the audience admire the Chagossians. Everyone is marching together which shows the loyalty and great team work of the islanders; this is another use of pathos to connect the reader to those who were evicted. The student believes in their pain and wants to help them overcome this obstacle. Rotter and Jeffery mention that there were over 20 protests and marches which makes the reader even more compassionate. The image of the UN representatives and Mr. Bancoult triggers a feeling of hope to the audience; everyone is smiling which creates an optimistic feeling about the future of the Chagossians. The audience almost jumps to a conclusion that the islanders will definitely be returning home. Snoxell proves that the audience should feel optimistic since prior to this photo being taken, a vessel took a group of 150 Chagossians to visit the graves of their ancestors on the island of Diego Garcia. This was a promising event since nobody had ever been allowed to visit the island since the military first invaded. Lastly, these images use Kairos to encourage the reader to act quickly by helping and supporting the CRG in sending the Chagossians home. The majority of the marchers are old and therefore do not have a lot of time left to visit their island. Snoxell highlighted that the citizens will most likely never return as once the decision is finally made to grant each Chagossians the right to return, they will not own the correct resources to travel make the journey. Sadly, as stated by Snoxell, it is already too late for some of the islanders who have passed away, or are suffering from old age and sickness. The photo taken at the United Nations conference sends a different message; the image calls for all the Chagossians to keep fighting, not to give up since the end is near and the end is good. The reader understands that by providing such a hopeful and joyful image, the CRG successfully motivate the islanders to stand together one last time. Lamusse 4 Finally, the CRG have effectively used pathos, logos, ethos and Kairos in both images to demonstrate their overall aim and message. The first image focused more on displaying the courage of the Chagossians and their absolute will to return home whereas the second image delivered a powerful message of hope that the future would be bright. After analyzing both images as well as considering two outside sources, the Chagossians must remember to be careful with how they important information that may be used in or against their by prominent individuals and organizations (Rotter and Jeffery 390). Whereas the United Nations are willing to support the islanders and help them finally return home, the Chagossians must realize that the US military is a powerful force that can even influence the people they trust. Lamusse 5 Works Cited Rotter, Rebecca and Laura Jeffery. No Longer Have Faith and Trust in Misadventures in Community Consultation on the Future of the Chagos  International Development Planning Review, vol. 38, no. 4, Oct. 2016, pp. 383-403. Snoxell, David. Expulsion from Chagos: Regaining  Journal of Imperial & Commonwealth History, vol. 36, no. 1, Mar. 2008, pp. 119-129 Chagos is our  The Chagos Refugee Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lamusse 6