Lankford 1 Caroline Lankford Professor Staiger ENC1102 26 February 2017 The Freedom to Read Foundation Against Book Censorship Video Hundreds of books are either banned or challenged each year in the United States. Advocates for book censorship argue that some books containing sexually explicit, vulgar, or violent material are unsuitable for young children and should therefore be removed from their environments. On the other hand, critics of this practice argue that it is up to the American people to decide what ideas they do or do not wish to embrace and that no organization should be allowed to limit their choices. The Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) is one of many organizations against book censorship. It is a non-profit anti-censorship organization founded in 1969 by members of the American Library Association. Through hosted programs such as Banned Books Week, they promote books that they believe are necessary to initiate meaningful conversations about complex topics and encourage independent thought to Read In 2013, as part of a Banned Books Week project, Bookmans Bookstore in Arizona produced an effective campaigning video entitled Bookmans Does Banned  FTRF now has this short film displayed on their official Banned Books Week website. The target audience is the American reading community. Within this video, rhetorical elements of ethos and pathos strongly persuade the audience to consider the ways in which book banning is a detrimental loss to literature as a whole. Through these means of persuasion, FTRF successfully reaches viewers on a personal level in support of their case. Lankford 2 In order to appeal to ethos, the end of the video displays the words which is the name of the bookstore responsible for recording and producing the video. Additionally, the title of the video as it appears on the information bar on the YouTube channel reflects its affiliation with the Freedom to Read since it says Does Banned Books Although the video was made by a bookstore in Arizona, it was made in support of annual Banned Books Week event. It was then specially selected to be posted on official website in order to promote book censorship awareness. The audience can then trust the legitimacy of the content since it is backed up by the stakeholder directly. Janja an accomplished author and analyst of semantics, asserts that ethos allows the orator self-presentation that grants them the goodwill and This means that when Bookman associates itself with a reputable organization such as FTRF, it is borrowing from reliability. After building trust with the audience through ethos, the stakeholder begins introducing the argument against book censorship using pathos. Pathos, the appeal to emotions, is a major contributor to the success as a tool of persuasion. Aside from the brief application of ethos, pathos can be seen in every aspect of the video. Examples are found in analyzing the written text, the individuals being filmed, the use of animated black censorship bars, and the quotes from challenged books. At the beginning of the video, a blank screen appears with the words to select or adapt (as by obscuring or removing sensitive information) for publication or Towards the end of the video, this definition is followed up with the message a play on the word overreact. Interchanging these words is a demonstration to the audience that redaction in the form of book censorship is an example of an overreaction. The negative connotation attached to the word Lankford 3 overreaction then spills over to the word redact and prompts the audience to consider if perhaps book censorship is a hasty and unwise reaction to controversial material. As the video continues, the scene changes to show Bookstore itself, where customers and employees read passages from challenged books out loud. Many of these readers are young children, making the audience experience a sense of compassion for their innocence and curiosity about the world. The audience is more likely to be responsive to the message about book censorship when it is being presented via the gentle, unassuming voice of a child. The images of children also invoke feelings of trust, since, according to psychology professor Ann do not usually assume young children are trying to trick or take advantage of (12). Another appeal to pathos begins to happen a little later in the video. While the customers and employees are reading, a growing number of ominous black censorship bars first begin to slide over book titles, followed by the eyes and mouths of the readers. This is a visual metaphor meant to demonstrate how book censorship does more than censor books, it censors people. In the same way that it suppresses ideas, it suppresses human beings and their thoughts. On a more literal level, there is something very scary about the thought of being blind and mute. As humans, our eyesight and ability to intelligently communicate with one another are some of the most important factors keeping us safe from harm. By the end of the video, every person has a bar covering his or her eyes and mouth. This video forces the audience to image a word in which both the import (what we read and take in with our eyes) and export (what we communicate with our mouths or through the written word) of ideas was compromised. A parallel is drawn between our eyes and mouth and written expression here in order to tie everything back to the topic of book censorship. Lankford 4 Finally, pathos is felt in the words that are being read by the customers and employees in the video. Many of the excerpts being read strategically hint at the reality of censorship. Some examples are as follows: who try to control situations all the time are afraid that if they nothing will work out the way they to get hurt by the truth, than comforted with a and people express themselves, they die one piece at a The audience can easily relate and feel connected to the truth behind these quotes to reach a common understanding with the authors. This is an important step, to stop seeing the authors of controversial books as wicked people attempting to corrupt our minds, and instead view them simply as people like ourselves, curious and flawed, trying their best to find meaning in life. There is one quote at the end, however, that moves the audience into feeling a particularly deeper sense of urgency about the issue. It reads, fantasy it was, for we were not strong, only aggressive; we were not free, merely licensed; we were not compassionate, we were polite; not good, but well behaved. We courted death in order to call ourselves brave, and hid like thieves from life. We substituted good grammar for intellect; we switched habits to simulate maturity; we rearranged lies and called it (Morrison 123) By exposing truth from lies here, the audience is left feeling betrayed and dejected. It portrays censorship as being something that slowly, stealthily creeps into our lives until suddenly we no longer recognize it. We fear it and hate it. Hearing this passage in addition to seeing the black censorship bars simultaneously cover the books and the people stirs the audience into wanting to be free from censorship altogether. Going back to the quote, it makes them want to be strong, not aggressive; free, not licensed; compassionate, not polite; good, not well behaved. It makes the audience desire the truth rather than rearranged lies. Lankford 5 Together, the rhetorical appeals to ethos and pathos lead the audience into having a common goal with FTRF in striving for the abolition of censorship and the protection of controversial books. After ethos establishes credibility and merit with the audience, pathos contributes the main driving force of the argument. Although the video does not present any claims to logos (logic), or kairos (timeliness), the combination of ethos and pathos is more than sufficient. Lankford 6 Works Cited to Read Freedom to Read Foundation, American Library Association, www.ftrf.org Morrison, Toni. The Bluest Eye. New York City, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1970. Ann M. The Quest for Executive Effectiveness: Consultants Bridge the Gap between Psychological Research and Organizational  Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research, vol. 54, no. 1, Win 2002, pp. 44-54. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/1061-4087.54.1.44. J. Pre-Aristotelian notions of ethos and pathos: the case of Rhetoric to Alexander. (Slovenian). Solsko Polje [serial April 2015;26(1/2):121-140. Available from: Education Source, Ipswich, MA. Accessed February 25, 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e1u9tjjUz5o&feature=youtu.be