Josh McGowan Ms. Ricketts ENC 1101 5 March 2017 The Discussion Regarding the Theory of Evolution and its Importance to Science Education A debate regarding the value and correctness of evolution rages on in the United States. It is a topic that has serious implications in politics and education. The conflict stems from the religious beliefs of many people not being in line with the implications of the theory of evolution, such as the age of the Earth. Researchers have tried to break down the obstacles to accepting the theory, as well as how it should be taught in public schools, and how the conversation regarding the topic should proceed. The discussion behind the controversy of evolution has not necessarily changed, but progressed over time. Researchers from 2000-2010 wrote on how the conversation developed historically and how to evaluate understanding of the theory of evolution. John Caiazza examined how the political implications behind evolution and religion distract from their original purpose. At their core, they are ways in which we try to explain the world and the way it works (Caiazza 104-112). The fact that countries were run as strict theocracies resulted in censorship of progressive scientific thinkers who supported the theory, which put evolution in the center of a free speech debate (Caiazza 110-112). This was a distraction from what science is, an examination of the world and learning facts about it. The focus shifted from what is objectively true to how research supports a belief system and if writing about said research is appropriate in the given culture. A 2009 study by Louis S. Nadelson and Sherry A. Southerland examined the difference between microevolution and macroevolution and the development of test to evaluate the understanding of macroevolutionary concepts. Microevolution and macroevolution involve the same basic processes but are distinguished by time and effect; microevolution describes the changes and adaptations within a species while macroevolution describes how these processes create new species altogether (Nadelson and Southerland 153-154). Nadelson and Southerland claim that schools do not put enough focus in macroevolution in their science curriculum and that this is a big part of why the evolution debate continues, since the formation of new species is what primarily confuses people. They proceed to develop a test known as the to evaluate the understanding of macroevolution, putting college freshman against students in high-level biology courses, and found that the freshman did not possess the knowledge to perform very well on the exam (Nadelson and Southerland 162-174). 2011-2017 showed discussion on how to get people to accept evolution and an attempt to reframe the debate. Paul Thagard and Scott Findlay published an article talking about the reasons why, in general, people have difficulty accepting the theory of evolution. The processes behind evolution and the way they affect the world are very complex and people feel more comfortable with straightforward explanations (Thagard and Findlay 626-630). Another aspect is how emotions influence judgement, so the things people want to be true become easier to accept (Thagard and Findlay 630-631). Ultimately, the authors conclude that there are only three methods educators can use to teach evolution: avoiding religion altogether and simply presenting the facts about evolution, teaching evolution while presenting a god as the designer of the evolutionary process, and attempting to disprove any religious arguments against the theory (Thagard and Findlay 631-634). Ronald Lee Zigler explains that the controversy surrounding evolution needs to be framed in the right context. By 2016, when his article was published, there is no debate in the scientific community as to whether or not the theory of evolution is accurate and a key piece of biology (Zigler 71). Instead, he proposes that the conversation should be framed in a philosophical point of view, examining the implications of the theory in the greater context of the unknown (Zigler 76-79). The conversation with evolution and religion has become a lot more substantive over time. It began creating a schism within societies and being viewed as two incompatible subjects to coexisting without much difficulty. Researchers have advanced how to approach the discussion without there being a need to do away with the other perspective. The progression of the discussion regarding the controversy behind evolution has allowed for more substantive conversations about the topic.