Mack 1 Elijah Mack Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 05 March 2017 Intermediate Draft An important discussion in America today involves the correlation between economic status and success. It is undoubtedly true that in America there is a huge gap between the rich and the poor. With that being said how does socioeconomic status affect the success in teens? There are two sides to this widely talked about discussion. One side holds ideologies that economic status does not necessarily impact success in teens. It is undoubtedly true that income plays a role, but some would argue this role is insignificant. In contrast, the other side states that economic status has a huge impact on success in teens. Historically, people with higher economic statuses tend to live a healthier and more luxurious lifestyle than poorer people or people with lower economic statuses than them. They also usually live in safer environments and avoid more risky behavior than their counterparts. This is most likely because impoverished neighborhoods and bad environments have been found to invite deviant or risky behaviors. Schools in wealthier neighborhoods also tend to have better textbooks and materials, so it is possible that they might receive a better education than their counterparts. Thus, giving them a better opportunity of being successful than the less unfortunate. Between the periods 2000-2010 and 2011-2017, the discussion on economic status and its effects on success in teens has changed very little. Mack 2 Before 2010, the discussion on how economic status affects success in teens involved poor academic performance among impoverished households. In 2006, David Berliner wrote Our Impoverished View of Educational Research, and in this scholarly journal he discusses how poverty associates with poor academic performance. Berliner also talked about poverty playing a role in restricting expression of genetic talent. After 2010, the discussion changed very little, researchers were still finding the same results. In 2012, Sabrina Tavernese wrote Education Gap Grows Between Rich and Poor, Studies Say. In this scholarly journal, Tavernese also followed the same theme as researchers before. She wrote about growing imbalances between the rich and poor in college completion. In the early the conversation on the correlation between poverty and success in teens included poor health outcomes among impoverished households. In David Our Impoverished View of Educational Research, Berliner not only talked about how poverty affects performance in school, but he also covered the fact that health problems are much more prevalent among impoverished families. Overtime, this theme has not changed much. According to researchers, it still remains that income plays a role in the success of teens, especially when you factor in the health aspect. In 2016, Margaret Lombe wrote Examining Effects of Food Insecurity and Food Choices on Health Outcomes in Households in Poverty. In this scholarly journal she talked about how poorer households and SNAP-eligible households are less likely to have nutritional education. Another important conversation that covers the topic of how socioeconomic status affects success in teens involves life chances. To analyze how income plays a role many researchers study neighborhood structure. In 2003, Charis Kubrin and Ronald Weitzer Mack 3 wrote New Directions in Social Disorganization Theory. In this scholarly journal, the authors discuss how poverty and the environment that it creates, increases the likelihood of crime and delinquency. The theme throughout this conversation is that neighborhood ecological conditions shape and influence crime rates. This theme continued as researchers later came to the same conclusions. In Education Gap Grows Between Rich and Poor, Studies Say, the discussion is relatively the same. She found that income and the environment you are raised in, play important roles in the success of children. This has been a common observation amongst researchers. In conclusion, the conversation surrounding how economic status affects success in teens has not changed much. It has not changed much because throughout the years, researchers have came to the same conclusions when analyzing the aspects of education or academic performance, neighborhood structure, and health. Overall, researchers have had consistent results.