Dhanashree 1 Dhanashree Rawalgaonkar Ms. Erika Staiger English Composition-II 2/26/2017 Organic Consumers Association against Genetically modified organisms are hybrids produced by mixing DNA or genetic material of two or more species artificially with the use of biotechnology. People and many organic farmers criticize genetically modified food, also called GMOs, because of health and safety concerns, and thus people are transitioning to organic farming. Many organizations and industries are promoting organic farming as well as a ban on GMOs through videos and visuals that use different rhetorical appeals; however, companies like Monsanto are on the forefront for producing GMOs. Organic Consumers Association (OCA) is a nonprofit organization that supports organic farming, fair trade in the agro industry (not corporate driven monopoly) and environmental sustainability. The organization has been protesting against Monsanto by questioning the safety and environmental sustainability of their products. Organic Consumers Association (OCA) supports organic farming and opposes GMOs through visuals like videos and images with the use rhetorical appeals such as pathos, logos and kairos. The video and the image elicit emotions of empathy, guilt and affection in the audiences by putting light on how genetically modified food and chemical fertilizers can affect the children and coming generations. The image states that toxic chemicals were found in milk. Motherhood is said to be a truly heartwarming experience, and milk the purest form of love. Motherhood being a highly sensitive topic for everyone, the image of the Dhanashree 2 mother kissing her baby evokes emotions of love and affection in the audiences. According to Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine, a multispecialty physician organization, milk is beneficial to the mother and the child; it benefits the child by providing species specific nutrients, immunological protection, psychological and cognitive development as well as the mother with post-delivery recovery, problems after menopause, psychological stability and hormonal balance (Queenan 6). By specifying how chemical pesticides are polluting something so natural and vital to the mother and the baby, OCA tries to evoke emotions of empathy and culpability. The organization tries to reach emotions and their conscience about how ethically fallacious this is. By the same token, the video concludes by stating that genetic engineering will turn us into human GMOs eventually. children are young adults as well as the future of the world, and ensuring their wellbeing is the responsibility. People are very hopeful about their future and children; people want to harm their upcoming generations because of their negligence towards safety and sustainability. This evokes a feeling of guilt in the audiences since they will be responsible for the damage caused by GMOs in the upcoming generations The image and the video use elements of logos by backing up their claims about the ill effects of genetically modified food with logical events and explanations. The image specifies that according to a study, toxins can accumulate in the human body. This can be an example of logos since it portrays that the information is logical because it is studied and experimented on. According to the article Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and toxins found in genetically modified organisms for pest resistance are noxious to human cells and health (Chiou et al. 2251). Furthermore, the video explains how these toxins and genetically modified organisms can spread in all stages of ecosystems through food chains. The video Dhanashree 3 explains how an old man grew genetically modified food, and the seeds spread everywhere through pollination. The farm animals on his farm ate the genetically modified food and were not organic anymore. The food produce and the dairy products from his farm ended up in the grocery store and were not labeled as genetically modified; therefore, the GMOs eventually were consumed by the consumers. The video describes a logical chain of events to convey how the genetically modified food ended up everywhere through a food chain and now would affect everyone. OCA urges people to take action against genetically modified organisms and chemical pesticides at the earliest by shedding light on the intensity of damage caused by them. The image conveys how chemicals were found in milk which would be consumed by the baby. The image alerts people about this by saying breaking news. The image implicitly summons the audiences that if people take an action against genetically modified food as well as chemical pesticides as soon as possible, children will intake these toxins which can accumulate in the cells causing disastrous injury to them. The video concludes by saying that someday soon we will all become human GMOs. This diction (and someday soon) used in the video suggests people that before this happens, consumers should act against genetically modified food. Although not explicit, these are elements of kairos which encourage people to act on the issue as soon as possible. The Organic Consumers Association highlights the ill effects of chemical pesticides and genetically modified organisms by using rhetorical appeals like kairos, logos and pathos in graphics such as videos and images. Genetically modified food poses health and environmental hazards to not only our generation but also future generations. Genetically Dhanashree 4 modified food and chemical pesticide should be used cautiously for the wellbeing of people and the environment. Dhanashree 5 Works Cited Chiou, Jiachi, et al. REVIEW: Rapid Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and  Journal of Integrative Agriculture, vol. 14, 01 Nov. 2015, pp. 2243-2264. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/S2095-3119(15)61119-4. https://www.organicconsumers.org/campaigns/millions-against-monsanto/articles. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Queenan, John T. Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine Lecture 2010: Breastfeeding: An  Breastfeeding Medicine, no. 1, 2011, p. 7. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib .usf.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.252385443&site=eds- live. totalhealthresonance.com/roundups-glyphosate-found-mothers-milk/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iAeBpoKfnPU Dhanashree 6