Student !1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 A Proposed Educational Plan to Fight Veteran PTSD Stigmas Upon their return from war, a large population of American troops are diagnosed with a disorder, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). One stakeholder advocates provide leadership and care to combat and non-combat wounded, ill, and maximize [healing recovery return to duty or transition into civilian the Wounded Warrior Regiments (WWR). With their mission the WWR releases yearly updates on aid progress. In their 2016 release it noted that PTSD was in the top four medical issues that the WWR was faced to aid in recovery (Quarterly, 5). Consequently, the stance on the disorder is that there is no doubt present in a large portion of the Marines and Navy Corpsman who need support in facing PTSD. The WWR seeks to those who have been diagnosed and to the best of their ability, aid in a swift recovery. A second stakeholder who recognizes PTSD as a disorder, is the International Society of Traumatic Stress Studies, who advocate to separate its association with combat veterans. Unfortunately, not all stress related psychological injuries can be categorized as a disorders. It has become a habit of our generation to label most combat veterans to have PTSD, no matter the veterans degree of psychological injury. The ISTSS has a mission that aims to understand psychological injury such as PTSD. Furthermore ISTSS has sub-interest groups within the society. The Military Special Interest Group (MSIG) focuses to: Student !2 experts from around the world in the interest of preventing a whole new generation of traumatized individuals and families. This MSIG would also create a more direct link between mental health providers who serve within military organizations and providers in the community and the civilian community who are now faced with the challenges of treating combat (Capstone). PTSD is a big with among veterans and it should not be taken lightly. ISTSS acknowledges the psychological injuries of troops. Although unlike the WWR, stance on PTSD in veterans is that it is over diagnosed and created stigmas, hindering veterans and civilian relations. ISTSS aims to PTSD to better a recovery process by removing stigmas, all the while continuing to acknowledge the presence of psychological injuries in troops. While both stakeholders see the need for healing programs in PTSD patients. The WWR gives veterans the aid needed for healing and recovery, fully acknowledging the presence of PTSD. The ISTSS seeks to draw a line between PTSD diagnosis and combat veterans. Accepting that there is, to some degree, psychological injury in combat veterans, and advocating for better civilian/veteran relations, the two stakeholders can help relieve the stigmas of PTSD, and its diagnosis. For both stakeholder, it is important to understand that all military personnel in the United States are volunteers. The government has not drafted for a war since Vietnam, which is where the over diagnosis of PTSD started. This why it is still so normal to label returning Gulf War, Afghanistan and Iraq veterans as having PTSD. This instills more of a victimhood mentality for the veterans inevitably making it harder to recover. The research the ISTSS does to clearly psychological disorders and the aid the Wounded Warrior Regiment (WWR) provides to injured veterans, the label of disorder and disease can be completely stripped away from psychologically injured veterans. In order to insure easier assimilation into non- combat and civilian life in the United Staes of America, the WWR and ISTSS should work together to educate the populous with a large press conference. Student !3 To even begin the solution, the problem must be That problem is the over overdiagnosis of PTSD, which Dobbs, a veteran and military doctor points out, says is largely due to the [Veterans PTSD caseload has more than doubled since (Dobbs). When PTSD was recognized in the in the third edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual as and intrusive, distressing recollections of the (DSM-III, 309.89). Research now shows memory recollection is faulty and can just as easily be manipulated through retrieval as it was stored in long-term memory (Noll). This notes that we must change the signs for diagnosis for PTSD. This can be done by distinguishing the levels of nightmares or numbing or withdrawal; and hyper-arousal, evident in irritability, insomnia, aggression, or poor (DSM-IV, 309.81), which were the symptoms highlighted in fourth edition of the DSM. Richard McNally highlights some key questions to think about regarding the diagnosis of PTSD, in veterans. PTSD was covered by the National Vietnam Veterans Readjustment Study (NVVRS) in 1988. Through vague indicators of the new psychological phenomena, PTSD, the NVVRS found 31 percent out of 1,000 Vietnam veterans were suffering from this disorder (Kulka). Since then through the Gulf War and Afghan-Iraq Wars of the NVVRS have been used as the baseline for other studies and PTSD diagnosis. A faulty estimate has led to the over-diagnosis. to have overstated PTSD rates in Vietnam vets by almost 300 (McNally). With those false estimates, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) which is the link in the chain to be diagnosed and get treatment for military personnel with PTSD encourages veterans to seek Although the VA also understands that the of PTSD would lead to a backlog of cases (Abramson). This is where ISTSS can reassess a wide variety of veterans, Student !4 those involved in the WWR. To get a better estimate of those who have suffered or are currently suffering from some psychological injury, a backlog can be avoided. After reassessment, an educational program can be created by ISTSS and the WWR for distribution and lecture. A challenge many face when reassessing veterans for PTSD are accusations of veterans, dismissing suffering, discounting the costs of McNally faced such after his lecture critiquing the study. It is important to make clear that psychological injuries are still prevalent in veterans. The severity of the injury is the question, not the denial of such psychological pain. Furthermore, by changing the diagnosis from a disorder to an injury, it empowers veterans even more by taking away any notion of victimhood. The victimhood of these veterans is mostly due to the three main stigma terms used by civilians, including: Crazy Vet, Asshole and Weak (Lipke). These labels lead to two primary stigmas. The causes civilians to feel as though they are superior to those veterans in need of psychological aid. The second is a self-stigma by which the veteran in need of aid feels inferior to those who do not. Lipke argues self-stigma is the most damaging to the recovery process as noted in the study by Miller that stigma serve to explain the well- established link between PTSD and abuse among veterans (S.M. Miller et al.). This is why an educational program written by the ISTSS and the WWR, based on new diagnosis standards and stigma education, is important in preventing veterans from hindering any recovery. To remove the stigma and create better veteran-civilian relations and create healthier lives for veterans, will require research on the part of ISTSS based on data from the WWR. Through research, the companies should create an educational program that can be lectured by both stakeholders. This program will identify a new diagnosis and symptoms for psychological injury Student !5 in combat-veterans. It will also suppress the use stigma terms by understanding veterans deeper psychological behaviors and coping mechanisms. Consequently, leading to less backlog in the VA, and getting all psychologically challenged veterans the help they need for a smooth recovery. [WC: Student !6 Works Cited Abramson, Larry. Military Looks To PTSD, Without  NPR. NPR, 14 May 2012. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/2012/05/14/152680944/military-looks-to- Capone, Christy, and Beverly Dexter. International Society for Traumatic Stress  ISTSS - Military SIG. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.istss.org/about-istss/ special-interest-groups/military-sig.aspx>. Dobbs, David. The Post-Traumatic Stress  American 300.4 (2009): 64-69. Nature. Web. 3 Mar. 2016. DSM-III: Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders. Washington, D.C.: APA, 2000. Behavenet. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. DSM-IV: Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders. Washington, D.C.: APA, 2000. Behavenet. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. Kulka, R. A., Schlenger, W. E., Fairbank, J. A., Hough, R. L., Jordan, B. K., Marmar, C. R., Weiss, D. S. (1988). Contractual Report of Findings from the National Vietnam Readjustment Study: Volumes 1-4. North Carolina: Research Triangle Institute. Lipke, Howard. Reducing Stigma for Veterans in Need of Treatment for the Destructive Psychological Effects of  Stress Points (2013): n. pag. International Society of Traumatic Stress Studies. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. <http://www.istss.org/education-research/ traumatic-stresspoints.aspx?cat=17>. McNally, Richard. PTSD Rates in Vietnam  Harvard University. 26 Feb. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lomqzc8lHXk>. Student !7 Noll, Jane.  PSY 2012 - Intro to Psych. ENA 105, Tampa, Florida. 22 Feb. 2017. Lecture. Quarterly Update. Wounded Warrior Regiment. Http://www.woundedwarriorregiment.org. N.p., Jan. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. <http://bit.ly/2iK4GL2>.