Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Finding Common Ground for Our Veterans As a nation that endorses investing a vast amount of money and efforts in our military, surprisingly, there is minimal effort invested in supporting the mental health of the United States veterans. Due to a lack of research on treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), debate remains over whether or not medical cannabis is a viable treatment option for veterans suffering from PTSD. Cannabis is an organization that pushes for a greater acceptance and use of cannabis to treat veterans with PTSD, while the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) warns that medical cannabis can be detrimental or simply ineffective for the treatment of PTSD. In order to meet in the middle between the opposition to medical cannabis for treating veterans with PTSD and Cannabis whole-hearted support for this issue, I propose the VA to openly express their disapproval of medical cannabis for PTSD treatment until further testing on oral cannabidiol, through the funding of the VA, has taken place. In the hope that their organization will benefit U.S. veterans, Cannabis aims to educate and support veterans suffering from mainly PTSD in the decision to alleviate symptoms via medical cannabis. In an article provided on the website, the reasons behind the supported use of Cannabinoid Therapy (CT) is thoroughly examined. Humans naturally have an Endo-Cannabinoid System (ECS) that serves to maintain homeostasis within our bodies; this homeostatic regulatory system was discovered fairly recently in the early 1990s Student 2 (Ostrow 1). According to Laury Ostrow, Therapy (CT) uses phyto or plant Cannabinoids to call the ECS into (Ostrow 1). Furthering the support for the message spread by Cannabis PTSD is considered to be an Endocannabinoid deficiency (Ostrow 19). According to a clinical consultation discussing exclusively cannabinoids for treating veterans with PTSD, from 4 small studies suggested that cannabinoid use was associated with global improvements in PTSD symptoms or amelioration of specific PTSD symptoms such as insomnia and (Betthauser 1). Throughout various articles suggesting the benefits of cannabinoids, it is agreed that more research on the subject is heavily needed. Presenting a different, seemingly opposite stance on the subject of medical cannabis for PTSD, the VA states that medical cannabis may not produce any beneficial effects for PTSD recovery and it may also be detrimental. However, the VA believes that with more research, evidence may prove oral CBD to be a viable treatment. The VA is a reliable, regulated organization that was started in 1930 and is part of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The VA lists that its mission statement is to make true to President Abraham Lincolns promise, care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his  Basically, the goal of the VA is to provide services and support for American veterans. Because the neurobiology of victims of PTSD is altered and the Endo-cannabinoid system is entirely related to PTSD, their cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) receptors are of greater availability than healthy controls; as a result, medical cannabis appears to work for veterans suffering PTSD because it is beneficial short-term, but it starts to become detrimental over time (Bonn-Miller and Rousseau). The detrimental effects include in CB1 receptor density and/or efficiency and (Bonn-Miller and Rousseau). In line with almost every source commenting on the Student 3 effectiveness of cannabis for PTSD treatment, the VA recognizes that research has shown that CB1 receptors can return to normal after typically two days of refraining from cannabis. The problem lies in that this research specific to veterans with PTSD and these veterans may have a harder time than healthy controls for quitting cannabis if addiction takes place (Bonn- Miller and Rousseau). Also to the concern of the VA, much of the support for medical cannabis working for PTSD is anecdotal. Medical problems associated with marijuana use include chronic bronchitis, impaired short-term memory, impaired motor coordination, and abnormal brain development for early adolescent users (Volkow). Volhow also states that the repeated use of cannabis use may lead to life satisfaction, decreased educational attainment, and increased sexual risk-taking Also, with the improper use of cannabis, addiction with withdrawal symptoms can occur (Bonn-Miller and Rousseau). The main issue with confirming the benefits of cannabis for PTSD is that there has been no randomized controlled trials. The use of oral CBD has been proven to decrease anxiety in individuals with and without clinical anxiety; however, this work has not yet extended to PTSD victims (Bonn-Miller and Rousseau). One report studying CBD for veterans with PTSD found that was safe and well tolerated and resulted in decreases in hyperarousal However, the sample consisted of 10 people, which produces results that cannot be generalized to all veterans with PTSD (Bonne-Miller and Rousseau). Although the two organizations differ in their opinion on medical cannabis for PTSD treatment, both of their goals are to support veterans to their fullest ability. Both stakeholders are looking out for best interests. Also, Cannabis and the VA focus on mainly treating veterans from whatever ailments were developed due to their time in war. Past efforts to settle this disagreement comprise of research that has just recently begun to take place Student 4 on CBD for PTSD treatment. The lack of research in seeking out medical benefits from cannabis may stem from the fact that it has been deemed an illegal substance and is not necessarily viewed as a respected treatment in the eyes of many U.S. citizens. Also, the issue with the research so far is that the sample sizes are too small to generalize to all U.S. veterans with PTSD; there have also been no randomized controlled trials. Since 2001, the start of war in Afghanistan, the suicide rate among veterans has increased by thirty-five percent, consequently, making veteran suicide a rising epidemic in America (Philipps). It would seem that since both organizations are interested in supporting veterans, there should be a compromise between the two in order to optimize the effort to decrease the amount of veteran suicide stemming from the ailments that follow veterans after war- primarily PTSD. In order to increase the magnitude of support for veterans, I propose that the Cannabis and the VA reach common ground. In this compromise, the VA will fund further studies on specifically CBD for PTSD. Until the studies have reached a conclusive standing, the VA will understandably openly express their disapproval of medical cannabis for PTSD treatment. Cannabis benefits by having more research on their area of interest. The results serve to better educate and support the veterans, and the veterans can also participate in the studies. Meanwhile, the VA stakeholder benefits by finding out which treatment for PTSD best works; their sole purpose is to treat veterans, and this will further their efforts. Also, the VA will receive credit for their role in developing this information. Overall, a win-win for both organizations because finding out how to best support and treat veterans is their shared goal. While the benefits are substantial, with any compromise, there is a and from both sides. The is providing funding for further research of CBD, while the Veterans Cannabis is publically not being supported or recommended by the Student 5 VA until further notice; this limits their members creates doubt for the veterans. This compromise will assist in making the government aware of the growing need to focus their attention on the medical standing of their veterans. Writing to senators, government officials, and the VA can help raise awareness of the need to increase the development of PTSD treatment. With the increase of both veteran suicide and the occurrence of PTSD in recent years, the need for the increased awareness of mental and physical well-being is vital. This compromise may lead to helping a vast majority of veterans in need of PTSD treatment by providing them with proper treatment that has a greater guarantee of working, rather than relying on simply guess work. (WC: 1349) Student 6 Works Cited Betthauser, Kevin, et al. Use and Effects of Cannabinoids in Military Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress  American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy, vol. 72, no. 15, 8/1/2015, pp. 1279-1284. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2146/ajhp140523. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Bonn-Miller, Marcel O. & Rousseau, Glenna S. Use and PTSD among National Center for PTSD. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/professional/co- Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Philipps, Dave. Rate Among Veterans Has Risen Sharply Since The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/08/us/suicide-rate-among-veterans-has-risen- Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 The U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs. https://www.va.gov/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Veterans Cannabis Group. http://veteranscannabisgroup.com/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Volkow, Nora D., et al. Adverse Health Effects of Marijuana  The New England Journal of Medicine, no. 23, 2014, p. 2219. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.374580549&site=eds-live. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.