Grant 1 John Grant Prof. Changamire ENC 1102 27 March 2017 Beating Down on Bullying this fairly big, not-so-new thing going on both in and out of our schools nowadays. This epidemic is quite commonly known as bullying. Bullying whether in person, over the phone or online, is a major problem that has serious consequences on the youth of today. Bullies usually target their victims based off many characteristics of the victim that are their control ranging from skin tone to sexuality. A number of studies have gone into finding out how many children are frequently bullied and results show that of male and 5% of female secondary school students are regular targets of bullying away from (Bartkiewicz, Greytak and Kosciw 11). Those percentages may not seem big but actually ridiculously high, let alone they only represent the number of secondary school students regularly bullied outside of school and not in school. These studies are showing that we still have a huge problem on our hands and our communities as a whole need to put an end to this outrage. The good news is there are a number of organizations that are built around the goal of eliminating bullying all together. One of these organizations is the PACER National Bullying Prevention Center, an organization that strives to educate youth and adults alike on the ways to prevent bullying as well as how to help those who are currently victims of bullying. Their vision is to end bullying at an early age that bullying is no longer considered an accepted childhood rite of (PACER). PACER is fighting to bring awareness to our communities about how much of a Grant 2 problem bullying is for our youth both in and outside of school and how we the people can put a stop to it. Two images provided by PACER are key examples as to how they strive to educate youth and adults on how bad bullying is and the many ways that we can bring it down. The PACER National Bullying Prevention Center is an organization founded in 2006 that is an active leader in the fight against bullying. They currently have two offices in different parts of the United States: in Los Angeles, California and one in Minneapolis, Minnesota. This helps PACER have a stronger influence in both halves of the United States. The organization strives inspire, educate, and involve our communities not only on the problems created by bullying but on the ways to help those who are victims of bullying as well. PACER pushes for the recognition by communities that is a behavior that has affected too many for too (PACER). They hope to inspire people with the idea that the prevention of bullying starts with creating social change. Being firm believers that education is a key to eliminating bullying, the organization is a provider of innovative web-based information, ideas and actions that can be shared in communities across the nation to address (PACER). Being non-profit, they provide information for both adults and youth alike: websites specifically designed for young students to be able to relate to, and written material designed to assist parents in helping their child deal with and fight bullying. PACER even provides teachers with classroom aids to combat bullying at the source. These are of course just to name a few of the numerous resources that they provide for our communities. The organization fights to get people involved in the ending of bullying both a personal and community (PACER). PACER shows that there are countless ways for individuals to take action, whether it be simply signing a petition or holding a bullying awareness meeting. They even acknowledge the month of October as Bullying Prevention Grant 3 It is said that a picture is worth a thousand words. PACER provides a large number of images and videos on their website to get their message out to the people in ways that words cannot. These images vary from providing statistics to simply showing how much a mood can change for the better after being helped. The first of these two images shows what can be presumed to be a family of four squeezed together with all except one smiling for the photographer. From left to right we see a smiling young girl, a smiling father and mother, and then a boy without a smile on his face. The message that the image is trying to get across is that if the victim of bullying does not speak up about it, everyone else will go on with their daily lives clueless while the victim remains at the mercy of the bully. A study showed that of all children bullied, only a whopping percent reported the (Petrosina, Guckenburg, DeVoe, and Hanson, 2010). That leaves approximately 64 percent of children that did not report being bullied. That is 64 percent of all children that cannot live their lives as happily as the rest of their family and friends do. If the child were to simply speak up about it to their family then their parents could get involved and help their son or daughter. The image uses pathos to appeal to their emotions to make them feel empathy for the boy who is not smiling with the rest of the people. It makes us feel that we should fight to help out that child and make his/her voice heard. The second image is one that also appeals to the emotional side of the audience. In the image we see a teenage girl sitting on a seat in a school bus. Though everyone behind her is facing towards the isle of the bus, presumably talking to other students, the girl is gazing out the window with a rather distraught expression on her face. It makes it as if the girl has cut herself off from the rest of the bus, as if she is alone with no one to talk to. The image provides a statistic, stating that than one in every five students will be bullied this (PACER). Grant 4 This is essentially stating that there is at least one student in every five who will be bullied in 2017, and it was entirely preventable. Had most people in our communities been properly educated on and involved with the ending of bullying both in and outside of our schools, perhaps that girl on the bus would not have been bullied. Perhaps she would be facing inward, laughing and talking with the rest of the students on the school bus. The image is stating that all it takes is for us to know how to help in order to bring that statistic of one in every five students being bullied to five out of five students not being bullied. Bullying is a massive epidemic that has shrunk over the years with the help of organizations such as the PACER National Bullying Prevention Center. By inspiring, educating, and involving our communities in the prevention of bullying PACER is bringing the United States numerous steps closer to ending bullying altogether. They provide extremely helpful resources for not only students but parents and teachers as well on how to counter bullying and help those being bullied. website displays a large number of images and videos that show their views what words simply cannot. They show how bullying affects our youth and the impact that simply getting help can have on that life. With each day, week, month, and year PACER is getting closer to the complete destruction of bullying both in and outside of our schools. (W.C.: 1264) Grant 5 Works Cited Bartkiewicz, Mark, Kosciw, Joseph G., and Greytak, Emily A. Strategies for Prevention of the Bullying of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender www.TPRonline.org. The Prevention Researcher. September 2012. DeVoe, Jill, Guckenburg, Sarah, Hanson, Thomas, and Petrosino, Anthony. characteristics of bullying, bullying victims, and schools are associated with increased reporting of bullying to school Institute of Education Sciences. REL 2010, No. 092. Accessed 28 Feb 2017. Freeman, Greta Griffin. Implementation of Character Education and Literature to Teach Bullying Characteristics and Prevention Strategies to Preschool Children: An Action Research Springer. 2013. Accessed 16 Feb 2017. PACER National Bullying Prevention Center. www.pacer.org/bullying/about. PACER Center, Inc. 2016.