Student 1 Student Professor Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Genetically Modified Crops: Finding A Resolution With a rapidly growing population and global climate changes, genetic engineers and agriculture scientists have been developing innovative ways of substantially increasing adequate crop yield. Genetically Modified Organisms are organisms whose genes have been modified through the process of artificially inserting another species DNA into them, to obtain a desired trait (Kamthan et al). Most processed foods that are eaten today are made with some kind of GM crops the most common being soybeans, corn, cotton, and canola. Biotechnology has introduced farmers with these and other cash crops that can produce its own pesticide while remaining herbicide tolerant (Smith). However, conflicting claims and research on the health effects of has made the topic of one of the most controversial and debated. Researcher, consumer advocate, and founder of the Institute for Responsible Technology (IRT), Jeffrey Smith, claims that consuming GM foods can potentially cause dangerous health risks to humans. Contrastingly, leading experts of the National Academy of Science found through a broad study that there is no evidence that suggests any difference of health risks between commercialized GM crops and conventionally bred crops (National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine). goal is to spread awareness of the human health dangers of GM plants. Meanwhile, the National Academy for goal is to investigate numerous amounts of GMO publications/findings and draw a scientific consensus on the issue (for policymakers). The report concluded that the vast majority of scientists agreed that there are Student 2 no health risks to eating GMO foods. Although the two stakeholders and their supporters share opposing views on the issue, the implementation of the nationwide GM food labeling law (S.764) would be a compromise that both sides, policymakers, and the public could agree on until further long-term health studies on can be done. Jeffrey Smith is the consumer advocate promoting healthier non-GMO according to his biography on the Institute for Responsible website (Smith). The goal is to spread awareness and promote the consumption of non-GMO plants by shedding light towards the potentially dangerous health risks that cause. Smith has written several books, including Seeds of Deception: Exposing Industry and Government Lies about the Safety of the Genetically Engineered Foods Eating and Genetic Roulette: The Documented Health Risks of Genetically Engineered Foods. The latter also became a documentary that won several movie awards (Smith). Within his books, he sixty-five major claims about the safety of and uses fact-based evidence to disprove each (Katiraee). He also mentions that in 1992, the Food and Drug Administration determined that they found information showing that GM foods were substantially different from conventionally grown they were safe to eat and no safety studies were (Smith). Smith believes that there has not been a enough long-term GMO tests done on GMO effects to be considered safe, and the studies that have been done show negative health effects on the animals being tested on. He lists numerous potential ailments that have appeared in prior animal studies done, such as allergic reactions, liver problems, reproductive problems, infant immortality, proliferate cell growth, disease, and death (Smith). Smith has appeared on the Dr. Oz show and other forms of media while leading large campaigns alongside organic food groups and alternative health Student 3 promoters which have encouraged many people to reconsider what food they buy at the store and eat. Interestingly, there was, Pew Center poll in 2015 which found that only 37 percent of U.S. adults thought GM foods were safe, whereas 88 percent of scientists believed GM foods were safe. This was the largest opinion gap than on any other issue between the public and (Funk and Rainie). Many of these scientists comprised of the National Academy of expert committee selected to publish a report on the issue of This committee reviews a numerous amount of scientific publications and provides, objective advice to improve government decision making, public policy, and to increase public understanding in matters involving In May of 2012, the committee commenced the report by reviewing literature (more than 900 research and other publications), heard from 80 diverse speakers, 15 webinars, and read more than 700 comments from members of the Engineered Crops: Experiences and In the report, titled Genetically Engineered Crops: Experiences and Prospects, the scientists wrote that they no substantiated evidence that foods from GM crops were less safe than foods from non-GM (Lynas). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) decided to approve safety because of the principle the contain a nutritional content that is substantially equivalent to its non-GMO counterpart What Are We ). Thus, no further toxicology or safety testing is required since it is essentially the same. Also, the committee compared disease reports from both the United States and Canada (GM crops have been consumed since to those reported from the UK and Western Europe (GM crops rarely consumed). The report stated that there is no evidence that suggests there are Student 4 differences in health risks to human health between GM crops and conventionally-bred crops from comparing these disease reports (Weise). have been a hotly-debated topic since their inception into the food market about twenty years ago. The National Academy of report on initiated an important step towards finding a policy that both sides of the issue will agree upon a national policy involving a standard for food labeling. Supporters on both sides of the issue share slightly different opinions when it comes to labeling GMO food products; Anti-GMO activist Jeffrey Smith, as well as many organic food companies, can agree that are not safe to eat, and supported a strict labeling law that was passed in Vermont in the early summer of 2016. This state law made GMO labeling mandatory and would read, with genetic Contrastingly, the majority of scientists, including the expert committee of the GMO report, can agree that are safe, and do not see any reason for labeling GMO or Non- GMO foods in the first place. These conflicting claims and research on the effects of have created a confusing landscape for the public and for policymakers. However, in July 2016, the strict Vermont labeling law got overturned by a national legislation (S.764) that required a voluntary national labeling standard (Sax, Joanna K. and Neal Doran). The bill would require that the labeling must, the use of a barcode that must be scanned or to simply print a website address so customers could get more (Morran). Although there is still criticism on this new policy, I believe that this bill is a fair compromise because until more research on the long-term effects of can be done, people will remain skeptical on GMO safety. With this new labeling standard enacted, at least now people can know what is in their food and make their own choice on what they will eat, based on their own personal beliefs regarding Student 5 Both stakeholders, Jeffrey Smith (the Institute for Responsible Technology) and the National Academy of Science, conflict in viewpoints towards and their effects on human health. Contrastingly, as goal is to spread awareness of the human health dangers of GM plants, the NAS confirms that are safe and there are no health risks in consuming GM plants. Since there is a multitude of conflicting research, claims, and opinions amongst individuals regarding GMO safety, the new national legislation (S.764) offers a food labeling solution that will allow people to know what kind of food they are eating, whether they do or do not currently believe in the safety of In time, I believe long-term studies will offer more insight and clarity into the health effects of GMO foods on humans. (WC: 1325) Student 6 Works Cited About  Genetically Engineered Crops at the National Academy of Sciences. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Funk, Cary, and Lee Rainie. Public and Views on Science and  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. Pew Research Center, 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Kamthan, Ayushi, et al. Genetically Modified (GM) Crops: Milestones and New Advances in Crop  Theoretical and Applied Genetics, no. 9, 2016, p. 1639. Katiraee, Layla. 10 studies proving GMOs are harmful? Not if science  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., 01 Mar. 2017. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Lynas, Mark. GMO safety debate is  Cornell Alliance for Science. N.p., 24 May 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Morran, Chris. President Signs Law That Overturns Vermont GMO Labeling Rules, Replaces Them With  Consumerist. N.p., 26 Sept. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Genetically Engineered Crops: Experiences and Prospects. 2016. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. Sax, Joanna K. and Neal Doran. Food Labeling and Consumer Associations with Health, Safety, and  Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, no. 4, Winter2016, pp. 630-638. Student 7 Smith, Jeffrey.  Institute for Responsible Technology. Institute for Responsible Technology, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Smith, Jeffrey. Health  Institute for Responsible Technology. Institute for Responsible Technology, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Weise, Elizabeth. Academies of Science finds GMOs not harmful to human  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 17 May 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Are We  GMO Free California. LabelGMOS.org, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.