Pellissier 1 Olivia Pellissier Erika Staiger ENC1102 26 February 2017 Greenpeace Against Deforestation in the Amazon Greenpeace is an organization that has been raising awareness against environmental destruction since 1971 and is present in more than 55 countries Greenpeace is committed to saving the environment, especially in the Amazon Rainforest. The Amazon is the largest forest in the world and holds a large amount of biodiversity that has caught the attention of scientists Greenpeace works with local groups to take a stand against deforestation in the Amazon through petitions and awareness. has therefore launched a petition calling for a zero  law in Calls for Zero Deforestation Globally by One group that Greenpeace has taken action with is the indigenous people of the Amazon. These indigenous people, known as the people, felt that the Brazilian government has not been protecting the Amazon from illegal logging and they decided to team up with Greenpeace to end the destruction Unfortunately, the destruction of the Amazon has been increasing over the years and according to Greenpeace, more carbon emissions are being released into the atmosphere which will lead to a warmer Earth In order for Greenpeace to raise awareness on this issue, visual examples, such as pictures and videos, were needed to be sponsored. The two images that Greenpeace has made to promote awareness, represent rhetorical appeals in order for their audience to understand how much harm deforestation causes to the environment. Pellissier 2 The first image presented by Greenpeace displays a part of a tree trunk with the words the Heart of the The purpose of this image is to show that trees are the of the forest and without trees, the Amazon will not be able to prosper. Trees provide the forest with life and a habitat for the variety of species to flourish (SavATree). Not only does the Amazon provide life for the species that live there, it also provides human life with a well- balanced climate. matter how far from the region you live, the Amazon plays an important role in all of our The first rhetorical appeal that is represented in this image is pathos. This image is displaying an emotional appeal to the audience by showing how important trees are to the Amazon. With the tree already cut down in the image, the audience will understand the message being sent because the trunk signifies the base of the tree and without the trunk, the tree will not be able to survive just like without the tree, the forest will not be able to survive. Logos is shown in this image by explaining to the audience that trees are a vital part of an ecosystem. The audience might be unaware of how important trees are to the environment, but this image shows that trees supply everything needed for life. contribute Pellissier 3 to their environment by providing oxygen, improving air quality, climate amelioration, conserving water, preserving soil, and supporting (SavATree). Finally, Kairos represents timeliness and urgency and this image shows this rhetorical appeal by displaying the message the Heart of the on a tree trunk that has been chopped down. The tree trunk is the symbol for urgency in this image because the tree is already cut down and the audience will realize that if an image is using a cut down tree to raise awareness on deforestation, that shows how fast deforestation is occurring in the Amazon. The second image Greenpeace is presenting shows a forest that is almost completely chopped down with the quote Forest from the popular movie, Forest Gump. The purpose of this image is to show the audience how fast the Amazon is being destroyed by using a popular quote. the last 40 years, the Brazilian Amazon lost more than 18 percent of its Ethos is demonstrated in this image with the quote Forest Tom Hanks plays the role of the main character in the movie Forest Gump and with Pellissier 4 this famous quote, the audience will give more attention to the image. Having a famous figure, or in this case a quote, in the image, more awareness will be raised because the audience will be more attracted to the image. The second rhetorical appeal represented in this image is pathos. Just like the first image, there is an emotional appeal about the Amazon and this image shows how fast the forest is deteriorating and how much damage is being caused to the environment. The Amazon accounts for a large amount of biodiversity and if deforestation continues, almost full populations of species could no longer exist. than half of terrestrial plant and animal species reside in tropical Calls for Zero Deforestation Globally by The quote, Forest is signifying that the forest needs to get away from the harm being done, but the audience will realize that there is no way for the forest to avoid deforestation. Logos is exhibited in the image because the audience might not be aware that the forest cannot protect itself from the damage being done and it is only going to get worse if no action is taken. If deforestation continues, there will be a loss of habitat and more carbon emissions will be released into the atmosphere which is harmful to all living organisms. on the other hand, releases that carbon into the air, making global warming The final rhetorical appeal presented in this image is Kairos and with the image of the damage caused by deforestation, the audience will have a sense of urgency to help protect the forest. The quote symbolizes that the forest is being chopped down faster than it can repair itself. Overall, main mission is to raise awareness about the potential threats to the environment. Greenpeace works to expose the criminals that are responsible for the destruction of the lands, including the Amazon Rainforest The ecosystem thrives off of forests and the purpose of the two images presented is to show the audience exactly Pellissier 5 how detrimental deforestation is to the environment. The images present the four rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos, in order for the audience to truly understand why Greenpeace is working towards stopping deforestation. Pellissier 6 Works Cited About  Greenpeace International. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/about/ Amazon  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/forests/amazon-rainforest/ Greenpeace calls for zero deforestation globally by  Amazon Rainforest News. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. http://www.amazonrainforestnews.com/2012/03/greenpeace-calls-for-zero- deforestation.html Caleb. Indigenous Group, Greenpeace Partner to Track Illegal Logging in the  Mongabay.com. N.p., 26 Sept. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. https://wildtech.mongabay.com/2015/09/indigenous-group-greenpeace-partner-to- track-illegal-logging-in-the-amazon/ SavATree. The Importance of Trees - Learn Value and Benefit of  Savatree.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. http://www.savatree.com/whytrees.html