Selmeci 1 Juliette Selmeci Instructor Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 28 February 2017 Mothers Against Drunk Driving Ever since cars were invented in 1885, there have been more and more people becoming reliant on cars to get from place to place. For this very reason, it is important to take into consideration one underlying issue specifically: driving under the influence. Driving under the influence is a serious offence that can alter the lives of many. When considering that Alcohol can impair vision, reduced reaction times, reduced concentration and drowsiness, it should be apparent to everyone that drinking and driving cannot yield any positive results. The Mothers Against Drunk Driving organization was established in 1980, after a mother lost her daughter due to the actions of a drunk driver. Mothers Against Drunk Driving also known as MADD was founded with the aim end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes, and prevent underage (MADD). The Mothers Against Drunk Driving organization endorses the idea that drinking and driving is always hazardous; therefore, through the use of billboards and advertisements they are able to caution people to the injuries and fatalities that can result from driving under the influence. The image to the left shows the images of Jesus, age six, and Jordy, age one. These young children were victims of a drunk driving incident. This Selmeci 2 billboard is placed near a busy highway to remind drivers and passengers to be aware of what can happen when alcohol consumption interferes with driving, and also to try and prevent people from getting behind the wheel after consuming alcohol. The aim of this Mothers Against Drunk Driving billboard advertisement is to evoke emotion by using the pictures of children that are now deceased. Emotions are also evoked when thinking of how this crash impacted the and how the family must be heartbroken. There are only a few words featured on the billboard and the text is simple and bold making it quick and easy for drivers to read. The hashtag is featured in red, as red is often associated with anger. The appeal of credibility, ethos, can be seen because of the official Mothers against Drunk Driving organization logo on the billboard. This billboard prompts people to think that if something done about this soon more people will become injured or even worse, die. The image to the left, states behind one wheel could land you behind with the handicapped symbol underneath; therefore, suggesting that when alcohol consumption and drive consumption could be harmful to oneself. The text used for the word is all uppercase, bold, and blue thus drawing your attention. This Mothers Against Drunk Driving advertisement has a strict tone, thus stressing the importance of putting an end to driving while under the influence of Selmeci 3 alcohol. The purpose of this image is to prevent people from drinking and driving. This advertisement does this extremely well because by putting the idea in the viewers heads that something that can drastically change ones life can happen in a instant due to making the mistake of mixing alcohol with driving. This advertisement uses the emotional appeal of pathos by using the handicap logo. The handicapped logo signals to viewers that becoming handicapped can stop them from doing things they enjoy and can force them to have to rely on others for everyday tasks which can often take effect on mental health. The appeal of credibility, ethos, can be seen because of the official Mothers against Drunk Driving organization logo located on the bottom of the advertisement flyer. Mothers Against Drunk Driving has effectively argued that drinking and driving should cease by showing images of what could happen to you or others. These images both show tragedy that can be a result of drinking and driving. In the future, the Mothers Against Drunk Driving organization can achieve its goal: to put an end to drunk driving. The organization is making the threats of the outcomes that can occur. Even though drinking and driving is against the law, that mean it happen. It is for this reason that the Mothers Against Drunk Driving is still is making an impact today by continuing to educate people and help support the victims of drunk driving. Selmeci 4 Works Cited Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Stanwlodyka. Against Drunk 2014. Web. 20 Feb 2017