Rataj 1 Richard Rataj Professor Erika Staiger English 1102 21 February 2017 Peace in Nature Debate over the status of the global environment has begun to take a strong foothold in society, and many different opinions on what is actually happening and what role is and should be in it exists. The movement to protect the environment is in full swing, and many organizations are trying to lead this movement. The Greenpeace Organization, a nonprofit organization advocating for the protection of the environment and preventing the exploitation of resources. Education of the public on these issues stands as the most effective way of helping people to realize the problems and take part in helping to solve them. Greenpeace produces ads to help get their ideas out into the world, and bring the information to everyone across the world. Greenpeace looks to human intervention in policy and action to prevent environmental destruction in all issues present, ranging from curbing climate change to stopping animal abuse. Previous human action has led to a significant impact on the environment, and now, as a global community, must address the former wrongdoings and fix what has been destroyed. Greenpeace employs all rhetoric devices to some extent in order to elicit an empathetic response from the viewer, encouraging them to take a stance and become a part of the movement that they stand for. The use of logical reasoning helps a viewer to follow an idea and the causes and effects of that idea. It is a useful rhetorical device because it helps a reader to understand a point of view and make connections to how something works. Greenpeace utilizes this technique within their Rataj 2 advertisements. In the first advertisements referring to overfishing, within a text written, easy to follow logical statements appear. The use of an statement is seen, where if there is no creation of marine reserves, then aquatic life will cease to exist. This creates a logical hypothesis, that without any further research into the topic seems highly plausible, and the viewer is much more likely to adopt this opinion as their own. However, looking into this further, a logical fallacy exists in which if one thing happens, then another more extreme consequence will occur, referred to as a slippery slope. The if-then statement assumes that if marine reserves are not created, then life in the ocean will disappear. It takes an absolute position and offers no room for any other conditions to occur, going to an extreme. The second picture, referencing sea level rises, uses a less direct form of logos, and does not contain a clear if-then statement, however it presents a causal relationship in which species loss their habitat as sea level increases. This is an easy to follow concept, and the use of logical reasoning through the statement allows the viewer to form a basic idea of what the issue is that Greenpeace is advocating about. The viewer is presented with one simple idea about an issue, and given the ability to follow a cause and effect relationship. This is effective for Greenpeace and the advertisement as it presents their stance in an easy to follow and easy to understand manner that does not use any extraneous information or reach to extremes to present an idea. Continually, the use of pathos in both images creates an emotional response in the viewer. Julia Doyle, is a leader in the study of media and its role in the stances on climate change, researcher some of the advertisements put out by Greenpeace. The advertisements are to document environmental destruction and to convey the visual beauty of nature at (Doyle) and elicit emotions in the viewer to gain support for Greenpeace. In the first image, the emptiness of the ocean helps convey an uneasy feeling and see what the potential destruction that Rataj 3 can occur. However, the aesthetically pleasing photograph being used leads to reader to gain appreciation for the oceans. This then creates a feeling of wanting to prevent the potential destruction from occurring. Furthermore, the placement of the fish behind the text leads to an assumption that the fish are hiding from the viewer, and gain protection behind Greenpeace. This puts the viewer in a position as an actor in the issue, leading to a forced position to choose a side. The viewer is either with Greenpeace in protecting the fish, or against nature and acting as one who leads to the destruction of the environment. The uneasy feeling created in the first image further translates to the second image, where the emptiness of above the bird against creates a feeling that all has been lost. In the text at the bottom, the use of logos that was stated before helps the reader understand the problem, however after the statement, the words are found, which utilizes pathos to bring the viewer into the problem. At this point the viewer is now affected by the problem, and Greenpeace helps to enforce the idea that the viewer is at risk just as much as the bird underwater is. Greenpeace elicits emotions in the reader to feel as if the issues presented have a direct effect on the viewer, and that the viewer has a direct affecting on causing or preventing these issues from taking further hold. Given that the viewer has the position that they are a part of the problem, and have role and addressing it, the use of kairos is seen in both advertisements to encourage the viewer to become a part of the solution quickly. In the first image, the use of the word when referring to the potential for the destruction of life in the ocean creates the feeling in the viewer that action must be taken as soon as possible before the ultimate destruction of the marine life occurs. The viewer has an obligation to take a part in the solution if they are to not be a cause to the elimination of marine life. This is more so seen in the second image, as the text claims that Rataj 4 action must be taken it is too Given that the viewer is now aware of the issue, they must take a stance in it if they are to safe the human species and any other species that may be affecting by rising sea level. With this, all capital letters, the larger font size, and the use of an exclamation point in the phrase GLOBAL elicits a feeling of urgency and alertness in the viewer, helping them to feel that they need to stop global warming, as it seems to be a large matter. Greenpeace uses these techniques to elicit feelings of the need to help protect the environment. The fact that Greenpeace, a well-known multinational organization puts out these advertisements give the issues credibility and seem to be more credible. By producing and claiming support for the advertisements, the issues presented in them seem to must be important if a leader in environmental support cares so deeply about them. Greenpeace has impacts in all levels of society. They act as environmental NGO with established influential relationship with other social institutions [which extraordinary leverage to advance the enviropreneurial (Stafford 125). This means that due to the range of influence and interconnectedness that Greenpeace has to credible social institutions such as governments and scientific research foundations that they gain credibility in the matters regarding environmental impacts. Effectively, the rhetorical devices Greenpeace utilized in the advertisements they produce allow them to convey their stance on the issues they have a credible say in and encourage the reader to understand the issues and support what the stance is. By using logos, pathos, and kairos in the images and the text within those images, Greenpeace creates the feeling of a pressing issue that the viewer has an effect in preventing or encouraging as well as putting the viewer as a victim of the issues. This is effective due to their way to elicit emotion in the viewer, and allow Rataj 5 the viewer to understand the issues, as well as the fact that Greenpeace is a large multinational corporation known to be effective in preventing issues that make a difference in the world. Rataj 6 Works Cited Doyle, Julie. Picturing the Clima(c)tic: Greenpeace and the Representational Politics of Climate Change  Image Politics of Climate Change 16.2 (2007): 129-50. Taylor & Francis Online. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09505430701368938>. Greenpeace. Advertisement. Ads of the World, Ads of the World, 27 Mar. 2007, Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace. Advertisement. Advertolog, Advertolog, Dec. 2007, www.advertolog.com/greenpeace/print-outdoor/greenpeace-seabird-11007655/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Stafford, Edwin R., Michael Jay Polonsky, and Cathy L. Hartman. Environmental NGO- business collaboration and strategic bridging: a case analysis of the Greenpeace-Foron  Business Strategy and the Environment 9.2 (2000): 122-35. ProQuest. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://search.proquest.com/docview/213771659?pq-origsite=gscholar>.