Fellipe da Silva Instructor Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 02/28/2017 intermediate Draft Introduction: Pathological gambling is a disorder that can have many diverse and involuntary consequence. Addicts have lost homes, damaged relationships with family and friends, and become psychologically dependent on compulsive wagering. Gambling has been around for centuries, since ancient Greece to your modern day local Hard Rock Casino. In America gambling was legalized 20 years ago; thus, it was revolutionized to one of the biggest adult entertainment industries to influence capitalistic culture. Putting it into perspective the industry generated approximately $72 billion in gross revenues during the fiscal year of (Psychiatry, Pathological gambling). Due to such an increase of gross income casinos could thrive, while gamblers lost it all being consumed with the next possible Jackpot. Gambling is best described as something of value at risk on an outcome that is due to There still lies much grey area on the matter of compulsive gambling and the negative effects it has on an life. This brings to question; can individuals battle against the emotional stress and addictive habits that compulsive gambling brings to their lives. Timothy Fong concludes that, for a person to be considered to be a DSM 4 candidate they have to meet a 5 out 10 pathological criteria. DSM 4 criteria, several psychometrically valid screening instruments that can assist the clinician in identifying patients with at-risk gambling (Fong Table I). The Psychometric test is a valid source because it is ran by two test that are used for any mental health treatment setting. Susana does a clinical trial with three young gamblers using The South Oaks Gambling Screen the same test that Fong stated in his research. The result of trails were, three circumstances of pathological gambling patients emerged, I showed less psychopathology and more functional personality traits. Type II showed a profile characterized by major emotional distress, shame, immaturity, hostility and negative feelings. Type III showed the most severe psychopathological profile and most psychopathological disturbances and schizotypal Results). With these results the three patients had distinct endophenotypes exiting, one with environmental issues and the others with emotional based influences.