Taylor Nipper Brendan Jackson ENC 1101 Dissociation and its Disorders Being a disorder that is becoming more and more well-known each day, dissociative type disorders have conversation surrounding them that is ever changing. Many people aware of the realizations of Dissociative Disorders (DD) because of the rarity (only 1% of the population is said to have or have had it) and the several illnesses that are included in the encompassing title. The three major disorders defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) include: dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and depersonalization-derealization disorder, which will be touched on later. Symptoms of these illnesses can include detachment from self and emotions, memory loss and amnesia, perception of people and things around you as distorted and unreal, anxiety, depression, suicidal thoughts, and the inability to cope with daily stressors. One of the strongest predictors of dissociation is trauma, particularly in childhood. Because of the idea of having multiple completely separate personalities and the inability to gather hard, definite, numeric data, the research on this topic often has holes in it. While some people think Dissociative Disorders (DD) are an iatrogenic disorder, evidence exists that it is indeed a naturally occurring phenomena and has been documented in numerous parts of the world, and in patients with a variety of symptoms and previous traumas. Luckily for this paper, the differences in opinions surrounding these diseases provides way for me to be able to argue how the topic and ideas surrounding it have changed in the last 17 years. The way of approaching treatment for Dissociative Disorders is different for each doctor or researcher. Treatment in Dissociative Disorders: an Overview of Assessment, Phenomenology, and Treatment, the was vague and new. It is stated that there are no randomized clinical trials to date and only 1 controlled case study relating to any of the dissociative disorders (Brand, Lowenstein 2010). Standard of care involves basic trauma- focused psychotherapy over a long period of time with the expectance of improved symptoms relating to depression, general distress, PTSD and anxiety (Brand, Lowenstein 2010). On the other hand, in a clinical research article by the Department of Psychology at Towson University, they attempted to treat patients using a The participants for this study included the patients and their therapists, upon agreeing to participate, the patient was given a series of confidential online surveys adapted from Zittel and (2005) study of borderline personality disorder (Cronin, Brand, Mattanah 2014). By using this affective bond and focusing on agreement of goals and tasks between the therapist and the patient, the researchers found that the therapeutic alliance was significantly correlated with fewer symptoms and better overall function (Cronin, Brand, Mattanah 2014). Another significant change that I noticed in my research was that only one of my sources mentioned more than one sentence about pervasive maternal dysfunction. It is a general fact in the world of dissociative disorders that they are begun during childhood and may or may not resurface in later years (Spring 2011). However, in a 2014 article written by Harold Blum, he discusses that maternal dysfunction or post-partum depression are one of the few cases where dissociative disorders can be developed as an adult. research indicates that maternal dysfunction, e.g., communication difficulty, contradictory cognitive, and affective messages, and maternal role confusion are likely to be associated with dissociative (Blum 2014) Lyons-Ruth (2003) concluded that such maternal dysfunction, rather than traumatic abuse, was the most predictive pathogenic determinant of later dissociative disorder. A mother may feel that the baby has a lack of protection or is subject to vulnerability; the reasons to develop this disorder continue with the idea that a mother may be also very deeply troubled by their inability to learn to read, write, or respond to her communications (Blum 2014). This is different from the other articles that I have read such as guide working with dissociative identity Here they discuss as stated above how DD start in early childhood due to overwhelming experiences, sexual abuse, disturbed caretaker-child relationships, and disruptions in the attachment system (Spring 2011). 86% of dissociative identity disorder patients reported a history of sexual abuse (Spring 2011). The article includes a lot on information about childhood development of this disorder, but never suggests the post-partum aspect of it. Due to the nature of dissociative disorders, they are often overlooked, misdiagnosed and misunderstood. It is important that people know about diseases such as these in order to further their knowledge be more socially aware. Through more research and further testing, we will soon be able to understand dissociative disorders and the most effective ways of treating them. Research on this topic has come a long way in the last 17 years alone. Awareness of the symptoms has improved throughout the world and dissociation has recently become a prevalent topic of research for psychologists and psychiatrists. The talk around this topic is continually changing and evolving just as our knowledge of how to help it. Blum, Harold. and Its Psychoanalytic Inquiry, Issue 5, Vol. 33 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Sep/Oct2013, p427-438. 12p. doi: 10.1080/07351690.2013.815058. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017 Brand, Bethany, Loewenstein, Richard J. Disorders: An Overview of Assessment, Phenomonology, and Academic Search Alumni Edition. Vol. 27, no. 10, Oct. 2010, pp. 62. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017 Cronin, Elisabeth, Brand, Bethany L., Mattanah, Jonathan F. impact of the therapeutic alliance on treatment outcome in patients with dissociative European Journal of Psychotraumatology, Vol. 5, p1-9, 2014, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds. Accessed 15 Feb 2017. Spring, Carolyn. guide with dissociative identity Healthcare Counselling & Psychotherapy Journal, Vol. 11, Issue 4, Oct. 2010, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017