Velez 1 Luis Velez ENC1102.034 Adam Carter 26 February 2017 The Effects of Propaganda for Nonsmokers Imagine walking through Busch Gardens with your family or best friends for the first time, enjoying the pleasant weather and hearing the excitement in the air. With a huge smile on your face, you take a deep breath of fresh air, and then it is ruined by the smell of cigarettes or tobacco products. did not go to a trip to Busch Gardens and pay over sixty dollars or more to have to deal with that dilemma for a few minutes out of their day. Americans for Rights (ANR) is an organization has been taking the initiative to stop the exposure of secondhand smoke to nonsmokers, just like this scenario, since 1976. They will take actions necessary to prevent all people from using and abusing tobacco products (Americans for Rights, 2016). Based off their mission statement, the images that would support their cause would be images that display smoking as dangerous, hazardous, or deadly. The two images that support the Americans for Rights have the goals of preventing people of all ages to stop smoking by utilizing the elements of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Looking at the two images that support the organization Americans for Rights, there is a variety of pathos elements within each picture that strongly suggests audiences of all types (current smokers, people who want to smoke, and young adolescents who may be unaware of the effects of smoking) who may to stop smoking. To start off, pathos is a quality of writing that appeals to emotions. Going off that, the first picture that supports the Americans for Nonsmokers Rights has various elements of pathos. The primary example of pathos is a man Velez 2 loading a revolver with cigarettes. Having a revolver in the first picture would invoke fear into any audience that is viewing it, since any weapon with ammunition brings can be lethal. If cigarettes can lead to death through potential stroke, heart attacks, cancer, etc., symbolizing that through a revolver to strike an emotional cord can prevent a person from starting to smoke, if not to stop smoking. The same way that a weapon would strike fear into anyone is why it is included into the picture; the only difference is that it is loaded with cigarettes instead of ammunition. The second picture that supports the organization has a high appeal to the element of pathos. The second picture consists of an unborn child who is defenseless and small, but it is surrounded by smoke while within the fetus. Below the image is a caption that states, will seriously damage the health of your unborn child. For their sake stop Automatically, most people would feel obligated by nature to care for things that are small and defenseless, like a newborn baby, a puppy, or anything that seems defenseless. Going on to that extent, this picture captivates pregnant mothers, who would fight tooth and nail to protect their young, so seeing this picture automatically captures their attention and sends the message across: stop smoking and save yourselves, as well as (specifically newborns) futures from the effects of smoking. Besides that, having the words, in bold red text invokes the urgency to the audience. Not only does it send the main goal of the image across to the audience, but it is sent immediately through red text in order to appeal to the element of pathos; if the words were not red, then the message to stop smoking would not be conveyed as clearly. Going along to the next element, ethos is an appeal to how credible something is in writing. Credibility is always known to be in the form of an signature, an logo on a document, or a seal of approval (especially in government documents). In regards to Velez 3 the first picture, there is not a logo of a nonsmoking organization; the only thing that can be listed as credible is the facts that are provided to the left of the revolver. It is well known that smoking usually leads to death in users by bodily complications; because of this, there side effects listed that support the main message (that smoking kills). According to a former smoker named Kristy, smoking for twenty years caused her shortness of breath, and doctors found out she had COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), a lung disease that makes regular breathing difficult Story, 2017). Along with that, the other potential effects of smoking, such as fatal heart attacks, emphysema, and cancer are all potential consequences of smoking, and that can be found through statistical research online. The second picture with the unborn fetus is deemed more credible to an audience due to the known facts regarding smoking. The logo of NHS (National Health Service) in the United Kingdom verifies that the picture is sponsored and supported by another organization, which goes hand in hand with ANR Logos, which is the appeal to logic, is evident throughout both pictures and supports the objective, which is to stop all audiences from smoking. Going on to the first picture, there is a revolver, which may not make sense as to why it is included in the picture unless one were to further analyze it. No one would recklessly get into a car accident or jump off the tenth floor of a building, because death would be certain, and it would not make sense to do so. Using a revolver to symbolize death for smokers who overlook the effects of smoking, it would not make sense for a new smoker or nonsmokers to be interested in smoking; it would slowly kill them over time (hence the side effects listed alongside the revolver). As for the other picture with the unborn baby, smoking is not permissible by any means. If a couple wanted to ensure that the health of their baby is at the greatest level, the pregnant mother would not drink, smoke, go on rollercoasters, avoid unhealthy foods, and do anything that would boost a health as well Velez 4 as the health. It does not make any sense for a woman to expect a healthy baby if she were to choose to smoke; it would only cause pregnancy complications such as stillbirths, placenta abruption, premature birth, and birth defects (Carlson, 2016). These two pictures in regards to logos directly promotes the overall message of the ANR because for a fetus (as well as nonsmokers), they are affected by smoking, and either group did not wish to be dealing with the side effects of smoking, whether it is on a short term basis or lifelong. As for the last element, kairos is the appeal to timeliness, and there are two main points in both pictures that incorporate the use of kairos. In regards to the first picture, the main thing that points out is the last part of the picture, with a piece of text that says, Kills so why bother It directly tells the audience that the continued use of smoking will result in death; since it was blatantly stated, the next thing that is seen is the question to why even start smoking. Other than that, the rest of the text within the picture has yellow text, which can be understood in a timely context as a warning, since yellow is used as a color of warning (for example, when you see a yellow streetlight, you are advised to slow down). In the second picture, the biggest element of kairos is the words, in red bolded letters. The red words convey a sense of urgency, seeking out immediate attention from the audience, which calls all smokers to stop. The last two words would not contribute to the use of kairos as effectively if it did not say to stop today. Since the overall message of the ANR is to prevent all groups of people from using tobacco products, both pictures utilize the element of kairos to convey that message in each picture After analyzing both pictures that support Americans for Nonsmokers Rights (ANR), the use of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos is sufficient in changing the perspective of people to stop Velez 5 smoking, and to refrain from smoking any tobacco products. No one would look at smoking the same way after analyzing these images and fully understanding the message portrayed. Figure 1: Smoking Kills Figure 2: Stop Today Velez 6 Works Cited Carlson, Jessica. Dangers of Smoking While Healthline. 7 Oct 2016. Web. 27 Feb 2017. and Americans for Rights. American Rights Foundation, 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017 Sandu, Bogdan. Smoking Kills. n/a. Remarkable Anti-Smoking Advertising Campaigns 53 Examples. www.designyourway.net/blog/inspiration/remarcable-anti-smoking- advertising-campaigns-53-examples/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Sophi. Stop Today. n/a. Visual Communication: NHS- Stop Smoking. http://shardingvcom.blogspot.com/2010/04/nhs-stop-smoking.html?m=1. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. From Former Story. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 Jan 2017. Web. 27 Feb 2017. Name, author. Name of artwork. Location of artwork. Website name. website below. Day accessed.