Behling 1 Joseph Behling Professor Mariama Changamire ENC1102 1 March 2017 Visual Rhetoric in The National Rifle Association It is understood that there have been mass shootings and terrible circumstances that have been caused from guns. The headlines all too often report these violent crimes. This has been the subject of controversy over the second amendment and the right to bear arms. Some feel that the blame for these shooting and deaths are due to the amount of firearms available and feel they should not be legal to any citizen while others believe these violent crimes would stop if everyone had a firearm to defend themselves with. A large stakeholder called the National Rifle Association, or the NRA, are always defending the right to own a gun. The NRA uses large images and visual rhetoric to appeal to an audience. Their visual rhetoric and political support are a big reason why certain guns are not banned and why more and more people are buying guns for protection. Visual rhetoric consists of ethos, logos, pathos, and karios. These images defend guns and appeal to this audience. The NRA supports their belief in defending guns and the second amendment as a whole in these images by showing everyone how guns give citizens a sense of protection. The rhetoric appeal of pathos uses emotions to persuade an audience to a visual advertisement. The National Rifle Association, or the NRA, uses this very successfully in figure two. It displays a crime scene with the police using the well know yellow caution tape circling a home. This alone evokes the emotion of sadness or loss. The image shows an average home in an average neighborhood which speaks to the idea that that could be you. It also implies Behling 2 innocent victims to violence who were unarmed and therefore unable to defend themselves. They were vulnerable to individuals who intended them harm. This is also a political add against the Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. This is implying that if she becomes President, she will take away your civilian gun rights and leave you defenseless. It further implies that owning a gun could have changed the outcome. This picture evokes the emotion of anger to the idea of being defenseless by abiding to laws that criminals will never abide by. Pathos also is strongly used in figure one. When people hear the word protection or fighting back, the typical thought is a man. The common audience relate a woman to self-protection. The NRA was clever by using a woman in their picture talking about protecting freedom. This is a powerful image stating not only to men protect the right but women do to. Pictures like this really motivates not only women but men too. It shows that any man or woman can use a gun and protect themselves and freedom. This also unites this sexes by stating in a small white text for by men and women of the national rifle (figure two). Advertisements like this really affect the emotion of an audience and persuade to fight for the second amendment. Ethos is a rhetoric that appeals to the credibility of an image. Both images are endorsed by the NRA which gives the advertisements authenticity. This is important because many opposing advertisements may write about the NRA in a negative way, making it potentially confusing to the reader but in order for it to be clear, the NRA has endorsed both of these advertisements adding to their credibility and position. The first advertisement, figure 1, goes one step further and has a women representing the NRA. This image appeals to fellow women and gives them a creditable connection. The women in the advertisement appears strong and independent, even unmovable with her arms crossed while leaning against her truck. This Behling 3 inspires women to desire that same independence and strength. They also have a website for you to research which strengthens the credibility and further expands on their message of gun rights. Figure two has a credible appeal because it states let Hilary leave you (figure two) because she is wanting to ban certain gun rights like conceal and carry. Conceal and carry has been proven to be positive for states who have passed these laws by reducing murder rates by 8.5%, robbery by 3% rapes by 5%, and aggravated assaults by 7%. This gives credit to this ad because rights like these that are taken away is in certain cases leaving people defenses when this gun right is very good for American citizens. Logos rhetoric appeals to logic and reason. Every American is proud to be free. It is the principle to our independence. So stating (figure 1) in figure one, appeals to the persuasive argument of reason. No one wants to lose our freedoms and the NRA takes a position that we will, if we lose our second amendment and the right to bear arms. This is one of the strongest reasons for their belief and position of rhetoric since the beginning of the NRA. Their logic is that if we keep our gun rights we will keep our freedom and it is a good argument. also appeals to figure two because taking away gun rights can leave you defenseless at times. Why would anyone ever want to be defenseless especially if there was a robbery or some other form of criminal activity. It make sense and so how the second image applies to logic is that the situation that is being presented in the background may not have happened if that person could have defended themselves. Over all there has been a lot of thought that goes into these images. The National Rifle Association really depicts what goes into their public adds and try to have as much visual rhetoric as possible. In these simple images the NRA has published, they have managed to add ethos, logos, karios and pathos to all of these images. In these images The NRA shows their Behling 4 supports in their belief in defending guns and the second amendment as a whole by showing everyone how guns give citizens a sense of protection. Behling 5 Work cited Michel Bloomberg  About National Rifle Association TV NRA https://www.ispot.tv/ad/7C42/national-rifle-association-michael-bloomberg, 2014. Web. 1 March. 2017 Rifle NRA, home.nra.org, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Timothy Johnson  NRA Ad Uses Home NRA http://mediamatters.org/blog/2016/09/20/nra-ad-uses-home-invasion-footage-lie-and- fearmonger-about-clinton-and-guns/213200 , 20 September 1016. Web. 1 March. 2017 Behling 6 Figure 1 Figure 2