Pervaiz 1 Mariam Pervaiz Adam Carter ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Sex Workers Outreach Project and Rhetorical Appeals the earliest known human societies emerged in the fertile crescent of Mesopotamia, the sex trade evolved alongside temples, customs, markets and (Fanni). As most people know, prostitution is one of the oldest practices around, which includes someone who engages in sexual activity in exchange for money. Although prostitution is an illegal act, many people still break the law and take part of it. Views on prostitution vary from person to person. Many women, and sometimes men, choose to be a sex worker involved in the sex industry. An organization known as Sex Workers Outreach is a stakeholder that fights for the rights of sex workers. The organization is dedicated to helping and serving women who are involved within the sex industry. The Sex Workers Outreach Project is in support of the legalization of prostitution in order to bring about change in the safety of women. The organization uses visual rhetoric to communicate their views and argument through images. The organization uses ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in images with protests and public demonstrations, to promote change for sex workers. The Sex Workers Outreach Project is a national organization dedicated to human rights of sex workers and their communities. Their mission statement states that they want to end violence and stigma through education, community building, and advocacy (The Support Project). This organization is in support of the legalization of prostitution in order for the safety of sex workers. Many risks are taken for those involved within the sex industry. Pervaiz 2 Organizations such as the Sex Workers Outreach Project are looking to improves standards for the workers such as reducing the risk of STDs, abuse, violence, rape, and human/sex trafficking. One type of rhetorical appeal the Sex Workers Outreach Project uses is ethos. Ethos, is the appeal to ethics. It is a way of convincing someone of the credibility. In both images, there are indications of the Sex Workers Outreach Project being involved, which give a sense of credibility. In the first image, you can locate the organizations website. The website gives the reader a credible source to research if looking for background information on the organization. The second image does not have a link, but there is caption at the bottom of the photo indicating that the three women in the public demonstration are not just random women, but women belonging to the Sex Workers Outreach Project. Once the audience can identify the women belonging to the organization, they can trust what the women are trying to demonstrate for the public. The credibility in both images are important because the settings are in public locations and the audience should be able to trust what is going on. Furthermore, pathos, which is the appeal to emotions. Both images include people wearing underwear in the public, which is designed to make the audience feel like they are viewing sex workers in the streets. The first image indicates the Sex Workers Outreach Project involved in a protest. Due to the protestors clothing, the audience gets a strong sense of emotion where they sympathize for actual sex workers because they see so many people involved that are fighting for their human rights. The second image also makes the audience feel for sex workers because three women are in the middle of the streets in their underwear with their hands tied up and their mouth bounded shut. The audience has no choice but to feel sorry for the women as they stand silent with no say. The elements of pathos in both images make the audience want to support the Sex Workers Outreach Project. Pervaiz 3 The public event images involving the Sex Workers Outreach Project such as protests and demonstrations, make the audience contemplate about information that they may be unaware of, which are elements of logos. Logos is the appeal to logic and reasoning. First off, in both images, there are average people dressed only in underwear, as to represent sex workers as people too. All the red involved in the images are supposed to signify sex rights and any organizations that represent those rights. In both images, red is supposed to symbolize beauty and strength. In image one, one protestor is carrying a red umbrella. Most people are unaware of this, but the red umbrella symbolizes sex rights across the globe due to the First World Congress of Sex Workers in Venice, Italy 2001 (Aliya). In the second image, the red targets on the bodies of the women are supposed to symbolize the targets of violence that sex workers have endured. The red cloth on the hands and mouths of the women represent sex workers not having a voice. Although, there are different red objects in both images, red still implies the idea of sex rights globally (Aliya). In the end, the Sex Workers Outreach Project uses elements of logos in their images to create a better understanding of sex workers. The last rhetorical appeal within the pictures is kairos. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness or the sense of urgency. Since both images include public events run by the Sex Workers Outreach Project, there are elements of time. The protest in the first image and the demonstration in the second image are examples of the organization promoting change for the human rights of sex workers. Usually, when there is a protest held in city streets there is a want for immediate change. All the organization wants is for the safety of women involved in the sex industry. In the second image, there are three women performing a public demonstration in regards to Recommendation No. 86. The women stood for eighty-six minutes in response to the U.S. approving the U.N. resolution, Recommendation No. 86, because they recognized that the Pervaiz 4 resolution could change laws and foreign polices targeting sex workers (Lieberman). The women of the Sex Workers Outreach Project were willing to spend an hour and twenty-six minutes in the middle of the streets to advocate change in laws to benefit the safety of sex workers. With kairos in the images, the organization made the audience feel a sense of urgency when it comes to prostitution and its concerns. In brief, using rhetorical appeals in images belonging to the Sex Workers Outreach Project convinces the audience of the struggles that sex workers face on a daily basis. Prostitution is not something that should be taken lighting. There are a lot of people who choose to go into the sex industry, but are choosing to do so with risks. Many sex workers are not able to report any incidents of violence or rape because police officers blame the victim when it comes to prostitution. That being said, the Sex Workers Outreach Project advocates for the human rights of sex workers. Pervaiz 5 Pervaiz 6 Works Cited Aliya. The Red Umbrella: What does it symbolize and why is it used by sex workers?  The Red Umbrella: What does it symbolize and why is it used by sex workers? Swan. N.p., 22 Dec. 2007. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Fanni, Zac. History Of Prostitution: How Old Is The Sex Sabotage Times, 29 Jan. 2014, sabotagetimes.com/sex/a-history-of-prostitution-how-old-is-the-sex-trade. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Lieberman, Amy. Sex Workers Hail New News, 9 Jan. 2016, womensenews.org/2011/04/us-sex-workers-hail-nations-new-stance/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project, www.new.swopusa.org/.