Eberline 1 Landen Eberline Professor Emil Smith ENC 1101 015 25 January 2017 The Impact of Deforestation on Climate Change Research has continually proven that increases of the quantity of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere leads to the increase of surface air temperatures. Temperature graphs since the industrial revolution lead one to believe that the new use of fossil fuels has caused the increased temperatures. This data leads both scientists and people across the globe to point towards fossil fuels as the main catalyst for the changing climate. However, many people do not discuss the impact that deforestation has on the atmospheric carbon dioxide. Starting around the time of the industrial revolution, people neglected that the human population has been increasing dramatically and in turn forests have been cut down to accommodate the larger population. When one removes these trees and plants, one increases the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by removing the lifeforms that use the compound in photosynthesis. This paired with the new release of once-buried fossil fuels produces an inevitable increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. To study this issue, an important question must be analyzed: How impactful is deforestation on climate change in comparison to other climate change contributors such as fossil fuel emissions? The goal of this research is to determine the significance of deforestation as a contributor to climate change and the possible solutions humans can undertake to reverse or reduce the effects of climate change. Eberline 2 Bala, G. Planting New Trees Help to Reduce Global Editorial. Current Science, 25 June 2014: vol. 106, no. 12; 1623-1624. Web. 24 January 2017. editorial discusses the possibility of reducing global warming by planting new trees. He then states that plants, including trees, approximately remove 130 billion tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere annually. He compares this to the 9 billion tons of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere by fossil fuel emissions. Additionally, he factors in the excess carbon dioxide released by plant respiration and decomposition which releases approximately 60 billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Soil respiration also releases an additional 60 billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Furthermore, annual deforestation releases approximately 1 billion tons of carbon dioxide. These combined factors make the net removal of carbon dioxide nearly zero. Bala concludes that afforestation is a step in the right direction, but trees take time to mature so results may take several decades and may be minimal in impact. However, this will lead to lower global surface air temperatures and reduce the effects of climate change even if by a small amount. editorial is important to the research on impact on climate change because to study the effects of deforestation one must address the antithesis, afforestation, and study its effects on atmospheric carbon dioxide. Bala is qualified to speak on the issue of climate change because he has obtained his doctorate in Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences in 1994 and since then he has conducted many research studies on climate change. Additionally, his editorial has been peer reviewed. Eberline 3 Longobardi, P.; Montenegro, A.; Beltrami, H.; Eby, M. Induced Climate Change: Effects of Spatial PLoS ONE, vol. 11, no. 4, April 21 2016, 1-35. Web. January 24 2017. These researchers studied the effects of deforestation on global and local surface area temperatures (SATs) in varied latitudes. Latitudes being the angular distance from the equator. Using a global climate model, they removed forests in intervals of 5% to 100% of the total forested areas in high, mid, and low latitudes. Latitudes are regions north, and south, of the equator measured in degrees. Low latitudes are regions of 0 to 30 degrees, mid latitudes are regions 31 to 59 degrees, and high latitudes are regions of 60 degrees or above. They documented that high latitude deforestation scenarios reduce the mean global SATs. Conversely, low latitude deforestation scenarios increase the mean global SATs. They concluded that for high latitude deforestation fractions of 45% and above causes an increase in soil carbon large enough to create a net decrease of atmospheric carbon dioxide. This research study is crucial to the research of impact on climate change. The study presents data of the effects of certain levels of deforestation on global and local SATs which will be important to note in future research. Longobardi is a science teacher at Calgary Academy. Montenegro is the director of atmospheric sciences program in Ohio State University. Beltrami is the research chair of Climate Dynamics at St. Francis Xavier University. Eby has taken part of contributing to climate models and has published 80 peer reviewed papers on climate science. All these researchers have the qualifications to present research on this topic and this specific study has been peer-reviewed. Eberline 4 Sohngen, B.; Beach, R.; Andrasko, K. Avoided Deforestation as A Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Tool: Economic  Journal of Environmental Quality 37.4 (2008): 1368- 1375. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study focuses on analyzing the potential marginal cost of reducing net carbon emissions by avoiding deforestation in tropical countries. The researchers used global forestry and land use models to conduct this research. They estimate the economic costs of avoiding deforestation by introducing hypothetical incentives. They conclude that for a fine of five dollars per metric ton of carbon over the course of thirty to fifty years could reduce emissions by 0.1 billion tons of carbon per year. This incentive could produce 300 million additional acres of forestland. Likewise, if the fine of one hundred dollars per metric ton of carbon over the same timeframe could result in the reduction of emissions by 1.6 billion tons of carbon per year. This would then produce 42.2 billion additional acres of forestland. This study will aid in research because it focuses on avoiding deforestation rather than suggesting afforestation. It provides an alternative solution to deforestation and climate change. Brent Sohngen is a professor of environmental economics at Ohio State University and has conducted research on land effects on climate change. Robert Beach has a doctorate in economics and has specialized in the development and application of economic models designed to analyze land use, as well as other factors, on their economic impacts for climate change and possible adaptations. Kenneth Andrasko is the senior director of environment at Winrock International. He jointly received the 2007 Nobel peace prize for his contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Eberline 5 Sookun, A.; Boojhawon, R.; Rughooputh, S. Drivers of Climate Change: Carbon Budget Index for Ecological Indicators 46. (2014): 340-350. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study focuses on carbon dioxide sequestration by trees and plants. These sequestrations form carbon sinks. Carbon sinks are areas that absorb more carbon dioxide than they release. Inversely, carbon pools are areas that release more carbon dioxide than they absorb. Deforestation has led to the diminishing quantity of carbon sinks and a decrease in net removal of atmospheric carbon dioxide. They conducted this study to index districts to measure national or regional achievements in meeting targets to reduce emissions. The index was developed to track the extent of the carbon balance. The index measured carbon emission versus sequestration where positive values mean more carbon emissions than sequestration, negative values mean a net sequestration. Research on highly densely populated areas had high positive index values where the highest indexed region had 288,000 kilograms per kilometer squared. The inverse is true of highly dense vegetation areas, of which had high negative index values where the lowest indexed region had -1,998 kilograms per kilometer squared. This research study will lead to important references and targeting of certain regions as net carbon emitters or carbon sequesters. It is important to recognize which regions are of concern for development of solutions to climate change. Anand Sookun is a climatologist whose doctorate research was in the mitigation of climate change. Ravindra Boojhawon has contributed to 35 research articles on climatology and works at the University of Mauritius. Soonil Rughooputh is an experimental physicist at the University of Mauritius who has been focusing on environmental physics. This article has been peer reviewed. Eberline 6 McAlpine, CA, et al. More Than CO2: A Broader Paradigm for Managing Climate Change And Variability to Avoid Ecosystem  Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability 2. (2010): 334-346. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This research study shifts focus from fossil fuel emissions to halting deforestation and pushing for reforestation. The researchers detail how deforestation affects the water cycle and the climate. At the end of the 20 th century, approximately 35% of land has been converted to cropland, pasture, and urban land uses. As a result of the changing landscape, moisture recycling from the water cycle has diminished. This decrease in moisture recycling results in a higher heat flux which results in low atmosphere instability. Heat flux, in this case, is the rate of heat energy transfer through the atmosphere. This low atmosphere instability decreases the quantity of clouds that form which would reflect significant amounts of radiation back into space. As a result, this change in landscape increases surface area temperatures. This study is important for research as it addresses a different component of climate change than what is often discussed, the water cycle. McAlpine has written and participated in numerous articles on the effects of land use change and is a professor at the University of Queensland. Ryan has a doctorate in geoinformatics and has participated in many studies on changing landscape. Syktus studies hydrology and climatology and is currently collaborating on a project discussing the capacity of forests to protect regional climate under global warming. All the researchers study oceanology, hydrology, climatology, or ecology. Additionally, this study has been peer-reviewed. Eberline 7 Davin, E.; Noblet-Ducoudre, N. Impact of Global-Scale Deforestation: Radiative versus Nonradiative American Meteorological Society. N.P., 1 Jan. 2010. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on effect on climate change from the change in surface albedo. Albedo is the proportion of incident light or radiation reflected by a surface and is labeled a radiative force. Radiative forcing, is the difference of insolation absorbed by the earth and energy radiated back to space. When one removes trees one changes the surface of the local region and therefore one changes the albedo. The researchers used a coupled land-ocean- atmosphere global climate model for their projections. Deforestation decreases evapotranspiration efficiency, simultaneous losses of water from plant life and soil surfaces to the atmosphere, and decreases surface roughness. These two factors are categorized as nonradiative forces. Nonradiative forcing is the imbalance of energy that does not involve radiation directly. This lead to a global surface warming of 0.24 Celsius from the decrease in evapotranspiration efficiency and 0.29 Celsius from the decrease in surface roughness. Assuming a fixed, or constant, ocean albedo, the researchers found that the radiative and nonradiative forces caused by deforestation led to global warming. This research study is vital to the research on effects on climate change because it adds decreasing surface albedo to the discussion of climate change whereas discussions predominantly revolve around carbon dioxide. Edouard Davin is a researcher at the institute for atmospheric and climate science at ETH Zurich. Nathalie de Noblet-Ducoudre studies agronomy, climatology, and hydrology. She has also participated in many studies in land- use change. Additionally, this article has been peer-reviewed.