Hawkins 1 Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 1/29/2017 The Effects of Breed-Specific Legislation on a Community Over the years, the legislation on breed-specific dogs has been altered in many different ways due to new and upcoming research. Many cases related to dog issues have been brought to court in the hopes a ban will be set and remain set for the safety of community. These cases consist mostly of dog bites or attacks. The United States is not the only place where incidents with canines occur, and recently in the news we see more and more news broadcastings of the incidents that have taken place and what the person involved in the case would like to be done about the issue. With the rise of publicity, legislation is creating new rules and limitations on owning and handling a dog that can be considered breed-specific. Breed-specific legislation are laws that restrict dogs based on their appearance; this is set into place because some people see certain dogs as How does the effect of stereotyping dogs influence breed-specific legislation? Biggins, Caitlin. Strictly Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit Bulls. University of Baltimore Journal of Land & Development, Fall 2012, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p83-89, 7p, Database: Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) This article tells a story about a pit bull escaping and attacking a young boy which resulted in the boy needing multiple surgeries and needing to be hospitalized for a week. This incident resulted in the case involving Tracey v. Solesky which a certain verdict then allowed Hawkins 2 landlords to begin to put a ban on pit bulls, or any other animals on their premises. According to the article, Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit it states that the, strict liability standard was specific to pit bulls because the court held that pit bulls were inherently (pg.84) With that being said those who had a pit bull present in their house could potentially get evicted if one did not get rid of their dog due to the new laws. Not only could the homeowner lose their house for not wanting to agree to the laws, the landlord could then increase the insurance. Before the ruling, when the case first came out it was brought to the attention that many people in Maryland began to give away their pit bulls to shelters in the hopes to not lose their house, or have their insurance increased. This article is just one example of a pit bull attack leading to a court ruling to ban pit bulls on certain premises. Breed-specific legislation is the central concept of this article because there are guidelines homeowners need to follow dealing with their pit bulls, and if these requirements are not met one would face many repercussions. Caitlin Biggins, the author of this article graduated from University of Baltimore School of Law, and she is reliable when it comes to talking about legality because of where she graduated, however she has never spoken on the topic about animal rights. The author does a great job at describing the incident and the reason behind Breed-specific legislation, which gives readers a better understanding about the topic. Dayan, Colin. Dead Dogs: Breed bans, euthanasia, and preemptive justice. Boston Review, Mar/Apr2010, Vol. 35 Issue 3, p26-28, 3p, Database: Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Pit bulls have always had a certain reputation among Americans. The pit bull was once known as the according the newspaper article titled, But Hawkins 3 once the word got out that those specific types of breeds were used to fight against each other for money the breed got a stereotype of being very dangerous. Two men were arrested for accusations on dog fighting their multiple pit bulls, when their pit bulls were taken to the shelter the team of staff decided the dogs were and needed to be killed. On record, more than half of those dogs were puppies under a year old. Dogs temperaments reflect the way they have been raised by their owners. For example, any breed of dog will be mean or if it is being treated poorly in a way they know any better. Whereas if a dog is shown love and affection the dog will almost never turn out dangerous. Those dogs did not have to be put down because of a stereotype. Breed-specific legislation not only can restrict people from owning a specific breed of dog, but it can also be used in order to put down dogs who seem to be Colin Dayan is a professor in multiple professions at Vanderbilt University. Here, she has written many articles, books on dogs, and many different topics dealing with dogs. She is a very reliable source due to the immense amount of work created on dogs alone. This article is relevant because of the fact we are shown an example of why dogs are put down based upon their breed. Cohen, Judy; Richardson, John. Pit Bull Panic. Journal of Popular Culture, Fall2002, Vol. 36 Issue 2, p285-317, 33p, 2 Diagrams, 6 Charts; DOI: 10.1111/1540-5931.00007, Database: Humanities Source In the article, we are shown multiple more examples of the way Pit Bulls are viewed however this time we are shown from the eye of the news media. a huge controversy against pit bull owners for purchasing such a dog. With the help of news media pit bulls Hawkins 4 appeared more in the spotlight of being known as archetype of canine evil, predators of the 285), according to the article Bull by Judy Cohen and John Richardson. The news media did nothing to the stereotype placed on pit bulls, for they would only show the mean and aggressive side, when there was another whole side to this animal. Not only was the pit bull portrayed as a violent dog breed, but they were also associated with the harsh situations of dog fighting. If the media continues to only focus on the negatives people will never be able to get over the controversy of this dangerous breed. Judy Cohen and John Richardson worked together in the hopes to explain the reason behind the news media targeting pit bulls. Although Judy Cohen has many other articles she is not as reliable as other authors because she have much to do with the breed-specific legislation movement. With that being said, John Richardson is also not a truly reliable source when it comes to breed-specific legislation however the article titled is very useful in the understanding behind breed-specific legislation. They have the ability to write about this topic because they are scholars and are stating their input about a certain issue. Polo, Gina; Clothier, Suzanne; Garcia, Rita de Casssia Maria. Journal of Veterinary Behavior: Clinical Applications and Research. November-December 2015 10(6):525-534 Language: English. DOI: 10.1016/j.jveb.2015.09.003, Database: ScienceDirect Many articles could explain the aggressive behaviors canines can have but this article explains the reason behind the aggressive behaviors. In the article, dog aggression: Epidemiologic aspects: In memoriam, Rudy de Meester we are provided with background information on dog bites, dog bite statistics, and steps taken in order Hawkins 5 to prevent the aggressive behaviors canines put out. The article states, behavior is one of the main reasons why dogs are given away, abandoned, or With that being said, readers can conclude some dogs given a fair chance to change their behavior after one act of aggressiveness. The workshop presented in the article would be based out of areas in which dog owners could reach them if needed. These places include shelters, veterinary office, and specific breeders. This workshop would hope to change the dog from being labeled as aggressive. This article does not talk specifically about breed specific legislation, however it is relevant because of the fact people out there hope to prevent the euthinization, and the giving away of a canine because of an aggressive act. The authors of this article worked together in the hopes to provide reliable information on statistics, and the process of what could potentially help the situation out. Swann, Kristen E. UMKC Law Review, Spring 2010, Vol. 78 Issue 3, p839-868, 30p, Database: Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) In the article Unleashed: The Pitfalls of Breed-Specific readers are presented with a short story about how a women one very cold morning found puppies behind her garbage can abandoned by their mother. She decides to take the puppies to the vet where the vet determines them to be some kind of however if the vet found the puppies to be part pit bull their lives been at risk. Many cities such as Pittsboro, follow Breed-Specific legislation thus the reasoning behind their lives being at risk. Pit Bulls were known to be associated with blood sport, otherwise known as dog fighting which is a Hawkins 6 reason some cities and places ban the aggressive behavior of the specific breed. The article then questions if a pit bull had a different name would it still sound mean? This article relates back to the research question because of the fact that a dog would be put down based on its breed before it was even a couple months old. The author of the article Kristen Swann is a student author who has never talked about Breed-Specific legislation before but seems to be very knowledgeable about the topic and the issue she is presenting. The article is relevant because it shows how Breed-Specific legislation is put into place and the effects it can have on a life. Burrows Jr., Tyrone J.; Fielding, William J. Society & Animals. Jun2005, Vol. 13 Issue 2, p139-152. 14p. 5 Charts. In the article of College Students on Pit Bull New Providence, The readers are shown how people view the pit bulls in the community through age, sex, and dog-owning status. Dogs in the Bahamas were very over populated and could almost always be seen roaming the streets. According to the article, roam the streets primarily because their guardians do not confine (pg. 139). The article then goes on to explain in the that the pit bull was choice for a while. However, the media and local animal welfare groups labeled pit bulls as dangerous. Pit bulls in the Bahamas were usually used as protection but were also allowed to roam. Owners of pit bulls were abandon their animals because they became too hard to handle. This article is relevant to the research question because we are shown how pit bulls are treated because of their type of breed. The authors Tyrone J. Burrows Jr. and William J. Fielding wrote this article to better explain the views people have of pit bulls in their community. Hawkins 7 Burrows is a reliable source because he is from the Bahamas and is well known around the islands. Fielding is a reliable source because he is a well-known author with his work being based on many different types of topics but very knowledgeable text.