Arroyave Page 1 Ivan Arroyave Sarah Roth January 29, 2017 Steroids The use of steroids have been noted to date back to 776 - 393 BC. The ancient Greeks would use viscous opium juice to enhance their performance to improved their chances of winning vast cash prices during the original Olympics games. Not a lot has changed since, many bodybuilders like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Rich Piana used them to win bodybuilding competitions and athletes like Barry bonds and Roger Clemens have used them to win homerun titles, and Cy young award. I think the regular person knows too much on performance enhancement drugs. Many say performance enhancement drugs such as steroids are dangerous and when used at a young age can affect the development of a young body and even at an older age can have very negative impact on their health. Others argue that if taken properly with post cycle treatments, the side effects can be minimal. So is it possible to see a future in where steroids are accepted in society and in sports? There are a lot of underground blogs by people who use or have used providing advice and also scholarly articles by doctors on the subject. So compare some sources and you can draw a conclusion for yourself. Science behind Performance Enhancing Drugs  Bone Talks. N.p., 09 Aug. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article focuses on what exactly Performance Enhancement Drugs are and how they work in the body. Think of as something broad, like soda. And the many type of Arroyave Page 2 Performance enhancement drugs as brands of soda like Coca Cola, Pepsi, Mountain Dew. All taste different and produced a little different but have the same impact on you, to quench your thirst. Anabolic steroids, Growth hormones, and Oxygen Enhancers are todays most used performance enhancement drugs they all work differently inside your body but ultimately used for the same reason, to gain an advantage. This is why, it is banned by the Olympic commute and organizations like the NFL, NBA, and MLB. With over more than 20 million people admitting to using some sort of performance enhancement Drug. The most popular being anabolic steroids and growth hormones. Anabolic steroids allow your body to hold in more nitrogen with is vital to the production of protein and are essential for muscle growth and recovery like growth hormones. Most PED usage is done by non- competitive athletes for cosmetic reason, but for those competing, Oxygen enhancers are the way to go. Using techniques such as blood doping, recombinant erythropoietin, and meldonium to increase the total number of red blood cells in their body to improve their oxygen intake so they get tired as quick. While these drugs sound great, there can be some side effects. There has been reports linking to heart arrhythmias, hypertension, liver damage and cancer but some studies say can be prevented if taken properly. The author had numerous respectable references that he cited and this article is full of information and convincing statistics.  Steroids American Brain Tumor Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. There is a negative stigma that comes with the words steroids. Most people think of road rage, cheating and muscle heads at the gym miring into their biceps with every rep pumped out. Which can be true a lot of times. This article focuses on what a lot of people Arroyave Page 3 know, that for patients with inflammatory conditions anywhere in the body including the kidneys or even brain tumors and many other illnesses; the word steroid, they hold in very high esteem. For them, Steroids use can improve their quality of live by improving their neurological symptoms or even save their lives. For example, with brain tumor patients, it works by reducing the buildup of fluids around the tumor which can ultimately impede on vital organ functions. This type of steroid the same used by looking to gain an advantage or gym rats trying to be Mr. Olympia. Most doctors use Corticosteroids for their patients, many only prescribing a small dose after surgery to help with pain and stiffness and help with other post- surgery issues which have been noted to be safe and effective. But while it can work wonders, side effects may still occur. Many patients reporting fevers, stomach pains, weight gain, mood swings. Society should start looking at steroids as a pharmaceutical product, that can help with certain patients and help athletes with things such as recovery time and not so much as something people use to cheat. The American Brain tumor Association is a very reliable source, funded in 1973 and the only non-profit organization in the united States focused on supporting brain tumor patients and brain tumor research. Murphy Mike Murphy, Mike. Steroids: Safe Or  Bodybuilding.com. N.p., 01 Mar. 2003. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Taking performance enhancement drugs such as steroids can be done in a safe manner according to many steroid users. Your body naturally produces testosterone; steroids causes your body to stop depending on its own production of testosterone while on steroids. So, if you start steroids and stop without a proper post cycle which allows your body to get back to its normal testosterone level, you can leave your body in a state of shock and not resume proper Arroyave Page 4 testosterone levels which can have a negative impact on your health. Per many underground blogs by anonymous steroids users, having a plan for a steroid cycle, is just as important as having a plan for a steroid post cycle to have a safe and effective steroid using experience. A lot of government organizations such as the National institute on Drug abuse report on side effects such as heart attacks, liver damage, strokes, infertility, and homicidal rage. But what we should account for is that there are over 100 different types of steroids and every steroid has different side effects depending on the person. So is it possible that they are grouping them all under the umbrella of dangerous just because one might have a negative impact on a specific person. I think so. I would compare it to saying all drugs are dangerous, and categorizing marijuana under these dangerous drugs even when medical research has shown us otherwise. They also report on steroid users experiencing heart attacks but report on their cocaine or other harmful activities that also lead to their heart attack. But finding articles where ex-steroid users such as those who competed in bodybuilding are experiencing negative side effects are very hard to find. In fact, a lot of bodybuilders and athletes who have been on steroids for years such as Rich Piana speak out on this issue, and agree that steroids when taken properly, can work wonders and have no serious negative side effects. Bodybuilding.com has been committed to changing people reach their goals, one of the leading sources in the bodybuilding community, providing products, support, and information. They are a very reliable source, and sponsor countless professional bodybuilders and athletes. Dowshen, Steven.  KidsHealth. The Nemours Foundation, Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Arroyave Page 5 Many young athletes face mounting pressure to be bigger, faster and stronger to have a chance to make it to college level or even professional level of sports. According to some research 5% of male and 2.5% of teenagers have admitted to using some sort of performance enhancement drugs. This article by Kidshealth.Org tries to highlight the negative side effects of steroid usage at a young age. First citing that it is illegal, and that if caught taken can lead to disciplinary or criminal consequences that could end their dreams of playing college or professional sports. Second citing that it can alter the development of the body at an important stage of puberty. Some of the ones that stand out the most to me are violent and aggressive behavior and stunted muscle growth. As a teenager, you can already be less mentally stable than you would be as an adult, so throwing steroids in the mix could be damaging. And I can see why it could cause your bones to mature faster than your body can keep up with. So, those are two good arguments made. Most of the other side effects this article talks about are heart attacks, liver damage, strokes, infertility etc. can be prevented if taken responsibly, with a properly with a post cycle according to many ex and current steroid users who experienced any of these side effects. It also dedicates a big portion of the article on how to talk to your kids about steroid use and encouraging them to participate in healthy competition. Young kids such not experiment with steroids. The author believes you can reach the level of fitness you desire with a good diet, fierce training regiment, and proper care of your body an at that age, you have so much pressure on you that you must rely on steroids to reach a goal. Most of the articles written by doctors highlight the potential negative side effects of steroid usage. Offering very broad if any information at all as proof. Kid health is part of the Nemours Foundation which is dedicated to providing families with information on the development of children. Its a very reliable source, with more than 850,000 people visiting the link every day. Arroyave Page 6 Assail, Shaun. The Future of  Big Think. N.p., 18 Mar. 2008. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Can we see a future where steroids are regularly used by athletes? Shaun Assael believes so. He advocates this for two reasons, first imagine playing 162 games in the regular season, then another 35 during spring training, every day in between practices, always on the road. This baseball scenario is very similar to every other professional organization like the NFL, NHL, NBA etc. Very little rest and low energy type of lifestyle. He argues, a very demanding lifestyle and many athletes use for the glory, but use low doses to help with the recovery of every day training. Second he states, chemist are going to continue to find ways to reorganize the molecules in steroids so that players can pass drug test, he believes players are going to use them regardless so union and leagues should compromise and find a way to regulate its usage in a safe manner and stop treating it in such a prohibitionist manner, I agree with the arguments made here by Shaun Assael, he wrote this article in 2008 and its apparent that what he says is becoming true. Its 2017 now and the list of banned substances by sport committees keep getting longer, chemist keep finding new ways to alter steroid so players can pass drugs test, and the movement to stop steroid use has had very little impact. Shaun Assael is a very reliable source, a senior writer for ESPN, one of the most prominent news source in sports around the world and he is also an award winning investigative journalist. McDougall, Christopher . Steroid Use: Know the  Mens Health. N.p., 7 Dec. 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Arroyave Page 7 Steroids only used by athletes, we live in a day an age where close to half the population of males are gym rats and everyone wants to look like Mark Wahlberg did in his 20s. Jacked and swole. They range from guys at wall street, to guys working construction in your home town, Dr. Harrison Pope calls them This culture that use to only be a part of underground gyms in the and are now mainstream concepts. This article is a story about Bill, a recovering alcoholic who started working out in his to get his mind off the booze. In the last 7years he has been on a steroid cycle once every year and has never felt any negative side effect besides some acne here and there. While many Doctors associate steroids to strokes, liver diseases, and cancer. Dr. Pope believes the medical community knows very little whether this is true or not, citing the small amount of research actual done into the subject. Dr. Pope believes that sometime in the future we could potentially see something similar to what we saw with cigarettes in the The only way to truly know the long-term side effects is to wait. But not forget Arnold schwaneger and Franco Columbo, two of the most prominent bodybuilders in the 1960s and are in perfect health conditions even at their old ages. Bills story is similar to most steroid users. Unlike popular belief that most steroid users are athletes looking for an edge to win at all cost, they are Just normal dudes trying to get bigger, look better, and get gnarly pumps. I believe we should stop focusing on trying to prevent people from using, but instead put more effort into informing people on how to safely use steroids. Health magazine is a very reliable source. One of the leading subscription companies in the fitness industry around the world, and the majority of the article citing Harrison Pope M.D Harvard Medical School Specialist. Arroyave Page 8 Arroyave Page 9