Hamza Bouarfa Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101 2/4/17 Harmful Emissions and the Salvation of Planet Earth The Earth is one big life form that is extremely vulnerable to harm. Many people like to think of it in comparison to a human body as humans are definitely fragile. The body has an immune system that serves to protect it and eliminate threats to its host. The Earth does not have such a protector, and we symbolize very dangerous invaders. Instead of saving only home planet, they only add to its pain and pull the time of its demise ever closer. This is definitely the case, but not all people want to live as threats to planet Earth. They come up with ideas and processes that save the Earth, as we bask in its abundance. As mentioned by Marshall McLuhan in An operating Manual for Spaceship Earth; are no passengers on Spaceship Earth. We are all The main idea is that we try to be as environmentally friendly as possible, and there are some people and ideas that definitely take the initiative. The Fresh Quotes, an organization raising environmental awareness, said: For 200 years been conquering nature. Now beating it to  The bottom line is that we have to do something to save our home. Of all the ideas to help the Earth, the 21st century encompasses the most effective ones by far. How have these ideas and prototypes evolved to better battle harmful emission? Musk, Elon. The Mission of  Tesla - 19 Nov. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This blog describes the intention of Elon Musk, the founder and CEO of Tesla Motors. He has come up with many companies and ideas for the sole purpose of benefiting mankind. Tesla is only one of those. He produced Space-X which explores the idea of life on other planets in case the Earth becomes uninhabitable. He is quite the activist, seeking to improve the way of life. The initial idea introduced is that of sustainable energy, which has almost no negative effect on planet Earth. It goes on to describe the never ending search for green energy and the importance of solving the issue as quickly as possible. He then transitions to compare the usage of fossil fuel vehicles and all electric cars, like Tesla. The risks are compared and the first thing described is the issue of gasoline fires in fossil fuel cars. He denies the fact that all electric cars are more dangerous when it comes to fires, and supports it by solid facts, such as that gasoline engines contain ten times more combustion energy than the battery packs. The appeal of a safe and green car is then brought up. The vehicle is one of the safest on the streets, supported further by proven statistics. After that, he furthers the initial intention of sustainable energy by using a vow to never cease to improve an idea that could save the Earth. UCS. Better  Union of Concerned Scientists - 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The UCS is a group of scientists from different backgrounds that all feel the need to address the issue of emissions. They spend their time doing research in order to negate the effects that mankind produces in terms of CO2. This article focuses on the idea of biofuels and how they are extremely beneficial to the Planet Earth. First, biofuels are introduced as energy sources procured from biomass, which are plants and animals. A certain type of biofuel is introduced and emphasized on. Cellulosic biofuels are compared to fossil fuels, yielding 90% fewer emissions. The idea of biofuels is one attainable in the near future as scientists expect to be producing four times as much biofuel as we produce fossil fuels currently. The idea that corn based fuels consume as much as 50% of our supply annually is stated, and the solution also introduced. Biofuels, which need not be food based, will not only reduce emissions by a vast margin, but will also increase food supply. Schuiling, Roelof D., and Poppe L De Boer. Six commercially viable ways to remove CO2 from the atmosphere and/or reduce CO2  Environmental Sciences Europe 25.1 (2013): 35. Web. This is an academic journal from the USF Library. The focus of the entry is describing six ways that commercial entities can reduce their carbon dioxide footprint. The six alternatives are also ideas that are very easy to approach and efficiently reduce CO2 emissions. The first describes a switch to plants that produce the element nickel, instead of mining. The second refers to switching from fossil fuels to fuels based on diatoms, which not only are much more beneficial, but also retain a good amount of carbon dioxide. The third step is very vital, as it is the second greatest emission factor. That is, to quench forest fires using serpentine powder which is much more effective than water. The fourth, fifth, and six all refer to the use of olivine, a mineral which forms rocks while absorbing CO2. Galvin, Ray. Thermal upgrades of existing homes in Germany: The building code, subsidies, and economic  Energy and Buildings 42.6 (2010): 834-44. Web. This is another academic journal from the USF Library. This one addresses the idea of thermal upgrades in homes. One of the most efficient ways to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from humans is to increase the efficiency of the thermal identity in homes. More specifically in this article, Germany is brought up and praised. They have very strict guidelines when it comes to either new buildings or the renovation of older buildings. They have very high efficiencies that make use of less heat in order to produce the same effect that previously required more manmade heat. Adam, David. Could US help to slow  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 30 May 2008. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This is an article about a very intriguing method of reducing carbon footprint. It starts off with some illustrations of the general concept of the prototype. The device, known as a CO2 scrubber, removes up to a ton of carbon dioxide from the air using ionization. The idea is that the machine, once powered on, absorbs CO2 from the air using ion exchange . These are the same devices used to purify water. The CO2 is then stored and can be used for other purposes such as a plant growth accelerator. By having the device in a humid area, the storage of carbon dioxide seems to fold in on itself, allowing a greater amount of CO2 to be captured. The device has even been nominated for Richard Branson prize of 25 million dollars. The Guardian is a very popular web news source that usually writes about the surprising and discreet news that many would not hear about otherwise. To this day, they continue to follow ideas and bring them out into the open for all to see. Shaheen, Susan A. REDUCING GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMPTION: Sustainable Approaches for Surface  Transportation Sustainability Research Center, University of California, Berkeley, California, USA, 14 Mar. 2007. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This a scholarly article pertaining to the idea of better evolving land transportation. The main idea is that there be a stricter enforcement of better fuel efficiency for land vehicles. Then comes the idea of the development of other engines, better suited to the world of reduced emissions. The first being electric motors, which have already surfaced by many different companies and have become integrated in society. The second type is the hydrogen engine which is fueled by hydrogen and produces water as a byproduct, rather than the harmful CO2 produced by fossil fuel combustion engines. There is also the idea of public transportation being developed to have a high appeal to the public. This way, there are less vehicles on the road and congestion will decrease. Stop-and-go traffic is very harmful as hundreds or thousands of cars pool together their emissions producing a much more unified threat. The article is published by the Transportation Sustainability Research Center of California, which is solely devoted to linking sustainability and transportation, whether it be land, air or sea.