Adrian Matos 1 Adrian Matos Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 01/21/17 Health Risks and Controversies of PEDs The use of Performance Enhancing Drugs has become more of an issue in professional, collegiate, and high school sports. As research on this subject revealed new possible threats from the use of organizations are constantly in debate and are creating policies regarding theses illegal substances. In the a team of scientist created a synthetic form of testosterone that promote extraordinary growth in skeletal muscles that significantly increased optimal performance. This became known as anabolic androgenic steroids. This drug was intended to help soldiers become better fit for combat. But, overtime athletes and competitors began to abuse this substance. Evidence on this portrayed on professional bodybuilders and Soviet athletes (mostly wrestling). Soon they became the ever so popular Anabolic Steroids. Over time , committees have placed policies on and created organizations such as the World Anti-doping Agency. These committees claimed that not only leads to play, but people were developing health abnormalities that had a potential of being life threatening. However After reading several research articles, It comes to an understanding that, with the research from physicians and experts, sports committees are in constant controversy on whether or not health risks are involved in the use of As well as how this issue has led to different mind sets that athletes have regarding PEDs. The question that this writing will cover is , How has further discoveries affect the approach towards Performing Enhancing substances? Adrian Matos 2 Geyer, Hans, et al. Nutritional Supplements Cross-Contaminated And Faked With Doping  Journal Of Mass Spectrometry 43.7 (2008): 892. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. This article focuses more on the problem of how people are still using these substance, as well as how this situation has grown out of control in huge proportions. This article covers a case study in which in the years 2001 and 2002, 634 nutritional supplements that were purchased in 13 different countries , showed that 15 percent of the supplements contaminated with anabolic-androgenic steroids, growth hormone, and beta blockers.( Hans, page 1). So these anabolic steroids were being distributed in a low profile in order to evade policies against these banned substance. This acknowledges the fact that , despite being banned from sports, people are still willing to use and distribute these substances in order to gain an edge in their activities. The author continues by introducing methods agencies use to detect these substances such as mass spectrometry and common screening. Dr. Hans Geyer obtain his education from the University of Zurich, Switzerland . He became an expert on animal anatomy and nutritional requirements. He is associated with the for Preventing Doping in Germany. Dr. Geyer not only knows the changes these substances make to the human body, he also has an idea on how these substances are different from the nutritional needs of a person. Adrian Matos 3 Hartgens, F. & Kuipers, Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in Med (2004) 34: 513. In this researched case study, it shows certain side effects that Androgen-anabolic steroids have on the human athlete. In this case, an athletes body. There were reports taken from subjects that showed hormonal imbalances, high blood pressure, and irregular heart rhythm. But there were unsatisfying evidence showing that the use of AAS did not result in long term illnesses. For example, in this instance the athletes that were tested show any signs of cardiovascular problems or effected cardiovascular function. So Hartgens case study shows that there are variables that can either cause or prevent health risks. In fact, this case study showed that with a small dosage over periods of time, athletes increased their strength by 5%-20%. This shows how there is controversy on this topic because still inconsistent outcomes that could result from taking There really definite proof of health risk. Fred Hartgens is a member of the executive Board of at Netherlands Association of Sports Medicine. In 1991, he earned his medical at Maastricht University, after which he specialized in sports medicine. Hartgens has an MD, PT, and PhD in both physical therapy and physiology. His focus was on how Anabolic-androgenic steroids had on athletes, and was determine to keep exploring different ways AAS effects the human body. This makes him a perfect candidate because he has a first hand knowledge on the human body, especially when it comes to athletes. Hassan, N. A., M. F. Salem, and M. A. E. L. Sayed. Doping And Effects Of Anabolic Androgenic Steroids On The Heart: Histological, Ultrastructural, And Echocardiographic Assessment In Strength  Human & Experimental Toxicology 28.5 (2009): 273-283. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Jan. 2017 Adrian Matos 4 This article uses Anabolic androgenic steroids(AAS) in a case study to show how this drug could alter the structural and alterations in the heart using models from tested athletes. In this case study, Echocardiographic results revealed that bodybuilders that were subjected to AAS have smaller left ventricular dimensions with thicker walls that could lead to difficulty in blood flow from and to the heart. Light microscopy has also shown how the cardiac muscles fibers have gradually degenerated over time. So, this is an example of how Anabolic androgenic steroids effect a heart on a physiological level. The case study involves vigorous and young individuals, so that proves that AAS can affect different kinds of people. This has given the Human & Experimental Toxicology an opportunity to not only show the public what AAS does first hand, but find alternative ways to detect AAS use in athletes when traditional testing fails. One of the leading authors of this article is Mostafa El-Sayed. He is an Egyptian- American chemical physicist. HE is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He is a leading expert on spectroscopy, which is the study or interactions between matter and electromagnetic radiation. So, it would be wise to have an expert like this while using microscopy. And he would act as an appropriate consultant to this experiment that requires too-dimensional mapping of the structure of am human heart. Jay R., Hoffman, and Ratamess Nicholas A. Medical Issues Associated With Anabolic Steroid Use: Are They  Journal Of Sports Science And Medicine, Vol 5, Iss 2, Pp 182-193 (2006) 2 (2006): 182. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. This article was written in the Journal of Sports Science and in regards to the controversy that constantly surrounds Performing Enhancing Drugs. The Adrian Matos 5 authors main purpose for writing this article was not only to acknowledge certain potential health risks, but to describe how committees are in constant controversy on whether or not PEDs cause health risks. The author claims that in recent research data, the medical risks associated with anabolic steroids use has come to a point that its being exaggerated. The article goes on by giving different cases suggesting that anabolic steroids increases muscle mass and strength. As well as the possibility of anabolic steroids being use in therapeutic practices. He came to a decision that anabolic steroids show lack of health risks toward Jay Hoffman holds the rank of full professor in the sport and Exercise Science program and Professor of Medicine at the Burnett school of Biomedical Sciences at the University of Central Florida. He has a background in the Sports science. He is also an expert in nutritional supplementation. With this background, this makes him a credible author due to the fact that he knows what type of adverse effect substances, such as androgenic steroids have on the human body. Also, he knows methods of monitoring affects to be cautious of health risks. Mazzeo, Filomena, and Antonio Ascione. Anabolic Androgenic Steroids And Doping In  Sports Medicine Journal / Medicina 9.1 (2013): 2009- 2020. SPORTDiscus. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Dr. Mazzeo wrote this article regarding the use of Anabolic- Androgenic steroids(AAS). They give a brief description of its chemical make up ,and what type of athletes that this drug is typically used by, as well as the results from taking these steroids at a high dosage in increase physical attributes. Although this article uncovers the Adrian Matos 6 possible health risks that came from prolonged use of Anabolic steroids. As well as the dosage. But claims possible health risks are indecisive. So even though this article reveals that Anabolic steroids cause cardiovascular problems and hepatocellular damage. Taking these substances is not a direct cause, rather abusing these substance is. Filomena Mazzeo completed her PhD at Parthenope University of Naples, Napoli. Her studies have contributed to the of the Romanian Sports Medicine Society. She has written 66 articles in her career in Sports medicine. Her area of expertise is in the field that involves pharmaceutical and recreational drugs and their adverse effects. So she has an idea on how bad PEDs are in sports and how this problem is constantly arising. Nikolopoulos, Dimitrios D., Chara Spiliopoulou, and Stamatios E. Theocharis. Doping And Musculoskeletal System: Short-Term And Long-Lasting Effects Of Doping  Fundamental & Clinical Pharmacology 25.5 (2011): 535. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article starts with a brief history on how performing enhancing substances has become an obstacle in early history of sports. The author discusses a time period in which people in ancient Greece were looking for ways to not only to improve physical attributes, but also heighten the individuals mind. He also, goes on to say how the World Anti-Doping Agency is updating their list of prohibited substances yearly. Later in the article , author lists different documented cases were substances, such as human growth hormones in this case, showed results of health abnormalities from abusing this PED. Adrian Matos 7 After reading this article, it proves another point that are not only a question on far play principle, but it also brings about an awareness on the possible hazards to the health and well-being of athletes. This article brings to light the controversy on the effects on health that was mentioned earlier. For instance, human growth hormones, hGH, is one of the most widely use of in sports. This article claims that in one case that hGH has the potential of improving muscular strength and improve protein synthesis which results in the rate of healing from injuries. However, hGH, under different studies have revealed to cause diabetes mellitus, Tachyvardia, hypertension, and more. But this was in the case that hGH was taken in an unhealthy dosage. Dr. Nikolopoulos Dimitrios is an MD, With a PhD in sports medicine and is a consultant in private clinics located in Athens, Greece. HE received his degree at the National & Kapodistrian University of Athens as well as his PhD. The fact that he is an