Professor Roth Class: ENC 1101 Date: 1/29/17 Title: The legalization of marijuana Should marijuana be legalized for both medical and recreational purposes? Marijuana is the most frequently used illicit substance in the United States (Bradford). A recent study shows that 24 million people in the United States use marijuana for medical purposes (Magdalena). With numerous laws that criminalize the use of marijuana, many people who are in desperate need of a way to relieve their pain are not able to. This has been a prominent topic in countless mainstream social media sites, corporate news debates, and even presidential elections (Doherty, Stuart). The legalization of marijuana has benefits aside from it medical ramifications. Millions of dollars a year could be pumped into the U.S. economy from recreational sale and the taxes attached, as evidenced in Colorado (Pierre). Therefore, legalizing marijuana would not only be beneficial for medical purposes but for economic purposes as well. One example of an economic boost after legalizing marijuana is in 2013 when one marijuana dispensary in Oakland collected $1.2 million in sales taxes the year after legalizing (Magdalena). The legalization of marijuana would lead to less people going to jail for drug charges. This can be beneficial to the department of justice because they can focus more on people who use and sell hard drugs such as heroin and cocaine. With less people going to jail for drug charges the issue of overcrowding could potentially decrease. However, opponents argue that the legalization of marijuana is what leads to criminal behaviors among teens (Misty). For this paper, I will be exploring the ramifications that come with legalization of marijuana. Bradford, H. (n.d.). 4/20: 16 Ways Marijuana Affects The Economy. Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/19/420-marijuana- Professor Roth Class: ENC 1101 Date: 1/29/17 Title: The legalization of marijuana This article was about 16 ways that marijuana affects the government. This article states multiple ways that legalizing marijuana will be able to help the government. It states that with legalizing marijuana recreationally the U.S. government would be able to make up to 13.7 billion in sales and with the tax revenue it would be more. The next argument that this article articulates is that with the legalizing of marijuana there would be job opportunities with localized businesses and government ran marijuana dispensaries. The article also shows the other ways that people see why selling marijuana would be frowned upon by many people. This article from the Huffington Post is reliable and relevant to the financial aspect of my argument. The article has a connection to my paper because I used one of these facts about the amount of money one dispensary could make in a span of one year after marijuana was legalized. This article also is helpful for my paper because it discusses the reasons why marijuana should be legalized while also showing me why people think that it should not be legalized. With this I, can write my article discrediting some of the reasons that people want marijuana to be legalized. Magdalena, et al. Medical marijuana laws in 50 states: investigating the relationship between state legalization of medical marijuana and marijuana use, abuse and  Drug and alcohol dependence 120.1 (2012): 22-27. This article is an experimental report where it looked to see if people who lived in a state that recently legalized marijuana were abusing it. In the report, they did a convince sample where they asked the people in the legalized states to do a survey and answer some questions. They were asked three questions all referring to if the person taking the survey recently abused Professor Roth Class: ENC 1101 Date: 1/29/17 Title: The legalization of marijuana marijuana. In the results, they found that more people were abusing the drug when it was legalized, but the same amount of people who are abusing the drug while it is legalized was the same for states where it legalized. With the results, they concluded that people abuse the drug the same as if it were legalized. This article has good creditability since it has been vetted by Google Scholars, a service that requires papers to be reviewed by peers in the same field of study to be posted on the site. This article will be able to help my research topic because it will show the skeptics that even if marijuana was legalized people would still abuse it if it was not legalized. With this I could talk about how marijuana is like alcohol. More people will be responsible while using it then there will be who abuse it. Green, K. M., Doherty, E. E., Stuart, E. A., & Ensminger, M. E. (2010). Does heavy adolescent marijuana use lead to criminal involvement in adulthood? Evidence from a multiwave longitudinal study of urban African Americans. Drug And Alcohol Dependence, 112(1-2), 117- 125. doi:10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2010.05.018 The article was conducted to test if the use of marijuana in teens leads to criminal behavior later in life. This article is good for my paper because the results show that there is no correlation of teens who smoke marijuana leading to criminal behaviors later in life. It does show that heavy users of marijuana in teenagers do show a trend of having performing criminal activities. This is not a problem because I can relate it back to abusing alcohol in teenagers. Teens who use alcohol responsibly and abuse it can still lead a good productive life, when the person becomes reliant on the substance is when there is a problem. Professor Roth Class: ENC 1101 Date: 1/29/17 Title: The legalization of marijuana This source supports my data due to its recent publication in 2010, therefore it contains relevant data on this contemporary social issue. I also believe that this is a reliable source because I got it from the USF library. It is also an experiment which was a longitudinal study which followed the same people around. This leads me to believe that a lot of research was put into the project and the information that is relayed back is not bias. This is good because many articles about the use of marijuana are based on off biased opinions. Joseph M. Pierre, M. a. (2010). Psychosis Associated With Medical Marijuana: Risk vs. Benefits of Medicinal Cannabis Use. American Journal Of Psychiatry: Official Journal Of The American Psychiatric Association, (5), 598. doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2010.09121762 This article is good for my paper because it shows how using medical marijuana helps patients with their pains. This helps my introduction because it highlights my point that medical marijuana will be able to help people. This article is also good because it shows some of the concerns that comes with the recreational use of marijuana. By having this in an article it helps me to see how there would be arguments against it and then point out the reasons why they are wrong or misinformed. I also think that this is a good article because there are facts to back up the information that is being relayed to the audience. I think that this article is reliable because it comes from the USF library database. The paper is also based on facts that comes from other reliable sources which are listed at the end of the paper. I also think that this is a good article because the paper is not biased. I also think that this article is good because it was consistent in what it was talking about the paper stray Professor Roth Class: ENC 1101 Date: 1/29/17 Title: The legalization of marijuana into the realm of the author putting his opinion into it. I believe that it makes the paper a reliable source. Millhorn, Misty, et al. North Attitudes Toward Illegal  Journal Of Human Behavior In The Social Environment 19.2 (2009): 125-141. PsycINFO. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. I believe that this paper is a good source for my paper because it talks about how marijuana has a lot of prejudices against it. In the article, it shows how teens are straying away from hard drugs such as heroin and cocaine because of marijuana. With this less people are getting addicted to hard drugs where it can lead to addictions that keep getting worse and worse. In the article, it also states how the acceptance of marijuana has increased over the years and more people fight for the right for marijuana to be legalized. This is a good source for my article because it shows how the prejudices that were once there are being overshadowed by new information that is being supplied on marijuana. I believe that this article comes from a reliable source because it comes from the USF library. It was a study that was conducted as an experiment. There was background knowledge which explained how the opinion of marijuana has changed throughout the years. The experiment that was conducted was based from a survey. This could attribute to biased opinions, but in the article, it showed how the opinions have changed since that last time this survey was conducted. More people were in the opinion that marijuana should be legalized. Professor Roth Class: ENC 1101 Date: 1/29/17 Title: The legalization of marijuana Kosterman, Rick, et al. Marijuana Legalization And Attitudes, Use, And Parenting In Washington  Journal Of Adolescent Health 59.4 (2016): 450-456. PsycINFO. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article is good for my paper because it shows how parental opinion have changed about their opinion of marijuana throughout the years. The article contributes to my research on the legalization of marijuana because the opinion that marijuana is not bad for you went from 1% to 25% for kids that are eighteen and younger. The ratings went up even higher for parents whose kids were older than eighteen the statistic jumped to 43%. The article contributes to my article because it shows that more people are becoming open minded about their opinions on the use of marijuana. This article is a good article to use for my paper because it comes from the USF library. It is also conducted as an experiment which means that the information that is collected is used to find data. The information that is collected would not be tampered with because of biased opinions. Since the study was based on an experiment the findings would be considered trust worthy since there should be no alternative motives. The USF library is also a good source to find the information because all the articles that are listed are based on studies that were reviewed by their peers and critiqued to make sure that the information is relevant and not thrown together.