Solanke 1 Emmanuel Solanke Composition II 2/26/2017 Project 2 Intermediate A topic that has come up in our society is the question on if the legal drinking age in USA should be lowered or left where it is. Some say it should be lowered citing reasons like being called an adult at eighteen but you drink, but with the other perspective, they think lowering the age would lead to more incidents like drunk driving. The stakeholder that holds this opinion is known as Mothers Against Drunk Driving, they believe lowering the legal drinking age would have very disastrous results and they will fight for their cause in many ways. MADD uses rhetorical appeals in images to get their point using Pathos, Logos, Ethos, and Kairos as much as possible and can convince others to listen to their point. One major rhetorical appeal MADD utilizes in their advertisement is Pathos. Pathos is an appeal using different types of media to get an emotion out of others. The first image utilizes Pathos very well, it depicts a girl wearing a graduation gown but her head is through a window, the flowers and diploma she was holding is on the ground and bleeding from her head. Just describing this picture to someone could give them the feeling of curiosity, MADD certainly wanted to give viewers of this image the emotion of sadness and fear. MADD is advertising about what could happen to people if the drinking age is lowered and more people who are young will get their hands-on alcohol and more deaths could occur. At the bottom, there is a tag- line saying make it a grad to which is usually a good thing to say, but in a scenario like this, death is the last thing people would want to remember when it comes to Solanke 2 graduation. This image is also a realistic wake-up call, there are people who die before they graduate due to alcohol and MADD is trying to make sure people are aware of this. Now, Logos is the appeal to logic, this appeal is where statistics come into play. This is where the second images strength lies. Compared to the first image, the second image have an image, it all just text. The image goes and says that every day, 28 people die due to drunk driving, it then asks users if they know how much that would add up to at the end of the year, and lastly the ad goes on telling readers to be a With an ad focused on logic, it gives readers a feeling that the person or organization that delivered the ad knows what they are talking about, and this is what MADD wants. Even just words alone can impact readers, to some, it could seem more professional and look neater. Ethos is an appeal to authority, and MADD utilizes the fact that well known to their advantage. In both images, at the bottom, MADD puts their logo at the bottom. MADD has been involved in many ways to get their view of keeping younger people away from alcohol, they cried in front of judges, state legislative, live television, they even got President Ronald Regan to back legislation that would benefit their cause (Hoover 2008). From the to present day, MADD has work on and built up their credibility from all the work that the organization has built towards, helping towards new legislation that prevents drunk driving deaths, telling their stories about the deaths for their own children who have been in drunk driving incidents, and meeting figures who create laws that can affect millions. The last rhetorical appeal is Kairos, this is an appeal to timeliness. This appeal is seen more in the second image, which is the image with just text in it. The first part where Kairos is seen is where it states that every day, 28 people die. This gives readers an urgency that everyday multiple deaths related to alcohol and drunk driving, which can create a sense of reality Solanke 3 and can cause fear in readers, it could also give readers the realization that it could happen to them next. Towards the end of the image they ask the readers if they know how many deaths the 26 a day adds up to annually, and this urgency but this does deal with time and connects to the first Kairos portion. The last portion of Kairos comes from the very end where it tells the readers to think before too late, which create a sense of urgency so that they become just another statistic relating to drunk driving. use of Kairos helps their point and like stated multiple times, creates urgency for people viewing the advertisements. In conclusion, using Pathos, Logos, Ethos, and Kairos, MADD is able to argue their point very effectively using these rhetorical appeals, and with it they can influence many more regarding this issue. Works cited Solanke 4 Hoover, Eric. MADD, the Legal Drinking Age Is Not Up for The Chronicle of Higher Education, vol. 55, no. 11. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Advertisement. MADD.Org, May 2006. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Advertisement. MADD.Org, 2014. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Solanke 5