Cuartas 1 Cristhian Cuartas Lorie Jewell ENC1101 20 February 2017 Abortions: The political view Pro-life or pro choice? A heated topic well known and heavily debated on. Abortion has come a long way since the 1970s court case Roe vs Wade where the legalization of abortion was first established. Political issues arose. People stood up for what they believe was wrong and right. They invoked religion and even turned to protesting. Radicals burnt down abortion clinics and protesters were doing whatever they could to make a change. As time passed the topic of abortion has transcended and evolved. Many states making it nearly impossible to meet the requirements on abortion. More problems arose and the people felt the need to express their opinions.Women fight for their rights and march forward towards equality. Erosion also becomes an issue.Agencies and political parties make their move to gain followers using abortion as their source to winning people over.Some people seek abortions as an easy way out and use it to cheat the system.The only way to even have a shot at being heard is to focus on whose voices they believe are heard, to make a difference by focusing on the political side of the issue at hand.They focus on the government and president, they think to themselves, does the political climate affect starts to take shape in our society. Adams, Greg D. Abortion: Evidence Of An Issue  American Journal Of Political Science 41.3 (1997): 718. Business Source Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article mainly talks about how abortion affects the two main political parties. The Cuartas 2 author informs on how political parties use the topic of abortion to gain followers and votes. As the topic of abortion evolves over time being used by many in power to secure votes or favoritism due to their ideals and such. The article not only informs on the political atmosphere of abortion but gives us some examples of cases where it was used. This source is a peer reviewed academic journal so the information given can be considered credible. It ties in with my project by overviewing the political field and their use of abortion. Abortion might be the key to win over people for political parties. Not only is it used by political parties but other elites and agencies take part in using abortion to gain favoritism The author has had more than seven other academic articles that have been peer-reviewed so the source is pretty credible.Adams received his economics Ph.D. from Berkeley. He is a professor at the University of Utah. Forsythe, Clark. The Medical Assumption At The Foundation Of Roe V. Wade & Its Implications For Womenfs  Issues In Law & Medicine 29.2 (2014): 183-230. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article The Medical Assumption At The Foundation Of Roe V. Wade & Its Implications For Womenfs  focuses on the Roe vs Wade and Doe vs Walton. These two cases are very relevant to the political atmosphere of abortion. In the article they question the decisions and why the decisions came to be. They attempt to explain that the notion that the decision was based on has flaws. The article also goes in-depth on the political side of the legalization and how people tend to view them. This source is an academic journal as well as peered reviewed. The author is well known for his involvement in the topic of abortion and planned parenthood. The article has very useful Cuartas 3 information on both major cases involving abortion and effects on the political atmosphere. Not only does the author go in depth on the cases but he also explains how they came to be and the politics around both cases back then.Forsythe has a law degree, a B.A. in political science and an M.A. in bioethics. He has published a book,15 law articles and chapters. Hout, Michael. Abortion Politics In The United States, 1972-1994: From Single Issue To  Gender Issues 17.2 (1999): 3. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 The article Abortion Politics In The United States, 1972-1994: From Single Issue To  gives us a view of the political side of abortion back when it was first legalized. The information gives us in sight on how the topic of abortion made an impact back when it was legalized. The article talks about the presidents and who the people voted for because of the political views on abortions. Useful information on the major debates and a clear understanding of how abortion separated people. It also notes a couple of agencies and what they put forth in the topic of abortion. This source is very useful because it gives the reader an image of what it was like when abortion became the main topic of dispute. This is essential information that helps expand on the political side of abortion. The article not only gives us presidents and new of the time but different agencies that set in motion. The article is peer-reviewed and an academic journal. The author has had many published books and is a sociology professor at the New York University. Thus making the article a credible source for information. Medoff, Marshall H. State Abortion Policy And Unintended Birth Rates In The United  Social Indicators Research 129.2 (2016): 589-600. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cuartas 4 The article Abortion Policy and Unintended Birth Rates in the United mainly focuses on the restriction of abortion. It explains to the reader how even though abortion is legal there are still some states that make it very hard for an abortion to go through. Starting off with how each state ask for a different price, some prices to high for the people who want it. There are certain requirements need to be met before an abortion can happen. The article gives the reader different restrictions and laws that affect abortion. The article also mentions the involvement of these laws and restrictions with unintended births. The political standards are met with the information taken from this article to help add to my work. This source is relates to my research question because it deals with the political atmosphere affects on abortion. The article clearly states restrictions and laws that restrict abortion. It also mentions background information on abortion and different cases that have gone to court. I find the source credible do to the fact peer review and an academic journal. The text bias and is very helpful. The author cites its sources and I found it through the USF advance search tool. Dr.Medoff received his doctorate from UC Berkeley and was a professor of economics at the University of California. Before his passing he published many articles. Rosenthal, David L. Refocusing The Undue Burden Test: Inconsistent Interpretations Pose A Substantial Obstacle To Constitutional  Issues In Law & Medicine 31.1 (2016): 3-27. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The section the Undue Burden Test: Inconsistent Interpretations Pose a Substantial Obstacle to Constitutional focuses on abortion court cases and restriction on abortion. The article gives us very thorough information on abortion following the Roe vs Wade conclusion. Not only does it talk about the political side of abortions but it gives Cuartas 5 the reader information on how the topic came about and different cases on the topic. well rounded and gives information that can be used in many context. This source goes along with my research question and helps me a lot. Not only is the information received helpful but I also gain insight knowledge on smaller cases. easy to maneuver around because of the subtitles and the information is easy to understand. The source is credible do to the fact a peer review academic journal and is found on the USF library website. The author sites all hs sources and gives credit where credits due. Rosenthal studied Law at Rutgers University. Throughout his college career he was able to publish many articles. Shrage, Laurie et. al Electoral Politics And  Dissent (00123846) 50.4 (2003): 67-80. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article Electoral Politics And  revolves around how politicians influence majorities in their favor with the abortion issue. Democrats uses it to gain woman followers while Republicans turn to the religious majority. The article also mentions how some states make it to where abortion is unattainable considering the requirements one must meet. Many agency names are mentioned and how they benefit political groups. The author explains the uses and reasons behind the agencies giving us an inside look of why they are created. This source relates to the affects of abortion on the political field. It helps with my topic by giving insight on the two main parties that make up the United States. The article also helps with understanding agencies and what they are used for. The article is peer review and an academic journal making the information usable for the project. The authors are all women who bring to light information on abortion from their point of view. Shrage is a professor of philosophy at Florida International University. She has written many published journals, chapters Cuartas 6 books and many more. Not only is she recognized by Harvard she has received many awards throughout her life.