Anatoly Kulikov Professor Roth Composition 1 02.06.17 Social class differentiations and their relationship towards each other in Globalized era. Social status has changed dramatically during periods in history of United States. The importance and significance of such topic can be given by defining the meaning of Social class and its relation to Globalization. Social class division of a society based on social and economic status, which has transformed into main topic in the world of cultural, political, and economic interactions between countries and nations (Oxford dictionary, 2016). Governments worldwide segregated societies into Poor, Middle and Rich classes based on income and privileges, which created new norms of living between them. The concepts of this research are: 1) to obtain borders around created social classes from economical, sociological and political fields of view; 2) to distinguish interactions between such social classes and their relationships to each other; 3) look forward how social class discussed in Social networking websites and superiority of rich class concept between poor and middle class. Socioeconomic inequalities defined as unequal distribution of social opportunities, where individual socioeconomic status/background has a real influence and determines which of them you can reach (Urban dictionary, 2012). It is widely disputed topic in United States and covers huge historical context from discovery of the American continent to nowadays digitalized society. The main idea of this research is to answer research question: How social classes became separated and defined throughout historical evidence, their interaction, and relationships with each other and how determined in the era of Globalization. Eliazar, I. & Cohen, M. H. (2014). Hierarchical socioeconomic fractality: the rich, the poor, and the middle-class. In Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 402, 30- 40. 10.1016/j.physa.2014.01.059 The first source connects significant discovery by Vilfredo Pareto made in 19 th century with scientific calculations of 21 st century tax data. The study by Italian economists made a huge impact in area of statistics, which resulted in wider distribution of social class research. The research paper provides statistical information on class segregation and its development by looking at so called or income of population. The purpose of such research is to deeply study the question: the distribution of wealth in human societies intrinsically and the hierarchical socioeconomic fractality of (Eliazar & Cohen, 2014). The study provides readers with 5 Sections, beginning in Section 2, which explains material by graphs, formulas and calculations of tax and income data. The study of socioeconomic explains theoretical wealth distribution between poor, middle and rich fractalities, moreover it implemented real world data to draw a conclusion. The importance of such source in my research paper can be justified by variations of credible information and calculations done to explain borders of wealth and income, which are necessary to determine social class. The source will support one of my research concepts from economic (statistical) field of view. Ruhela, A., Bagchi, A., Mahanti, A. & Seth, A. (2016). The rich and middle classes on twitter: are popular users indeed different from regular users? In Online Social Networks, Computer Communications, 73B, 219-228. 10.1016/j.comcom.2015.07.024 Social media and networking websites are most powerful tools on modern era, which determine believes, values and knowledge. Such aggregate is not just place of discussions, but appear to be huge discussable topic in context of Globalization. Provided research paper rich and middle classes on discusses importance of Social networking websites in society, it divides people into rich and poor classes and compares them with each other by point-based calculation (tweets, followers). The research studies 2 main topics in 3 subfields: politics, sports, and entertainment. The first topic is to study if so called tend to discuss specific topics more or held more interest in creating new topics than regular users. Second concern of the study is to analyze how popular users seem to construct influence on specific events and make them popular, then regular users. The purpose of this research paper is to study Social class in Globalized era. The second source can make great in connection on middle class and rich class interacting on Social networking website, which is one of the modern technology in era of Globalization. Given research will determine the end of the border of middle class and the beginning of rich class from Social networking website point of view. Eisenhauer, J. G. (2011). The rich, the poor, and the middle class: thresholds and intensity indices. In Research in Economics, 65 (4), 294-304. 10.1016/j.rie.2011.01.002 Social class is hard discussable topic, as there is no clear specification of rich, poor and middle class. What isolates poor from middle class? Is it the quantity of wealth, income? If so, what is the exact point from which person considered rich? As said in the study: consensus exists in the literature about its The research is targeted to describe the basic definition of Social classes with given calculations on statistics, literature, and actual data of Italian Bank between 2002 and 2004. The researcher pledged to study consumption, income, and wealth to distinguish how reflecting poverty and affluence. To prove its credibility, author has provided readers with statistical information, formulas, and tables. Research paper is divided into 6 sections, starting from section 2, with conclusion in section 6. This study done by Joseph G. Eisenhauer may help me answer one of my research concepts and help me define the Social class with calculations provided. It is true that definitions of poor, middle, rich is vague and badly identified, so more professional research is required for me to state straight borders for such definitions. This research paper will provide me with clear distinctions between income and wealth of poor and rich class, according to data of Bank of Italy. Muntaner, C., Borrell, C., Chung, H. (2007). Class relations, economic inequality and mental health: why social class matters to the sociology of mental health. Mental health, social mirror, 127-141. There are certain differences in social classes that make wider circle between them. Based on inequalities and other way of living, poor classes subjected more than others to awful services of healthcare, working conditions, and social acceptance. In chosen research, authors explaining issues of mental health from economic point of view. They believe that this study help them to improve conditions of working classes, immigrants, and ethnic minorities. The conducted study describing the impact of economic inequalities as a reasonable issue in mental health and what part epidemiologists and sociologists take to resolve the issue. The importance of such study in my research is minor and indistinct. However, this may support one of my research concepts on difference between social classes, and rich privileges on better healthcare. This study clearly explains economic inequalities in poor communities and distinguish the result of such inequalities, as mental illnesses. Moreover, such research paper is a great explanation of social class from sociological field of view. Hart, C. L. & Deary, I. J. (2003). Childhood iq, social class, deprivation, and their relationships with mortality and morbidity risk in later life: prospective observational study linking the scottish mental survey 1932 and the midspan studies. Psychosomatic Medicine, 877-883. Several studies were conducted on the topic of how IQ referred to mortality of major population. Among them, this study combines topic with socioeconomic variables, which construct new data to examine. Researchers investigated over 1000 participants on their study to explore the relationships between IQ, mortality risks and class privileges. To summarize the data, participants were divided into 4 groups, from lower IQ to highest. Results for full-time workers and students as well as for lower class were poor, as the mortality this part of population has over 25% more mortality risks, than others. To prove the materials on credibility, authors provided graphs and tables, as well as sources. The research can be used to look in the roots of social classes, as intelligence place the major role in your economic stability and mortality. The examples from psychology can be used to compare and support the definition of social class, however the lack of accurate data does not allow to use it as primary source, but only secondary. Noonan, A. E., Hall, G., Blustein, D. L. (2007). Urban experience of social class in relationships at work. In Journal of Vocational Behavior, 542-560. 10.1016/j.jvb.2007.01.005 The article was written to develop the idea and investigate the topic of urban experience in program so-called to work (Noonan, Hall Blustein, 2007). The study gathered 4 groups of adults depending on their life experience with mentor and working environment. The groups were then separated and interviewed to conduct important materials and their relevance on race, social class position, purchasing power, similarities of lifestyle, ideas on privilege or classism. Researchers used lenses of social class to study these adults on what support they received and from whom, their perception on career opportunities from school education, and their understanding of class segregation. The materials provided in the article prove thus article as credible and useful in future projects and researches. Importance of such article in my research paper may be explained from sociological and economical perspectives. Connection of ideas into one explanation of social class required. The nature of a human being is impossible without social support as society split into classes for a reason, such as differences in way of living, surroundings of the world and unpredictable events, demographics, human nature and motivation to succeed. People always gather into groups with the same interests, values and most likely economic background. This article may be great to translate this idea of social class into my research.