Lucas Serau Composition 1 02/11/2017 Professor Roth Missing Revenue for Big Oil Companies Oil Companies have made a substantial amount of revenue throughout the last couple of decades. In recent years, oil companies have been extracting an immense amount of oil from the Earth using various methods due to an increase in demand for the refined product. Yet the combined and individual revenues for companies in the industry have not increased accordingly. This is due to the increasing concern for climate change. Oil companies have been selling more oil over the past decade, yet due to new regulations these oil companies have been compelled to spend more money on creating new methods for extracting oil in a more environmentally friendly way, new technology for renewable energy, or simply paying fines for improper performance under these new regulations. Much of the items used every day in this society is tied to the production of oil and its distribution. It would be extremely complex to give up oil as a commodity because of our ties to the product. With the increase demand there should be an increase in revenue, but climate change seems to be the money-guzzler for the oil companies. How has Climate change effected oil companies in terms of revenue within the past decade? Nodding  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 14 Jan. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The article published by The Economist goes into depth explaining the past revenues of the oil industry as a whole. It explains how big oil companies have been profiting over the years off the oil and gas industry. The, article also mentions how there are green house taxes that are to be in place so that companies emiting a certain level of gases are taxed effecting their revenue. This article relates to my research question because it talks about the revenue over time for the big oil companies. It also gives one example of how the big revenue is affected by climate chang such as the taxes. Richard John Micklethwait wrote this article for the economist. He is currently the editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News, a position he has held since February 2015. But, he was previously the editor-in-chief of The Economist from 2006 to 2015. Amaro, Silvia, Sam Meredith, and Hadley Gamble. Oil Companies Invest $1 Billion to Tackle Climate  CNBC. CNBC, 04 Nov. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. This article Explains more of what the big oil companies are attempting to do in order to combat the change in the climate. The article states that a combined total of one billion U.S. Dollars is currently being invested into discovering new technologies and new methods of extracting oil. This article has to do with my topic because it demonstrates an expense that oil companies have to undergo because of climate change. The article was written by 3 authors, all of which consecutively write for CNBC business. Banerjee, Neela, John H. Cushman, Jr., David Hasemyer, Lisa Song, Georgina Gustin, and Sabrina Shankman. Role in Global Warming Has Been on the Oil Radar Since the  InsideClimate News. Inside Climate News, 13 Apr. 2016. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. This article goes more into depth about how climate change has been on big agenda longer than most people thought; even before it became mainstream news. It states that as far back as the oil companies have been discussing the effects of green house gasses on the environment. The article also mentions how oil companies began paying for the denial of global warming to be released to the public rather than attempting to prevent or slow it down. Along with all of these statements, the article includes and excerpt from president Lyndon B. Johnson in which he is the first president to acknowledge the rising levels of CO2 and the potential problems associated with it. This article has to do with my topic because it exploits oil companies on their knowledge of climate change and how they prevent or attempt to slow down the production of CO2 emissions. This article was written by a group of experts on the subject of Climate Change. Many of the authors have previously written articles and journals themselves on the topic, so much of the article is consisted of inputs of all of them. Inside Climate Change is an organization dedicated to reporting and discussing news related to climate change, both good and bad. Many of the authors have experience in the field and have studied climate change as a whole throughout the years. The Price of Oil: Climate  Oil Change International. Oil Change International, n.d. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. The article, The Price of Oil: Climate Disruption, brings to light a great deal of hidden costs associated with oil sales and distribution. The article includes a graph organizational chart that lists a few of the costs associated with the oil industry; along with an explanation for each. A few of these costs include War for oil-rich lands, Pollution and the costs of fees, and the list goes on. This article has to do with my research question because it discusses all of the costs associated with the oil industry. It also discusses the indirect costs that the industry faces. Written by Oil Change International, an organization that works to find research and news relating to Climate change, this article is trustworthy because of the extent of research that the authors go into for each article. Williams, Casey. Fossil Fuel Companies Spend $115 Million Each Year Opposing Climate  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 11 Apr. 2016. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. In this article, the author explains the various efforts that the big oil companies go into to cover their tracks for climate change. The article describes how one major company donates millions of dollars a year to oppose climate change. In all, the total amount donated by big oil companies is over 100 million U.S dollars. This figure the amount donated by organizations that are against big oil companies and their environmental contributions, 5 million. According to the article, the 100 million will be used to persuade congress to not lobby against the big oil companies. The article was written and published by the Huffington Post under the environmental section. The author, Casey Williams, has reported on many environmental topics for the Huffington Post. Mr. Williams graduated from Ohio state with a major in Environmental studies. Hall, Shannon. Exxon Knew about Climate Change Almost 40 Years  Scientific American. Scientific American Inc., 26 Oct. 2015. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. This article states that Exxon mobile, one of the biggest oil companies that trade publically, knew about climate change and the effects that climate change had and would have had almost 40 years ago. Company records and public records clearly show and explain how Exxon tried to pay for their cover-ups against climate change. Although the article makes plenty of points that Exxon apparently knew about climate change, it also includes some statements made by the Exxon organization stating that they never came down to a conclusion on their personal effects on climate change. This article was published on Scientific American, an organization dedicated to reporting environmentally concerning articles and talking about topics relating to the environment. Shannon Hall is the reporter who wrote the article. She has also written many different articles for Scientific American on other climate change topics.