Wolfe 1 Graydon Wolfe Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101.003 19 February 2017 The Information Age The difference between a hero and a traitor is perspective. With the invention of the internet, all the information in the world became readily available for those who know where to look. Governments and private companies alike do everything they can to safeguard their secrets, whether its proof of insider trading or of civilian surveillance. From time to time, individuals take it upon themselves to bring these secrets to light. People who do this for, what they believe would be, the good of the people are called whistleblowers. John Ziriakou and Linda Tripp are prime examples of whistleblowers. People who steal private secrets for personal gain are known as traitors. Benedict Arnold, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg are a few of the most infamous traitors. Sometimes, the line between a traitor and a whistleblower is unclear. own government may see the individual as a traitor but the public could see them as a heroic whistleblower. With all this brief amount of information, a question arises: where should the public draw the line between a whistleblower and a traitor? Wolfe 2 Works Cited Edward Snowden. Biography.com. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This source is a biography of Edward Snowden, one of the most controversial whistleblowers/traitors in modern times. Snowden worked under a subcontractor of the National Security Agency. While there, he discovered the NSA was performing surveillance that he deemed invasive and disturbing. Snowden copied the information the NSA was gathering and fled the country. The US government has since charged Snowden with the crimes of Theft of Government Property, Unauthorized Communication of National Defense Information, and Willful Communication of Classified Communications Intelligence Information to an Unauthorized Person. Snowden remains in Russia under temporary asylum. The source is credible because the sole purpose of the website is to create accurate biographies for educational use. The website remains unbiased when explaining the life of this very controversial person, neither stating he is a traitor or a hero. Epstein, Edward Jay. How America Lost Its Secrets. 1st ed. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2017 In How America Lost Its Secrets, Edward Epstein describes the actions of Edward Snowden, elaborating on how accessible the information was and the motives behind actions. Epstein also debates whether actions were justified by the nature of the information. Also described is whether Snowden truly acted to serve his country when he fled before releasing his information. Epstein wrote the book in a Wolfe 3 manner that counters the popular view of Snowden being a hero, debating whether he is a hero, traitor, whistleblower, or spy. Edward Epstein obtained his Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University in 1973. Epstein is a former professor at UCLA, MIT, and Harvard. Since retiring from teaching, Epstein has been an investigative journalist with articles published in The Wall Street Journal, The Atlantic, and The New Yorker. Epstein has written numerous books, all of which pertaining to information kept secret from the public. Kiriakou, John and Michael Ruby. The Reluctant Spy. 1st ed. New York: Bantam Books, 2010. John Kiriakou is a whistleblower who released to the public proof of the CIA was conducting waterboarding as a form of torture, though an effective one. In his book, Kiriakou describes what he saw and did while working for the Central Intelligence Agency. He describes the invasion of Iraq and the raids of Pakistan from the perspective of a CIA agent. The Reluctant Spy is a credible source because it was written by John Kiriakou, a former CIA analyst who blow the whistle to the public about the actions. Kiriakou shared with a reporter the name of a CIA agent who was assigned to classified activities. In 2012, Kiriakou plead guilty to violated the Intelligence Identities Protection Act. He served 24 months in prison, then 3 months under house arrest. Wilson, B. Benedict Arnold. 1st ed. University Press, 2001. In Benedict Arnold: A Traitor in Our Midst, Barry Wilson explains the infamous life from a different perspective. Benedict Arnold was a General who became a traitor during the Revolutionary War, when he attempted to sell the British the United States Military Academy. Rather than explain how Benedict Arnold was a traitor to the Wolfe 4 early US, Wilson describes Benedict role in Canadian history. Wilson describes Benedict reasoning behind the betrayal and how he had gotten to that point. The credibility of Benedict Arnold: A Traitor in Our Midst comes from the unique perspective of which the book is based upon. In history textbooks, Benedict Arnold is nothing more than a traitor who attempted to undermine the creation of the United States. Barry Wilson describes Benedict social and financial lives as well as his accomplishments in the military that made him the great General he was. Coleman, Gabriella. Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy. 1st ed. Verso, 2014. Print. In Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy, Gabriella Coleman describes the structure of the notorious hacker group Anonymous. She describes the organization of the group as very similar to the internet itself, with multiple channels, entry points, and redundancies. Coleman explains the common ethics that the international group follows when it comes to who to hack and how far to go. Coleman also describes a few of the major targets the organization aims their computers at. Some of these include the Church of Scientology, credit card thieves, and child pornographers. Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy, was written by Gabriella Coleman. Coleman obtained her Masters in Socio-Cultural Anthropology in 1999 and her Ph.D. in 2005 from University of Chicago. Coleman holds the Wolfe Chair in Scientific & Technological Literacy at McGill University in Montreal. Coleman has published 5 books, all of which are about hacking and technology. Coleman was named foremost scholar on by the Chronicle of Higher Education. Schneir, Walter and Miriam Schneir. Final Verdict. 1st ed. Brooklyn, N.Y.: Melville House, 2010. Print. Wolfe 5 In Final Verdict: What Really Happened in the Rosenberg Case, Walter and Miriam Schneir take a second look at the controversial case of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. In 1953, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were found guilty of Treason for passing the secrets of the atomic bomb to the Soviet Union and were subsequently executed. In their previous book, Invitation to an Inquest, the Schneirs argued that the Rosenbergs were actually innocent of the crime of which they were executed for. Thirty years after Invitation to an Inquest, Walter and Miriam Schneir discussed new evidence from former Soviet intelligence officials and formulate a different conclusion. With the new evidence, the Schneirs concluded that the Rosenbergs were innocent of giving the atomic bomb secrets to the Soviet Union, but guilty of espionage during the second World War. Walter Schneir was a writer who primarily wrote about law, politics, and science. His works were published in The Nation, The New York Times Magazine, and The Progressive. Miriam Schneir edited and was the author for several feminist publications. The Schneirs are credible authors because they spent years researching government documents and interviewing American and Soviet intelligence officials.