The Dangers of Genetic Engineering In the past couple of decades science overcame great obstacles regarding human genetic engineering technology. This has led to the development of ideas like cloning and the manipulation of genes to eliminate diseases that were thought to be incurable by modern treatments. These ideas sounded great at the beginning of technological advancement, but complications soon arose after the discovery of genetic engineering. The well-known problems were: is it ethical? is it humane? is it safe? Shirley Hodgson, Professor of Cancer Genetics, St University of London, said: I think that this is a significant departure from currently accepted research (ResearchSEA,2015) In this project, I will discuss the risks of genetic engineering. Among these dangers are: A small mistake can produce a genetic mutation which could be lethal, a disease can emerge and wipe out an entire generation because of no genetic diversity, and some children will look identical which is not preferable for our future. 1. E. Ann Clark. risks of genetic Euphytica, 148(1), march 2006, 47-60. In this article the author talks about the necessity of testing genetically modified organisms before releasing them into the environment to discover the effects they might have. She also discussed some ways we can cut the negative effects of certain genetically modified crops. Dr. Clark is an Associate Professor in Plant Agriculture at the University of Guelph, with specific interests in organic and pasture production systems, and in risk assessment in genetically modified crops. 2. Hazards of Human Developmental Gene Stuart A. Newman, 16 May 2016 www.councilforresponsiblegenetics.org/ViewPage.aspx?pageId=108 Dr. Stuart Newman states that genetic engineering in embryos and fetuses reliable because a small mistake might destroy a life of an innocent child, while the benefits are too many to count the experiment is prone to a lot of errors and is still in its early stages. Stuart Newman, PhD is professor of Cell Biology and Anatomy at New York Medical College, where he directs a research program in vertebrate developmental biology. 3. Modified Humans? No Richard Hayes, 15 April 2008 www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/04/15/AR2008041501620.html The writer mentions that in the near future couples will pick the way their babies will look like from a catalog and the scientists will choose the genes and insert them into the embryo. If we take this method into consideration, all people will choose the best looking and the best protected baby from the samples which will cause some babies to be identical, which will affect the biodiversity of humans on the long run. Richard Hayes was founding executive director of the Berkeley, California-based Center for Genetics and Society, serving from 1999 through 2012. 4. Artemis Dona and Ioannis S. Arvanitoyannis. Risks of Genetically Modified Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition, 49, 2009, 164-175. Genetically modified (GM) foods are taking over our diets although we are not sure of their safety. The effect of consuming too much genetically modified foods can promote cancer and lead to death in some cases. For safety reasons foods that are genetically modified must be tested for their effects on human health thoroughly before being released to the public, and if they pass both the company and the product should be stopped from producing anything else. Both authors studied in the Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, University of Athens, Medical School, Athens, Greece. 5. ResearchSEA. first genetic modification of human embryos reported: Experts consider  ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 24 April 2015. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/04/150424122312.htm>. Some Chinese scientists modified human embryos, which is the first time this experiment has been heard of. They wanted to change a gene responsible for a potentially fatal blood disorder, beta-thalassemia. The scientists used a method called CRISPR/Cas9 which basically means they altered a series of genes responsible for the disease. ResearchSEA is first research news portal, a one-stop center where journalists and the public can access news and local experts from the research world in Asia. 6. Brendan Foht. Case Against Human Gene December 4, 2015 http://www.nationalreview.com/article/428024/human-genetic-engineering-wrong This article states that genetic engineering might lead to children looking exactly like what their parents wish they would look like, not a mix between the and genes. Also, having some disabilities or deformities is in the human nature because no such thing is perfect. Brendan P. Foht is an associate editor of The New Atlantis. He has degrees in political science from the University of Calgary and in biology from the University of Alberta. Mohamad Elakhal 02/05/2017