Chillura 1 Michael Chillura Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 5 February 2017 Should students and faculty be allowed to carry concealed weapons on campus? Whether guns should be allowed on campus or not is a very controversial topic that has gone back and forth for many years. Some would argue that 2 nd amendment right to bear arms and to carry a concealed weapon on campus while others would argue that it would make campuses unsafe and therefore lead to campus shootings. As of right now there are currently eight states that allow the carrying of concealed weapons on post-secondary campuses. These states are Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Mississippi, Oregon, Texas, Utah, and Wisconsin. Although these states allow concealed weapons on campus, a shooting at Oregon Community College still occurred causing deaths and injuries to students and administration. The question Should students and faculty be allowed to carry concealed weapons on campus? Dickerson, Darby. should not be allowed to carry guns on college Guns and crime edited by Christine Watkins Greenhaven Press, 2012. At issue, opposing viewpoints in context, link.galegroup.com/apps/docs/EJ3010015253/OVIC? Accessed 25. Jan. 2017. Originally published as paper- Guns on NaBita.org. 17. Feb. 2011. Although most college students seem to be physically mature, their brains are still developing over the past decade. Researchers have discovered that the human brain changes a lot over time during adolescence, not fully developed until about 24 years old. Due to the brain developing back to front, judgement is last to mature. New studies show that late teens to early Chillura 2 exhibit and portray poor planning and judgement, often fail to consider negative consequences of their actions and seek risker impulsive behavior. Also, due to alcohol and drug use it can impede brain development but also have long term negative consequences. It is a risk even if not using alcohol, drugs or having impulsive behavior as they can or are victims of others abuse which can make them a risk of suicide and violence against other students. The goal is to make the campus safer for everyone and allowing guns on campus will achieve the goal. The first source connects to my research question because explaining that teens and young adults (early their brain is not fully developed yet and that their judgement is poor. We really tell whether students are mature enough to handle weapons along with their use of drinking and drugs. It also connects to the research question because we know if every student is trustworthy with a weapon let alone have them be on campus. Our brain is not developed enough and we are not mature enough. The source is credible because it is a scholarly database where you can get reliable information about the topic you are looking for. Fry A John. guns make campus Philly.com. 2015. Web. 25. Jan. 2017. Allowing guns on campus make it safer. Many college campuses already have issues with sexual assault, drugs and binge drinking and introducing guns into that mix will only exacerbate the problem. Allowing guns will lead to fear and mayhem, instead of a chilling scene on campus. There are many questions to have like students willing to debate knowing their classmate has a gun in their If anything, guns will cause accidental shootings and suicides if on campus. Imagine what could go wrong at a fraternity party if guns were involved. Chillura 3 feel the presence of concealed weapons will make campus less (McRaven). The best answer is no guns. There are many steps and precautions that can be taken to make college safer, but allowing guns on campus is not one of them. The second source connects to the research question because campuses already have issues with sexual assault, drugs, and binge drinking, involving guns to that mix will only cause chaos and it also explains that some kids will not feel safe in that learning environment because they will be afraid to debate or ask questions knowing their classmates have guns. The source also connects because it really does question if students should be allowed. Students be allowed to, the source states that it be safe due to the fraternity parties because things get out of hand and lead to reckless behavior. The source is credible because it comes from Philly.com which is for Philadelphia news. It is reliable and it is good to use for this essay. The authors that have written this article come from a news source that is credible and the editor of the paper has revised it to make it reliable. Brooke, James. TERROR IN LITTLETON: The overview; 2 students in Colorado school said to gun down as many as 23 and kill themselves in a www.nytimes.com. N.p. 21 Apr. 1999 Web. 5 Feb. 2017 The deadliest school massacre in history, two young men Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, students at Colombine High School stormed into the school during lunchtime. Both had guns and explosives killing as many as twenty-three students and teachers, and wounding at least twenty in the five-hour siege. The two young men were found dead in the library with self-inflicted gunshot wounds. It began around 11:30 am, they wore ski masks, fired the semiautomatic weapons at students and administration. It appears to be a suicide mission. Chillura 4 The gunmen and other students were wired with explosives. The two gunmen were part of a group called trench coat mafia. A fourteen-year-old girl, Katie Corona thought she was going to dies and lose her life that day. The two young men went to kill everyone that made fun of them and then ended up killing themselves. This source connects to my research question because two young students decided to come to the school and shoot anyone in sight. This shows that it is not safe to let students have guns on campus. It also connects because stated in the article a young women states that school should be safe and it should be a safe place not a place where students go crazy and start killing people. It shows that students are not mature or capable of having possession of a weapon. The source is credible because I got it from NY Times, a newspaper article. It gave me information about the shooting and the two young men. It is also credible because it has statements from victims of the shooting. It is a good source to use because I can use this as a pro for my research question. Keeping, Juliana. Michigan Universities could allow guns in classrooms, dormitories under new senate www.annarbor.com. N.p., 21 Dec. 2009. Web. 5 February 2017. Michigan Universities be able to pick and choose which constitutional amendments apply to them and that includes the right to bear arms. They just be able to pick ones that fit for them. Michigan State University is the only of 15 public universities to allow concealed pistol license holders to bring firearms to campus except banned areas. Michigan constitution dictates individuals have a to keep and bear arms for himself and the One of the things that were presented was the shooting down at Virginia Tech. The professor in that class was a CPL holder and the university did not allow him to have his gun Chillura 5 due to the no-gun policy. It was in his car, locked up. The professor and 31 others were murdered during that shooting. We want the same rights that apply everywhere else to apply while we are at school. This source connects to my research question because if there was a shooting the faculty member potentially saved himself and the others. By not having access to his concealed weapon he was murdered along with 31 others. It connects because if he had his gun he probably stopped the shooter. We will never know if he stopped the shooter because his life was taken. This source is credible because it comes from Ann Arbor News and the state senator had an input as well to this topic. It comes from a news source that has been revised and edited to make it good and useful. It is good to use to argue against my research question. Johhnson, Joey. Football students arrested for gun shooting on Tbo.com., 16 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wfla web staff. Football player arrested for shooting gun on Wlfa.com., 11 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. A football player at the University of South Florida was arrested for shooting a gun on campus. USF police unit responded to the area after reports of gunshot sounds. The officer did not locate the shooter at the time but found a car with an empty gun case and ammunition in it. The police identified the car being registered and owned by Benjamin Knox, 21. Knox is an offensive lineman for the USF Bulls. The officers discovered many gunshots in the wall of Holly D residence hall. USF police officers found Knox in his room with a handgun they believe used in the shooting incident. Knox was arrested on charges of possession or discharge of a firearm on campus and shooting into an occupied Chillura 6 dwelling. He was transported to the Hillsborough County Jail. Reserve defensive back Lamar Robbins was arrested Thursday after police said they believe he participated in the shooting with Benjamin Knox. USF assistant police chief Chris Daniel said least lied to the investigators about his involvement. Robbins, who also joined Knox in suspension from all team activity faces charges of discharging weapon on school property, second degree felony, and false information to a law-enforcement officer, misdemeanor. The University are very concerned and the residents of USF who live on campus are concerned and not safe that their own classmates were shooting guns off in a residency hall. Behaviors of this nature, celebratory or not, especially not in a school safe learning environment where we have seen other shooting incidents. The students do not feel safe. This source connects to the research question because it shows that students are concerned and not safe. Their classmates were shooting a gun off into the residency hall where students live at. It shows that it is not safe. No one got hurt but what if someone did, it been a big mess. This shows that guns should not be allowed on campus because it harms others and students can get into big trouble just by them shooting the gun off for fun. This source because it comes from Tampa Bay Times, and News Channel 8. The reporters also got all the information from USF campus police officers which they are credible and this occurred at the University of South Florida. Jaschik, Scott. rights v.s College Insidehighered.com. 11 Sep. 2006. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The University of Utah says that the ban of guns will still be in effect pending a federal court battle. Steinbach of the American Council of Education agreed that given Chillura 7 the problems colleges already have with drunk students making poor choices, adding guns into that mix would invite more problems. He also added that in a normal give and take of campus life, are different if you think the person you are talking to might be packing. College students believe it is their right to have a gun with them considering their 2 nd amendment but the higher education believe that it is not safe to add guns into the mix with students that are drinking and making bad choices due to their bad judgement. This source connects to the research question because it proves that before Utah legalized guns on campus, it was a hard decision to make. The University of Utah knows that by allowing guns to the mix of students drinking it would only lead to violent behavior and poor choices. It proves that this topic is hard to decide on because no one knows if safe of not but if students fear gunshot sounds then it is not necessary to allow guns on campus. This source is credible because on a website called Insidehighered.com, where students can talk about issues they have and how they plan to act. This article included the senate of Utah and their views on this topic. Works Cited Dickerson, Darby. should not be allowed to carry guns on college Guns and crime edited by Christine Watkins Greenhaven Press, 2012. At issue, opposing viewpoints in context, link.galegroup.com/apps/docs/EJ3010015253/OVIC? Accessed 25. Jan. 2017. Originally published as paper- Guns on NaBita.org. 17. Feb. 2011. Chillura 8 Fry A John. guns make campus Philly.com. 2015. Web. 25. Jan. 2017. Brooke, James. TERROR IN LITTLETON: The overview; 2 students in Colorado school said to gun down as many as 23 and kill themselves in a www.nytimes.com. N.p. 21 Apr. 1999 Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Keeping, Juliana. Michigan Universities could allow guns in classrooms, dormitories under new senate www.annarbor.com. N.p., 21 Dec. 2009. Web. 5 February 2017. Johhnson, Joey. Football students arrested for gun shooting on Tbo.com., 16 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wfla web staff. Football player arrested for shooting gun on Wlfa.com., 11 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Jaschik, Scott. Gun rights v.s college Insiderhighered.com. 11 Sep. 2006. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.