Diaz 1 Viviana Virginia Diaz Melim Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102-001 25 February 2017 Rhetorical and visual analysis of image The implementation of different visual and rhetorical elements is able to persuade and influence actions and thoughts. The sensorial responses that images are able to produce in the audience mind is the most powerful tool of persuasion that companies, entities, and organizations use for their own benefit. Also, images seek to make the audience understand the purposes and goals that one organization may have. One example of this is The Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR), which is a nonprofit organization that seeks to emphasize the essential role of animal testing in biomedical research. They aim to improve the life quality of humans and animals through the development of medical advances. Through visual and rhetorical elements FBR images can create sensorial responses in their audience, creating fear and hurry of the importance of animal testing to save the life of people. The first image is a billboard that has appeared in many cities of USA. According to ABC News, this image has appeared in cities with major medical research centers, such as Chicago, Los Angeles, and Portland (J. Allen). This is designed to make people think that animal research is necessary to develop vaccines, antibiotics, and diagnosis tools to combat several diseases and illnesses. This image emphasizes the word using capital letters, position it in the middle of the image, and using a black background for this word. This makes the audience focus mainly in the two images (the one of the cat and the one of the girl) and the word rather between them. This makes people to think objectively and decide what has more value for them: the life of a rat or the life of a child (or human in general). They use Diaz 2 white in the background of the rat, but they use sweet light purple for the background of the girl. This game with the colors makes the audience feel more empathy with the girl. The first image includes every element of the rhetorical appeals. It appeals to ethos using the web page of the organization (FBR). This gives credibility because it provides the source that is promoting the message, allowing the audience to search this web page and get more information about the main goals of FBR. For pathos, this image uses a little innocent girl to appeal to the emotions of people and make them understand that they should save the life of this girl rather than the life of a rat with red, evil eyes. By using the little, cute, and innocent girl this image seeks show a vulnerable human that needs to be protected, producing compassion in the audience. Also, this images uses a rat with red eyes and they emphasize the word in in red as well. This game with the colors seek to send the message making people support animal testing. This image also includes logos. It emphasizes the word making the audience understand that they need to choose a side. They seek to make audience choose the side of humans rather than the side of any nonhuman organism because people feel more identified with other people than with other animals. They also play with the word rather, because it is composed by the word and Using rat as a derogatory word and using the pronoun to refer to the girl in a more personal way. Finally, for kairos, this image uses the word This gives an implicit message that will be over at any time, that is finite. Also, this image emphasizes the word in red. This also creates hurry in the audience. They show that there is a problem that needs to be solved, in this case is an illness that be stopped unless they can use animals for research purpose an obtain medical information that can be used to treat diseases. Diaz 3 The second image is a black poster with white letters. Using this background makes the audience mainly focus on what is written in the image. The title of the image dominates the focus of the poster because it occupies most of the space. The second thing that captures the attention of the audience are the three images at the bottom showing cancer cells, heart disease, and AIDS. This pictures are positioned just after the question we stop animal research, who will stop the real This wants to show the audience that diseases are the ones that are killing people. We can evidence that this image targets all the people that blames organizations that use animals for medical purposes as killers and in general to all the people that support animal testing. The second image also possess all the rhetorical appeals. In order to appeal to ethos, this image uses in small font all the information of the organization that is promoting this message. This gives credibility because allows the audience to investigate more about the source that is providing the information. For pathos, this image uses key words such as and The first word produces fear in the audience, but using the word stop they give a solution to the problem. They seek to be seen as the saviors or superheroes that can help people to stop the real killers (the villains) that are the diseases. This image appeals to logos by stating in small font, a text that says animal research we have put an end to polio, This way the organization appeal to the logic of the audience because everybody knows all the pain and suffering that these diseases has caused through our history. Also, they play with the words because animal rights activists blame organizations that test with animals for killing these organisms, but wisely this organization used this blames to show that they seek to help and that diseases are the ones that are truly killing innocent people. Moreover, this image also appeals to kairos by using the word This message creates urgency in the audience stating that there is a Diaz 4 killer that can attack you unless this organization helps to get rid of all the illnesses that can harm. These images are trying to make the audience understand that animal testing is key to save the life of people. They want the audience to feel compassion for humans over any other organism that can exist. Also, they want to make people aware that animal research is indispensable for the wealth of humans. If these procedures stop, scientists will not be able to develop treatments for illnesses and more people will suffer or die due to diseases. FBR was wisely able to influence people through this images because they were able to engage the audience and make them think about the priorities (human life vs nonhuman life). The implementation of rhetorical appeals and visual elements are key to send a message and to share information. FBR organization was able to make their audience conscious about the important role that this entity plays through their biomedical research. Both of the images that this organization promotes are straightforward and seek to make their audience answer objectively to the questions that they state. This answers needs to support human life and needs to support animal testing for developing new medicines and procedures. Through all this campaigns FBR organization seek to gain the support of people in order to obtain more funds that can help them to keep experimenting and finding biomedical research; without having problems with other entities that do not support animal testing and that are willing to stop this procedures. Diaz 5 Works cited Allen, J. ABC News, http://abcnews.go.com/Health/Drugs/animal-research-billboards-pit- cute-girl-lab-rat/story?id=13371007. Accessed on 20 February 2017. Davison, Jane, et al. Exploring the Visual in Organizations and  Qualitative Research in Organizations & Management (2012). vol. 7, no. 1, p. 5. Web. 26 February. 2017. Foundation for Biomedical Research, www.fbresearch.org. Accessed on 25 January 2017. Diaz 6 Image 1: Image 2: