Boatman 1 Christopher Boatman Ms. Aranda ENC 1102 3 March 2017 The National Education Association in a Picture The National Education Association champions fairness, equality, and equal opportunity to education for all children living in the United States. They believe in opportunity, just society, democracy, professionalism, partnership, and collective (nea.org). Despite the enormity of this stakeholder organization, they are often forgotten about due to the lack of needed attention towards education. Over the past few years, studies on education and teacher salaries have proven that they are among the lowest paying jobs in the United States. According to Hazel Davis of Salaries, but salaries in the smaller cities still were below the predepression (228). The two images provided represent both of these aspects to their entirety. Both images utilize rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, ethos, and Kairos to convey specific ideas and emotions gauged towards an even more specific audience. The image depicting climate change appeals more to Kairos than the other devices. However the image portraying Hilary Clinton relies more on ethos to convey its position on education. These images are related not only because of their efforts to support the NEA but because of their use of controversial topics to invite attention to the picture. The first image presented depicts a polar bear, or the NEA, standing on a melting ice cap, capturing the sense of urgency to act now or it will be too late to save education. This is an example of the rhetorical appeal Kairos, which is also the main rhetorical appeal used in the Boatman 2 image. This underlying message that is being shown is that education is being treated as a less important issue by other, more well-known issues such as the NAACP, which supports African Americans under the law, and the NWLC, an organization that supports rights. Education reforms, like climate change, is a very real issue that needs to be fixed. This is an example of the rhetorical appeal logos because it is logical that the issue needs to be fixed. The image also uses the appeal pathos by incorporating emotion into the polar face. The look of despair and need for help creates a sense of sorrow in the audience and makes them want to do something to help. The appeal ethos can be found in the inclusion of credible organizations on the solid piece of land. Ethos can be even furthered with the use of climate change yet again. The second image shown was taken at a National Education Association meeting in Washington of 2016. At the time, Mrs. Clinton was the Democratic presidential candidate of the United States, a very powerful and influential position. told the union she wants to see professional development seriously ramped up. And she wants to pay teachers more. No educator should have to take a second or third job just to make ends  she (edweek.org). The logos appeal of this image is that she is a recognized public figure so people have reason to believe what she is saying. However due to the media and particular events during her campaign, many Americans developed a reason to dislike her and not listen to what she has to say despite her intentions to better education. This dislike is what creates pathos in the image. As far as the appeal to ethos Clinton has established her own sense of credibility over the course of her political career. Clinton made it clear in her presidential race that she was going to make a difference in education. Because of the limited amount of time she had to campaign across America she had to choose specific topics to discuss, topics that she truly cared about and Boatman 3 thought were the most important. She picked education ad one of her topics and this helped her during the election. This adds the appeal Kairos to the image and also adds to ethos. Both of these images convey an underlying message given the context. The main way that these two images are similar is their use of relatable and controversial issues. There are people living all around the world who believe climate change is not happening. Even our current President of the United States, Donald J. Trump, does not believe it is a real threat. But despite their ignorance, climate change is a very real issue. Just as depicted in the first image, the polar bear is standing on top of a melting ice cap and although that was intended to be a metaphor, it is actually happening. In the case of image two, Hilary Clinton is seen standing at a podium, open arms with a welcoming smile across spread across her face. On the podium is the NEA logo. The audience can assume that Mrs. Clinton is in support of the NEA and education. What sets this picture aside from the others taken at this event is Mrs. Clinton herself. Because of her influential effect, she has the power to get people to support education the same way she does. On the contrary, she also has the power to push people away because of her affiliation with the Democratic Party and her past private e-mail scandal. This could possibly encourage hard and anyone with strong feelings about this scandal to be against the NEA. . Education has slowly been dwindling but with the support of organizations like the NEA it can be restored to the way it was when every American had quality access. The NEA strives towards a better future in education. The organization has over three million members, all of whom believe in quality education and equal opportunity for all. Both images exemplify the problems within the organization and the necessity to find a solution. It is important that the public sees these types of images, that way they know what is going on and they can aid the organization by joining or simply putting their voices out there Boatman 4 Images Boatman 5 Works Cited Davis, Hazel1.  Review of Educational Research, vol. 10, no. 3, June 1940, pp. 228-234. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hu s&AN=18826870&site=eds-live. Klein, Alyson. Hillary Clinton to NEA: If I Win, Educators Will Have a Partner in the White  Education Week - Politics K-12. N.p., 06 July 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. NEA, Civil Rights, and Declarations of  Education Reform Now. N.p., 01 July 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.