Ringley 1 Cory Ringley Professor Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 5/3/2017 How Weddings have Changed in the United States From the inclusion of same-sex marriages to the shows on HGTV catered directly to weddings, marriage has been in the news often. Despite marriage being a controversial topic for so long it was only in 2013 when the first state allowed same sex marriage. It was not until 2015 that the US Supreme Court ruled that state level bans on same sex marriage were unconstitutional. Popular T.V. shows including Say Yes to the Dress, Bridezillas, and Four Weddings have helped shift the culture change around marriage. How those in America look at weddings today cannot be compared to how they did 10 or even 20 years ago. We are going to look at what has changed about weddings through religion, economics and cultural indoctrination. First we see that weddings have changed through the consistency of religion. In the article It Time for Wedding Silliness to Paul J. Grime closes on a notion that there has been change in where weddings are taking place, decades the church has witnessed a gradual shift away from weddings inside the church building, to other venues, with more recently becoming all the (140). This shows that the church which is largely unchanging has noticed a change in the culture. And not only is it a change in the culture but a change they hope to learn from and subsequently change themselves. we consider how our wedding practices might best support our teaching on marriage, perhaps the time has come to urge those who are marrying to bring the ceremony back into the sanctuary so that all who are present might give their full attention to holy desire for husbands and (140). With Ringley 2 how much same-sex marriage has been debated a church hoping to bring weddings back into the church seems like a logical step in the direction that weddings have become more secular and if one was hoping to remedy that they would do it with bringing weddings back into the church, as well as making weddings about God. Grime touches on this notion here, too often the church has regrettably permitted the conduct of the marriage rite to be hijacked by the whims of the secular Our humble proposal is that the time has come for us to [instill a sense of the especially by helping those who are preparing to enter this holy estate to recognize the importance of the vows they are preparing to (137). This is where the title of the article comes from, Grime calls it wedding silliness to let secular culture dictate how Christians are having their weddings and not divine will. The change we see here is that the influence over the hearts and minds of those in America is waning. And due to that weddings are changing. In addition to religion we can find changes in American weddings through wedding spending habits. The article richer or poorer: wedding spending by Natalie Zmuda shows the change in spending habits in an interesting way. This article was published shortly after the beginning of a recession in America where many businesses and enterprises saw drastic decreases in income and profit. think any industry that is immune to this particular said Alison Adler Matz, publish of Conde Brides, which recently conducted a survey of brides that found spending had risen 1% between 2006 and 2008. were seeing overall people are still spending on their Like any consumption, theyre making smart, informed (para 2). The information then shows how over these two years there has been a change in where the money goes for a wedding, from decrease in spending on food, wedding dress, engagement rings and photographer, to a stark increase in the Ringley 3 ceremony location and reception area. These show us that the decline in economic prosperity during this time changed how money was allocated. plausible to assume the decrease in overall revenue increased the costs for the ceremony and reception sites, thus brides had less money to spend on the extra frills of a wedding. The interesting thing is that the difference between what is happening in 2008 to what is happening in 2010. In Knot Unveils 2010 Real Weddings Survey we see spending change again. In 2010, than a third (31%) of brides said the economy affected their wedding budget a decrease from 34% in (para 8). Compared to what we can infer from the information in Natalie article where the cost of weddings decrease but the amount spent on many of the aspects dropped significantly, only two years later The Knot has less than a third of its 19000 brides claiming that economics did not determine how much they were willing to spend on their weddings. Interestingly an article by Andrew Francis-Tan and Hugo M. Mialon looks at the relationship between wedding expenses and marriage duration. 2 displays population-weighted results of the Cox proportional hazard model predicting marriage (Francis-Tan 1922). This article shows that while the increase of divorces due to debt caused by wedding expenses is high that marriage duration is not correlated positively or otherwise with the cost of the wedding (Francis-Tan 1927). While our views on weddings are ever-changing there are a few things that remain the same. We will look at how our culture has influenced the minds of young women in the United States. In the book The Wedding Complex, Elizabeth Freeman shows us just how ingrained weddings are to the American culture. 1989 and the time of this writing, at least thirty- five Hollywood films, seventeen made-for-television movies, and eight national theatrical productions have put a wedding at the center of their (1). These movies are largely Ringley 4 unimportant but the message they send is important. The entertainment industry knows that fairytale romances sell and have convoluted the minds of young men and women for years to bolster profits. As part of a movie a mother finds out her son is gay, and tells him that he still has to get married because she needs a wedding, In Chrys book she uses this movie scene to tell a bigger story in response to what weddings mean for mothers. she tells us what a wedding means. It is about beauty and order and the desire to escape the real making it clear that the wedding is much more than a ritual. It is addictive, compulsory, a (177). This speaks to the vast array of emotions that are accompanied with big weddings. Brides and mothers from all across the US for ages have been planning their weddings and preparing for their perfect fairytale futures for as long as they can remember. At last, we see what has changed about weddings through religion, economics and cultural indoctrination. an increase in wedding spending coupled with a decrease in wedding guests, as well as a decrease of weddings in the church. And we all owe our image of weddings to the American culture. The question that remains is how will these facts change how one views weddings as an unmarried man or woman going forward? Ringley 5 Works Cited Francis-Tan, Andrew, and Hugo M. Mialon. diamond is and other fairytales: the relationship between wedding expenses and marriage  Economic Inquiry 53.4 (2015): 1919-1931. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Freeman, Elizabeth. The Wedding Complex. [Electronic Forms Of Belonging In Modern American Culture. n.p.: Durham: Duke University Press, 2002. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Grime, Paul J., and Kevin Hildebrand. Is it time for Wedding Silliness to  Concordia Theologican Quarterly 80.1-2 (2016): 137-40. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Ingraham, Chrys. White Weddings. [Electronic Romancing Heterosexuality In Popular Culture. n.p.: New York: Routledge, 2008. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The Knot, Inc. The Knot Unveils 2010 Real Weddings Survey  Business Wire (English) Feb. 0003 (2011): Regional Business News. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Zmuda, Natalie. FOR RICHER OR POORER: WEDDING SPENDING NOW; Average reception costs down, but bridal websites, TV shows seeing  Advertising Age 80.10 (2009): Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.