Collin Ellis ENC 1102 Robert Ryan February 17, 2017 The Electronic Frontier Foundation is the leading non-profit organization in defending civil liberties in the cyber world. The organization champions user privacy and free expression on the internet. The EFF is devoted to mitigating oppressive and or unconstitutional acts of entities who are in a position regulate data flow. The organization accomplishes this through innovative impact litigation, policy analysis, technology development and grassroots activism. The last decade has brought forth a great deal of scrutiny to the government in regards to their use of technology that allows them to access unwarranted data across the established methods of communication. Shari Steel, executive director of the Eff states that one of the biggest threats to online freedom is an overuse of surveillance and has developed a campaign to amend or remove the policies that allows these actions. The support of the technology community will ultimately determine the success of the campaign against said policies which is a difficult challenge to overcome. However, the aptitude in visual literacy meets this challenge head on. In their practice of grass roots activism, the EFF uses advertisements such as Image 1 and Image 2 to inform its viewers about the most current issues, persuade them to exhibit a set of actions and remind them about the end goal of the organizations practices. Image 1 The document is designed to be read from top to bottom, so that whatever emotion President trumps pompous like facial expression creates for the reader will be tied to the rest of the add. The red typeface relies on the controversy created by President Trump, invoking a sense of alertness to the claims of the threat model changing, best practices to combat the changes, and the defends users link. All the main points in this ad are bolded and followed by information in a lighter font type to back it up. The use of a white background makes the lighter font type fractionally harder to read and requires the eyes to focus a bit more so that it can correctly process information. The EFF present a strong call to action in this ad encouraging a collaboration with their organization to ensure the integrity of all the networks who will potentially be affected by the campaigned policies of President Trump. The EFF emphasizes their stance on internet governance by utilizing the dissonance created by the President and incorporating his promised actions into the existing threat model of the communications space. The ad offers best practices for securing connections, deleting data, informing the rest of public and practicing impact legislation. These directives reaffirm the commitment to ensuring balance between privacy and cybersecurity. EFF is a credible outlet and that is confirmed from its historical involvement in combatting the oppressive actions of data regulating entities. Its Non-Profit status and voluntary based work essentially nullifies anything questioning the legitimacy or relevance of the stance on the matter. The absence of the logo on this ad would shift its overall connotation and could be considered just another Liberal Rant. supports mass surveillance, tracking individuals based on their religious beliefs, and the suppression of freedom of A claim that has been validated by the Trump recent ban on major media outlets from it press briefings, the possible organization of a Muslim registry and indefinitely the current Muslim Ban set in place. While they were campaigned, these issues were created a rift across the country and now that some of these policies are now in place a member of the technological community viewing this ad now could be put on full alert Image 2 The navy blueish background and the black foreground presents a sense of nigh time tying the established fear aligned with the night time into the overall message of the image. This lacks a lot of information relying on a more visual interpolation of the ads meaning. The use of circles constitutes a reference to the constantly emitted digital signals that carrying information. The shape of the windows on the buildings provides a slight distinguishment to the type of building data is coming from. The range would ideally spread from residential spaces to business incorporating anything that could possibly fall under the two. The change in font type around the logo, mission statement and URL bring a sense of alertness to the document. This alertness is heightened as it contrasts with the darker background and foreground. The distress signal illuminating the EFF logo provides the best visual engagement with the company logo and the emotional appeal of imminent danger or needing immediate assistance. The radio waves being emitted by the various types of buildings, emphasizes the constant communication the digital world. This should convey a feeling of vulnerability to the audience and prompts a need for security as especially since the waves are being broadcasted during the night time. Research conducted by Jelle Brands, Tim Schwanen and Irina van Aalst; show that the fear of night time stems from the overall ambiguity darkness creates and the contrasting light of the distress signal combats that. The organization brings some clarity to the ad by using these elements to items to narrow the possible scope for interpretation and tying the elements with the established credibility of the EFF log and URL. The three main objectives of a fall to informing, persuading and reminding the designated audience company activity and involvement. In the campaign against the unconstitutional acts of government or any entity that threatens the freedom and privacy of its citizens in the digital world. Image 1 has a higher focus on the informative and persuasive objectives of advertising. The specific use of information as well as the organizations call to action attributed to that type of advertisement focus. Image 2 has a quite distinguishable amount of information being presented in comparison to Image 1 and relies more the viewers excepted interpretation of the visual elements. As cited in the mission statement, the EFF aims to electronic frontier truly useful and beneficial not just to a technical elite, but to everyone. The visual design and rhetorical elements present in Image 1 and Image 2 make a legitimate attempt at informing the public, persuading a suit of actions and reminding the public what is the end goal of the organization. Works Cited: Foundation, Electronic Frontier. Formation Documents and Mission Statement for the EFF, Electronic Frontier Foundation, 10 July 1990, w2.eff.org/legal/cases/SJG/?f. Accessed 9 Feb. 2017. Brands, Jelle, et al. In: Registered Urban Studies, Urban Studies Limited, 17 Jan. 2013, journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0042098013505652. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Koch, Dr. Beth E. Emotion Response to Typographic Human Emotion Response to Typographic Design, Beth Koch, 5 Dec. 2011, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Image 1 Image 2