Crisp 1 Matthew Crisp Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.001 24 February 2017 PETA Advertisements: Rhetorical and Visual Analysis Advertisements are everywhere. Whether displayed on television, on the sidebar of a website, or on a billboard near a busy highway, all created with the goal to get their audience to care about the subject at hand. In most cases, certain tactics are employed to make the audience feel as specific way about the topic, like creating an image that makes the audience feel emotion, or stating a sentence that causes the audience to think critically about the subject. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, is a non-profit organization that is dedicated to fighting for and protecting animal rights. As claimed in its mission statement, PETA is actively protesting animal captivity, as the organization believes that the animal entertainment industry is harmful and humiliating for animals. PETA is privy to producing a litany of animal rights related advertisements, and some of their advertisements have animal captivity as the subject matter. In two of its animal captivity advertisements, PETA uses slight visual cues, celebrity endorsements, and related imagery in an attempt to compel the audience to get invested in the topic advertised. Upon observation of the image with the woman behind the cage, there are a few things that one could note. For example, before even reading the text, the fact that the woman is dressed in leopard print clothing and is behind a cage implies that the issue at hand is about animals in captivity, and is probably the first chunk of the advertisement that the eye is drawn to, which would be an effective method to employ when trying to establish the subject at hand Crisp 2 without covering the image with too much text. Another large part of the advertisement to note would be the statement, animals belong in the wild, not in The fact that the is enlarged and colored a different shade of brown is interesting. After the large parts of the advertisement are established, the smaller parts are more easily dissected, like the fact that the woman behind the cage is named Anoushka Shankar, which is a celebrity. The PETA logo is probably the last thing the audience would see, but is enlarged and colored with a different color. After identifying all the visuals, it then becomes easier to analyze the context and meaning of the advertisement. The fact that Anoushka Shankar is dressed in leopard print and behind a cage may insinuate that PETA is trying to put a human in the perspective to emphasize how the animals might feel and make it easier for those viewing the ad to relate. The words the as aforementioned, are emboldened and differently colored a darker brown than the other words strung together in the sentence, which, again, may be another effort to emphasize the point PETA is trying to get across, which is that animals do not belong in zoos and aquariums, but rather in their natural habitat. In addition to that, there have been studies that claim colors affect perception of what they see and feel. As stated in Toned Pictures and Color Selection for Children and College the color brown typically makes the viewer feel sad and serious, hence use of brown in its enlargement and bolding of the The fact that PETA has a celebrity endorsing their anti-zoo message may be an attempt on part to establish some sort of credibility or importance in the matter at hand. And finally, establishment of its logo in the upper right of the advertisement, as well as the addition of a link to its website is most definitely an attempt to create a sense of authority on the matter by branding it with its own sigil, endorsing their own Crisp 3 message making it look like PETA knows what its talking about. The link might also serve as a call of urgency, insisting that the audience The next image seems a little bit lighter where visual cues are concerned. Again, one of the first things to note would be the submerged swimmer surrounded in blue-shaded water looking at the camera. The next thing to note would be the large text above and below the swimmer in question, saying orcas the freedom to with the respective colors being opposite of the backgrounds, as in is colored blue against the white background, and freedom to being colored white against a blue background. The smaller text under the larger text then boasts a message: over SeaWorld. Retire orcas to sanctuaries Finally, under that is yet another celebrity endorsement, in this case, Tony Azevedo, an Olympic water polo player, and next to that, logo with a yellow color change that contrasts with its blue background. Again, after the visual elements are identified, it becomes much easier to break down the advertisement and make a guess of what the ad is trying to accomplish. Tony Azevedo submerged underwater as the centerpiece of the ad may be trying to emulate the same effect as Anoushka Shankar behind bars, which would be trying to set the context of the advertisement almost immediately, which in this case is orcas being held captive by SeaWorld for entertainment purposes. The text orcas the freedom to while mainly being related to freeing orcas into their respective habitats, is also a tie-in to Azevedo being a water-polo player, which might appeal to the audience as a clever use of subject matter and the relation to the endorser. Even though there is color contrast between the large text and the background, it seem like that specifically is meant to have a major effect on the audience. However, the general blue color of the advertisement may be a similar tactic employed in the first Crisp 4 advertisement. Again, according to, Toned Pictures and Color Selection for Children and College the color blue, like the color brown, typically makes the viewer feel sad or more serious about the subject matter. Considering that nearly the entire advertisement is blue, it might be safe to assume that PETA knew the method and used it as an attempt to invoke a melancholy yet serious feeling in the audience. The text over, SeaWorld. Retire orcas to could be seen as a call for immediate action. Finally, the bright yellow PETA ad is very distinctive and loud, drawing eyes to the logo. It seems a visually assertive way to establish authority concerning the topic advertised, much like the first advertisement. And, for the third time, calling back to, Toned Pictures and Color Selection for Children and College the color yellow is generally seen as a positive color by many, so when the audience lays eyes upon the logo, the possible purpose is to feel good when seeing the PETA logo, as if they have some solutions to the issue. After thorough analysis of both images, it seems that the pair share similarities, as if PETA has a certain formula or way of creating their advertisements, even though the ads listed are just 2 out of a large database of ads. However, even if ad creation is formulaic, it generally includes a decent mix of rhetorical appeals in its ads. It is important to understand how to break down an appeals and consider the credibility of the organizations creating the ads, as there are some solid, well-made advertisements that sound very convincing, but upon further inspection seem to almost have no authority on the topic at all. Abilities like analyzing advertisements could prevent generations of people from being misinformed. Crisp 5 Works Cited PETA.org, PETA, www.peta.org/about-peta/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Cimbalo, Richard S, et al. Toned Pictures and Color Selection for Children and College The Journal of Genetic Psychology, vol. 133, no. 2, 8 Nov. 1977, pp. 304., www.tandfonline.com/doi/citedby/10.1080/00221325.1978.10533389?scroll=top&needAccess=t rue. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Crisp 6