Hall 1 Samantha Hall Professor Robert Ryan English Composition 1102 26 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric When it comes to raising public awareness about any issue the most effective way is to use advertisements. Advertisers use multiple forms of advertisements and techniques to generate a certain thought process by the audience based on who is seeing the ad and what the ad is about. Advertisers use simple yet effective techniques that raise awareness about their topic or organizations, whether it be through the use of colors or the repetition of a specific phrase. A specific strategy that advertisers use to make a memorable advertisement is a form of persuasion that appeals to the audience in attempt to make them care more about their argument. One organization that uses these forms of appeals is Advocates for Youth. Advocates for Youth use a series of elements in their advertisements that appeal to the audience in order to create a sense of relatability with their stance on sexual educations in schools. One form of appeals used in the advertisements created by Advocates for Youth is an emotional appeal. This appeal is used to tie the emotional attitudes to the advertisement in an attempt to evoke the feelings of pity or sadness to convince the readers that sexual education needs to be placed in schools as a comprehensive program and not an abstinence based one. In Image 1 there is a classroom full of older people sitting in desks who appear to be uninterested and slightly confused. These people being unhappy and confused implies that the abstinence only program leave the students with no real method of protection against the rise of pregnancy or like the comprehensive based program. Advocates for Hall 2 Youth believe that the kids have the right to be taught an honest and complete sexual education in order to protect themselves in the future (Advocates for Youth 2008). The main goal of the organization is for the students to be aware of the consequences that come with sexual intercourse and instill the fear of contracting a contraceptive disease that could cause a cancer or the incurable disease of HIV that leads to AIDS and in most cases an early death. In Image 1 the setting appears to be a classroom engaged in the abstinence teaching, as shown by the posters in the back that read your stay a and your dog not your The posters language shows the motives of sexual intercourse as childlike, speaking like an adult rebuking the child for thinking or becoming tempted to do wrong. This intends to pull in the audience with a negative viewpoint on the classroom based on the posters and enticing them to read further to understand the purpose of the advertisement. In Image 2 a doctor can be seen with his arms crossed emitting the feeling of authority and power. This encourages the audience to read the advertisement because when a doctor is shown it provides a sense of importance. In the text under the image it discusses about how pediatricians recommend an honest and accurate education when it comes to sex. The audience is expected to believe what the doctor says because they are highly educated in the medical field and the advertisement uses the emotional ties to doctors to persuade you to see the importance of a comprehensive sexual education program. Emotional appeals the only elements used in the advertisements created by Advocates for Youth as well as other organizations. Another important element is the logical side of any argument. Logical appeals are used to connect to the minds and thought process of the audience by centering the information contained in the advertisement to have evidence and reasoning. In Image 1 the utilization of the statistical information surrounding the health care and Hall 3 expenses put into creating and running abstinence only programs provides a standing point of information tying to the cost of these programs. Advocates for Youth strategically chose information that discuss the spending of $1.5 billion dollars, which the advertisement covers as a of money, as well as the amount of Americans lacking a healthcare plan totaling 45 million. This provides a numerical viewpoint for the programs that have been placed into schools nationwide. According to Emily article published in Writing Commons, the logical appeals used in advertisements are based of the common beliefs a person has or their specific values (Lane 2010). Advocates for elicit these logical appeals based on the values and belief that the doctors and surveys are truthful as well as authoritative over important decisions. In Image 2 it discusses the approach of Say excluding the health benefits of condoms and birth control that the government has put $1 billion dollars into that doctors disagree with. They continue with information taken from studies about the ineffectiveness of these programs and that about 80% of them contain false medical information. This evidence given from the studies on abstinence programs further the claims made by Advocates for Youth about how abstinence only programs have failed. Another widely used element in writing advertisements is the credibility of the ad itself. In both advertisements created by Advocates for Youth they have their organizations logo at the bottom of the page. By having their name displayed on the ad it gives the organization credibility and the audience is more apt to trust the what it says because the organization is claiming it. In Image 1 Advocates for Youth provide evidence of an evaluation of abstinence programs performed by congress taking place on April 13, 2007 allowing a point of reference to go to for more information. This gives a specific date that the abstinence programs started to be evaluated by congress and the start of the fallibility of these programs. By including the date that the Hall 4 congress looked into and evaluated the programs they have provided a second credibility to their claim of how a comprehensive sexual education program is needed in schools rather than just an abstinence based on by reinforcing that congress has also discovered faults and misleading information in the program. In Image 2 the ad utilizes the image of a doctor giving credibility in their increased knowledge of the medical field, the audience sees that the doctors are disagreeing with the abstinence programs and so is Advocates for Youth implying that both the doctors and organizations share the belief of a comprehensive program. Image 2 also uses reference of The American Academy of Pediatrics to emphasize the credibility of the advertisement. Finally, the last element that is commonly used in advertisements is the attempt to prompt the audience to take action, or to influence them by recent events. The timing of an advertisement is key, and creating the environment of action in an advertisement it is more likely that the audience will identify with the ad in some way because they feel that it is affecting them due to the need for it to be fixed now (Sheridan 2009). In Image 1 the usage of the words failed, still lacking, and end funding calls the audiences to not only recognize that there is an issue but attempts to show them that there needs to be a change immediately. The word end being underlined in red draws attention to the phrase to end the failed funding. In Image 2 Advocates for use of the phrase it time in big letters emphasize that the abstinence programs discussed in the ad listened to the doctors, and that its time to listen to what the doctors have been saying. They also use the words false and misleading when addressing the current abstinence programs, and that tries to provoke an immediate response to replace the abstinence only programs with a comprehensive program. In conclusion, advertisers use multiple appeals to influence and persuade the public whether it be by appealing to the emotions, or by providing evidence. Advocates for Youth use Hall 5 emotions, evidence, credible sources and calling the public to take action. As shown in the advertisements produced by Advocates for Youth the abstinence only programs are not only not recommended by doctors but the contain misleading information as well as leaving out health benefits. They also provide multiple elements in their ads attempting to convince the public that the abstinence only programs need to be replaced with comprehensive one. Hall 6 Works Cited Hauser, Debra. Advocatesforyouth.org. Edward Carporal, 14 July 2008. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily M. Power: The Importance of Ethos, Pathos and Communication Assessment and Learning Lab (CALL) Blog, Creative Attributes, 12 Oct. 2010, comm.lab.asu.edu/persuasive-power-the-importance-of-ethos-pathos-and- logos/#.WLHTTvkrLIU. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Sheridan, David, Tony Michel, and Jim Ridolfo. Kairos and New Media: Toward a Theory and Practice of Visual  Enculturation: A Journal of Rhetoric, Writing, and Culture 6.2 (2009): n. pag. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.