Zhengyu Liu ENC 1101 Anastasia J. Khawaja 2.25.2017 Final Draft Today, with the growing popularity of the internet, more and more people begin to touch and use it. In fact, the internet has had brought a lot of new things to our lives and it has changed our life, such as social media. In recent years, social media developed faster and faster. It has changed the way most people converse and it is playing a increasingly significant role in our lives. At the same time, when internet and mobile equipments become necessities of more and more people, majority of people start to spend most of their time on internet and on social media. More and more people choose social media as their way of conversation rather than communicate with others face to face. When social media greatly affects lives of more and more people, we should pay attention to what social media bring to us and if the result is positive or negative. Today social media is everywhere, people need to grasp correct methods to use social media and know how to make our life better instead of worse by social media. So I want to research how has social media changed our life styles and what we should pay attention to when we use social media. Tommy Landry. How Social Media Has Changed Us: The Good and the Bad. Web. 08 Sep. 2014 According to Social Media Has Changed Us: The Good and the (Landry). Social media has embedded itself in our In this article, Tommy said that social media social media was a budding trend ten years ago, but today it has become an important part of our modern life. He points that social media officially embedded itself in our This article has a lot of examples about what positive effects social media brings to us. Such as Immediate Access to Information, Pervasive Connectivity To Others, Globalized Voices, and More Level Playing Field for Business. And of course, Tommy also points a lot of negative effects of social media, for examples Political Tirades, Hiding Behind Anonymity, All Talk, No Action, Ignorance Amplified. These article shows us a different social networking that it has its advantages, its disadvantages, its beauty and its ugly. This article puts a lot of true facts that social media brings to us. When social media is a topic rife with controversies today, It is hard to say if this world become better or become worse by social media. I can use these facts to help reader make their own decisions about social media. And it is true that social media has brought us so many effects that we have to pay attention to these effects because we want to improve our life experience by social media instead of make our life terrible. Maura Keller. Social Media and Interpersonal Communication. Web. May. 2013 According to article Media and Interpersonal there are three aspects we should pay attention to when we use social media or social networking. which means actions that a bad online relationship likely are the same ones that trigger a bad relationship in real (Keller). there are so much information on social media that maybe not suit everyone to touch. potentially negative consequence of social media is a lack of (Keller). Except these three aspects, Maura also talks about the future of social media. She considers that social media has changed our way of conversation and it is keeping developing today. Actually, as Maura said, these three aspects on article are existing in our life generally. Cyber-bullying is a serious problem today, because social media is an open platform that everyone can share their idea to others, so arguing and verbal attack are everywhere on social media. At the same time, there are a lot of negative information shared by someone on social media, so information overload is a true problem, too. So it is very important for people to protect their privacy well because if you use social media, almost everyone can search you on social networking. We need to be carefully about what you hope to show people on social media and what you want to protect. Cameron, Chapman. The History and Evolution of Social Media. WebdesignerDepot. 07 Oct. 2009 In this article, Cameron talked about that social media was an important part of our society in 2009. In order to review the history and evolution of social media, she introduced precursors to social media, it included USENETS(first conceived of in 1979), BBSS(first came online in the late 70s), CompuServe and Genie ( ran through 1999), ICQ and some social websites that allowed users to create profiles and add friends. Then, Cameron points some huge developments of social media in early 2000s. Such as the Friendster, LinKedIn, MySpace and Facebook. After that Niche Social Networks started for specific interests groups. Such as Photobucket, Youtube, Flickr, and Revver. And in 2006 status update became a new norm in social networking. Almost of all social networking bega n to allow real-time updates, such as Twitter. Also the real-time updates led the increase in ot her areas, it seems like social This article showed us how social media changed our life gradually. As the author said that social media did not accept by most of people ten years ago. But the author thought that social media would keep evolving in coming years. Today we are sure that he is right because today social media has become an important part of our life and we can even not leave it. Soren, Gordhamer. 5 Ways Social Media is Changing Our Daily Life. Mashable.16 Oct.2009 According to this article, Soren said that social media significantly impacted most of our daily life in recent years.And he thought the development of social networking such as Faceb ook and Twitter was unimaginable for most of people at the beginning of that decade. Base o n that, Soren listed five ways that social media changed our daily life. we get our ne we start and do we meet and stay in touch with we and we can The author thought that social media can give all o f us greater choice in how we live and what happens in our world. This article shows us how social media changed our daily life by 2009. People got news information by social media, and social media became the source of information that people c an get more information and trust more than search engines. Also social media became an ne w platform for business. It is easy to start a business by social media like Facebook and Twitt er. And social media helps people exchange with each other easily. It was increasingly being use to find and maintain both old and potentially new friendships. Except this, social media h elps people to creat greater personal transparency and it gave them more chance to have a voi ce in the events in our world. Katherine, Walsh. How to use social networking safely: Tips from security pros. CSO. 29 Jan . 2008. According to this article, Katherine pointed that with the develop of social networkings s uch as Facebook and Linkedln, online security and privacy risks became the problems that m any people care about. Katherine gave us some rules to follow for using social media safely. The first your the second your then careful who you l ink and the last the TMI She thought these suggests could help people keep safe when they use social media. It is true that social media existing many safety problem include individual privacy, trad e secret and sensitive information. So it is really important to learn how to keep safe when yo u use social media. So people should do research and ask themselves what kind of informatio n they are looking for or they are sharing. Also you can limit your public individual information to protect your individual privacy. Another important point is do not disclose too much information. People usually tells others too much information about themselves on social media, and it could be dangerous. So I will show people the importance of keeping using social media safely by this points. Julie, Myhre. Seven steps to staying safe on social media sites. USA TODAY. 14 Mar. 2013. According to this article, Julie gave a point that the only way to truly protect your identity on social media is to not use it. Julie thought it is impossible to keep you absolute security when you use social media, but Julie gave seven ways to help people protect they identity as far as possible. your personal information strict privacy tag or post your specific your log out of your social strong and an Internet security software It is true that today with the development of social media, more and more network security issues exist in our daily life. However, it is hardly for us to leave social media, so all we can do is protect ourselves on social media as far as possible. seven ways are very helpful for people to keep safe online. People need to realized that when they use social media, they are staying in an fantastic world but full of dangerous at the same time. This article is a good guide for people to do better on social networking.