Alberto Barroso Campos 1 Project 2 Intermediate draft My topic has not had big changes all this time, but has been having small changes that can generate the change that all the athletes are waiting for. Which is being paid for the work they do on the court. Football and basketball are the main sports in all the universities, these sports generate many profits to universities, sponsors, coaches. Television networks are also generating huge amounts of money thanks to the athletes. It is difficult for athletes to charge for playing, since the universities are based on the same speech, as they are being paid for their tuition, school and other things. The change is proving difficult, since many years have been talking about the same topic and things do not seem to improve, since universities say that athletes are amateur and therefore should not receive any benefits. But small changes are being made as some universities are giving money to their athletes for their grades and their performance on the court. MAJEROL, VERONICA, et al. College Athletes BE New York Times Upfront 147.2 (2014): 14-15. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web.26 Jan.2017. and Schultz, Jeff. COLLEGE ATHLETICS: NCAA needs to take a hint: At very least, push to unionize athletics will lead to paying  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Atlanta, GA) 2014: General OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Football and basketball are the sports that more fans attract, since the stadiums are bigger and it is where more spectacle is seen. But now other sports that are not as common in the United States as tennis and soccer are bringing more fans to their matches because the stadiums are growing and the interest of students is growing. Also basketball and football make all the money because they charge students and fans, other sports do not charge entrance and do not take any profit for it. Should College Athletes Be  Bill Lyon 86.1 (2001): 4. University of South Florida. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. And Van Rheenen, Derek. Exploitation In College Sports: Race, Revenue, And Educational  International Review For The Sociology Of Sport 48.5 (2013): 550. University of South Florida. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.