Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Causes and treatments for Depression and Anxiety among College Students Throughout the years, researchers and psychiatrists have changed their views on the causes of depression and anxiety. In the beginning, researchers thought that college students deal with depression and anxiety due to their fear of failure or exams pressure. However, over time, researchers realized that there are many other reasons such as social media and lifestyle. Although, the methods that researchers use to conduct these experiments have not differed throughout the years, but the results differed each time. Though researchers thought that depression and anxiety among college students is school correlated, in more recent years, researchers realized that lifestyle and social media affects students too. The article prevalence and correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college shows that the main three concerns for students were academic performance, pressure to succeed, and postgraduate plans. After the large increase in the amount of students visiting the Franciscan University Counseling Center, researchers have decided to conduct a survey and distribute it among several college campuses. The survey consisted of several questions such as demographic, everyday life, and depression and anxiety stress scale. Fortunately, the demographic questions helped researchers identify the most depressed students among all. According to the article the most stressed, anxious, and depressed students were transfers, upperclassmen, and those living (1) (Beiter, Nash, Mccrady, Rhoades, Linscomb, Clarahan, and Sammut 6) This article was published in 2009 Student 2 which shows that researchers have still not identify the main reasons for depression and anxiety among college students. The reasons showed in this article do cause students to become more stressed, however there are multiple other reasons that can cause them to become more depressed. This results shows that the causes of depression and anxiety among college students are due to school reasons. The article and depression among college claims that the best treatment methods are having a more understanding faculty on college campuses, individual counseling, more college activities, and study groups. This research was conducted by distributing a questionnaire among several colleges and universities. Approximately one thousand students have taken this questionnaire and shared their ideas about treatment methods. The results showed that the main reasons for depression and anxiety among college students were grade problems, relationship problems, loneliness, and financial issues (2) (Westefeld and Furr 119). Although most college campuses have these treatment methods available for students, however many students still suffer from depression and anxiety. This article was published in 2010 which explains why the causes and treatment methods tackled are common nowadays. This article, also, connects the treatment and causes methods to school, the same as the first article. Although the results from both article might differ, but the results are still school based. Even though the article mentions loneliness, relationship problems, and financial issues could cause depression and anxiety, however these problems are all school based. Most relationships are based from colleges and financial issues are due to college tuition. The article medicine for claims that medication and psychiatry are not the only treatment methods for depression, but also having a healthier lifestyle can affect a level of depression. Due to the unhealthy lifestyle students tend to follow nowadays, Student 3 the rate of depression and anxiety have increased throughout the years. According to the article prevalence of depression appears to have increased over the past three (Sarris 2) Throughout the previous years, the common treatment methods for depression and anxiety were medication and psychiatry. However, nowadays, researchers have found that following a healthy diet and exercising can help people get rid of their stress and anxiety. Also, being more socially involved and reducing the amount of nicotine and alcohol intake can help relief their stress and anxiety. This article was published in 2014, which shows that researchers have realized other causes and treatment methods for depression and anxiety that are not school correlated. Due to the unhealthy lifestyle students tend to follow, the rate of depression and anxiety have increased throughout the years. The article use, envy, and depression among college students: Is Facebooking claims that social media can affect students negatively when used excessively. The article shows that Facebook envy convinces the user that everyone is happy except him/her. Facebook envy is the feeling a person receives when he/she believe that all their friends are happy and starts wishing the opposite for them. Although some researchers disagreed with this claim, however, Facebook can cause students to feel depressed when used excessively. According to the article Facebook users tend to feel higher levels of Facebook envy than light Facebook (Ferrucci 141) This article was published in 2015, which shows that researchers have found more causes for depression that are not school correlated. In conclusion, researchers have developed many causes and treatment methods for depression and anxiety over time. In the beginning, researchers thought that the causes of depression among students are school correlated. However, over time, researchers have realized that not only school affects students, but also their lifestyle and usage for social media Student 4 affects health. Also, the treatment methods for depression and anxiety have changed over time such as eating healthy and exercising. Citations: 1) Beiter, R., R. Nash, M. Mccrady, D. Rhoades, M. Linscomb, M. Clarahan, and S. Sammut. The prevalence and correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college  Journal of Affective Disorders 173:2 (2009): 90-96. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. 2) Westefeld, John S., and Susan R. Furr. Suicide and depression among college  Professional Psychology 18:2 (2010): 119-23. USF library. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. 3) Jerome, Sarris, Adrienne Carolyn Coulson, Isaac Schweitzer, Michael Berk. medicine for BMC Psychiatry 14:1 (2014): 1-28. USF library. Web. 19 February 2017. 4) Tandoc, Edson C., Patrick Ferrucci, and Margaret Duffy. Facebook use, envy, and depression among college students: Is facebooking  Computers in Human Behavior 43:2 (2015):139-146. Web. 2 February 2017.