Keller 1 Justin Keller Emil Smith Composition 1 February 19 th , 2017 Violent Video Games and Aggression Within the past decade, the world of technology has overwhelmingly progressed. Every year, an abundance of new games and devices are unveiled to appease the entertainment demands of crazed consumers. However, with some games come everlasting side effects. In the realm of gaming, there is a rating system known as the Entertainment Safety Rating Board (ESRB) which evaluates video games prior to their release and determines a rating for each game. The rating system starts at (EC) and progressively works its way towards (AO). Between these two extremes are (E), (E 10+), (T), and (M) in that order. The main purpose of the ESRB is to assist parents in making informed choices about video games for their children as well as deem the suggested age group best suited to play that game. On this scale, the more violent games tend to fall under the Teen or Mature rating. But what is it that constitutes a violent video game? Violence in video games can be anything from strong language to blood and gore. Studies show that the effects of video games with these heightened elements often lead to negative outcomes such an increase in hostility or aggression. However, violent video games occasionally help players in ways not explicitly evident such as being a release to aggression built up from other areas of the life. With this in mind, can it be said that violent video games promote aggression among adolescent players or relieve it? Keller 2 Hilgard, J. (2016). Video game violence and aggression: A proven connection? Significance ,13(5), 6-7. doi:10.1111/j.1740-9713.2016.00955.x In this piece, Hilgard discusses the correlation between playing violent video games and heightened aggression. Hilgard is a secondary source because he is reporting results from the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) which is who was responsible for conducting the experiment and gathering the results. The main experiment discussed in this article involved subjects playing two different video games one violent, one not and running tests to ensure the only difference between the two is the violent content. is no way for scientists to buy two copies of the same game, one with violence and one (Hilgard). So, the games used were near mirrors of each other with the only distinction between the two being the violent content brought forth throughout the game. If the games were too different say, the violent game were more frustrating while the nonviolent one is relaxing it becomes more difficult to tell whether the game is creating the violence or the continuous frustration is. Hilgard points out there are too many games out there that involve excessive and unnecessary gore while there are also games that are just the opposite and could use a little blood or violence to add to the level of realism. Based off this, Hilgard suggested modifying the code and graphics of games already in existence to make them more or less violent. This article is relevant to the conversation due to its factual support as to why violent video games promote aggression. The author offers statistics from the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) as well as direct quote that states, is a proven scientific connection between virtual violence and real-world In addition, Hilgard addresses how violent video games and apps can not only harm the mind, but also how they can harm the surroundings. As for the credibility of the author, Joseph Hilgard achieved doctorate Keller 3 status while double-majoring in Neuroscience and in Russian Language and Literature at Dartmouth College. Also, he studies the positive and negative aspects of media as well as game addiction. DeCamp, W. & Ferguson, C.J. J Youth Adolescence (2017) 46: 388. doi:10.1007/s10964- 016-0561-8 This journal entry provides research and different statistical data regarding the causes of aggression in youth. The article provides a study conducted by the American Academy of Pediatrics(AAP) and compares numerical values such as averages, standard deviations, maximums, and minimums on a bell curve for various categories that can influence youth aggression. These categories include but are not limited to violent video game play exposure and propensity, lack of parental attachment, violence within the household, parental enforcement, yelling between guardians, parental abuse, or getting into fights at school and among peers. The authors point out that some criticizers believe that small correlations between violent game play and violence-related outcomes may be due to other factors, which include a wide range of possible effects from gender, mental health, and social influences. The study uses a large and diverse sample of male and female youth in eighth and eleventh grade to examine this issue. In the world of statistics and experimentation, a p-value helps in determining the significance of the test with two or more hypotheses. If the p-value is less than 0.05, then that hypothesis can be accepted. If the p-value is greater than 0.05, the hypothesis cannot be accepted because evidence goes against its validity. In this study, the hypothesis that violent video games have a causal effect on violence yielded a p-value of 0.279. This implies that there is a weak, non-significant relationship between playing violent video games and increased levels of aggression among adolescent players. Keller 4 This article is related to the research question because it involves the notion that violent video games are not always a source of aggression in adolescent players. The study conducted supports the implication that video game violence is not a meaningful predictor of youth violence. Likewise, the study suggests that factors such as family and social issues impact and increase aggression more than violent video games. Dr. Whitney DeCamp is an associate professor of Sociology at Western Michigan University. DeCamp has been involved in a wide range of research projects and has research interests in statistics along with technology and society. Dr. Christopher J. Ferguson has his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of Central Florida and in 2013 was awarded a Distinguished Early Career Professional Award for media psychology and technology from the American Psychological Association. Engelhardt, C. R., Bartholow, B. D., Kerr, G. T., & Bushman, B. J. (2011). This is your brain on violent video games: Neural desensitization to violence predicts increased aggression following violent video game exposure. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,47(5), 1033-1036. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.jesp.2011.03.027 This article brings up the point that no other studies to date have attempted to prove the correlation between exposure to violence and desensitization to violence and an increase in aggression. With this pointed out, the researchers opted to run an experiment in which the participants played a violent or nonviolent video game, viewed violent and nonviolent photos, and then gave a fictional opponent unpleasant noise blasts. The hypothesis predicted that there would be a connection between those exposed to violent content and more unpleasant, lengthy blasts of noise dispersed. The participants that were shown the violent content proved to give the virtual enemy worse noise blasts than those who were not shown violent media. The experiment Keller 5 proved that there is a link between violence desensitization and increased aggression, and exemplified the causal link between violent game exposure and increased aggression. This article is relevant to the discussion because it identifies the link between violent video game exposure and elevated aggression. Also, this article is significant because of it being the first to identify the medium between violent video games and increased aggression desensitization. Desensitization, to violence, can be anything from lack of empathy to negative cognitive and physiological responses. Christopher R. Engelhardt is a Doctor of Philosophy and works in the Department of Health Psychology at the University of Missouri. Brad J. Bushman is a professor of communication and psychology and has a Ph.D. in social psychology as well as an M.A. in statistics and psychology. Geoffrey T. Kerr achieved doctorate status in social psychology from the University of Colorado and studied psychology at University of Missouri while being advised by Bruce D. Bartholow. Bartholow works in the field of psychological sciences at the University of Missouri. Gentile, D. A., Lynch, P. J., Linder, J. R., & Walsh, D. A. (2004). The effects of violent video game habits on adolescent hostility, aggressive behaviors, and school performance. Journal of Adolescence ,27(1), 5-22. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.adolescence.2003.10.002 This article focuses not only how much the average American child plays video games, but also the effects that they have on the child. In addition, it poses the idea that the amount of time spent playing video games may impact certain things whereas the content of the game can impact entirely separate things. For instance, evidence indicates that amount of play affects school performance, whereas violent content affects aggressive outcomes. Analysis found that across fifty-four independent tests of the relation between video game violence and aggression, Keller 6 involving 4,262 participants, there appear to be a set of five consistent effects that stem from playing violent video games. They are; increased aggressive behaviors, increased aggressive cognitions, increased aggressive emotions, increased physiological arousal, and a decrease in prosocial behaviors. In sum, the article points out the harms of adolescents playing violent video games and identifies the positive correlation between increased aggression and violent games. The relevance of this article stems from the ample amount of evidence it provides as to how violent video games result in an increased level of aggression. Not only does this article prove that aggression is increased, but also levels of hostility amongst peers and school faculty. Those who divulged in violent video games were reported to be more argumentative with teachers and parents than those who did not. This ties into the research question because it not only answers it, but also backs up that violent video games promote aggression among adolescents. Douglas A. Gentile is a developmental psychologist who has won numerous awards for his research and expertise on the effects of mass media on children, adolescents, and adults. Paul J. Lynch graduated medical school at the University of Oklahoma and is an anesthesiologist in Phoenix, AZ. Professor Jennifer Linder received her doctorate in child psychology from the University of Minnesota and specializes in developmental psychology, including parent-child relationships, friendships, aggression and media effects. Specifically, Dr. Linder has conducted research related to aggression and conflict in friendships and the effects of media (e.g., television, video games, the Internet) on child development and is especially interested in topics related to children and adolescents. David A. Walsh is an American psychologist who focuses on parenting, family life and the impact of media on children and teens. Hartmann, T., Toz, E., & Brandon, M. (2010). Just a Game? Unjustified Virtual Violence Produces Guilt in Empathetic Players. Media Psychology,13(4), 339-363. Keller 7 doi:10.1080/15213269.2010.524912 http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1080/15213269.2010.524912 This article talks about how morals and guilt tie into virtual violence and their connection to aggressive behaviors. The article defines virtual violence as behavior intended to do harm to another video game character, who is motivated to avoid the (Anderson et al., 2008; Baron and Richardson, 1994). The main experiment discussed in this article involved a sample of forty-nine students with an average age of 19.8 years playing a modified version of Operation Flashpoint (2001). The player would be prompted to play either a United Nations (UN) soldier attempting to restore humanity by sabotaging a torture camp run by paramilitary forces or a soldier from the paramilitary forces continuing the torture and defending the camp. During the gameplay, the objective was to shoot as many opponents as possible; either UN soldiers or paramilitary soldiers. The modifications mods included a revised cinematic introduction, inability to die, unlimited use of ammunition, and the limitation of only using one type of weapon (a pump gun). After ten minutes of gameplay, the players were asked to complete a questionnaire regarding their time spent playing and guilt felt whilst playing. This article is relevant because it corresponds to the concept of immoral virtual violence and disputes the idea of virtual violence being morally insignificant. The pattern of guilt responses observed in the experiment is like what would be expected from equivalent real-life situations. This similarity may support the view that virtual violence has more implications than meet the eye, as the same influences affecting guilt responses to real-world violence also affect their guilt responses to violence in video games. Tilo Hartmann is an associate professor at the VU University Amsterdam in Amsterdam, Netherlands. His skills and expertise includes but is not limited to mass media, quantitative social research, media psychology, and computer and Keller 8 video game research. Erhan Toz is a senior online marketing professional and studies at VU University Amsterdam. Toz specializes in data analysis, quantitative research, and is a writer for an online database designed to help people live a healthy lifestyle. Marvin Brandon also studies at VU University Amsterdam. He is a research specialist as well as an insight analyst. Bartholow, B. D., & Sestir, M. A. (2010). Violent and nonviolent video games produce opposing effects on aggressive and prosocial outcomes. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,46(6), 934-942. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.jesp.2010.06.005 This article points out that although exposure to violent video games can elevate aggression, playing non-violent games can assist in reducing the effects. Under this implication, the article is suggesting that violent video games lead to aggressive behaviors. Some of the findings discussed in this article incorporate major theories of human aggression such as the social learning theory (Bandurra, 1977), the cognitive neoassociation theory (Berkowitz, 1990), script theory (Huesmann, 1998), and the General Aggression Model (GAM; Anderson & Bushman, 2002). While also identifying that violent video games can lead to aggression, the article also establishes that these effects tend to be short-lived and will not influence the player forever. In general, the article suggests that if a player continuously plays violent video games, then the effects will continuously develop but if they cancel them out altogether or only play occasionally, then the effects will not have as severe of an impact or any major impact at all. This article is pertinent to the research question because it integrates each theory and relates them to the general predictability of an increase in repetitive antisocial behaviors such as aggression. Similarly, the article can be related to the subject because of its ambiguous, yet definitive and conclusive answer to the research question. The article deems violent video games Keller 9 as a primary source of aggression amongst players while also implying that they are not as bad as many portray them to be. Bruce D. Bartholow is a professor of psychological sciences at the University of Missouri. Bartholow works in the Social Cognitive and Neuroscience lab at the university and is interested in the basic aspects of social cognition such as priming, automaticity and control, and cognition-emotion interactions. Marc A. Sestir is an assistant professor of psychology at the University of Central Arkansas. The research interests of Sestir include cognitive and behavioral effects of media consumption, human aggression, and consumer behavior.