Nick Cerelli Professor Jackson English Comp 1 2/30/17 Intermediate draft Animal rights is a heavily debated topic, and the importance of the issue depends on what humans feel is right for the animals and for themselves. There are various reasons for animal captivity, some of the biggest being behavior testing and maintenance of endangered species. Even though there are a good amount of advantages that can come from these practices, there is a fairly good amount of disadvantages, like neglecting captive animals and when released, having survival issues. Animals over time have maintained a level of stress and other complications when captivated. Overtime, there has many studies on animals and if keeping them captive is beneficial when trying the increase population or help the animals. Studies have shown even though trying to help the animals, actually affecting them for long term survival problems. Over years, reproduction has been a constant problem with many species. For an example, researchers have tried to help the population with cheetahs with doing many studies and figure out why so difficult to enhance the population of cheetahs. Little did they know, proven that cheetahs in captivity show a weaker ability to reproduce. Along side that there have been new diseases that are causing morbidity not known to free-ranging cheetahs, (Terio, Karen A., Laurie Marker, and Linda Munson). Another common problem that has been occurring on captive animals is its behavior and desire to maintain its wild like personality. Studies done on 123 newly captive Capuchin monkeys in order to get a gauge on how the captivity affects their level of stress, what we learned was monkeys are similar to humans in some ways. For an example, not nearly as much reproduction problems as some other animals have had in reproduction, but monkeys get very miserable and bored in an enclosure. They start with being less adventurous and attitude changes occur. Its sad to see a very playful monkey not have the desire to entertain its self. (Ferreira, Renata G., and Michael Mendl). One of the most unnoticed problems is the development on the animals need to survive in the wild. For an example, maintaining population, the Hawaiian crow originated with five major calls to help them communicate with other crows, (1) alarm (2) territorial broadcast (3) aggression (4) submission (5) courtship. However, since the captive crows have never needed these calls in a captive area due to culture change, the crow never developed three of these calls. These calls are very important to the crows from survival in the wild. (Tanimoto 2017). It shows how captive breeding programs can prevent species from going extinct but it also effects their behavior to the point where they struggle to adapt to different surroundings when released. (Jones, Stephanie K. Courtney, Adam J. Munn, and Phillip G. Byrne 2017). Along with that, lifespan is very noticeable when discussing captive animals, many animals have been dying at unusually young ages that are seemingly becoming more noticeable and becoming more of a bigger problem. After recording life expectancy and using different metrics to judge the overall morale of both captive and free-ranging killer whales, the original research team that targeted SeaWorld began unearthing some stark consequences to captivity, especially when done haphazardly. It has been much publicized and much of the public has come to realize that not only are captive killer whales living shorter, unhealthier lives, but the attitude and morale of the animal is severely dampened. Scientists Clash over Lifespan of Captive Killer  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017) With past history and studies done by professional researchers, captivity stress and misbehavior has been a constant problem when captivating animals, when you get to the bottom of beneficial reasoning, no perfect way out of it. Even though trying to help the animals in different ways, always some how inflicting the animal with problems that may just harm them for life.