Jewell 1 Jacob Jewell Emil Smith ENC 1101 15 February 2017 The Costs of Renewable Energy The idea of renewable energy is nothing new. As the supply of fossil fuels declines more and more sharply, efforts are being focused on sources of renewable energy. Unfortunately, the biggest problem with making the switch is the initial costs of creating those renewable sources of energy. In the mid 19 th century, it was discovered that oil could be pumped from the ground in large amounts at lower costs than collecting whale and plant oils. What was not known, however, was its limited supply, and how much of a demand there would be. In less than 200 years after its discovery, mankind is already developing the technology to leave it behind. Humanity is moving on from fossil fuels as its effects become more evident and more devastating. Climate change, soaring prices, and shrinking availability are forcing mankind to find sustainable energy, both ecologically and economically. Instead of running solely on fossil fuels, man has turned to wind, solar, water, and many other natural resources to create renewable and sustainable energy. The era of renewable energy is here, and the startup be easy, as most of the world relies entirely on oil, and though it could make the jump fairly easy, one problem looms highest the cost. These costs include building hydroelectric dams, windmills, solar panels, etc., the land to build these renewable energy sources on, and operational costs. How has the price of making the switch to renewable energy prevented mankind from making the switch? Jewell 2 Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy Inwestern Utility Resource  The Electricity Journal 1 (2005): SciTech Connect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The cost of starting up a renewable energy production system is high, and often what prevents nations from completely transforming their energy production systems from oil-based facilities to methods of sustainable energy creation. However, monetary incentives such as tax cuts and funds allocated to the production of renewable energy are driving the switch. Nearly 60% of wind power generation from 2001 to 2004 in the U.S. was credited to these incentives. Resource planning is also coming back and is aiding in creating retail competition between renewable energy suppliers. In addition, the article analyzes the performance of resource planning as a motivation for renewable energy, and aims to sort out and discuss improvements on the methods that consider sustainable energy as an option for resource production. The author, Mark Bolinger, is a research scientist in the field of electricity. He focuses on renewable energy and the cost, benefits, and market analysis. helped write over 150 articles and speaks to national audiences on his research, and even spoke in front of the House of Representatives on energy tax incentives. All of these achievements make Mark an excellent source of information, especially regarding the economics behind starting up sources of renewable energy production. This article helps to answer the research question by describing the methods being implemented to alleviate some of the startup costs of creating renewable energy sources. Jewell 3 Siddiqui, Afzal S., Chris Marnay, and Ryan H. Wiser. Real Options Valuation Of US Federal Renewable Energy Research, Development, Demonstration, And  Energy Policy 35.(2007): 265-279. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. of programs for the research and development of renewable energy technology improvement often make use of predictions to determine the cost and performance of renewable fuel compared to non-renewable fuels. Unfortunately, the analysis take into account the uncertainty of the cost of non-renewable energy, the possibility of evolvement in the world, and the technical risks associated with the research and development. One author, Dr. Ryan Wiser, leads a research program on the design, planning, and evaluation of renewable electricity policies, as well as the cost, benefits, and market potential of those sources, and on operations of said sources. He has over 350 published papers, 60 peer reviewed journal articles, and 16 book chapters. He has been quoted by many publications such as the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, USA Today, and many more. All of his achievements make him a credible and excellent source of information on renewable energy costs. Another author, Chris Marnay, is a staff scientist affiliated with the China Energy group. He creates models of economic-environmental problems that energy resources can face, and has many accolades for his work in the economics behind energy systems. And finally, Afzal S. Siddiqui has interests in energy economics, and working to make decisions where there is uncertainty and competition. This article helps to show how the cost of renewable energy systems often forces debate of whether or not to create those systems because of the possibility of changes in many areas that affect the overall cost of each project. Jewell 4 Kushler, Martin. Reduced Emissions And Lower Costs: Combining Renewable Energy And Energy Efficiency Into A Sustainable Energy Portfolio  (2007): SciTech Connect. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. The Sustainable Energy Portfolio Standard (SEPS) has become a vital national policy option that yields a higher level of sustainable energy sources with the highest economic efficiency of those sources because it allows for more flexibility and different ways to meet targets than other standards with similar goals. This new standard will greatly aid in resource and energy planning because of its ability to find more options than previously, some of which are bound to be more cost effective. Martin Kushler is a nationally recognized energy efficiency policy director. He has conducted acclaimed nationwide studies, directed research on and evaluations of efficient energy for over 30 years, provides aid to advance energy efficiency policies in many states, is a renowned author, and is a consultant to state and federal governments. He directed the utilities program for ten years, where he oversaw all evaluation activities of electric and natural gas efficiency programs in Michigan. also earned his bachelor of arts, masters of arts, and PhD from Michigan State University. This article shows that there is increasing flexibility in how renewable energy systems come together in ways that can lower the costs while achieving the same end goal. Spiegel-Feld, Danielle, Bryce Rudyk, and George Philippidis. Allocating The Economic Benefits Of Renewable Energy Between Stakeholders On Small Island Developing States (SIDS): Arguments For A Balanced  Energy Policy 98.(2016): 744-748. Jewell 5 Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Small Island Developing States, or SIDS, often face economic challenges when trying to produce power for their people. The high cost of fossil fuels compared to the low cost of renewable energy sources is fueling the switch to renewable energy. However, if the SIDS utilities own the renewable energy sources, they will also be subject to the initial costs of those renewable energy sources. The option then once those sources are owned by said utilities, is whether or not to charge the citizens, and if so, how much? The option to charge the citizens can help pay for the high cost of renewable energy, but it can be challenging determining what price to charge for citizens in a developing country that are often indigent and in poverty. One author, Bryce Rudyk, has collaborated on nearly 90 books and e-books, many of which concern economics and climate change. He is the Climate Program director at the Guarini Center on Environmental, Energy, and Land Use as well as a professor of law. His fields for research include Climate Change Law and International Environment Law. also studied at McMaster University, the University of Toronto School of Law, and at the NYU School of Law. Many of his publications concern protecting the environment, climate change, and the economy. Another author in this article, George Philippidis, is a renewable energy leader who is an outspoken advocator of renewable energy. He concerns himself with developing the necessary power sources to fight climate change and sustain economic growth. He has 11 cleantech patents, is an author on numerous articles, and is a promoter of solar, wind, biomass to power, water, and geothermal energy as power sources, as well as biofuels and electric powered vehicles. This article highlights that although the startup costs of renewable energy systems is high, that owning the systems gives power to the owners in the form of collecting money for its use, and how quickly that money can help pay off the systems compared to how high the cost is. Jewell 6 Shanshan, Hu, et al. Capacity Investment In Renewable Energy Technology With Supply Intermittency: Data Granularity  Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 17.4 (2015): 480-494. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article compares the initial investments or startup costs of different renewable energy systems and their operating costs to show which systems are more economically viable and analyzes their overall cost effectiveness. The aim is to help systems managers identify their options and prevent overinvestments into sources of renewable energy as well as compare the trade-offs of traditional and renewable systems of energy production. These trade-offs include the price of keeping current energy production systems running on oil with increasing operating costs as the price of fossil fuels rises, or the high cost of creating sources of renewable energy with low operating costs and future savings, and which renewable energy sources have the highest production at the lowest overall costs. In doing so they help identify potential savings opportunities and benefits different of renewable energy types for each applicable situation. All four collaborating authors of this article are faculty members at colleges across the nation, with vested interests in renewable energy and sustainable systems. One author, Shanshan Hu, spends his time researching economics and energy production. He also has awards for best paper on natural resources and the environment and first place paper at the 7 th International Conference on Operations and Supply Chain Management. Hu has devoted the past 20 years to learning about management systems and engineering. Another, Gilvan Souza, also works with supply, sustainable operations, and technology management. He has also earned awards, for excellence in the MBA program at the University of Maryland, and the Wickham Skinner Early Career Research Award, which serves to award those with unusually high dedication and Jewell 7 achievements in their early careers. authors are concerned with sustainable systems for energy production. This article helps answer the question of the costs of switching to renewable energy by showing the low short term and higher long term costs of remaining on oil based energy production compared to the inverse high short term and lower long term costs of switching to sustainable and renewable energy systems. Castro-Santos, Laura, Elson Martins, and C. Guedes Soares. Cost Assessment Methodology For Combined Wind And Wave Floating Offshore Renewable Energy  Renewable Energy 97.(2016): 866-880. ScienceDirect. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This article describes an approach to predicting the costs of offshore renewable energy systems that considers the entire cycle of each system from concept to development to installation and operation, all the way to deconstruction and removal of the devices. It can also be used to compare cost effectiveness of different energy producing technologies. Two tests were done using the method, on the W2Power and Poseidon offshore-power production modules. The tests provided data on two locations near Portugal, and the results showed that in one location, the W2Power system was more cost effective, but in the other, it was the Poseidon that was the better option. These results show that the best solution changes with location, and also showed that the W2Power system did better in one unit scenarios, where the Poseidon fared better in multiple-unit installations. It also showed that the most important costs to consider were the manufacturing, installation, and operation costs. Laura Castro Santos is a naval engineer with a huge background in the field. She has degrees in computer science in industrial relations and human resources, industrial technology Jewell 8 engineering, and naval architecture and ocean engineering. She also has her masters in efficiency and energy use as well as naval and oceanic engineering. Elson Martins attends the Technical University of Libson, alongside Carlos Guedes Soares, who has degrees in ocean engineering, a PhD., over 1400 publications, and expertise in 70 fields. Carlos is also a professor of naval architecture and marine engineering at CENTEC, a research center in the University of Libson that is a recognized foundation in Portugal. This article aims to answer the research question by providing examples of how the solution to energy production varies for each specific application, showing that there is no one perfect answer to the question of which energy producing system is best.