Samsonenko 1 Vladislav Samsonenko Professor Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 February 10, 2017 The Effect of Video Games on Children For the last few decades, modern technologies have become an integral part of lives. People have started to use electronic devises in almost every sphere of their lives from different kinds businesses to the family leisure. There is no surprise that children also take a benefit from the technologies. Today, even a three-year-old child knows how to use iPad and X- box. That makes a lot of concern among parents because their children, especially boys, tend to spend too much time playing video games. The majority of society believes that there is nothing good about video games because they are addictive, violent, and bad for physical health of the child. Nevertheless, more and more scientists and parents noticed a positive influence of video games on children. For instance, playing video games can be beneficial in terms of increasing comprehension or even learning a new language by playing online games with people all around the world. In this project, I will try to explore: what is the positive effects of video games on children? Samsonenko 2 Alshaiji, Ohoud Abdullatif. Games Promote Saudi English Vocabulary Education 136.2 (2015): 123-132. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. The article Games Promote Saudi English Vocabulary talks about the study that were held in order to find out the effect of video games on the English vocabulary of children from Saudi Arabia. The article points out the fact that in the 21 st century is the era of globalization. That means that it is essential to know several languages and English in particular. The author describes the preconditions and the flow of the experiment. The results show there is a significant increase vocabulary of children who played English video games. The article is incredibly relevant to the research paper because it discusses how video games can be useful for children who are non-English speakers. The experiment explanation and the outcome of the study will make the project more narrow and specific. Moreover, the article can be considered as a credible source as the author is a recognized scholar in the Phycology sphere. Prot, Sara, et al. Games: Good, Bad, or The Pediatric Clinics of North America 59. Children, Adolescents, and the Media (2012): 647-658. ScienceDirect. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. The article Games: Good, Bad, or written by Prot et al. is discussing the increase in popularity of video games among children. The authors give two different points of view on the issue of the effect that video games may have on the child physiological development. As for the negative side of the issue, the authors claim that the majority of video Samsonenko 3 games that children play violent. On the positive side is that video Games can develop child visual- spatial skills. There also quite a lot of examples and experiment results and summaries that provided to support different points of view. The article is extremely relevant to my project because it discusses both positive and negative sides of playing video games. That will help me to formulate my main points as well as contra arguments. Besides, he experiments discussed and summarized in the article will be a great support material. The authors can be considered as credible ones because all of them have a degree in Psychology concentrating in behavior that makes them a professional of the topic. Smith, G. Glenn. Do Computer Games Affect Your Eurasian Journal of Education Research (EJER) (2004): 72-80. Education Source. Web. Feb 10. 2017. The article Do Computer Games Affect Your written by Smith primarily discuss the positive effect of the computers on children by improving their spatial skills such as visualization and mental rotation. Smith also gives a couple of practical pieces of advice for parents on what kind of video games are better for a child in a certain age. That part is important because there is a high risk of increase of aggression if parents buy a game for a wrong age group. The article is relevant to the project because it illustrates the alternative positive sides that video games have on a child development. Moreover, the source is a trustworthy one because the author is an Associate Professor in the Education and Psychological Studies in the University of South Florida. (132) Sabo, Helena M. Games Used in Teaching of ELearning & Software for Samsonenko 4 Education 2 (2012): 271-276. Education Source. Web. Feb 10. 2017. Games Used in Teaching of is the article written by Sabo describing the possible way of how teachers can take advantage of their little student playing video games. The author points out the fact that teachers can learn how to use these games in studying process. For example, geography teachers can introduce special video games on natural hazards so that children have the opportunity learning while playing. That will definitely make the learning material more attractive to children. Other than that, the author explains the limitations of this method of receiving new information. For example, the biggest challenge for this alternative way of studying is the high cost of installation. The majority of schools simply do not have resource to buy a new equipment. There is no doubt that the article is relevant to the project as it gives an example of how people can make playing video games beneficial in the sphere of education. The article is a credible one because Helena Sabo is currently a Professor in Romania. She has a degree in Psychology and Education that makes her article trustworthy. Sneed, Carl, and Mark A. Runco. Beliefs Adults and Children Hold about Television and Video Journal of Psychology 126.3 (2000): 273. Academic Search Premier. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. The article Beliefs Adults and Children Hold about Television and Video written by Sneed discusses the different attitudes of people of different ages and statuses on video games. The author explains the details of the study and the conditions of the experiment. Sneed points out the fact that the outcome of the study also depend not only on the age of the Samsonenko 5 participant (adult or child) but on the martial status and whether an adult is a parent or not. Some of the outcomes were quite unexpected. For instance, opinion on the video games were more positive other than those adults who have no children. The article is relevant to my project because it examines the opinions of different generations on the video games. Moreover, the author analyzes in details the outcome of the study that will definitely help to understand the topic of the research project. The article also can be considered a credible one because Sneed has a Ph.D. in the Phycology area. Besides, his primary research interest is concentrated on the relationship between parents and children. Suziedelyte, Agne. and Human Capital Development: Can Video Game Playing Make You Economic Inquiry 53.2 (2015): 1140-1155. Academic Search Premier. Web. Feb 10. 2017 The article and Human Capital Development: Can Video Game Playing Make You written by Suziedelyte describes an experiment that was conducted in order to find out whether playing video games has any positive impact on children. The article describes in details the specifics of the experiment. The author also take into account the fact that different children have different backgrounds and family values. The outcome was that video games have a positive impact on the ability to solve problems in real life. What is more, the effect was quite the same as if a child trained his/hers problem solving skills using educational activities. The article is an extremely relevant to the project because it describes the experiment held by the author. That profound explanation gives better understanding of the outcome of this Samsonenko 6 experiment. Moreover, it will be beneficial for the project because it will make my research thesis and its support even stronger. The author of this article can be considered as a credible one because Suziedelyte is a Professor in the University of London who is currently studying mental health area.