Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Prostitution and Sexual Agency: A Consistent, Ongoing Discourse Within the context of modern feminism, the particular historical division in the movement that is currently being experienced is known as: In contrast to first-wave feminism, which primarily concerned itself with suffrage, and second-wave feminism, which is viewed as having developed between the 1960s and 1970s and contributed to issues such as the third-wave feminism is much closer to the modern-day. Temporally, third-wave feminism is situated between the 1980s and especially the 1990s, to today. As a social issue, prostitution is one that while having been in existence since time immemorial, has only received attention and undergone analysis in the field of modern feminism in the most recent decades. Feminist debate surrounding prostitution and the question of whether or not sexual agency is provided for in the respective working environments of prostitutes has proven to be consistently divided. Though various theoretical frameworks debating prostitution have since emerged under third-wave scope of influence, the overarching conversation in regard to prostitution and sexual autonomy as a whole has remained relatively invariable. In her 2002 article entitled, a Feminist Stance in Support of Prostitution Possible? An Exploration of Current Kari Kesler notes that: At a conference held in Ontario, Canada in 1985, Our Images: The Politics of Student 2 Pornography and [two particular groups sex workers and feminists, to discuss and examine the divide that exists between them. Many of the sex workers were angry with academic feminist women, whom they felt spoke for them without knowing them (Kesler 220). At a similar event: . . the World Whores held in certain prostitutes expressed concern that despite not having chosen to identify themselves as feminists, on account of academic feminists delegitimizing their fields of work and status as workers in their own right, . . many prostitutes with feminist values such as independence, financial autonomy, sexual self-determination, personal strength, and female bonding . . (Kesler 220). Thus, it can be understandably concluded that where modern, third-wave feminist discourse and sexual autonomy and/or agency is concerned, debates between sex workers campaigning for recognition and feminist analysts have been an ongoing process since at least the mid-1980s. For the sake of convenience, those that have been historically opposed to the practice of prostitution can be viewed as participants in the argumentation . . . [which against all forms of sex regulation is generally associated with radical feminism, even though the latter includes many different according to Jacqueline Comte in her 2014 article, of Sex Work: Feminist Discourses in Light of (Comte 197-198). Furthermore, as a philosophical division, those who are in favor of the holistic rights of sex workers as a social group engage in what is known as which, . . and for both decriminalization and destigmatization . . . as this would help open social mentality about female sexuality and make it both less guilt-loaded and more fulfilling, even for women who are not in sex work . . (Comte 201). The roots of the prostitution debate may however lie even earlier than the mid-1980s, as Judith Walkowitz, Professor Emerita in the field of History at John Hopkins University recalls, Student 3 in a 2016 article, Politics of Prostitution and Sexual In the 1970s, Walkowitz describes joining a group of female historians that were at the forefront of the modern debate regarding prostitution. As the division of feminist thought that she describes as began to emerge, . .predated by several years mobilizations over sexual violence, prostitution and pornography by radical feminists in the late distinctions made between those termed and were very loosely constructed (Walkowitz 189). Walkowitz particularly credits radical feminists with having: . .introduced consciousness-raising as a groundbreaking strategy of feminist organizing and sexual self-knowledge. . . [that in led to demand for rights to sexual while socialist and radical feminists equally: . . valorized a female sexual self, unfettered by social conventions and beyond the control of (Walkowitz 189-190). However, around the same period of time, Walkowitz significantly recounts that the female historians that she aligned herself with placed prostitution within the framework of other forms of labor, while the practice was stigmatized by other feminists for the commodification that they believed it resulted in (Walkowitz 190-191). Specifically, she mentions that: the time, feminists suspicious of . . because . . .they a business of what will some day be done for pleasure between equals who care for each (Walkowitz 190). This distinction between the acknowledgement of prostitution as labor of a different kind, and perception of the practice as a detrimental commodity is therefore not a novel occurrence. In expanding upon the radical feminist understanding, Scott Anderson in his 2002 article, and Sexual Autonomy: Making Sense of the Prohibition of remarks Student 4 that: practices, they argue, define a hierarchy in society, thus legitimating and enforcing the subordination of women as a (Anderson 752). Because of radical feminists maintaining a historical stance towards: . .a female sexual self, unfettered by social conventions and beyond the control of as described by Walkowitz, it then becomes understandable how suspicion towards prostitution later became one crucial feminist school of thought: radical feminism (Walkowitz 189-190). In other words, though both and feminists may have started with similar goals in mind and even shared strategies, it is quite apparent historically how these various interpretations emerged distinctly in the movement since the 1970s. Strong conceptual divisions between those seeking to abolish prostitution entirely and those that advocate directly for the rights of sex workers continue to exist, and if the adage of history repeating itself rings true, the same polarities will progress unfailingly into future conversations. (Word Count: 986 words.) Student 5 Works Cited Anderson, Scott A. and Sexual Autonomy: Making Sense of the Prohibition of , vol. 112, no. 4, 2002, p. 752. Web. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Comte, Jacqueline. of sex work: Feminist discourses in light of Sexuality & Culture: An Interdisciplinary Quarterly , vol. 18, no. 1, 2014, pp. 197-201. Web. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Kesler, Kari. a Feminist Stance in Support of Prostitution Possible? An Exploration of Current , vol. 5, no. 2, 2002, p. 220. Web. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Walkowitz, Judith R. Politics of Prostitution and Sexual Workshop Journal , vol. 82, no. 1, 2016, pp. 189-191. Web. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017.