Haddad 1 Chad Haddad Angelica Aranda ENC1102 March 5, 2017 Everytown For Gun Safety: A Movement to End Gun Violence On April 20 th , 1999, two senior students, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris came to Columbine High School where they would go on to kill 12 students and 1 teacher, as well as injuring 20 others. They used illegally acquired guns to do so. This was a very shocking incident not only for the United States, but also for the whole world. It brought heavy concern regarding the topic of gun violence. There are currently many organizations that work towards ending gun violence by limiting who can actually purchase a gun, while still protecting the Second Amendment. Everytown For Gun Safety (Everytown) is included in these organizations, as it is an American based movement that is working towards putting an end to gun violence in order to keep in America safer and more protected. Everytown creates custom images for both advertisements and awareness. The two selected are primarily intended to stir their emotions through pathos, as well as make them recognize and understand the true dangers of guns, which covers logos. They also employ a sense of ethos and kairos. These rhetoric appeals are what makes these images successfully capture the attention, inform them and incite them to take action to resolve a serious issue present in society: gun violence. Haddad 2 Everytown For Gun Safety is a non-profit organization founded in 2014 for the purpose of increasing gun control and combatting gun violence. The organization was actually a combination between two pre-existing organizations that shared similar beliefs, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America and Mayors Against Illegal Guns. It currently consists of, than 3 million mayors, moms, cops, teachers, survivors, gun owners, and everyday We all working towards a safe and protected community through heavy campaigning. Their primary goals include enforcing stricter background checks, decreasing domestic violence and preventable deaths, and a push for stronger fun trafficking. In the past, they have been very successful in accomplishing varying feats. For instance, in 2011, they efficaciously pushed and convinced Congress to introduce legislation that would require background checks for all gun sales. This was a very big accomplishment for the organization as it is one of their primary focuses. One method the organization uses to spread influential word is through moving images, which cover their purpose and main goals as an organization. These images help boost their publicity with a double effect of raising awareness of such a serious concern and advising the American public to take action. Both images below do exactly that. Despite being so simple, they are both effective in their own, respective ways. Everytown has done very well in working with multiple rhetorical appeals for their visual constructions. Image A consists of a well-defined gun pointing out of the visual with text located right above it in bold text saying, than half of all women killed with guns in America are murdered by their This image effectively displays the negative impacts of guns and informs the audience that even they could be at risk, and therefore Haddad 3 should be always at caution. This is evident through the organizations engagement in the rhetorical appeals pathos, logos and ethos, with a heavier focus on pathos in particular. A case of well-used pathos, a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held 36). This image clearly does exactly this as it not only broadcasts a very shocking and displeasing stat, but to put in perspective, it has a distinctive gun pointed at the person viewing the image, almost as if they too can be at risk, which is quite the scare. To make the words and image more impactful on the audience, Everytown uses all capital letters, as well as a bold, red text for their statistic. This red text could also be associated with death as it is the color of blood, which increases to the impact on the audience. Furthermore, they purposely blur the person behind the gun out so the gun stands out amongst everything else. By doing so, it is one of the first things the audience sees and immediately catches their attention. Another rhetoric appeal mentioned that is used within this image is logos. According to Emily Lane, Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre, and clear reasoning are important in an argument because few audiences respect claims that make sense or are in 30). Therefore, this would mean that the image provides a good argument in the sense that it uses both logic and clear reasoning to make a claim, which essentially is that guns are the primary cause and use in domestic violence. The statistic provided followed up with an actual image of a gun suggests that that in order to prevent this overwhelming amount of murder cases, guns must be out of the equation, for they are the leading Finally, the image also hints at ethos, which is where the writer, the audience by establishing their own 25), as it displays the logo in the bottom right corner. The logo indicates that the organization Haddad 4 not only produced the image but also approves of it. This gives high credibility to the statistics used in this image, as Everytown has acquired their data and information from reports filed and produced by the FBI. The organization also consists of millions of qualified members, which also adds to the credibility. Image B contains what appears to be an average American household with two stories and a car parked outside. In the house, there are four rooms shown with one of them enclosing a child who has opened a cupboard with a gun inside of it. The image also has text saying, than 2 million American kids live in homes with unsecured It has more text in the bottom corners saying, rights come responsibilities, store your guns locked and as well as, Similarly to image A, this image exhibits the potential outcomes of the misuse of guns; especially focusing on children and how easily a large portion of them can access one. It not only informs the audience but also encourages them to take action. All of this is apparent through the use of rhetoric appeals. In this image, pathos, kairos and logos are present. In the case of pathos, Everytown uses a child reaching to a gun in a room with no parents supervising. By, evaluating the emotions the author tries to 38), the audience can only imagine what the child will do with the gun. He could assume it is a toy one, and attempt to shoot it at others. Or, he could even be playing with it and accidentally shoot himself. There have been many incidents like these in the past, where persons have lost lives as a result. It is a very sad thing and because it involves children, who we are generally more sympathetic towards. The image also distinguishes this room from the others by having it colored a bright red. This instantly catches the attention and directs their attention towards it. The color red could Haddad 5 also be associated with blood and death, increasing the pathos behind the image. Unlike image A, image B includes the rhetoric appeal kairos. This is clear as the image persuades one to, action through the power or argument of 39). In the bottom right corner, there is use of an imperative in the form of, your guns locked and This is a command that makes the audience realize it needs to be done and it needs to be done now. This is the action that Everytown wants Americans to take based on their argument provided through this image alone. Arguably, the most prominent rhetoric used in this image is logos. This image touches on some of the things the first one does but to a further extent. It is clearly logical that kids should never be able to handle a gun yet it shows how easy some can. It also says in text rights comes which is also very logical in the sense that we should be much more careful with where we do store our guns and how we do so. The rhetoric appeals explored in the respective images mutually support Everytown for Gun central goal of developing gun control and eradicating gun violence. Both of the images created and shared have a common goal of shocking their audience of how dangerous guns can truly be. The images consist of alarming facts and statistics that the audience would not realize until seeing it in front of their own eyes. On top of the statistics, the advertisements contain images as well which appeal to the emotion. This is effectively done through their implementation of the four rhetorical appeals: logos, ethos, kairos and pathos, as they catch the attention, sweeps them off their feet with outrageous statistics, and informs them on how they can make a difference. Haddad 6 Work Cited We Everytown For Gun Safety. Web. 02. Mar. 2017 McKee, Jessica, Kendra Gayle Lee, and Megan McIntyre. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. McKee, Jessica, Emily Lane, and Megan McIntyre. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Hoffman, Allyson and Alysia Sawchyn. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print.