Blondino-Pine 1 Sarah Blondino-Pine Professor Harley Campbell English1102 29 January 2017 Animal Liberation Animals have been everything from a source of food to a beloved house pet. However, it has been proven that the cruelest of all is when animals are used for entertainment. As a six year old watches a circus show he is in awe at how cool the animals are. What he does not know is how the animals are being treated on the road and even at events. This is what People of the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is trying to bring to light. The Ringling Bros have been the biggest circus for years and millions of people see their shows. From the outside looking in it seems like the animals are happy and enjoy the fun tricks that the trainers make them do. However, when people began investigating the reality of how they are treated not only on the road but also at the Center for Elephant Conservation (CEC) fans can see the cruelty these animals suffer every day. It would be beneficial for the animals being used in the entertainment business if PETA and The Ringling Bros come together to build conservation centers for each of the species of animal they have. PETA strives to bring to light the ugly truth to what is behind the animal entertainment industry. thousands of these animals are forced to perform silly, confusing tricks under the threat of physical punishment; are carted across the country in cramped and stuffy boxcars or semi-truck trailers; are kept chained or caged in barren, boring, filthy PETA states on their website under the issues tab (Animals used for entertainment). Many animals used in circuses suffer from a lot of the same problems as humans Blondino-Pine 2 when they are mistreated such as anxiety, stress, and other emotional issues. They are not being treated as beings rather they get used likes objects needed for money. matter what the nature of the being, the principle of equality requires that its suffering be counted equally with the like Peter Singer in the Animal Liberation Movement (Singer, page four). Getting rid of the indescribable cruelty the animals in circuses go through is an incentive for PETA to join forces with The Ringling Bros to give these animals healthier lives and living conditions. Entertainment is all about what makes the viewers happy and what gets them to come back. Now that more and more people are being exposed to the truth behind how the animals in The Ringling Bros circuses, their fans are not happy. The elephants are chained up in small spaces on concrete floors with tuberculosis being spread between them. the wild, elephants are active for 18 hours per day, foraging, socializing, taking dust baths, and exploring home ranges that span hundreds of says PETA in an article about the CEC (Jennifer With the conditions that the tigers are kept in its no wonder they are obese and beyond stressed. Keeping three large cats in one small enclosure on hot concrete with no shade is the reason the tigers have cracks in their paws. the wild, tigers spend their days foraging, hunting, marking their territory, and searching for says a reporter for the ringling beats animals website (Ringling Bros. Beats Animals Website). The purpose of starting this circus was in no way to hurt these innocent animals but it has led to that because of how big and strong they are. If The Ringling Bros comes together with PETA they can save their reputation and save the animals they have held captive. There is a very beneficial common ground here that could help get more recognition for both the work of PETA and The Ringling Bros. Both organizations know that these animals should be treated better but the employees for the circus say they have not found the time to fix Blondino-Pine 3 the enclosures and need the animals to learn quickly without hurting their trainers. This is their explanation for why they choose to use bullhooks, electrical rods, and whips. century English philosopher Jeremy Bentham had placed animals within his utilitarian calculus of pleasure and pain, stating, Question is not, Can they reason? Nor Can they talk? but, Can they said David Walls (Animal Rights Movement). If an animal can feel happiness, stress, enjoyment, and sadness then they have more than the capability to suffer just as much as humans do. Giving the animals a better way to live is the common ground that PETA and The Ringling Bros have, the end to suffering for animals in the entertainment industry. The compromise that these two organizations can have is if PETA focuses more on the animal entertainment industry rather than their other projects and The Ringling Bros sacrifices their animals and gives them to accredited sanctuaries. This will save so many abused animals in the entertainment industry and give these animals a better way to live. Putting their funds and resources together to get these animals to a better living environment where they will be happy will benefit them both. If more people are aware of how serious these shows are then maybe they will help donate to fund the process of moving the animals. Although these organizations have not joined forces before, their interests in animals will benefit them both and bring a positive light to each organization. To put these successful organizations together could be the beginning of an era of animal rights movements. The amount of volunteers that would help out or donate funds so they are able to carry out the necessary actions to get rid of the awful living conditions the animals are kept in will make all the difference. They will have the power to end all of the animal abuse that is part of the entertainment industry and show that some good can come from The Ringling Bros circuses. Also, if they combined forces they could put a stop to all circuses and let the animals Blondino-Pine 4 within them free. If all of this happens then we as humanity can prove that we are not all evil beings that have no care for other species whom they believe to be of lower class. (1094) Blondino-Pine 5 Works Cited Mike: Another Baby Elephant Dies on Ringling Beats Animals, 29 Jan. 2016, www.ringlingbeatsanimals.com/elephant-calfs-death-demonstrates-need-to- end-captive-breeding/. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. Expert Exposes the Mind-Numbing, Painful Reality of Tigers at Ringling Ringling Beats Animals, www.ringlingbeatsanimals.com/features/big-cat-expert-exposes- mind-numbing-painful-reality-tigers-ringling-bros/. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. Ringling Really Up to at Its PETA, 25 May 2016, www.peta.org/blog/whats-ringling-really-up-to-at-its-conservation-center-2/. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. PETA. Used for PETA, 2017 , www.peta.org/issues/animals-in- entertainment/. Walls, David. Rights Sonoma State University, 9 Nov. 2014, www.sonoma.edu/users/w/wallsd/animal-rights-movement.shtml Encyclopedia.com, 2016, www.enclyclopedia.com/social-sciences-and- law/sociology-and-social-reform/social-reform/animal-rights-movement. Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation Nwveg.com, 1985,