Carolina DeBarros DeBarros 1 ENC 1102 Project 1 Professor Campbell Immigration: ongoing issue The topic of illegal immigrants grows increasingly hot considering the United States new administration under Donald Trump. Many Americans feel threatened and upset as the watch illegal immigrants reside in their communities much like Mothers Against Illegal Aliens (MAIA) who are particularly focused on illegal children going to school with their American born children and possibly corrupting their concept of an American family. Many other Americans however, believe that immigrants should be allowed into the country and that the United States should open its borders to all, a stakeholder on this end of the immigrant argument is the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIRR) who as stated on their website fight for immigrants of immigration to have constitutional rights the MAIA believes that all illegal immigrants should be kicked out of the country immediately. I believe a good solution would be for the NNIRR to create a program to help illegal immigrants become citizens to bring MAIA some peace. Mothers Against Illegal Immigrants is a group founded on January 1st, 2006 by Michelle Dallacroce who has appeared on FOX News, and gone to D.C and lobbies to many Congressmen about the issue of illegal immigrants with the motive of protecting legal American families The main concerns are illegal immigrants causing crime and illegal children being granted citizenship through DACA and DREAM allowing them to study in the united states as proclaimed on their mission statement is no birthright citizenship to illegal alien vocalizing the fact that the mothers are enraged at the knowledge of the DACA allowing illegal children birth right citizenship in the United States so that they can study in public schools (Zong, Botalova). It is not surprising that MAIA is alarmed due to these statistics found from the Migration Policy Institute that show records from 2015 that state 714,266 of the DACA applicants were granted approval for legal residency in the United States meaning that the illegal children applicants were now allowed to live in the United States legally to study at any public school (Zong, Botalova). The goal of the organization is to remove all illegal immigrants from the country to protect the sanctity of their American families In opposition to MAIA the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights which was established in 1986 has spent the past 31 years fighting for immigrant rights in the government and the courtrooms, They seem to proudly claim on their website to have fought for and just immigration policies since its They focus on building programs and tools for immigrants much like one of their programs called HURRICANE which stands for human rights immigrant community action network and acts as an accountability service to report any kind of human rights violation against an immigrant living in the United States This program helps all immigrants who face unfair circumstances such as children who are left orphaned as their parents are deported and separated from them for commiting petty crimes because of the Secure Communities Program enacted by president Bush in 2008 to September 2012 205,000 parents were This is an DeBarros 2 issue to the NNIRR because there are now parentless children, a human rights injustice. They are devoted to the establishment of the legal rights of any immigrant, legal or illegal wanting to bring back the feeling of safety for immigrants and refugees Although the two organizations are extremely different,they still have so much common ground. It is very clear that both NNIRR and MAIA are both concerned with the safety of the American people that others who reside in the United States. The obvious difference is that MAIA necessarily believe that illegal immigrants have rights to be protected while the NNIRR wishes to fight for these rights. It is plausible that both organizations could come to an agreement of protecting all American people residing in the United states so long as they are in the country legally. MAIA has connections with politics while the NNIRR has connections with the law and could therefore work together to help illegal immigrants go through an immigration process that would make their residency in the united states legal. My proposal is to keep both organizations satisfied while also providing a feasible and realistic resolution to the issue of illegal immigration by introducing a new type of program that the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee rights can control, fund and backup. The program would essentially have 3 tiers to it. Assimilation, which would involve providing classes on American government, history, and providing English courses for immigrants so that they can grow to be better integrated with the American society. Amnesty support, this would involve helping the illegal immigrants learn how to apply for amnesty assuming that they qualify with the support of volunteers and the immigrants newly improved English speaking skills. Lastly rehabilitation, which entails job hunting help, home ownership help, and financial planning help so that they can support themselves and their families in an efficient manner. While the NNIRR goes through this process the Mothers Against Illegal Aliens could go lobby to politicians for a better and reformed immigration process. The mothers are not happy with immigrants coming here illegally and are aware of the broken immigration system, the founder of MAIA Michelle Dallacroce herself states that she has her life to protect the American families and children against the illegal invasion of women,children, and men who continue to come illegally to the United States of Dallacroce has also stated that she has lobbied to every congressman about the issue of illegal immigrants, perhaps with this much persistence she could facilitate the entry to America and end the issue of immigrants coming here illegally due to difficult immigration The once illegal aliens will now be law abiding citizens equipped with tools for success in the American dream, Mothers against Illegal Aliens will no longer have to worry about their safety as the selective Amnesty process would have weeded out any criminals living here illegally and now has granted a new and legal lifestyle for men women and children to contribute into education and the work force. While the issue of the illegal immigrants already in the United States gets resolved the MAIA task force would begin to start solving the issue of illegal immigration from its routes. Obviously this type of program be cheap and as the federal government would probably refuse to fund it especially in the Trump administration, however, there are millions of DeBarros 2 people in the United states who would like to contribute money or even volunteer their time to support the idea of immigrants coming to the United States legally as many support legal immigration as an American value as well as several companies who have histories of helping immigrants and refugees in the past. For instance, a CNN Money article highlighted generous donation of 1.1 million dollars in contribution to helping syrian refugees (Kattasova), perhaps Google or a company similar to it would consider making a hefty donation to help the immigrants of this country affecting our American people to become successful and law abiding Americans. In conclusion the proposal of the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, an organization that is for the protection of all immigrants and refugees, creating a program that will help illegal immigrants take steps towards becoming legal citizens would surely ease the minds of the mothers involved in Mothers Against Illegal Aliens who are worried about the sanctity of their own American dream as illegal immigrants push their ways into their communities. With this proposal the only thing lost is the fact that MAIA really just wants these immigrants out, however the time and expenses this would put on American taxpayers is just not feasible, the mothers will have to give this up in order to at least only be surrounded by newly legalized immigrants who are attempting to assimilate through the program. Word count: 1363 DeBarros 2 WORKS CITED About  About Us National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . n.d. Kottasova, Ivana. Google, Goldman Sachs donate millions to help  CNNMoney . Cable News Network, 11 Sept. 2015. Our  MOTHERS AGAINST ILLEGAL ALIENS (MAIA) . n.d. US Immigration  Immigration Amnesty in USA Help For Illegal Immigrants . N.d. Valez, Olga. and Justice For all: The Violations OF BASIC HUMAN RIGHTS IN DETENTION CENTERS ACROSS THE UNITED University of Florida Journal of Law & Public Policy , vol. 25, no. 2, Aug. 2014, pp. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Zong, Jie, and Jeanne Batalova. Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United  Migrationpolicy.org . N.p., 14 Apr. 2016.