Martinez 1 Lorena Martinez Smith ENC 1101 S15 February 20, 2017 Effects of Second-Hand Smoke in Children Children throughout time and among different cultures have been viewed as the future, congruently it is within a advantage to try to protect children and increase their lifespan. Many times, people can underestimate just how much their actions can affect children, smoking being a great example. opinion on whether children can be exposed to tobacco smoke is dividing. Some believe that smoking tobacco around children is perfectly fine and causes no harm to them as they are not the ones smoking. Others believe that lungs be exposed to any smoke tobacco smoke at all. The following research will explore how second-hand smoke has affected children and health. Understanding these effects worldwide will no doubt increase public awareness on the matter in addition to alleviating children suffering from harmful effects. Roberts, Christopher, Grace Wagler, and Michele M. Carr. Article: Environmental Tobacco Smoke: Public Perception Of Risks Of Exposing Children To Second- And Third-Hand Tobacco  Journal Of Pediatric Health Care 31.(2017): e7-e13. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. A recent article written by Christopher Roberts titled Tobacco Smoke: Public Perception of Risks of Exposing Children to Second- and Third-Hand Tobacco conducted a survey at an academic medical center with 310 respondents. The responses were based on the participants smoking status and whether they had children in their homes. Among Martinez 2 the surveys total participants, 58.3% of respondents had children living in their homes either full time and part time, and 19.7% reported to be smokers themselves. While 98.1% of the participants believed that smoking could be detrimental to the health. The survey results concluded that 86% of these participants believed constantly smoking in the same room or car as a child could be a cause for asthma, while other conditions and diseases receive much acknowledgement. Only 72% thought second-hand smoke could be related to constant colds, 67% to thought it could relate to pneumonia, 57% to poor growth, 49% to ear infections, 45% to tonsillitis, 43% to snoring, 27% to hearing loss, and 20% though to obesity. Overall the risks of second-hand smoke to children were undermined by the public. Those who were not living with children were less likely to perceive any risk factors from the exposure. survey is relevant as it gives insight to the awareness current society has with second-hand smoking around children. Knowing a baseline for where society currently stands can indicate the progression for the following years to come. It also illustrates the fallacies within our society, which is crucial to understanding why people may smoke around children and why they hold these actions to be acceptable. Understanding the cause of these actions will help others to implement more effective methods to correct the fallacies society holds and therefore relevant because it reduces the number of children suffering from second-hand negative effects. Roberts is also very knowledgeable on the health and wellness of children. He has published articles in Egyptian Journal of Anesthesia and the International Journal of Pediatrics. Both of his articles involved factors and effects related to tracheal and respiratory issues in children, showing his credibility in pediatric pulmonary medicine. Chan, Sophia, and Tai Hing Lam. Preventing Exposure To Second-Hand  Seminars In Oncology Nursing 19.(2003): 284-290. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Martinez 3 A research study conducted by Sophia Chan considered the effectiveness of health education concerning second-hand smoke in Hong Kong, China. When comparing the exposure of chemicals in tobacco smoke in second-hand smokers and smokers the toxic and carcinogenic effects found were qualitatively similar. She states that over $50,000 of the U.S. deaths per year are attributed to the exposure of second hand smoke. She continues to say that preventing exposure among children could go on to reduce rate of respiratory infection and lung cancer, and even prevent the 300,000 cases of death in children 18 months and under due to second-hand smoke exposure. research points out just how dangerous second-hand smoke can be to children, which is relevant as it demonstrates the dangerous impact on the health of the children around it. By revealing the hundreds of thousands of children that die due to the exposure of smoking, it alarms the public on the seriousness of the matter, which is a motivator for change. This motivator is what will ultimately make people, like parents, stop smoking around their children, and protect them from other adults smoking around them. Chan has a plethora of experience in psychology, smoking and children. published over 64 articles involving smoking, smoking cessation, tobacco dependence, and nicotine replacement therapy. A lot of her work (approximately 34 articles or more) involves children and smoking combined. She has researched how different mental and psychical conditions, as well as income status can discourage people from ceasing to smoke. Her knowledge on these factors in addition to her understanding of psychology, and the human mind, can give the public a better chance to quit smoking. This is relevant because the less people that smoke in public or at home, the less smoke children would be affected by. This can help with the child deaths that are currently occurring due to the exposure. Martinez 4 Fogarty, Mary. U.K. Bans Smoking In Cars With  Oncology Times 37.19 (2015): 28. Supplemental Index. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. newspaper article indicated that as of October 1, 2015, smoking in cars with children under the age of 18 has become illegal in the United Kingdom. Fogarty strived to gain opinion on the matter and why the ban was implemented in the first place. She interviewed Naomi Horne, which is a Lead Lung Cancer Nurse at Vale Health Board. She mentioned how children are more vulnerable to the pollutants associated with second-hand smoke when they are confined in a small space such as a car. Horne hopes that due to this ban there is a reduction in the number of children admitted due to respiratory illness, and that a message is sent to those that realize the effects it has on their children. Fogarty also discusses how the legislation came to pass. She spoke with Teresa Goncalves, a Press and Campaign Officer at the British Lung Foundation (BLF), which led the campaign to pass the law. Teresa mentioned how it took 5yrs to pass and how much resistance she endured. She was surprised how some people found the legislation to be too radical and that such a ban would be an infringement on personal liberties of the people and therefore be enforced by police. Despite the resistance, Fogarty mentions how the ban has garnered widespread approval among medical professionals. In the article, Fogarty also interviewed Jason Lester, an MD in Clinical Oncology. Lester brought up how adults are better able to decide whether to smoke but the children exposed to the passive smoking have that choice. He claims the evidence that breathing in other smoke clearly causes cancer in non-smokers. This newspaper article from the Oncology Times is relevant as it displays the opinions of health professionals in relations to second-hand smoke in children. It illustrates the effects that this ban has on the people of the U.K by showing the resistance and praise for it. It also gives Martinez 5 insight as to why people where resistant towards the ban. By understanding the reasons behind the resistance, the government can better amend the ban to be approved by more of its population, therefore increasing its enforcement and decreasing the effect it has on children in these vehicles. decision to include the lead campaign manager for the ban gives this article more credibility as it is directly from source that initiated the need for the ban. She also includes medical professionals, such as a medical doctor that specializes in cancer to provide more credit to her interviewed sources. Quoted material from a medical doctor or nurse gives more of a personal approach to educating than research studies, therefore better at communicating information between the public and medical professionals regarding their health. Better communication leads to better understanding of second-hand affect in children which translate into less children being harm by the smokes effects on their health.