Riddley 1 Jacob Riddley Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 26 February 2017 Bullying For years now, bullying has been known to be a world-wide catastrophe. Whether it be at an early age, early adulthood, or even as an elder, it has never been supported by society but always seems to be alright to those committing the acts. When reviewing bullying, the one kind that has always been the most crucial and effective is bullying at the age of adolescences. Believe it or not, bullying can take a huge toll on a being, physically and mentally. It can cause emotional break downs and even serious self-inflected consequences. Even though bullying affect everyone, it can come in all kinds of forms. The question that continuously arises is how bullying truly affects ones being. It is important to know that no matter the circumstances, bullying is never considered acceptable. Bullying can cause a decent amount of damage to emotions and actions, even though 26 % of all teachers believe that little teasing (Jaana Juvonen 2008). The consequences of such forms of bullying are evident in extreme circumstances such as school shootings, suicide, etc. The effects of bullying have stayed consistent throughout history, with more recent research demonstrating that cyber bullying is taking on an increasingly large role in the lives of teenagers. In the modern society that we currently live in we must first analyze the cyber-world. Social media dominates the lives of students who are constantly searching for the approval of the world around them more than ever. Sites such as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram have consumed the lives of our youth commencing from grades 6-8, making it crucial that we address Riddley 2 the 18 percent of this population that has claimed to face cyber bullying (Kowalski, 2013). This percentage of population is then forced to face bullying in their own household, and constantly be put under the pressure of bullying in their own home. Many of these young students view social media as an outlet from the stressed caused from daily schoolyard bullies. In confiscating there cyber sanctuary, bullies can cause internal frustration among a young developing population. The importance of the middle school population is further highlighted in a study done among 1000 students, where students reported facing the most bullying from the ages 12- 14 (Sian Emily Jones 2014). This modern study emphasizes the fact that young students are primarily exposed to social media sites between these ages and if exposed to cyber bullying their outlets for cyber recreation are further confiscated by the malicious grasp of bullies. Once this emotionally unstable population reaches high school the effects of bullying are evident with instances of drug and alcohol abuse extremely common among victims, specifically men (Riittakerttu 2000). Among girls, those who have been cyber bullied from a young age, they have shown frequent symptoms of eating disorders (Riittakerttu 2000). These disorders root from females attempting to display the perfect image and defy the bullying comments they are constantly receiving regarding their physical attributes and whether they fit into the socially accepted image of what is. Furthermore, the victims of bullying have reported symptoms of social anxiety, and stemming from a feeling of isolation from bullies (Juvonen 2008). Although bullying usually occurs between two people rather than a large population against one individual, these individualistic feelings of loneliness are constant among the victim population. In addition, the anxiety rooted from the early stages of bullying can cause young students to be reluctant to interact with other students later in life and have serious social problems. Riddley 3 The problems demonstrated between both time periods are display that the effects of bullying are timeless. However, in the bullying could be found in the playground, in the classroom, and during lunchtime. In the modern the bullying has changed landscape and escalated to the cyber universe. Although the terrain for bullying has changed, the psychological toll that bullying takes on a human will never grow old. Evident by the various personality effects that are consistent throughout victims, the anxiety bullying brings to a victim can last a lifetime. In order to fix this issue teachers and school management alike must looks towards our past and learn. In order to improve the future we must realize the essential flaws that have led to the constant deterioration of certain individuals. Currently many anti-bullying programs are active throughout the United States among students, but it must be taken to the next professional level. Teachers are the backbone of the anti-bullying movement and if they are not properly educated on how to stop bullying it- will proceed. Bullying prevention is not currently enforced through teachers and if this ignorance toward a serious issue persist, the consequences of bullying will continue to become gradually traumatic throughout the years. The time to act is now, and if we do not change the attitude of America, our future is worrisome. WC: 822 Riddley 4 Works Cited Jaana Juvonen. the School Grounds?- Bullying Experiences in Journal of School Health 78.9 (2008): 496-505. Print. Kowalski, Robin. Physical, and Academic Correlates of Cyberbullying and Traditional Bullying. of Adolescent Health. Elsevier, July 2013. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. Riittakerttu Kaltiala-Heino. at school- an indicator of adolescnets at risk for mental Journal of Adolescence 23.6 (2000): 661-674. Print. Sian Emily Jones, Antony S.R. Manstead, Andrew G. Livingstone. and Belonging: Reports of School Frontline Learning Research 2.1 (2014): 67- 77. Print.