Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 Section 713 March 5, 2017 Healthcare as a Universal Right Over the course of 8 years the conversation about healthcare has changed considerably with the talk beginning with how other countries were running their healthcare, and who was successful, to how can the United States fix or repeal the universal healthcare program The Patient Protection and Affordable Healthcare Act (ACA). The conversation about how to improve the system while also lowering costs has been the focus recently, when previously the dialogue was centered around healthcare being a right for all citizens. Healthcare is a universal right and lowering the overall cost is achievable without having to sacrificing the quality of the care received. The cost of healthcare is the biggest talking point as both government and private citizen are affected. The United States had the highest average healthcare cost per person, roughly $8,000 in 2008 and $9,695 in 2014, and that was before the implementation of The ACA (Sherman, 34) (Jost and Pollack, 547). Within the American system there are issues with poor management and miscommunication that add to the growing cost of hospitals, doctors, nurses, and ultimately healthcare costs (Sherman, 34). Reducing the excessive, and overlooked, spending would drastically lower the cost almost immediately. The ACA, in just seven years, has lived up to more of its promises, with minimal side effects, than the systems of other countries. Any new system, even the structure of an entire democracy, takes foreign perspectives or examples to act as a guideline to avoid similar mistakes. An example is the healthcare systems of Switzerland and Singapore. Both countries offer universal healthcare, have strikingly similar Student 2 average life expectancies, and have similar gross domestic products (GDP) but have distinct cost differences with their healthcare systems. Switzerland utilizes the third-party payer system which greatly reduced competition and drastically increased the waiting time for patients. Socialized coverage like moved the cost from the individual to the government where 11.4% of GDP was tied up in covering the cost of healthcare (Bessard, 16). The patients no longer pay for much of the care that they have received, which has led to the over-use of medical time and treatment and the decrease in healthy, preventative measures that ultimately become more expensive for healthcare to cover (Bessard, 17). The socialized system is not sustainable, but healthcare costs are just a quarter of due primarily to a better allocation of resources with personnel. The cost is spread throughout without placing too much of the financial burden onto one party (Bessard, 18). Singapore based their healthcare on the philosophy of and has government playing a subsidiary making the patients focus more on preventative measures because they are still responsible for a percentage of their healthcare costs (Bessard, 19). These two countries have different ways of paying with different levels of involvement by the government in covering the costs but every citizen within their borders has access to healthcare. The United States has offered healthcare as a universal right since March of 2010 in the form of The ACA but costs are still distributed unevenly. The ACA is based on the basic model that healthy people pay more in premiums because they do not incur as much in healthcare costs. Meanwhile the sick, high-risk, and elderly pay less because they do not have the means to be able to pay for the extensive and frequent medical bills that are accumulated. Those under Medicaid and Medicare are receiving their healthcare through the government and their money is not being contributed meaning half of the population spends almost nothing on healthcare Student 3 in any given (Jost and Pollack, 547). The United States has some of the highest rated patient care with minimal waiting times, but still spends the most per capita on healthcare (Jost and Pollack, 547). Healthcare is offered as a universal right, but is still too expensive for many Americans which means The ACA has partially achieved the goal it set out to do. The ACA was designed to lower the overall cost for healthcare by distributing the expenses over a broader area and having the government subsidize the difference. It offered coverage to those with a serious, and costly, medical condition to get health insurance and pay the same amount as someone considered low-risk which previously was not an option. While this does raise the overall price for someone who previously had lower premiums because of the pooling of different risk groups, it keeps the overall cost lower and allows those who previously could be rejected from coverage because of a pre-existing condition to get the same coverage for the same price (Rosenbaum and Thorpe, 534). Prices increasing by a minimal amount for a percentage of Americans is not the primary reason that healthcare is unaffordable, but rather the misuse and allocation of time, resources, and the access to healthcare. The Affordable Care Act expanded the gap and gave the poorest access to decent and affordable healthcare for the first time. More people are being covered for basic primary care which alleviates the stress from worrying about hospital visits and bills. This allows individuals to focus on other areas of their lives. This shift in focus leads to innovation and creativity, because more of the basics needs have been met. The United States still has the highest cost per person for health insurance but with tweaking of The ACA and reorganizing the health system to reduce waste and mismanagement from all levels of the system then healthcare could become truly affordable for all. The conversation about healthcare has shifted from debating if everyone Student 4 should have healthcare to finding new ways to make sure that healthcare costs lower while keeping universal healthcare for the citizens of America. Student 5 Works Cited Bessard, Pierre. of Mixed-Economy Solutions in Healthcare: The Examples of Switzerland and University of South Florida Online Database, Economic Affairs, volume 28, issue 4, 2008, pp. 16-21. Rosenbaum, Sara and Thorpe, Jane Hyatt. Affordable Care at Six: Reaching for a New University of South Florida Online Database, The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 533-537. Sherman, Peter J. the Whole University of South Florida Online Database, Quality Progress, vol. 43, issue 9, 2010, pp. 32-36, 38. Stoltzfus Jost, Timothy and Pollack, Harold A. Health Care Truly Affordable after Health Care University of South Florida Online Database, The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 546-554.