Dos Passos 1 John D. Dos Passos III Kristopher Luce ENC 1101 2/11/2017 Government Surveillance and Questions of Rights to Privacy A daunting fact that has recently been more and more on the forefront of minds is the consideration that the government could been listening in on any conversation, that anything anyone says could start being recorded at any time if a certain key phrase is used. The government has the ability to monitor people, citizens of the United States or not, anywhere, anytime, even from the pockets of every modern-living western civilian. Society has gone through quite the technological and communicational rebirth in the last twenty years, culminating in mobile devices and personal computers ceasing to be amenities and becoming integral parts of western society. University students are required to have some sort of internet access, and cellphones are almost always required for the process of obtaining employment. With this increased reliance on internet devices has followed an increase in and on westbern, and even sometimes non-western, peoples by United States government agencies, like the National Security Agency or NSA. The constitution of the United States of America protects against search and however the lines are blurred and the extent is hard to judge when this is applied to the internet and internet access, so the United States government considers this a loophole, and disregards this constitutional right when it comes to NSA surveillance. This raises the question, or series of questions: Are there moral or ethical repercussions to mass government surveillance? Are there legal ramifications? And does the government care about these concerns if there are any? Barnett, Randy. the NSA Data Seizures are Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, vol. 38, no. 1, 2015, pp. Dos Passos 2 eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=a2db95b3-da84- 4d1b-af9a-1b1ca6b21a98@sessionmgr104&vid=1&hid=119. This academic essay address concerns that actions taken by the NSA and other United States government agencies regarding government surveillance is unconstitutional because it violates the fourth amendment against or unlawful search and Barnett specifically highlights actions conducted under the U.S Foreign Intelligence and Surveillance Act and the USA Patriot Act, and how he believes said actions are against the constitution and are unjust. Randy E. Barnett, holder of a Juris Doctor degree from the School of Harvard Law, is the current Carmack Waterhouse Professor of Legal Theory at the Georgetown University Law Center. He became a professor after several years of experience as a prosecutor in Chicago, and holds a large number of publications in the area of Law and Legal Theory. This essay will be a great basis for the argumentative essay in which the author will highlight that current government surveillance is immoral, unjust, and even unlawful. This article also serves wonderfully as an example of a more recent opinion of government surveillance. Best, Samuel J., and Brian S. Krueger. Conflict and Public Perceptions of Government Surveillance on the Internet: An Experiment of Online Search of Information Technology & Politics, vol. 5, no. 2, 2008, pp. 212. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi:10.1080/19331680802294479. This journal piece is a study focusing on two experiments that were done using a national survey. To quote the abstract, which best describes itself as a assesses how the degree and target of conflict associated with political activities influences perceptions of Dos Passos 3 online government The study also holds data suggesting a surprising number of people were aware of government surveillance, even back in 2008. Samuel J. Best, Research Director of the Center for Survey Research and Analysis and Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Connecticut, has written and published many journal articles and books in the area of political science, as well as overseen and conducted numerus surveys as first a scholar and then a Director of Research. Dr. Brian S. Krueger, who holds a Ph.D. in political science from Notre Dame, works as a professor and chair of the Political Science Department at the University of Rhode Island and has written and helped write several articles and books in the fields of political science and government. This study will be invaluable for the next essay examining how opinions of government surveillance have changed over the last fifteen years, it provides data on a number of opinions on government surveillance from back in 2008. The study also provides a good amount of statistical data that may be able to be used to help set up an argument against government surveillance. The study specifically examined points like how participation in political partisanship or protests affected views of government surveillance. Brown, Jeremy. Tilt, Zoom: Regulating the Use of Video Surveillance of Public Berkeley Technology Law Journal, vol. 23, no. 1, pp. Applied Science & Technology Source, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ac i&AN=34157376&site=eds-live. This journal article focuses on emerging privacy concerns surrounding government use of security cameras and other monitoring devices present in public areas, something that has only increased with the presence of more advanced technologies. The study also addresses the Dos Passos 4 potential misuse of said technology by the United States Government and argues that states with individual jurisdictions are better poised to deal with these concerns than the federal government, and should do so by forming their own regulations using federal regulations as inspiration. Jeremy Brown, who graduated from the Berkeley School of Law, has experience as a Deputy Attorney General, Research Fellow and Clinical Instructor, and Legal Fellow; he has also had his work published in peer-reviewed journals such as the Berkeley Technology Law Journal. The unique opinion on government surveillance from 2000 to 2010 that this journal article also provides a will be an invaluable piece of evidence for the next assignment on how opinions on this topic has changed over the past ten to twenty years. This article also contains several good points in argument over the current use of video surveillance by police forces and the greater government that will be of great use for the argumentative essay assignment. One of the main points that this article argues is that the government should regulate the use of video surveillance by police and government organizations to only public property and areas. Cole, David D. Snowden: Regulating Technology -Aided Surveillance in the Digital Capital University Law Review, vol. 44, no. 4, 2016, pp. eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e702277d-9815- 4c92-a492-d28ffe4f8e03%40sessionmgr4010&vid=1&hid=4203. This academic article speaks of the vast presence of technological surveillance in a post- Snowden-reveal America and the current regulation of such surveillance, which is clearly lacking and the effect it might have on the American people. The article goes on to inform the reader of the known facts surrounding the issue, actually backing up a number of points that were brought up and used by Snowden, and the recent movie about him, providing a number of sources and evidence to back up his position. Dos Passos 5 David D. Cole, who holds the prestigious degree of Juris Doctor from the Yale School of Law, is currently a professor of national security, criminal justice, and constitutional law at the Georgetown University Law Center. This is one of his many works to be published in a law journal, alongside a number of popular press and book publications. I intend to use this article to establish a well-backed basis of the number of ways of the United States government already periodically has been conducting on its citizens, and non-citizens alike, for years. Effectively providing a sourced defense of the claims of Snowden, of which I can neither cite the person nor the movie, as neither are academically reliable sources. main argument is based on highlighting the current misuse of power and warrantless (surveillance) searches being conducted by the National Security Agency, and how the NSA uses the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, or FISC, to conduct secret, closed-door, and ultimately biased and one-sided proceedings to justify their actions. Franklin, Steven M. Brother Is Watching You: Government Surveillance Through Cell-Site Information and the Fourth Attempt to Stop Wake Forest Law Review, vol. 51, no. 2, 2016, pp. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=7a3bc74d-c6c4- 4a73-aab7-60edab2c168a%40sessionmgr104&vid=1&hid=114. This article discusses what the author refers to as warrantless procurement of cell site location and whether or not these actions are unconstitutional, specifically relating to the United Sates 4 th Circuit Court of Appeals and the difference in opinions amongst American appellate courts. Franklin M. Steven wrote this article while he was a graduate student at the Wake Forest University of Law, where he recently graduated Juris Doctor only just last year. The article was Dos Passos 6 published in the Wake Forest Law Review as a student publication. This article provides another dimension for the argumentative paper due at the end of the semester. Seeing as evidence has already been accumulated that focuses on video and audio surveillance and searches, location surveillance will help add more depth to the argument and articulate just how deep the rabbit hole of mass government surveillance goes. Severson, Daniel. Surveillance of Non-U.S. Persons: Why New Privacy Protections Offer Only Cosmetic Harvard International Law Journal, vol. 56, no. 2, 2015, pp. eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=2e9980b5-211e- 4a9c-b48a-070fa8375ca0%40sessionmgr4006&vid=1&hid=4210 This article is similar to the one written by David D. Cole, only newer and slightly more focused. Its main focus being that despite recent claims of surveillance reform and new policies being written, especially during the Obama administration, very little has actually changed with how the NSA and other government organization treat and use mass surveillance, claiming that the recent changes are almost completely aesthetic ones. Daniel Severson is currently pursuing a joint Juris Doctor/Masters of Public Policy at Harvard, currently residing as the Editor-in-Chief of the Harvard International Law Journal, in which this article was originally published. This will help discuss the final part of the research questions presented: the government even care about these concerns if there are for it elaborates on how the government is aware in the distrust and approval of United States Citizens, but have done little to address or reform these criticisms.