Popescu 1 Thomas Popescu Emil Smith ENC 1101 1/29/2017 Art Therapy: How will Communication Function Communication is an aspect that we all take for granted. Some people throughout the world have the ability to communicate as easily with people because of how their brains function and how they were born. Some people that fall in this group are children that are on the autism spectrum. For them communication is more difficult then the majority of people. Simple things like learning, talking, and just looking at a person from them is a daily challenge. For children with autism communicating with other people is challenging since some side effects are shyness, wanting to be by themselves, and in general not talking to other people. Furthermore, there are other effects that can fall on a more intense side or a less intense side on the communication scale for them. Because of all of these behavioral characteristics that autistic children go though there are multiple ways of helping them from counseling to therapy as well as special education to possibly change the idea and behavioral function of children as well as how they function with other people. So how does art therapy affect autistic children in communication? Celine Schweizer, Erik J. Knorth, Marinus Spreen. (2014, October 23). The Arts in Psychotherapy. Retrieved from http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aip.2014.10.009 Popescu 2 This source talks about the idea of forming what can work with art therapy. They are giving a planned out report of what they research and what could work in art therapy. The idea that what they have been researching and planning could help children in this disorder understand and figure out communication skills with other humans as well as writing skills. The authors are also stating that with this research, they will be showing the readers that with art therapy children will be gaining skills in human interactions with communication, social behavior, and attention abilities. The purpose of picking this source was because it gave a really good general description of my research question. It talks about every aspect of communication and autistic aspect that I want to talk about in my paper. It gives the opportunity to be ambiguous to the effects and give more of a background ideal. Making it a perfect source for a research question. The credibility also stands because it is peer reviewed as well as it was written by PhD and MA credited people in a university in The Netherlands. This is also offered in full text with distinct page numbers and is easily cited all good qualities to a credible source. Durrani Huma. (2014 June). Journal of Psychotherapy Integration. Retrieved from http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/a0036974 This source explains the actual experimentation process of art therapy with a child in autism. The purpose of this source is to see how a 12-year-old with autism affects with art therapy and if any of his social problems get better with the experiment. This also has the background knowledge of attachment and how it affects his social problems that follow thought with his autism. Popescu 3 Picking this source gave me the ability to have an experiment in my paper. This is a source where someone preformed an experiment to establish if art therapy has an effect with communication. This is a reliable source for my research question because it talks about the purpose of art therapy and the outcomes that will come through with it from an experimental point of view. The credibility is here because it is accredited by the American Psychological Association. As well as there is credibility is here because it is peer reviewed and that it was created between 2000 and 2017. All of these should allow me to use this as a source. Kuo, Nai-Cheng, Plavnick, Joshua B. (2015). Art Therapy: Journal of the American Art Therapy Association. Retrieved from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=12&sid=327d9648-3f38-43e8-933b- d26de83226a0%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4105&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=1 03364490&db=asu For this source, it pulls information in the format of an experiment. In this experiment using a child at the age of 3. The people preforming this experiment is using an antecedent art intervention to see how the mind and thinking changes. It shows that in the experiment the methods came out to respect the experiment. But it also states that after the engagement with art, the child was placed into a group and seemed to work with the other children. This was a single case thought and it showed that art could be a big change in the way children with autism view the world around these changes. This source is giving me a chance to out look into how young some of these kids can be. This is giving my paper more depth with the age groups that I am involving. This paper was created in 2015. It shows that this paper is up to date on any information that could have came Popescu 4 out. It is also stating that where it is coming from, is giving it a credible source because it is published as peer reviewed as well as being published into a journal that states an association. Parisian, Karen. (2015). Art Therapy: Journal of the American Art Therapy Association. Retrieved from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=22&sid=327d9648-3f38- 43e8-933b- d26de83226a0%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4105&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=1 08952377&db=asu This source is talking about a Filipino teenager and his ability to find his identity. This teenager has autism and they are trying to see if they can find a way. The teenager is put under art therapy treatment to allow himself to think normally and interact with other people easier than before. It states that it is very therapeutic, and that it is allowing him to think more normally or the way that it is socially acceptable to him to react in the sense of communication towards other people This source is just like the last one I posted given the idea that they are form the same Journal. They are written by different people so it is given a different sense of writing. A different voice. The credibility still comes from the date and where it is posted since it is peer reviewed and given to the sense of education in the idea of an experiment. As well as it has been published and can be traced for correction. Trimingham, Melissa. (2010). Journal of Applied Arts and Health; Vol. 1 Issue 3, p251-265, 15p Retrieved from http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d8860959-1cec- 45ec-a716-8d679bfefd79%40sessionmgr103&vid=9&hid=103 Popescu 5 This source is different then the other ones since this specifically using art but an art object. The object is a puppet and it is being used as a surrogate communicator and facilitator with children. The writer depicts that the puppet allows the children to communicate with the outside world through a barrier hence the puppet. Stated by the writer art and creativity activities that provide a bridge between the inner world that we totally control and the external world, which we do not. Such activities are linked to a creative of mind and are psychologically necessary. Puppets operate in this The puppet is allowing the child through creativity and artistic attributes of the puppet to communicate with people in the real world outside of his brain. Focusing on the psychological aspect of the puppet and the affect is having on the children and their communication skills. Using puppets may not be art therapy in the way we think of normal art, but the puppets use performing arts instead of visual art. This is allowing the use of art and psychology to connect with a child and allow the child to communicate with other people. Melissa Trimingham is a Senior Lecturer at the University of Kent in Drama and Theatre. She assists the PhD students in their research at the university as well as doing research herself. She investigates drama interventions with autistic children, using light, sound, puppetry, masks and digital media. Some of her current research contests as the art/science divide, cognitive approaches to scenography, puppets and as well as many others. Seeing the research that is being done there is good correlation to the research question. Epp, Kathleen Marie. (2008). Children & Schools; Vol. 30 Issue 1, p27-36, 10p Retrieved from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=7c3728d6-e6e1-4021- 9454- Popescu 6 bb504b5d12b6%40sessionmgr4008&vid=15&hid=4213&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU% 3d#AN=508032852&db=eue The source depicts children ages 11 through 18. They are going to use art therapy and cognitive behavioral techniques. This is showing the actual background of the psychological group therapy. This showing the caring affects so much. This is showing the scientific background of the autism spectrum. This shows the in assertion scores, coupled with decreased internalizing behaviors, hyperactivity scores, and problem behavior scores in So this as a source is going to show the observation aspects of the topic of autism and if art therapy is a good affecter. This source is credible because of the person that wrote the article. She is known on the internet for writing multiple papers on the topic of autism. Many of her papers are found on autism sites as well as the way most of her papers are written. For the article that is being used the way it is written is in the aspect of a research paper. There was all of the aspects ranging from methods to observation to a research group. There much on the education aspect of her but she does work with the National Association of Social Workers.