Andraos Michael Andraos Professor Luce ENC 1101 2/27/2017 Physician Assisted Suicide and America Physician Assisted Suicide (PAS) is the practice of active euthanasia through a licensed physician by being prescribed a lethal dose of medication for a patient who is terminally ill: six or less months to live. The debate whether PAS should be legal across the United States has been ongoing for decades now. Many argue that it is an undeniable right for an individual to be in control of their life. Another point is the complications of keeping the prescribed lethal doses from being abused, and progress through a slippery slope. To set a standard as to who can request PAS is to compare two lives, which is severely difficult. This is perfectly represented when physicians deny PAS for those who suffer, but are not conscious of their decisions, such as a patient afflicted with late stage Even through a third party, the patient would not be able to request PAS because of his lack of consciousness. Although this is a complicated problem to solve, at least the problem has been identified. In 1997, when PAS was first legally established in Oregon, almost no one had considered the thoughts of people who have illnesses that proved to be a burden in their day-to- day life. Today, support for PAS being available to those who suffer, but are not terminally ill, has greatly increased in states not only where it is legal, but across the nation. Claire Andre and Manuel Vasquez exemplified this concern with PAS through there examples of a senile woman and a severely handicapped baby. Both suffer greatly, but are unable to speak for themselves. It is important that we can give everyone the option to Physician Assisted Suicide because in the case where an individual suffers, but cannot speak for themselves, they continue to live in agony. Andraos A duty should be to truly promote the well-being of the patient, and PAS could very well be that option. The more PAS is available around the country; the more likely abuse of the practice is to emerge. When Oregon was in the process of passing the Death with Dignity act, the focus of PAS was whether it was an ethical practice. Now that PAS is legal, in multiple states even, the spotlight is on the potential wrongdoing an individual might commit if the prescribed lethal doses are abused. Patients can abuse the prescription by requesting it, and then changing their mind after they have acquired the lethal medication, ultimately allowing them to keep a weapon. This may not seem as alarming if in the hands of a mentally sane individual, but what if it is in the hands of someone who is not? The more people can request PAS, the more likely corruption may occur in regards to the lethal doses of medication being redistributed improperly. Abuse from the side could be that there is less motivation to keep a patient healthy, and therefore urge PAS excessively. To conclude, Physician Assisted Suicide is the practice where a physician prescribes a lethal dose of medication to a terminally ill patient. It is believed that people should be allowed to request PAS because an life is sacred to them and them only, making it their right to determine if it should end through PAS. However, it is frightful to think that if PAS becomes widely accessible, then it will fall in the hands of corruption, twisting its intended use for another that is harmful. But, if an effective course of action without detrimental faults is created where PAS is available to the majority of people in the United States, then it can prove to be beneficial to the world even. Some illnesses have no cure, and rather than being fatal, only decrease longevity. This not only poses discomfort to the patient over an extended amount of time, but those who share affairs with the patient, whether it be family or friends, also must deal with their discomfort through pity and sorrow. PAS can prove to be beneficial to Andraos both the patient and individuals who share a relationship with the patient in this case by relieving the patient from suffering, while also allowing those close to the patient to remember him or her through a positive light.