Christopher Boucher1 Many people are concerned about what is being put into the air. Greenhouse gases are a primary concern to many, and a popular one is carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is released in abundance during the burning of fossil fuels, especially coal. This brings up two groups. The first of which is Peabody Energy, a major coal mining and supplier of energy. The second is the NRDC (the Natural Resource Defense Council), a major environmental group. The first group contributes to higher levels of CO2, while the second is not too keen on those activities. Algae farming could be a profitable and environmentally friendly solution to this situation. Peabody Energy, according to their website, the largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in sustainable mining, energy access and clean coal Basically, what they do is mine coal and supply it as well as use it to generate power. They are business so of course a main concern in everything they do is profits, and rightly so. After all, bills need to get paid and money grow on trees.. When it is possible and not detrimental to their business though, they do try to give back, so to speak, and help the environment. They are particularly proud of their techniques in utilizing coal to produce energy. Under the advanced coal and next generation technologies section on their website the tell of how they high-efficiency, low emissions (HELE) coal-fueled generation technologies to drive down carbon dioxide (CO2) levels and regulated emission In the article Cleaning Up Coal Power, by Amanda Saint, the clean coal technology of HELE was discussed. A note was made of how it could greenhouse gas emissions from the entire power sector by around 20 per The fact that Peabody is making use of this show how advanced they are and their desire to improve themselves. The NRDC (the Natural Resource Defense Council), is an environmental group whose website states they have over two million members and online activists. Their About us tells of how they the rights of all people to the air, the water, and the This group wants to get rid of fossil fuels altogether, and make them obsolete. Their reasoning is simple, pollution is harmful to the environment as well as humans. In Frederica article, Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change, prospective study of almost 2,000 schoolchildren found that children exposed to higher levels of air pollution, including NO2 and PM2.5, had significantly lower lung function growth at 18 years of age, an age when the lungs are nearly mature and lung function deficits are unlikely to be And that was just one of many adverse effects to people. They often get quite active, such as how they advocated for cutting the carbon pollution that power plants are allowed by law to make. Furthermore, in their Our Work section, they tell how they also develop clean energy finance tools. These two stakeholders oppose each other on the surface. To be fair, the United States, coal and natural gas are the biggest contributors to carbon pollution (one-third of all domestic carbon Frederica). This exactly get Peabody Energy, a major coal producer, on the pollution hating good side. However, both want to limit adverse effects to the environment. For example, under Peabody at a Glance in their About us, they tell of how they, 4,716 acres of mined lands into rangeland, wildlife habitat, hardwood forests, prime farmland and wetlands. In addition, the company planted approximately 442,000 That shows that they would like to form a better future and given the right opportunities would readily embrace techniques to lessen their effect on their environment, which despite leading in clean coal solutions a sizable effect they still have. Christopher Boucher2 A solution for the carbon dioxide problem is for Peabody Energy to implement algae farming. The paper Macroalgae and microalgae as a potential source for commercial applications along with biofuels production: A biorefinery approach by T. Suganya and others, tells of how algae farming and then using algae as a biofuel is greatly beneficial. For one, during the algae cultivation it actually reduces the CO2 levels in the surroundings, thus setting the farms up next to a power plant would be wise. For another, unlike many prospective biofuels this does not us substances that could be utilized for food. If Peabody Energy put money into and went into development with algae farming, they would be reducing their carbon foot print and making biofuel which they could also sell and make a profit on. Especially looking at the fact that coal, like all fossil fuels is only going to become harder to find, starting research into alternative energy sources such as biofuels is very important. Though according to the earlier paper the algae biofuel does cost more than it is currently worth, the possibility for future profit is still there. Of course, they should not have to do all the research themselves. The NRDC desires a cleaner world so they should be able to put some time and money into researching this energy source. The fact that Exxon Mobil is currently doing research into the very subject, as seen on their website under advanced biofuels, gives all the more incentive to take this path. In all there is the two stakeholders. Peabody Energy, a corporation whose business has a byproduct of pollution and the NRDC who seek to save the planet. Both have the similar desire to not ruin the environment. With work and dedication from both in the pursuit of the utilization of algae biofuel, they can fulfill that desire without ruining themselves. http://corporate.exxonmobil.com/en/energy/research-and-development/advanced-biofuels/advanced- biofuels-overview#global-websites https://www.nrdc.org/ http://www.peabodyenergy.com/ Suganya, T., Varman, M., Masjuki, H.H., Renganathan, S. Macroalgae and microalgae as a potential source for commercial applications along with biofuels production: A biorefinery approach. Elsevier Ltd, Mach 2016. Web Perera, Frederica. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change. Environmental Health Perspectives. Feb2017, Vol. 125 Issue 2, p141-148. Web Saint, Amanda. CLEANING UP COAL POWER. Engineering & Technology (17509637); Nov2015, Vol. 10 Issue 10, p50-52. Web