Lopez 1 Adela Lopez Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 4 March 2017 Is Prison Time Based on a Convicts Profile? Many ask why the physical description of a person determines the amount of time they receive in prison. People tend to view something on the news and just feel ashamed to know that there are terrible people in this world that can commit all sorts of crimes including; murder, rape, drug and alcohol possession and consumptions. But the trend is often overlooked, there is more discrimination involving a class, gender and specifically their race than one thought. According to the NAACP, American and Hispanics comprised 58% of all prisoners in 2008, even though African Americans and Hispanics make up approximately one quarter of the US From 2001 up until todays date there has been tremendous evolution in modern technology. This country has gone from newspapers to televisions and radio to cellphones and laptops, to display news and other content but have not since been able to correct the errors within the criminal justice system. The NAACP also states that constituted more than 80% of the people sentenced under the federal crack cocaine laws and served substantially more time in prison for drug offenses than did whites, despite that fact that more than 2/3 of crack cocaine users in the U.S. are white or Even though only about 33% of blacks consume crack cocaine compared to 66% of whites and Hispanics that also consume it 80% of those sentenced are Black. The discrimination within the criminal justice system is often over looked. There is research that goes far back into history that analyzes the issues of criminal discrimination. Between 2000-2011 and 2012-2017 the only difference has been the awareness Lopez 2 and the different approaches this subject has had. Although it seem as much it is actually larger than it appears to be. The shift in the research and the shift in the argument has increased within the past two decades. Between the years of 2001 and 2011 there has been a numerous amount of research and scholarly articles that have been published revolving the case of discrimination within the criminal justice system. In 2006 an article by Fernando Rodriguez was published exclusively focused on the gender role within this act. Fernando found that women will tend to receive a lighter punishment compared to that of a man studies find that females benefit from their Women are too often seen as the victims of a crime involving a man. Even though depending on the situation the women may be just as or more at fault than the male involved. The court would look into the case only to determine that the female will be given a lighter punishment compared to the male. Whether that be that she gets put on probation and he gets a year in prison or they both get prison time but she would still get a smaller time. In 2011 Michael Tonry published a booked focused on the phenomenon that the physical profile of a person can to often lead to prison time. Michael Tonry stated that, not from racial differences in crime or drug use but primarily from drug and crime control policies that disproportionately affect black Michael Tonry was the beginning of the change between 2001-2011 and 2012-2017. His book was published six years ago from today, but it still speaks on the controversial topic of discrimination involving crime. Just last year there were numerous cases involving police brutality, and how they have been targeting blacks. But six years ago before Michael Tonry also wrote, are much more likely than whites to be stopped by the police, arrested, prosecuted, convicted, and imprisoned, and are much less likely to have confidence in justice system officials, especially the It is amazing how Lopez 3 something that this author saw years ago if fundamentally important today. It is very true to what has been portrayed in the media lately and it was just the ending of the first decade between 2001-2017. Just looking at the time in between 2012-2017 there has been an outstanding higher number of media influence. Social Media is currently the biggest way people are spreading news and revolutionizing the way others think and see injustice. In 2012 just a year later there was a shift in the way things were interpreted. Sonja Starr published Gender Disparity in Federal Crime Sonja Starr has done intense research at the University of Michigan Law, she states may help-a lot-to be a At this time more and people are aware of the that are being seen within the justice system. More men compared to women are seen convicted to longer terms. Women are too often seen as weak and unstable, and then their crime is not really the focus of the sentence. The ruling looks to maintain their well-being or are often found looking for an excuse to penalize them with minimal punishment. Just by looking on twitter you find tons of minute long videos explaining the inequality suffered and those videos go viral getting up to millions of views within its first 24 hours of being posted. Something that get done before. Just last year Richard Biersbach published his article called Wrong with Sentence taking it back to the Warren Court, a system of procedures that was created to be followed when dealing with criminals. This set of procedures was established long before 2001 to terminate all unethical and racial treatments towards criminals. According to this it is unethical for someone to see that the convict is a white female and thinks that she deserves a lesser punishment. The difference is that this article poses the question of what is wrong, this article was published within our recent time with the support everyone who has been able to speak up because of social media and argue that it is wrong to profile anyone based on Lopez 4 their physical look. This author felt the need to take a look back and ask why the criminal justice system is making errors that should be there. Although this is a controversial topic that has not gotten much change the outlook and the way it has been spread has definitely been the biggest difference. Time has allowed researchers to spread their findings a lot faster. The development of technology has been the commentator giving topics similar to this more attention allowing there to be a path built for change in the system.