Gabriela Shephard Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 3 March 2017 Children with special needs struggle with fully engaging in social and behavioral aspects in the world today, therefore research on music therapy has significantly increased and has been considered to be a common treatment for children in this area. Music therapy is a type of therapeutic practice that benefits children specifically with disabilities and disorders. Although music therapy has not always been the most renowned form of therapeutic procedure until more recently, according to the more current research and the exposure of this practice it has been commonly defined as one of the most desired types of therapy because of the positive effect on children with disabilities and disorders. Research has been opened up and broadened towards children with autism, emotional and behavioral disorders, and learning disabilities. According to research, in 2006 there was not a great deal of information on treatments for children with emotional and behavioral disorders (EBD) (Sausser 1). The investigation concerning music therapy has been fairly consistent and has not claimed to have any arguments contradicting the benefits and results of music therapy on children with special needs, however the ideas have been expanded and researched further in the past few years. In the research done between 2000 and 2010, one of the methods in which music therapy was determined to be beneficial was mostly done by experiments and testing. Research was conducted through studies and in these sources, it utilized a control group and an experimental group to verify the end result of music therapy, a program was created for the music therapist to use. The authors of model for music therapy with students with emotional and behavioral Shannon Sausser and Raymond Waller, discuss the study completed to analyze the advantages of music therapy and its effects on EBD children. They said with EBD receive a variety of diagnoses, including schizophrenia, depression, anxiety disorders, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorders, autism, or other sustained disturbances in Because Sausser and Waller mentioned EBD in various forms, it contributes to the evidence that music therapy has been reached to children with these diagnoses and how music therapy was beginning to develop. In this article the authors also conversed about a curriculum for children with EBD. They created a model for the music therapist to follow for the sessions done with the students. The strategy used to receive the outcomes of children and music therapy was said to be the organized technique in performing music therapy for children with EBD. Likewise, in Jinah article motivational and interpersonal responsiveness of children with autism in improvisational music the study compared children with autism engaging in an improvisational music therapy session versus a session of playing with toys. The authors explained the importance of the results between the two sessions and discussed the reasons as to why the music therapy session was more popular. These two articles exchanged similar ideas on conducting studies related to children being exposed to music therapy and the outcomes. The results in both pieces also gave confirmation on the effectiveness of music therapy and gave details on the approach of music therapy and impact on children. The research following 2010 has made music therapy grow noticeably and the methods used to determine music affect on children has expanded vastly. According to research, the responses towards music therapy have been very diverse and authors discuss the responses received after sessions in music therapy at the present. According to author Fulvia Anca Constantin, children portray emotional responses and develop new feelings because of the influence music has on them. The text says, both communicates and induces emotions thought various characteristics: tempo, melody, intensity or sound quality. It is only one of the benefits of engaging with (Constantin). This passage contributes to the conversation about what music therapy does and how this is evidence of its functions. The author continues to mention the emotions the children portray and how it is clear that music has an effect on them. This article supports the idea of music therapy benefiting children with special needs and the how its manifestation has increased over time. In another article from 2015, therapy: an approach in improving social skills of children with the writer maintains the conversation of music therapy and children specifically with autism to retain the concept of music therapy and its unchanged system. Ghasemtabar talks about conducting an experiment, as well as mentioning the control of emotions of autistic children and encouraging verbal and nonverbal communication. Both studies prove to have stayed consistent because they have always used experiments and tests to determine the effect of music therapy, but more recently they visibly see the results through the children, the treatments promote new emotions and social behaviors, and experimenters solely rely on test results and scores. The scholarly views of the research done on music therapy have not been altered greatly throughout the years, yet music therapy was not seriously investigated until after 2010. Music therapy was not a fully recognized form of therapy, however with more research and new information, researchers say the performing of this practice is now used more commonly and is known to be an affective one. Research used to be conducted with studies and experiments to determine the success of music therapy but more recently they observe the children and how they portray new emotions instead of only relying on a test or an experiment. The conversations on music therapy and its effect on children with disabilities and disorders have not changed significantly, merely the way research was conducted was openly accepted and a new perspective on how to study children and the results became more advanced.