Sutton 1 Brandon Sutton Mrs. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 6 March 2017 Gun Control Conversation On the news and on social media, people constantly bring up mass murders and gun control laws. It is a highly controversial topic in American society today. The gun laws in America are lax in comparison to gun laws worldwide it According to these reliable sources that have been discovered, the conversation about guns ebbs and flows following mass shootings and gun violence seen towards people of Additionally, violent crime in big cities tends to be an issue. The issue in government is always split. The Republican Party defends the right to bear arms set by the Second Amendment of the Constitution, while the Democratic Party favors more gun regulation. In fact, according to a journal article, there was a shocking statistic about guns in America. In handguns were used in 60% of all (Bogus 441-82). This would be a good reason to call for more handgun control, and thus swing the conversation toward the ideology of the Democratic Party. conversation about gun control consistently changes, based on the aftermaths of murders of people of color by the police, or mass shootings. The conversation regarding gun violence is a very divided subject, and people get very heated discussing the matter, as it is not the easiest topic to discuss amongst people of different political backgrounds. Some people vehemently hate the idea of guns in their current state, widespread and seemingly very easy to access. However, there are some people disagree with a passion, and believe that guns should be easily accessible. Following mass shootings and Sutton 2 violence against people of color, the liberal side of the government has its point proven that there might need to be some sort of gun reform in the United States of America. After mass shootings, people are afraid and tend to tighten up on security due to fear. For example, the Orlando shooting might have been a point in time where people would tighten up security, especially for music and LGBTQ+ events. However, both sides need to come to a happy medium, and resolve the issue in order to prevent lives to be lost because of a gun-related incident, be it suicide, homicide, or any other form of killing. This might be something to consider, in an unbiased opinion as well. America, just according to a source, might have a gun issue. Despite having than five percent of the the country is infamous for having half of the (Collier 102-31). This statistic, like the previous one, is very shocking and very alarming, this one in regards to the guns per capita in America. The United States appears, solely according to this article, to have many more guns than necessary. However, another source disagrees with this theory. This survey was taken at a Southern university, so the answers might be more skewed towards the more conservative and gun-promoting agenda. According to this survey, which asked questions about what people thought about gun control laws, most people who oppose these laws are criminal justice majors, people who own guns, people who have experience with guns, and residents in rural (Payne, Reidel 314). This proves that there are differing and equally important opinions on this very important topic. This conversation changes erratically depending upon who is speaking, and how long after an incident involving a gun occurs, a crucial point. In conclusion, the conversation about control in American society ebbs and flows, depending on the time. Mass shootings, statistics about gun violence in cities, and political parties all help Sutton 3 determine a specific opinion on the controversial topic of gun control. Usually, left leaning people tend to be more favorable about gun control, while right-leaning people tend to crave more lax gun control laws, in congruence with defending the Second Amendment. Some influential people in government have large control in regards to gun laws, and how they are regulated. For instance, the late Supreme Justice Antonin Scalia had very strong opinions against gun control. In fact, his opinion a solid presentation of textual arguments and historical evidence for interpreting the Second Amendment broadly to protect non-military use of (Rostron, 383-418). Basically, what this article says is that late Justice Scalia believes that there is historical evidence surrounding the Second Amendment of the Constitution. It appears that Americans are very hung up on this issue and need to come to some agreement, so there can be less chaos and less unrest on either side of mainstream American politics. The people within the nation rarely agree on most topics, be it about social issues or about governmental issues. The people need to agree, or issues in the country will never, and at this point in time, with the people in government, both sides will not ever reach satisfaction. Sutton 4 History of Gun Control Conversation I. Introduction A. Conversation B. A lot of gun violence C. in handguns were used in 60% of all (Bogus 441-82) D. Statistic- handgun violence E. Handgun violence in cities- problematic F. Republican Party/Democratic Party split G. Topic and conversation constantly changes Thesis: According to my sources, the conversation about gun control is constantly following mass shootings and acts of gun violence against people of color. II. Gun Issue A. Too many guns according to some B. Other people believe that guns are a non-issue C. Liberals believe there should be more gun control D. Both sides of the aisle need an agreement E. Safety of the nation F. Following Orlando shooting, possible more coverage G. America has than five percent of the population and nearly half of the 102-31) H. Proves the gun control issue I. After major shootings, people tighten up Sutton 5 J. However, always differing opinions K. The conversation ebbs and flows III. A Differing Opinion A. Most people who oppose the gun control laws are criminal justice majors, people who own guns, people who have experience with guns, and residents in rural (Payne, Reidel 314) B. The conversation ebbs and flows IV. Conclusion In conclusion, the conversation about gun control ebbs and flows depending upon the situation and timing in American culture A. Not much stability in regards to this topic B. Shape opinions on gun control 1. Mass shootings 2. Statistics about gun violence in cities 3. Political affiliation C. Much controversy from liberal/conservative standpoints D. Liberals- more pro-gun control E. Conservatives- less pro-gun control F. Some governmental people like Justice a solid presentation of textual arguments and historical evidence for interpreting the Second Amendment broadly to protect non-military use of (Rostron, 383-418). G. Historical evidence behind Second Amendment Sutton 6 Works Cited Bogus, Carl T. Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  Government Law Review 1.2 (2008): 441-482. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Collier, Charles W. The Death Of Gun Control: An American  Inquiry 41.1 (2014): 102-131. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Payne, Brian K., and Riedel Jr., Robert Gun Control Attitudes And The Criminal Justice Student: Do Differences  Student Journal 36.2 (2002): 314. Source . Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Rostron, Allen. Gun Rights and Improving Gun Control after District of Columbia v. & Clark Law Review 13.2 (2009): 383-418. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017.