Corrinne Warnke Ashley Tisdale Composition 1 1 March 2017 Nudity in Art Michelangelo is a famous artists that many people respect, but due to the fact that much of his art shows figures in the nude it has been constantly censored and controversial because of the forms he depicts. Artists have been censored all throughout history, especially when the artwork is dealing with nudity. The idea of nudity in art still remains very controversial today and the debate continues on whether it should or should not be censored with the majority of people still viewing it as something that should still be censored. Since the the views towards nudity in art have not changed significantly due to our mindsets in dealing with nudity and the idea that it is inappropriate. Also nudity in art is controversial depending on the style of the artwork depicted because the viewer may not be familiar with the style, therefore they become uncomfortable. However some people argue nudity in art should be allowed because it is more a matter of free speech rather than something they deem inappropriate. Many first instinct when they think of art dealing with the subject matter of nudity is that nudity in art is inappropriate due to younger viewers seeing the images and the sexualization of the human body through pornography. Many authors believe that nudity in art be problematic such as with this quote people go to art museums they expect to see the female nude. The female body presented in classical art is not expected to give way to arousal or (Eck, p.618). This shows that people believe nudity in art is not supposed to cause arousal, however depending on the age of the viewer and our societies over sexualization of the human form these images may cause arousal causing viewers to view these images as inappropriate. Also many people believe nudity in art has always been a significant problem, nude in art has always been, unsurprisingly, a problematic signifier. Its evident lack of concealment made it an obvious choice for the iconographic representation of 57). According to Lilley, despite its ability eloquently to represent a wide variety of concepts, the discourse of sex has never been far from the surface of its (Lilley, p.57). This shows that many people are uncomfortable with nudity in art because the idea of sex seems to never be far from the surface of the ideas of the images. Therefore, nudity in art has always seemed to cause some discomfort due to naked image seeming inappropriate based on age or mindset of the viewer and causing arousal which also make people uncomfortable. This leads us to the idea that nudity in art is innapropriate. Another reason many people view nudity in art as inappropriate is due to the shift in cultural styles when dealing with images of nudity, which causes people to be viewing an image they feel is not in their frame of reference when dealing with art that contains nudity causing them to become uncomfortable. Many authors feel that their art may be considered innapropriate due to a shift in culture, like   and  were not uncommon when White writers described and interpreted African American art. These works were typically described as a feeble attempt to emulate White art or as primitive (Bey, Naked Bodies and Nasty Pictures: Decoding Sex Scripts in Preadolescence,Re-examining Normative Nudity through Art Education.). This shows that as these artists were trying to return to their cultural roots, their artwork that contained nudity were scrutinized and deemed inappropriate just because they follow traditions of european art that contained nudity. This authors arguement that their art is not innapropriate due to a shift in culture helps lead us to the idea that nudity in art is an aspect of freedom of speech. However the discussion on nudity in art is slowly shifting because many people view the idea of nudity in art as an aspect of freedom of speech. Due to this many people believe that nudity in art should not be censored because it is a basic right for people in many countries to have freedom of speech. Major social media platforms often have guidelines for what can and cannot be posted, but due to the freedom of speech these guidelines have been challenged. This is shown in a court case, can be sued in France for removing a account after he posted an image of a 19th-century painting of a genitalia, a Paris court has (Beale, in Landmark Censorship Case after Banning French User Who Posted Naked This shows the shifting idea that nudity in artwork is an aspect of free speech and therefore cannot be censored without consequences. This challenges many peoples ideas on whether it should be censored or that it is innapropriate because they also often believe in free speech as well. In conclusion our views of nudity in art have not changed significantly since the due to the idea that nudity is inappropriate and the idea that people are uncomfortable when the images are painted in a different style from cultures they are not familiar with and therefore they deem the images However, there is hope that these views will shift as people assert that is their right to display these images due to freedom of speech and due to this nudity in art will be a more acceoted form of expression Beale, Charlotte. Facebook in Landmark Censorship Case after Banning French User Who Posted Naked  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 13 Feb. 2016. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/facebook-faces-trial-in-france-over- nudity-censorship-case-a6871791.html Bey, Sharif. Naked Bodies and Nasty Pictures: Decoding Sex Scripts in Preadolescence, Re-examining Normative Nudity through Art  Studies In Art Education 52.3 (2011): 196-212. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Eck, Beth A. Nudity and Framing: Classifying Art, Pornography, Information, and Sociological Forum 16.4 (2001): 603-32. JSTOR Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Lilley, Ed. Art, Fashion, and the Nude: A Nineteenth-century  Fashion Theory: The Journal of Dress, Body & Culture 5.1 (2001): 57-77. Art, Fashion, and the Nude: A Nineteenth-century Realignment. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.