Jean Royce Gatdula Gatdula 1 Professor Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102.011 29 January 2017 Job Perspective: Universities vs. Community and Technical Colleges In the advent of education, humankind struggled to find a standardized way of introducing new information to the people. However, in the current generation, it was socially constructed that children and adolescents were to attend schools, universities and other educational institutions. People are incentivized by the society to work hard and work smart in hopes of being offered the job they have always dreamt of. But the question is, do people actually learn skills that qualify them to perform a demanding job by sitting in a four-cornered classroom and learning about the theory of the process? Or is it better to focus more on performing the technical process rather than studying it? Organizations like the American Association of Community Colleges (AACC) advocates students to study in community and technical colleges as opposed to studying in a university (Association of Community Colleges (AACC)). On the other hand, Association of American Universities (AAU) encourages students to pursue degrees in research intensive universities because the institution believes that research, along with high academic proficiency, can transform students into the future leaders of tomorrow (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). At first, it may seem that they have no common ground when it comes to educational goals. However both of them are interested in new opportunities for professional development and exploring partnerships for monitoring about the impact of social, technological, and economic trends on college curricula (AACC, A Better Nourished Tomorrow). This is a workable compromise since not only are they both benefiting from the compromise but Gatdula 2 they are also preparing students to the world outside the college bubble by exposing them to high academic feats and rigorous training. The American Association of Community Colleges (AACC) is the primary advocacy organization for the community and technical colleges. They mentioned that they a shared commitment to the community and technical college movement and provide a national voice and advocacy for the community and technical college (AACC). The mission captures commitment to advance the recognition of the role of community colleges in serving society today. The association will play a key role in assisting the nation as it passes from the industrial era of the 20 th century to the new knowledge-based era of the 21 st century (AACC). They also promote the public recognition of the value of community colleges and the opportunities they provide. They further stated that the organization be an agile and aggressive leader promoting technical colleges as essential resources of (AACC). They believe that community colleges will be a center of workforce developers for American industries as they provide knowledge and skill sets that are the crucial determinants of career achievement (American Association of Community Colleges (AACC)). Apart from this, AACC also believes that in order to achieve their mission, they should enforce and focus greatly on its primary core values which are integrity, excellence, leadership, learning, diversity, commitment, and connectedness (AACC). However, a technical college may offer technical and work-based focus for students but the downside is that they do not provide a broader knowledge base than public universities offer like English, history, and mathematics, and humanities (University Vs. Technical College a career choice). Aside from this, according to Mandi Woodruff, a respected educational Gatdula 3 researcher, states that the social experience from both educational institutions varies greatly since universities usually offer dorms and has a richly diversified environment while technical schools are usually commuter-based in which there is very limited socialization among peers (Woodruff). In contrast to AACC, The Association of American Universities (AAU) is a nonprofit organization focuses on issues that are important to research-intensive universities, such as funding for research, research policy issues, and graduate and undergraduate education (A Better- Nourished Tomorrow). This, unlike the technical or community college, gives attention to or degree compared to an degree. They mentioned that their mission its members to collectively help shape policy for higher education, science and innovation; promote best practices in undergraduate and graduate education; and strengthen the contributions of research universities to (A Better-Nourished Tomorrow). They believe that universities continually advance society through education, research, and (A Better-Nourished Tomorrow) unlike technical schools that focus more on career- specific duties in order for a person to be labeled as a competitive contender for the job. The AAU also mentions that earn the majority of competitively awarded federal funding for academic research, and are improving human and wellbeing through research, and are educating the future visionary leaders and globally competitive In contrast with technical college, this institution states that through research and a broader academic coverage, they will be able to equip the student with a well-rounded education which enhances a ability to interact with business leaders or other major organizations. Gatdula 4 However, the discourse between public universities versus a technical college has pros and cons which reinstates whether a student should take on the technical college or the traditional university experience. According to Elise Freeman, a writer and researcher in psychology and has also worked with the leasing researchers of the nation, that if an individual is still searching his or her career path, a university is a great option because the first two years are a variety of disciplines which will aid this person in the decision whether to choose a career path or not. She also mentions that a person is certain on what path he/she will choose, he/she should take on a technical college because it is more career-specific oriented which will aid the person in attaining the appropriate skill set for the (Freeman). Another thing to consider is the extensive training and exposure one receives in either both of the education institutions. A university will focus more on theory instead of technical applications that a person will need to learn for the job he is aiming for whereas technical colleges will expose the person to traditional practices and technicalities that even the present-day technician or engineer encounters or performs every day. At the end of the day, it still boils down to the position and the goal of the student. The two stakeholders have not yet come to a resolution because of how the educational system is structured in the present era. In fact, according to Mandi Woodruff, an editor and a research reporter of education in Georgia, states that the variance of availability and the costs that each individual spends on higher creates an excuse for this division. For example, a working adult would rather spend two years in school for higher education or higher qualifications than spending roughly four years for practically the same thing and a student would rather go for a four year high quality university experience along with socialization, Gatdula 5 Greek life, clubs, and other interdisciplinary subjects, rather than two years of technical college with no socialization and other elements of a perceived proper college experience. In addition to this example, a person who has a low budget may resort to a technical school rather than be in debt for years after studying in a major public university for credentials. Clearly, the division is fundamentally based on time availability and the amount of money one wants to spend in his/her higher education (Woodruff). Although there are indisputable reasons why these two different educational institutions were created, there is still common ground between the two stakeholders aforementioned. In fact, vision towards education states that they require collaborations with other community college stakeholders, with university-based community college programs, as well as with other education (AACC). With this knowledge, it is not impossible that both of the stakeholders come into an agreement because both of them are interested in new opportunities for professional development and exploring partnerships for monitoring and distributing information about the impact of social, technological, and economic trends on college curricula (AACC, A Better-Nourished Tomorrow). They both aim on helping shape any policies for higher education and educate the future leaders and citizens of the world. A concrete solution that would benefit both stakeholders is to get out from the socially constructed perception of how school systems should work and turn it into something that incorporate both the ideals of a public university and the agenda of a technical school as well. By integrating these two ideals, both stakeholders will be able to showcase their strengths unto students because not only are the students learning the theory behind the actual process but they are also practicing and performing these practices that will be needed in pursuing their future Gatdula 6 careers. By devising a system where the junior and senior years in high school are already incorporated with the experience of freshman and sophomore college student, this will aid students into deciding earlier rather than later. Accompanying this, the first and second year of the actual college experience will be composed of the theories and other general disciplines associated with the career the student has chosen. The third and fourth year will consist of the exposure and training a student has in a technical school. This is to prepare them to attain all the appropriate skill sets needed to be able to be labeled as a competitive employee in their desired profession. As a conclusion, this is a workable compromise since both of the stakeholders strive to improve the higher education of all students and fulfilling this change will not only benefit one stakeholder but both of them. With the new educational system, students will be exposed to high academic feats and to the rigorous training that will prepare them to have an immediate impact in their future workplace. Works Cited A Better-Nourished  Association of American Universities. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. American Association of Community Colleges  American Association of Community Colleges (AACC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Freeman, Elise. Technical College Vs. Accredited  Education - Seattle PI. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Woodruff, Mandi. More And More Students Are Deciding To Enroll In Community  Business Insider. Business Insider, 09 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. University Vs Technical College a career  Workskillers and teacherpreneurs. N.p., 30 Mar. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.