Composition II Alex Woolley Robert Ryan 02 Feburary 17 Recently, the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has been running an anti-SeaWorld campaign focused on the alleged mistreatment of orcas that are housed there. The public protest of SeaWorld is just one in a line of many that have been run by PETA in the defense of animal rights. PETA has earned a reputation of running passionate campaigns that push the boundaries of what the public finds comfortable. This particular campaign is looking to convince the public to boycott SeaWorld by attacking the practices of the amusement park when it comes to caring for the orcas. Both images included very strong depict the message and goals. While the point comes across very clearly, the tactics used to achieve this have brought into question the credibility of the group, and may have impacted the success of the campaign negatively. PETA was founded in March 1980 by a group of animal rights activist in Rockville, Maryland that sought to improve the living conditions of animals around the world. According to the PETA website, PETA existed, there were two important things that you could do if you wanted to help animals. You could volunteer at a local animal shelter, or you could donate money to a humane society. While many of these organizations did useful work to bring comfort to animals who are used by humans, they question why we kill animals for their flesh or their skins or why we use them for tests of new product ingredients or for our (PETA 1) It did not take long for PETA to have its first major success, which came in the summer of 1981 in the Silver Spring monkey case. The group had brought under investigation the treatment of seventeen macaque monkeys that were being experimented on in Silver Spring, Maryland. From this investigation came the first raid of an animal laboratory in United States history, an amendment to the United States Animal Welfare act, as well as generating national and international interest in PETA. Since then the organization has opened offices both in the United States and around the world, as well as running successful campaigns against major corporations to oppose the abuse of animals. Some of the strategies that have been employed by the group include extensive celebrity endorsement, either through posing nude for their ad campaigns or holding the title of The group has also been known to buy stock in companies they are fighting against, in order to influence their actions directly. This is exactly what they did in the SeaWorld case, and now they can present ideas directly to the SeaWorld board of directors, which must take these ideas into consideration. PETA has come under scrutiny despite the success of their efforts, mainly because of the controversial ads the organization has run that feature nudity in their SeaWorld campaign. The first ad in question is one PETA tried to have run as billboards in the San Diego area. The group had a very difficult time finding a billboard company that would run this particular ad. Its depiction of what appears to be naked man with an inflatable orca, and the caption where grown men perform sex acts on on was viewed as offensive by many in the area. The rhetorical appeal that was most being applied by this ad was pathos, it tried to convince the audience by evoking strong emotions about SeaWorld and their practices. It did so by including the phrase are masturbated and artifically inseminated at which may have been an ineffective way to reach their target audience. This is mainly because the people being targeted by this campaign were those who are still attending SeaWorld, and of that group the largest demographic would include families with children. Families with children would most likely be made uncomfortable by the contents of the ad, and instead of having negative emotions about SeaWorld, they would view PETA in a negative light. According to San Diego marketing professor, George Belch, first reaction, I have to be honest, was, this is a little much...If an executive at one of these outdoor advertising companies, probably pass on this, especially as a big billboard on I-5 where riding with my grandson, who says, grandpa can you explain (San Diego Union Tribune 20) The message of the ad came across clearly, PETA opposes the breeding techniques that are being employed by SeaWorld; however there may have been a more appropriate method to convince the public to hold the same opinion as they do. History: Compassion In . PETA. N. p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Weisberg, Lori. PETA Targets Seaworld With Sex .sandiegouniontribune.com N. p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.