Panton1 Patrick Panton Instructor Ryan ENC1102.001 24 February 2017 Analyzing the rhetorical appeals in the advertisements of abortion. Advertisements have been used to educate, demonstrate, and represent a particular theme, that may enlighten readers. This can be demonstrated using various rhetorical appeals to demonstrate their stand. Abortion is described as the deliberate termination of pregnancy, destroying life before it is born. Various organizations have disputes over the ethical and morality of abortion. One of these organizations is Youth Defense. Youth defense is described as one of leading pro life organization. According to Carol Counter the president of Youth defense, the aim of the organization is described as Ireland abortion-free. Educating people, helping mothers, lobbying, (Counter 6). Their mission is to protect and aid life from the moment of conception. Of the four types of rhetoric appeals, Youth Defense employs the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, and logos effectively. However, the use of unsupported Kairos appeal causes the readers to doubt the claim that the advertisements demonstrated as an urgent matter, research supported this statement. In image one the use of various visual appeals was used to demonstrate the organization mission statement in convincing the audience why prolife is necessary. The advertisement is a mixture between phrases and an image to portray the point of prolife. In image one there is an Panton2 image of a fetus in a yellow, brown color displaying that the child is still in the womb which is the back ground of the image. This particular image was used to create an idea that life is manmade and any termination of mankind is an act of killing which is a federal law. The text also demonstrated this, where it states that Sean has his own finger prints. The fetus also adds to the fact that life is precious and fragile and should be taken care off. The white text used which is contrasting the image in the background is used to demonstrate the life of the child. Dealing with the future of the child and the possible outcomes. The impact that child could have on the world and various benefits. The target audience is the mothers that are thinking of going the anti-life choice. The image is used to persuade pregnant women who are indecisive about the option they have. According to Sandy Bulmer who describes the important and relevance of certain imagery to portray an advertisement point. Sandy Bulmer states use of imagery in literature to convey a point is essential in convincing the intended audience of what the advertisement is supposed to (Bulmer,9). Bulmer statement clearly depicts the relevance of the fetus in the prolife advertisement. The photo relevancy is matched with the topic of abortion. The use of these visuals has aided the advertisement in expressing the ideas through various imagery and text to depict the relevancy. Moreover, in image one the use of various rhetoric appeals was used to demonstrate the organization mission statement in convincing the audience why prolife is necessary. The use of the fetus has an emotional appeal that affects the audience where it evokes a sense of sadness. The large-scale image was used to gain the audience attention as this image is the first thing that catches the audiences eyes. The color of red that was used for the lower of the image was also used to evoke a sense importance. It helps to elude a sense of urgency of the issue. The youth defense stamp which is placed in the bottom left of the advertisement was placed to show the credibility Panton3 of the organization and helps to convey the audience that the information being displayed is reliable based on the source it is coming from. The text used which are short phrases talks about the fetus in the back ground. The text depicts the logical reasoning of the advertisement. It states the various ways that the fetus has its own personality. By naming and giving an occupation to an unborn child is alluding to the audience that the child may be able to add value to the world. This enhances the goal of the organization giving the audience the chance to understand the importance of life. Additional in image two the use of various visual appeals was used to demonstrate the organization mission statement in convincing the audience why prolife is necessary. In image two the advertisements demonstrate the necessary use of volunteers to portray their point. The advertisement is created to grasp on goers to help fight against abortion. The target audience for this advertisement is directed towards the public, this can be shown using the textual contents of the advertisement. The text demonstrates a woman presented as a normal human being by stating the like and dislike to show the public that if she can volunteer to help against abortion then anyone can help. The color variation in this advertisement demonstrates various cool colors, colors that convey a sense of calmness and empathy. The tone of the advertisement demonstrates casual conversation with the audience but at the same time relaying an important message. The visual analysis demonstrated in the advertisement correlates with the organization mission statement to enhance awareness to mothers to help reduce the abortion rate. The rhetorical appeals demonstrated in image two helps to convey the target audience into helping the cause of abortion. The credibility of the advertisement is seen in the organization stamp which is located on the bottom left hand corner. The purpose of the stamps demonstrates Panton4 that the advertisement is deemed as trust worthy. The audience is more likely to take the message from the advertisement more seriously. The logical use of text describing the life and how she can volunteer to uphold the goal of the organization is used to show the audience that an ordinary human not biased to sex can add value to the cause of prolife. The jovial woman in the background of the image impacts the audience emotions. The woman is smiling to show the target audience that volunteering is a positive benefit hence her facial expression is one of upwardly emotions. This in turn will persuade the audience into volunteering to help the cause of prolife. According to an article written by Annelies Verkerk, facial expression plays a huge role in advertisements. She states that reaction to a product in a store can tell a lot about the effectiveness of the (Verkerk 1). This quote relates to the reason why a jovial woman in image two adds value in the advertisement to convey the messaged being demonstrated. Both advertisements share common belief that prolife is the right choice. The organization uses various rhetorical appeals to enhance the views of their mission statement to spread the awareness of abortion. The advertisements were effective in the sense that they both convey reasons to help in prolife through various images and text. The use of ethos, pathos and logos effectively demonstrated the organization mission however the lack of Kairos failed to show the audience the urgency to volunteer. Concluding, advertisements may be used to demonstrate or convey a goal towards a specific audience using rhetorical appeals. Youth defense used these rhetorical appeals to persuade their target audience to help support prolife. The effective use of these appeals strengthens the advertisements as seen in image one and two. Panton5 Works cited Bulmer, Sandy Rhetoric & Global advertisements http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/citedby/10.1080/13527260500289142?scroll=top&needAccess= true. 17 August 1997. Counter, carol. defense-the cutting edge of the prolife http://www.youthdefence.ie/who-we-are/aims-and-objectives/. The Irish times. November 1997 Verkerk, Annelies. expression analysis: The future of research in advertising education and http://info.noldus.com/bid/95666/Facial-expression-analysis-the-future-of-research- in-advertising-education-and-more. 23 August 2013. Panton6 Panton7