Bearor 1 Elizabeth Bearor ENC 1102.22 Adam Phillips 26 February 2017 Opting Out of Standardized Tests: Your Options At one point or another, each and everyone of us has taken a standardized test in our schooling days. Whether it was the FCAT, SAT, or ACT we all have experienced the high amount of stress that comes along with it. State mandated standardized tests like the FCAT begin annually from a young age. Having to take tests that are made out to be one of the most important of the year can lead to an immense amount of non-beneficial stress. An organization called sets out to reduce and improve the quality of these tests. They realize the flaws within all standardized tests and attempt to release as much information as they can to those concerned with the issue. With this negative information pertaining to standardized tests, parents are encouraged to pull their kids out of these tests, commonly referred to as Every so often FairTest releases images, like image one, to try and convince viewers, mainly parents of students, of the issues with the standardized tests that students are taking every year. FairTest also releases images, like image two, to show anyone who is concerned about standardized tests how they can change the negative aspects of them. FairTest promotes opting out by using advertisements on their website, and through the use of the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, and kairos, in these two images they can educate the reader on the issues of standardized testing. FairTest is an organization that is extremely against the current state and use of standardized tests that students take annually. main goals are to improve the Bearor 2 education and equal opportunity [in public by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and (Schaeffer). That, in essence, means that FairTest believes schools should focus more on improving education rather than teaching the test that students take at the end of the school year. The organization believes that standardized tests harm schools in low income areas because the low test scores they tend to generate result in a decrease or stop in funding to public schools. On website an individual interested in their mission can sign up for an e-newsletter and for weekly news updates on everything having to do with assessment reform in places all across the country. Also, on their website there are two images in particular that explain the negatives of standardized tests and what a person can do to fight against these tests. Both of these images use rhetorical appeals, such as to support overall mission. Ethos is known as method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee and McIntyre 27). Using ethos, FairTest establishes credibility in both image 1 and 2 by giving the reader a website (www.fairtest.org) to visit for more information on the claims made in the images. Also, at the end of the website shows the viewer that FairTest is a reputable organization. In Gabe article he discusses how having a professional looking website domain, rather than an mybusiness.weebly.com or even mybusiness.blogspot.com Bearor 3 (Roleoffs), can really add to the credibility of a source. In image 1 FairTest presents some of the current issues with standardized tests and an explanation of each. This establishes credibility because FairTest constantly looks into the issues having to do with standardized tests. For example, on website there is a fact sheet that further explains the issues of these examinations, answering questions a reader may have Wrong With Standardized Image 1 also states that, are better ways to evaluate achievement and that do not have the listed negative effects that typical standardized exams possess. These alternative methods of testing coincide with mission statement. If a reader like the negative effects listed in image 1 they may be brought to image ways to fight testing Not only are some of these 8 options common ways that one may use to fight against a state or federal requirement but are also presented throughout the FairTest website. This is re-enforced by Jessica McKee & Megan McIntyre stating, is also the credibility that comes from saying or writing something that the audience already (30). This growing movement to fight against standardized tests has state and local testing policies for the better, reducing the number of tests and lowering their (Schaeffer), as stated on their page. Not just through the use of ethos but, also pathos, parents of students can examine both image 1 and 2. Pathos is appeal to emotion ... is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Lee, McKee and McIntyre 22). Bearor 4 Pathos is possibly the most present appeal in image 1. The negative facts of standardized tests presented can evoke the emotion of displeasure in anyone that is looking at image 1. This can lead the reader to not want their child to be a part of standardized tests thus, accomplishing goal of getting as many people as possible to According to Dylan Wiliams, around 10% of students are not strong test takers, leading to an inaccurate score (108). This can create a major issue with stress among these students, a point made by image 1. Some words are in red font or surrounded by a red background in image 1, that not only draws more attention to them but also evokes a stronger emotion than another, cooler, color would Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in ). The anger evoked by image 1 can lead the reader to viewing image 2, that evokes the emotion inspiration. Readers may become inspired to make a stand against standardized tests by doing a few or all 8 of the presented ways to fight against these exams. Doing so continues to support goal of getting as many people as possible to stand against standardized tests and allowing for a greater chance of reform in favor. Pathos can not be fully achieved in an image without a sense of urgency to the issues at hand. The most important part of all advertisements is for them to be relevant to the person evaluating them. Both images may not necessarily be relevant right now to people who have school age children or if the reader in school themselves. But, almost everyone has taken some sort of a standardized test and everyone can fight against the unfairness of standardized tests at anytime, as image 2 promotes. In image 2 , or the to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Wiggs 25), is evident. A person at any time can talk to friends about testing unfairness to get the message out or write a letter to their local or Bearor 5 state representative, as stated in image 2. FairTest also gives ways parents can help their children during the times standardized tests are given. One option image 2 gives is that parents can take their kids out of these tests every year so they have to experience unnecessary unfairness and stress. As stated in Rhetoric Really Matters important to references to a or impending (Hoffman and Wiggs 26). FairTest does this in image 1 and 2 by advertising against standardized testing, a major issue in public schools. Image 1 also appeals to kairos by using an image of a clock, that can show that time is running out. Many of the facts presented can upset parents making them want to protect their kids against the unfairness of standardized tests. Standardized tests are a big deal for students every year. Many young kids experience immense stress during these times which can lead to inaccurate scores. FairTest sets out to change the quality of standardized tests for all. This is evident in both image 1 and 2 presented by FairTest by the use of ethos, pathos, and kairos. Through the use of these rhetorical appeals FairTest accomplishes their goal of educating parents on the issues and ways to improve standardized testing. Overall standardized testing can be greatly improved and very much should be if we want more accurate, measurable, scores. Bearor 6 Works Cited Ways To Fight High-Stakes Testing FairTest.com, 22 Jan. 2013, http://www.fairtest.org/factsheets?page=1 Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. McKee, Jessica & McIntyre, Megan Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. Lane, Emily, Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan & Pantelides Kate. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, & McIntyre, Megan Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40 . E-text. Roeloffs, Gabe. Using Ethos, Pathos, and Logos to Design Effective  Medium. 10 May 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Schaeffer, Robert. Just Say No to the  Just Say No to the Test FairTest. N.p., 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wrong With Standardized  , 22 May 2012. Web. 07 Mar. 2017. http://www.fairtest.org/whats-wrong-standardized-tests Bearor 7 Wrong With Standardized Tests FairTest.com, 12 Dec. 2012, http://www.fairtest.org/factsheets?page=1 Wiliam, Dylan. Standardized Testing And School  Psychologist 45.2 (2010): 107-122. Search Premier . Web. 12 Feb. 2017.