Addington 1 Madison Addington Dr. Cimpean ENC 1102 26 February 2017 CAPS attempts to shut down zoos A retired schoolteacher Irene Heaton founded Captive Protection Society (CAPS) in 1957. She decided to start this organization to bring about a change to both practices and attitudes towards animals. CAPS is a charity with a campaign working for a world without cages; they encourage a more compassionate attitude and relationship between humans and other animals we are They also want to end the use of animals in entertainment through a combination of undercover investigations, research, political lobbying and education. The purpose of this organization is to support animal rights and animal welfare. Their work for animals focuses predominantly on issues affecting those individuals held captive in circuses and zoos, as well as those used in the television, film industry and the exotic pet trade we are The two pictures contradict what they fight for. The pictures reflect the concerns of the stakeholder by using the rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos and kairos. They also acknowledge the audience, context, and purpose to demonstrate the visual rhetoric in the pictures. Pathos is the appeal to the emotions. A specific element designed to make the audience feel some emotion in the first picture would have to be the leopard looking sad behind the cage. Leopards are supposed to be able to roam freely in their own habitats. Zoos take these animals from their home in countries in Asia and Africa just to lock them up in cages in other countries to entertain people. The second picture appeals to the emotions by showing the missing wings of the birds. It aims to make the viewer feel bad for the bird. In the picture the wing is cut short, so Addington 2 there is a possibility that they could have cut the bone. This is what CAPS is trying to stop because they support animal welfare. Cutting the wings is bad for their health and happiness. Birds are supposed to be able to fly. Zoos take away this freedom so that they can entertain people and make money. This demonstrates selfishness and it evokes a feeling of sympathy for the animals. Because of these zoos birds will never fly. These birds will never be released to the wild. These birds have the gift of flight taken away from them the Fight for Flight! This is supposed to make people who go to zoos feel guilty because they are supporting and encouraging animal captivity and animal abuse by paying to visit zoos. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness and this helps to express the goals. These animals are being mistreated and they are depressed because they are restricted in cages. This harsh mistreatment can kill them. The pictures appeals to timeliness because they make the audience ask the question we going to wait until some of these animals become endangered or some endangered animals become extinct before we start to do something about this The first picture tries to persuade the audience want to do whatever they can to get these animals out of cages as soon as possible. The second picture encourages the audience to help stop this animal cruelty, so that this practice can be terminated before more birds get their wings cut off, which helps to accomplish the goals. Another rhetorical appeal demonstrated in the pictures is Ethos. Ethos is the appeal to credibility or morality. The first picture does not appeal to credibility or morality as much as the second. This appeal is evident in both pictures by how professional and high quality the pictures are. The second picture appeals to credibility or morality because they present evidence of multiple birds with their wings cut off. Four examples of evidence confirm it is credible because Addington 3 they do this to multiple birds. If it was just one bird it could have looked like the bird was in an accident but the four birds show that this was done on purpose. This helps the goal because credibility gets more people to support their campaign because it shows that they are qualified and experienced to be presenting this argument. They did not focus on credibility as much as they should have. This was one of their rhetorical fallacies. Picture one and two do not rely as heavily on logos than they do with the others. The only reason or logic that could be seen is that we should not take away animals freedom so that we can entertain ourselves. These animals are meant to be in the wild where they can be free. They are not supposed to be in cages. The stakeholder also tries to acknowledge the audience, context, purpose and other techniques to make the images more effective. The target audience is the people who actually go to zoos. This is because they have seen these animals in cages before and seeing them in CAPS campaign now makes them realize or confirms that this practice is wrong. The example of context used in the picture of the leopard because they are close to becoming endangered and their population is decreasing They titled this image bars. She belong The stakeholders are using an accusatory tone to say that the people going to zoos are encouraging the zoos to keep these animals behind bars. For the second picture an example of context is that In 2013 campaign, Fight for  seeks to outlaw the practice of pinioning of birds in zoos. The research found that members of the zoo industry were carrying out the practice illegally the Fight for Flight! Zoo employees finding illegal ways to try keep the birds in their zoos makes people support CAPS more because it creates a bad impression on zoos. just a few days old, thousands of birds in UK zoos have the end of one wing deliberately the Fight for Flight! Zoos are purposely injuring animals for their own benefit. Addington 4 The purpose of both pictures is making the viewer think this where an animal really they do this by showing how sad the leopard looks behind the cage in the first picture. In the second picture they do it by showing the audience a missing half of the wing of those four birds. They had to cut off a part of their wings so the birds fly away. They put a leopard in a cage for human entertainment. They want to show the viewer that the zoos are taking away animals freedom. They want audience to think that this is wrong and to encourage them to stop supporting zoos. The pictures reflect the concerns of the stakeholder by using the rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos and kairos and acknowledging the audience, context, and purpose to demonstrate the visual rhetoric in the pictures. They use ethos by showing how professional the photos are, pathos by making the audience feel guilty for supporting zoos and sympathetic towards the animals. They also use kairos to encourage the audience to act now, stop supporting zoos and do something before these animals become endangered or extinct. The pictures target people who go to zoos and support these companies. The purpose of these pictures is to try to get people to stop supporting zoos because they take away freedom. [Word count: Addington 5 Picture 1 Picture 2 Addington 6 Work Cited Join the Fight for Flight!  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  African Wildlife Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Who we are  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.