1 Sandra Estrada Adam Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Love Yourself Through the history of human beings, the position of women in the world has been changing, while the society is evolving and accepting the equality between men and women. Many years ago, women were considered to be objects; women were expected to be at home, taking care of the family, the house, and the kids. Although women started to integrate into the society, and serve in public positions, they were never considered completely equal to men. Organizations and foundations, such as Natural Organization for Women, is starting to support women in need. As it is mentioned on its website, focuses on a broad range of rights issues, including economic justice, pay equity, racial discrimination, health and body image, women with disabilities, reproductive rights and justice, family law, marriage and family formation rights of same-sex couples, representation of women in the media, and global feminist the 2). This organization tries to empower women to believe in themselves and to love their bodies the way they are rather than feel inferior to men. This feminist and international organization is promoting their organization and ideas by using advertising campaign such as the Your Body which with the use of different posters and images shows the motto of the organization. These campaigns are being published in newspapers and web pages using the rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos and pathos to make a better impact in the society. Every organization has a specific strategy to communicate with it audience and to make a 2 change in the society. Everything that an organization does has a specific purpose related to its motto or their main statement. Every campaign the Natural Organization for Women publishes is trying to make an impact in else life. Usually they publish campaigns and articles to empower women to love themselves or to help women believe that they are equal to men. Last year, Natural Organization for Women foundation decided to publish in a campaign to empower women, to make them believe how important they are and to make them feel everyday more beautiful. As it was mentioned by an Ethiopian campaign of empowering women to archive gender equality, can be defined as a multi-dimensional social process that helps people gain control over their own (Bayeh 37). Sometimes people forget their real value in the society and start to feel useless, and this is exactly what the Natural Organization for Women is trying to avoid. The international feminist organization decided to publish two different images, using different rhetorical appeals to have a better impact on the society and making women gain control over their own lives. The first image is a colorful campaign that evokes to love our body. Presented in a black background with twelve different shapes of women in bright colors. The campaign uses different women, with many different physical characteristics. It shows women with long hair and short hair, even a bald woman. Women from different religions, sizes and even handicap ladies. There is a woman in a wheel chair, a woman with a prosthetic leg and one of these does not have an arm. But all these women are in the same campaign, because they can love their own body even though they are different, they have different physical appearances, different stories and different backgrounds. 3 The second image, has the same purpose of empowering women, but it is represented in a completely different way. The pink background makes everything prettier and brighter, according to the stereotypes it is a girl color, calling to feminist and women empowerment. This campaign compares women with flowers, mentioning that are like flowers. Each one is different, but they are all (Scott). This parallel makes a relation between the beauty of a flower and the beauty of a woman, showing that even if every flower is different is still beautiful and if every woman is different is still beautiful. One of the rhetorical appeals that the Natural Organization for Women Association used in the Your Body is pathos, which by the definition of the book Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation it is an appeal to emotions. In the first image, pathos is used with the image of different women. This makes a huge influence in the emotions of the target of the campaign. Showing women with all kinds of physical appearance gives a wider impact in the society. It makes more women identify with the poster after seeing a figure that can be similar to themselves. In the second poster, the pink color can be analyzed as a symbol that makes everything prettier. The flowers decorate the ad, showing happiness and respect for women, making a greater impact in the emotions of the receiver. These two campaigns use pathos to support the motto and main idea of the organization. The second and third rhetorical appeal that are used by Natural Organization for Women used in this campaign are ethos and logos. Even though these two strategies are completely different, those can be used to reinforce the ideals of the organization and have a stronger reaction of the campaign. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal that is used as method of persuasion in 4 which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee, et all, 27). On the other hand, logos is appeal to (Lane, et all, 32). In the first poster of the Your Body ethos and logos are used in very similar ways. The purpose of this poster is represented mainly in the twelves shapes of the woman bodies. Everyone has a specific background and a specific story behind that body shape. Every woman represents a specific person and a specific live story. Every one of the twelves shapes of women are an example of a completely different experience in this planet. However, even if each one is different it is not an excuse for not loving their body and being proud of what they are, especially being proud of being a woman. This image empowers the motto and the main statement of the Natural Organization for Women foundation making an appeal to logic, logos, and reinforcing the authority and credibility of the organization trough the rhetorical appeal of ethos. Lastly, on the second image that the Natural Organization for Women used in the your body in 2016. Logos and ethos were used in very similar ways. The poster makes a comparison between women and flowers. If every flower can be beautiful, women can be so too. Every flower is different than the other, and every woman is different than the other, as it is represented by the five flowers that are drawn in the poster. Every woman should believe that she is beautiful in her own unique way, since every flower is beautiful in their own way. The text that the image has, explains the idea and name of the campaign, mentioning as well the name of the foundation making it more credible to their audience, using the rhetorical appeal of ethos. In this second image the motto of the organization is reinforced and the idea of empowerment of women in the society is stronger with the comparison made between women and flowers. Logically, for every person flowers are beautiful and for this reason everyone 5 should think that women are beautiful too, making a strong relation with the rhetorical appeal of logos. The Natural Organization for Women is a feminist and international organization that tries to help every woman, not only making them part of the society and as important as men, but also making them feel beautiful and empowering them to feel proud of themselves. Last year, the organization developed a campaign called Your showing different posters that used rhetorical appeals as strategies to make those more successful. The campaign mainly used ethos, logos and pathos. These rhetorical appeals were used give a greater appreciation of the poster and the idea of loving your own body. It is very important that women believe in themselves and stop feeling less than men. Is also important for the society, that important international organizations such as the Natural Organization for Women continues working together to empower women, and finally one day have a better society; were everyone truly believe in itself, accepting the way they are and believing they are as beautiful as anyone else. 6 Works Cited Bayeh, Endalcachew. The Role of Empowering Women and Achieving Gender Equality to the Sustainable Development of  Pacific Science Review B: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 2, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 37-42. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.psrb.2016.09.013. Web. Accessed. 23 February 2017. Hayford, Annabelle. Love Your Body. Digital Image. National Organization for Women. 2016. Web. Accessed 23 February 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Scott, Jennifer. Bodies are Like Flowers. Digital Image. National Organization for Women. 2016. Web. Accessed 23 February 2017. The NOW  National Organization for Women. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017.