Jiwani 1 Rizwan Jiwani Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 10 March 2017 NASA: Advertising for a Future Generation Ever since the start of the Space Race in the mid nineteen fifties, NASA has been at the forefront of the exploration of space with the use of aeronautics, science, and technology. They want to understand the universe and in turn, improve humanity with the knowledge acquired from their discoveries. With the help of government funding, NASA has made countless discoveries and has accomplished things never thought possible. To name a few achievements, they were the first ones to put a man on the moon; they also sent the first rover to Mars and launched the Hubble Space Telescope (NASA.gov). But being the best in the business is costing the federal government billions of dollars annually. In some opinions, this money can be used for other government projects. They say that the money should be used for the betterment of life on earth, not the exploration of space. NASA claims that they are already using the federal governments money for the betterment of life on earth through space exploration; understanding the universe can help people understand more about the planet. They also provide Americans with more jobs which indirectly improves the American economy. NASA helps support their argument that they should continue to be government funded with two images of rhetorical appeal that connect space exploration to gaining knowledge, experience, and happiness. Jiwani 2 Dwight Eisenhower created the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1958 (Launius 64). It was created to combat space agency in the Space Race of the Their main focus is to learn about and explore space. vision is to reach for new heights and reveal the unknown for the benefit of humankind. Since the late nineteen fifties, they have overseen many different missions and projects. In current news, NASA has just found a group of seven terrestrial planets forty lightyears away that they are calling TRAPPIST-1. This cluster of planets is orbiting a dwarf star and NASA claims that three of the planets may be suitable for human life (Northon). Speaking of giant bodies orbiting around a star, the first image of shows the moon enveloping the sun in a total solar eclipse. This image has a darker nature compared to the second image because a solar eclipse gives the poster a more serious tone. The image is also draped with a dark spiral galaxy in the background. It most prominently appeals to Kairos and Ethos. The big fifty in the image is up front and center which helps to emphasize the fact that it has been over fifty years since NASA was established. It is visually the largest thing in the image and shows that they are proud of their golden jubilee. NASA should feel proud of the last fifty years because their list of accomplishments during that time is too long to list. Just to name a few, they have had a man walk on the moon, flew over 130 successful Space Shuttle missions, and have a rover continuously patrolling the surface of Mars (NASA.gov). Over time, NASA has learned so much about the universe and this is reflected in the image by a solar eclipse. As an eclipse ends, the sun starts to reveal itself again; as the sun is revealed, so are the mysteries of the universe. The fifty-year mark also gives NASA credibility because it proves that they have been successful enough to last for over half a century. NASA was conceived in 1958 and this image is from 2008, so they are actually coming up on their sixtieth anniversary pretty soon. The federal Jiwani 3 government has reaped the rewards for continuously funding NASA for fifty-nine years and, in opinion, should continue doing the same. The second image is similar to image one, but also very different. Image two mostly appeals to Pathos and Logos. This image was created in the and was used by NASA to get more people interested in space. It has a very light and fun tone compared to the seriousness of the last image. This image is more cartoonish and definitely appeals to a younger audience. It is very similar to posters one may find in libraries. The image depicts an astronaut in space who seems to be enjoying himself. This is a logical assumption because the space suit says astronaut and, helmet is labeled He is also plastered in front of a dark and starry background. The image can spark a interest and invite them to learn more about space. If a young child is shown an image of someone else having fun in space, they might also want to join in on the experience. NASA successfully used the curiosity of children to their advantage. There also is, however, a negative connotation to the second image. The image was created in the so it also retains certain value systems of that era. The image depicts one single white male in space. Coincidentally in 1969, a white male, Neil Armstrong, was the first person to walk the moon. Surprisingly, no woman has yet placed foot on the moon. If the image was recreated for the modern era, it might include people of both genders and of multiple races. But back then, it was more common for a white male to be at the forefront of science and technology in the United States. This image still achieved its goal because the target audience was young children and some young children did not have a grasp on the concepts of racism and sexism during the publication of this image. So, the appeals of Pathos and Logos are prominent in this image in both positive and negative ways. Jiwani 4 Both of these images from NASA were created for the general public. Image one was created in 2008 while image two is from the nineteen sixties. No matter the era, NASA has always been trying to get more people to work for them. The two images try to inspire both young and old to one day work for NASA. The message portrayed by these two images is that the federal government should continue funding of NASA. Funding NASA leads to uncovering infinite knowledge from the universe and supplying jobs for individuals who get enjoyment from exploring and learning about space. If the government had stopped funding NASA a while back, TRAPPIST-1, the planet cluster with 3 potentially habitable planets forty lightyears away, would have never been discovered. Jiwani 5 Works Cited Launius, Roger D. NASA History and the Challenge of Keeping the Contemporary  The Public Historian 21.3 (1999): 63-81. Web. Northon, Karen. NASA Telescope Reveals Record-Breaking Exoplanet  NASA. NASA, 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. What Does NASA  NASA. Ed. Jim Wilson. NASA, 13 Nov. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.