1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 03 March 2017 A Proposed Research Plan to Better Understand GM Crops As the global population increases, but with uneven development in many countries, problems arise regarding how to grow enough food for the people, and also how to make sure that the food that is provided is actually nutritious. One solution that has been proposed to solve this issue is by using genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, to as a source of food for both developed and developing countries. Such solutions, along with advocacy for the use of GMOs are common from groups such as the company Monsanto, but due to the fact that the use of GMOs is a highly controversial topic, many other groups vehemently oppose their use. Groups, such as The Non-GMO Project, strongly protest the use of GMOs based on concerns of safety, the ethical grounds of GMOs, and other ideas. This debate has spread into political and social discussions across the globe, though, as of 2015, there is still no scientific consensus regarding the safety of GMOs, due to a lack of what can be perceived as trustworthy research on the subject et al). While Monsanto and The Non-GMO Project have radically different stances on if GMOs should be used, they both do share a common goal of trying to provide healthy food for people, a compromise, in the form of cooperative research studies could address and hopefully solve this debate. On the pro-GMO side of the argument, Monsanto is a very prominent stakeholder, as they use GMOs to try to accomplish their claimed goals of working with farmers to grow more 2 effective crops for people around the world that otherwise might not have access to nutritious crops (Monsanto). As evident in their advocacy for GMOs, Monsanto believes that GMOs have no adverse effects on human and animal lives, and they can be exceptionally beneficial. This idea is supported through many studies that say that GMOs prove no health risks (Popescu and Nicolesu). However, there is a major issue regarding credibility of the research studies that have been published, especially by Monsanto. As noted by Sheldon Krimsky in his paper in Technology & Human Values, corporate-funded science tends to produce results that are consistent with corporate financial The lack of credibility of research, whether it is real or just perceived, has had a disastrous impact on the social acceptance of GMOs. This has led to a rise in the anti-GMO movement, along with more groups that work to oppose the use of GMOs. One such group is The Non-GMO Project, which is a nonprofit organization whose main goal is in verified non-GMO They work to achieve this goal by educating people about GMOs, increasing the number of available products that are non GMO, and most importantly, by labeling certified non GMO foods so that consumers are able to have transparency into the foods that they are selecting and eating Groups such as these have had increased support due to the mishaps in GMO research, and there has been an influx in support of labeling GMO products in order to allow more individuals to have the choice to purchase non GMO foods if they desire (Muller). Another instance where The Non-GMO Project fights GMOs is directly linked to Monsanto, as The Non-GMO Project states on their website that because companies can patent GM seeds and crops, they are then able to sue individuals if the patented seeds are found in their fields, even though it happens naturally. The Non-GMO 3 Project claims that because of this, GMOs a serious threat to farmer sovereignty and to the national food security of any country where they are Monsanto is notoriously known to be involved in such lawsuits and their trustworthiness has plummeted because of it (Bennett). This incompatibility between Monsanto and The Non-GMO Project on multiple grounds regarding GMOs is indicative of the polarized view of GMOs that divides the globe. However, both stakeholders claim that all they want to do is provide the best food for individuals, though they do differ on the definition of and in order to accomplish their goals, they need reliable, accurate research. This ties back into the aforementioned problem, where the research that has been presented is construed as erroneous. This leads to other research groups, and the public alike to severely question the research that has been published on the grounds that the information is either biased, or often selectively published, which has been noted as a major problem regarding GMO research (Bardin). The current solution to this debate, which is usually to label GMOs, has not actually solved the problem since it does not provide definitive proof about the safety of GMOs, and the research that could solve the debate is not available due to credibility problems. So in order to find a way to then decisively say if GMOs are safe, the standoff between these stakeholders must be eliminated. If Monsanto were to become more open about their research, and The Non-GMO Project were to take into account research that is credible, an answer may be found. This could be done through a cooperative, first hand study by both Monsanto and The Non-GMO Project about the safeness of GMOs. A cooperative research study would appeal to both sides of the debate, and hopefully work as a checks and balance system to ensure that the data that is being published are the 4 objective facts of the research. Such a study would benefit Monsanto, as it would allow them to be seen as more cooperative as they would be working with a company with drastically different views, which can work to fix the opinion of them. It would benefit The Non-GMO Project as it allows for them to have more of an influence in the GMO debate, because they would be actively involved in the process of GMO study and legislation. Both groups would benefit from cooperative research as it would allow both stakeholders to have actual, first hand research to give ethos to their view. It also allows for there to be a solid form of research, that uses both sides of the argument to prevent the fabrication of the data. Though this research may lead disprove one of the stakeholders views, one would hope that they would stand by their goals of trying to provide people the best food that they can, even if that means having to change their focus. For example, if the research shows GMOs are harmful to people, Monsanto might be less profitable in this regard, but they are also involved in other things that will allow them to maintain their company and then divert their attention into finding other ways to provide food for people, If GMOs are proven to be safe, people may not want them for other reasons, such as an ethical disapproval towards GMOs, so The Non-GMO Project would still have support to label GMOs, so they would not need to dissolve their group entirely, but just change the way they present GMOs. This compromise would be practical as long as both groups agree to act cooperatively and unbiasedly in order to not fabricate the data. Since Monsanto is a large, profitable company who already does similar types of research, the funds and resources would not be hard to get. The largest concern would be to find ways to ensure that the people from The Non-GMO Project, a much smaller company, are properly knowledgeable, in order to accurately include 5 their input in the research. By working to find more evidence and bringing some closure to the GMO health debate, then progress can be made to solve the malnutrition and poverty that plagues the world, instead of having cyclical debates on whether this one solution will work or not. This compromise can allow the debate regarding GMOs to begin reaching a conclusion, based on findings that can be trusted by a public that otherwise would not trust the findings if only presented by one stakeholder. (WC: 1333) 6 Works Cited Antoniou, Michael, Philip Bereano, Rosa Binimelis, Ethel Ann Clark, Nicolas Defarge, Michael Hansen, Angelika Heilbeck, Jack Heinemann, Hartmut Meyer, Eva Novotny, Vandana Shiva, Ricarda Steinbrecher, Andras Szeckas, Fern Wickson, and Brian Wynne. No Scientific Consensus on GMO  Sciences Europe 24.7 (2015): n. pag. Journal . Web. Accessed on 23 Feb. 2017. Bardin, Brigitte, Leo Facca, Stephane Perrissol, Annique Smeding. From Risk Perception to Information Not the Other Way Round: Selective Exposure Mechanisms in the Field of Genetically Modified  Quality and Preference, vol. 58, 01 June 2017, pp. 10-17. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.foodqual.2016.12.015. on 23 Feb. 2017. Bennett, Drake. Monsanto, Third-Most-Hated , Bloomberg, 4 July www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-07-03/gmo-factory-monsantos-high-tech-plans- Accessed on 25 Jan. 2017. Carter, B. Elijah, et al. Science & Society: Concern about Hunger May Increase Receptivity to  in Plant Science , vol. 21, 01 July 2016, pp. 539-541. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.tplants.2016.05.003. on 23 Feb. 2017.  NonGMO Project . The NonGMO Project, n.d. Accessed on 15 Feb. 2017. Krimsky, Sheldon. An Illusory Consensus behind GMO Health  7 Technology & Human Values , vol. 40, no. 6, Nov. 2015, p. 883. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx on 23 Feb. 2017.  NonGMO Project . The NonGMO Project, n.d. Accessed on 15 Feb. 2017.  Sustainable Agriculture Company . Monsanto Company, n.d. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Muller, Julie M. Naturally Misleading: Unwillingness to Define  and the Quest for GMO Transparency through State Mandatory Labeling  University Law Review , vol. 48, no. 2, May 2015, p. 511. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx on 23 Feb. 2017. Popescu, Alexandru and Victor Felix Nicolesu. The Impact of Genetically Modified Organisms Spreading to Agricultural  Papers: Series D, Animal Science - the International Session of Scientific Communications of the Faculty of Animal Science , vol. 59, Jan. 2016, pp. 51-56. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx on 23 Feb. 2017.