Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 A Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Compromise Since the official conception of the term stress in 1980, according to the National Center for PTSD, once added to the third edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. According to Jerry Lembcke, it was speculated at first and defined simply as the aftermath of a traumatic experience but it soon became refined with military ties due to the excess amount of cases following the Vietnam War (IV). In the present there are many forms of PTSD, but yet and still there are major military PTSD involvement. As an important stakeholder, The Heart Organization was created by those in mind to help currently active and non-active soldiers in dealing with PTSD and co-occurring chemical dependency. This organization advocates for the betterment of PTSD battling veterans. Taking the viewpoint of another key stakeholder, The Recovery Ranch also like the Heart foundation, being a joint commission gold seal of approval holder for 2016 proving they are of high quality health care. The Recovery Ranch also treats PTSD and an assortment of health problems related but unlike Heart, they treat civilians as well as veterans. Though both Heart and Recovery Ranch have the same goal of reaching recovery for all their patients, the route to recovery may differ slightly. Accepting the idea that the health is of the utmost importance to both organizations, a compromise that addresses both philosophies and keeps the patient the number one priority is one that can use collaboration as a stepping stone into addressing the problem head on. Student 2 On one side of the solution, The Heart Organization founded by John Lannon, making it his sixth treatment center since 2002, has its core values based in military lineage. They pride themselves on hailing from a military background and it shines in their core values as shown, there for each other is the core of our work, Warriors Healing The staff of the organization utilize their military past as a way to bond and connect with patients on a deeper level. As well as connections, the organization uses the consensus of military knowledge and values as the foundation for both the patient and staff members as a guide on their route to recovery. As more and more veterans are affected each day by PTSD, the Heart foundations mission is to through which they do by providing their patients with the utmost respect and hospitality to battle through their disease and recover to the soldier that they once were so proud to be. By holding true to its military core values and culture, the Heart organization believes they can aid any and every veteran back to proper health. Alternatively, The Recovery Ranch stays true to any and every patient that indeed seeks help in a variety of PTSD and other trauma-related symptoms. approach is evidence- based, experiential and They are willing to meet their patients at any point in their recovery stage and are willing to take all the necessary steps in order for the patient to make a speedy recovery, they use evidence-based modalities in order to give each client the comprehensive care they need to address their unique The Recovery Ranch prides itself on allowing the patient to help point the Ranch in the direction of their road to recovery, while the Ranch helps them as they lead the way. In this manner it allows for each individual patient to have a unique step to recovery, while still having programs in place as well Student 3 as alternative routes to fit the uniqueness of each patient. The Ranch is able to utilize each individuality as a tool to help create the guide back to their healthy Furthermore, both of these stakeholder organizations believe in helping PTSD victims, of all backgrounds both military and civilian, to a road of recovery in which they can return to their true underlying selves that have been lost in the battle with PTSD and its lasting effects. David W. Foy in his Journal of Traumatic Stress talks about the culture of trauma and how it can range widely in severity, and discussing the need for more personnel programs as well as personal service (205-212). Yet today we have both of these answers to the problem but being addressed in different areas and aspects. The combined efforts of The Heart, as well as the The Recovery Ranch organizations could be the breakthrough needed in order to freshly address the surmounting number of PTSD patients that need assistance. This collaboration can be the jump starter to a newly found most proficient route of recovery for all PTSD victims alike. Through the unison of values and core beliefs of each solid Gold Seal recognized organization, they can create the foundation to properly heal all PTSD victims, while also paying homage to its original military induced roots, both in recovery and hindsight of the overall mental health issue. Studying the history of PTSD will allow both respect to be brought to those who are veterans and endured their traumatic event in the line of duty, as well as provide historic background into the origins of PTSD. Through the use of collaboration they can all adapt the ideals of the Heart mission statement of helping because all patients are warriors in the eyes of the staff as they aid them in recovery. All group and team led activities will include someone of both military background as well as a post-recovery victim who once endured PTSD. This will allow each group to have someone reflective of the processes Student 4 it took to reach a sense of as provided to be the full recovery according to the Ranch, as well as providing a military foundation and background to support the Heart. A true meld of an openly engaging self-healing philosophy backed by a solid military foundation and set of values, is the ideal and realistic step in ensuring Post-traumatic stress disorder patients are able to make the most adequate and proper healing to regain their peak mental health. Though both The Heart and The Recovery Ranch foundations approach the road to recovery for PTSD patients by a way of differing philosophies and mission statements, one thing that remains in common for each powerhouse organization is that they wish for a full blown recovery for any and all of their PTSD patients. If ignored both parties may still operate at a rational recovery rate that validates each work. But if they decide to collaborate the options would be endless and bountiful in a higher success rate through the use of an eclectic model allowed to adapt to fit the need of each and every patient both civilian and military- alike. (WC: 1290) Student 5 Works Cited Page: . Addiction Treatment Center for  Warriors Heart. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.warriorsheart.com/>. Alford, C F. Trauma, Culture, and Ptsd. , 2016. Internet resource Eriksson, C.B., Kemp, H.V., Gorsuch, R. et al. J Trauma Stress (2001) 14: 205. doi:10.1023/A:1007804119319 Foy, David W. Treating Ptsd: Cognitive-behavioral Strategies. New York: Guilford Press, 1992. Print. Lembcke, Jerry. Ptsd: Diagnosis and Identity in Post-Empire America. , 2013. Internet resource. The National Center for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. PTSD research quarterly. 2017. Internet Resource