Oyarvide 1 Xochitl Marysol Oyarvide Instructor Ryan ENC1102-001 26 February 2017 Analyzing Images from Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty (FADP) When considering the issue of the current existence of the death penalty in Florida, one should consider the group called Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty. This group hopes to end the use of the death penalty. In two of the images that they use to spread their message, one can note that this group appeals to its audience with a focus on logic and values. According to their website, Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty wishes to end the death penalty by executions, the application of the Death Penalty until it is ultimately abolished, the humanity of all persons impacted by the Death Penalty, Floridians about the Death Penalty, [and concrete action steps for individuals and This list suggests that FADP is well organized and understands which steps are required to achieve its goal. Not only does this website provide information about the death penalty, but it also provides contact information to reach Florida Legislatures. FADP encourages the use of this information to make requests to Legislatures involving the Death Penalty in Florida. The website also has information about future events that will occur, and the website encourages people to attend these outings. The first image can be found on the Facebook page. The location of this image suggests that FADP intends to target people that are using social media. When analyzing the text in the image, the first thing one would note, is the name of the group, Oyarvide 2 since it is in the largest font. Not only is this the name of the group, but it also provides the purpose. The large font wants the audience to be aware that this group wishes that the Death Penalty is not used as a form of punishment. The first two words in the name are the only words that are orange. This difference in color draws attention to the words Floridians for. These words suggest an emphasis on where the group is going to attempt to abolish the Death Penalty and since the group consists of members that are from Florida, they will be more aware of the laws that are in Florida. The second image is part of the brochure, and this brochure can be accessed by visiting website. The words in the largest font say, Justice Not The word people changes how someone might view a criminal on death row. Instead of using the word criminal FADP creates an emotional attachment to those who are on death row. The word people suggests that the person on death row is similar to the average citizen. Oyarvide 3 Works Cited Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty. 2017. www.fadp.org Hocks, Mary E. visual rhetoric in digital writing College composition and communication (2003): 629-656 Hoffman, Allison, and Kimberly Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA. XanEdu, 2016:345-351. E-text. Images Found https://www.fadp.org/florida-death-penalty-fact-sheet/ https://www.facebook.com/FloridiansFADP/photos/a.361546083941790.84764.36153 9210609144/1108471929249198/?type=1&theater Oyarvide 4