Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Teaming Up to Make African Dreams into Reality The effects of western societies on African cultures have been relevant from the beginning of colonialism on the African continent. The well being of natives is being affected in two different ways through two different stakeholders involved in Africa. These two stakeholders are invested in the two most prominent activities that effect native Africans today: non-profit charity and tourism. Trees For The Future wants to donate to assist in the self- sustaining quality of life in tribal areas. African Dream Safaris is a safari tourism outlet that wants to show the world what is like to live in a beautifully cultured area such as the tribes of Africa. However, during the educationally and culturally diversify tours, natives may be inclined to do things for money. The Trees For The Future organization uses donations, as explained in the next paragraph, to better the lives of these natives, so if African Dream Safaris can use a non- profit as an outlet to release these social norms of tourism companies, then everyone will make out well. In order to refrain from assumptions that safaris exploit African natives, safari conductors can donate profits or use profits to benefit the areas that they tour. The two purposes that these stakeholders have in Africa are beneficial to all but can be improved. Trees For The Future is looking to benefit the natives and keep their self-sustaining lifestyle. This non-profit can help by helping produce crops and woods that are used in trading environments (Trees for the Future, Trees.org). African Dream Safaris has interests in the culture of natives and how to display that to their customers while on vacation with them (African Student 2 Dream Safaris, www.africadreamsafaris.com). Both of these companies have a dedication to retaining the cultural aspect of lives. Trees For The Future is trying to retain the lifestyle that tribal Africans want to rely on rather than capitalism as they are being nudged into it (Cernansky 2015). For the African communities, it is more beneficial and much more comfortable to live like this. Once they are into a capitalism style economy then their self-sustainability is limited and they will have to rely on markets and department stores for food and clothing (Fourie and Santana-Gallego 2013). When on safari, people yearn to see authentic cultural diversity in African tribal societies. When booking a safari, other than animals across the highlands and deserts of Africa, the cultural adventure is intriguing to people from different areas of the world. This intrigue leads to possible issues. African safaris in general pose a threat to the economy of tribal areas. Companies who bring visitors and tell them they must buy from or haggle with locals are pushing money into tribal communities. These companies even urged visitors to pay to take picture with/of these locals. Once realizing that cash can buy things communities do not have due to the move of modernism into their communities, locals began relying on the pay they were earning for entertaining the vacationers; however, this is only a small portion of the causes of capitalism entering African tribal areas (Sender and Sheila 2013). This issue can be eliminated very easily in a way that has never been proposed before. The proposed solution is that the African safaris team up with the non-profit organization and donate a percentage of profits to the non-profits to help benefit those they are effecting and showing off to the world. This compromise does great things for the non-profit involved. Trees For The Future benefits greatly from this compromise. Considering they have to give up almost nothing for this Student 3 compromise, they make out the best. The only thing they may have to enhance is their staff, which will cause a greater overhead for them. This compromise will cause a surge in donation money, which will lead to more room for the planting of more trees and having to teach more natives how to take care of these trees and crop plants (Hotlzhausen 2014). Now, one may think that this increase could hurt the organization but, as a non-profit company, this is the best problem to have. With an influx of donations, more overheads can be covered and more work can be done; therefore, the company does well in the end and more natives will benefit from this. Additionally, the other party is benefitted too. African Dream Safaris benefits from this proposal because it turns away the negative stigma of safaris contributing to the falling economies of African tribal nations. This positive message can be sent around the world that tourism is not destroying the culture and it is okay to tour Africa. Also, since African Dream Safaris will be the first to do something as drastic as this, with such a specific goal (sustain the self-sustaining), it will shed light and good publicity on the company. One may argue that this will make the company look because they are the first to act to try and fix what they may have done. To argue against this, the subject has already been a pressing topic in the subject of Africa as a whole. It will look better for a company to act before finding themselves in a hole that they cannot dig themselves out of. On the other hand, this proposal may have negative effects on African Dream Safaris as well. By donating more money to non-profits, obviously money is lost from the profits of the safaris. The profit margins would be slightly lower when donating a percentage of them to the non-profit companies. However, to argue against this, with the good publicity associated with this strategy, people who advocate for African native benefits could chose to use this company for touring or even refer someone to them. This will result in higher patron turn out and a higher Student 4 profit per year. Furthermore, one might say that the negative effects could be less reliance on the safari profits for the communities therefore they will not welcome them as openly. However, for this specific company, there will be a positive association of a better (more independent) life and their business. Therefore, the African natives will be more willing to allow them in because they helped restore their independence from a monetary system. Practically, this plan works. This plan can be implemented at a practical level once set in place. On the Trees For The Future side, hiring more employees and constructing plans for more plants and plant crops to be planted is essential. Once they obtain donations, they must put those donations to use in a beneficial manor to the African natives. For African Dream Safaris, they must being willing to portion out a percentage of profits to donate to their new cause. Furthermore, they must be willing to deter their customers from paying for services in native communities in mass amounts. Due to the fact that they may want little crafts or things of that nature, small purchases should be allowed. Finally to cement this idea in, there must be a discussion with locals to stop trying to entertain or charge for pictures and a focus on becoming self-sustaining as they used to be. In conclusion, this proposal is beneficial to all parties. The solution gives more money to a great cause that will grow an organization that will help the cultural spectacle that the African Dream Safaris thrives off of. Although there is a small monetary loss for the safari tour group, there is greater publicity and native relation benefits for them. This solution can benefit the economy of many native African communities and lead to an even bigger movement that will help all of Africa. (WC: 1266) Student 5 Works Cited Africa Dream  Africa Dream Safaris. Michael Wishner, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.africadreamsafaris.com/?gclid>. Cernansky, Rachel. Indigenous Fruit Trees a Blessing in  Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 123, no. 12, Dec. 2015, pp. A291-A296. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1289/ehp.123-A291. Fourie, Johan and Santana-Gallego. The Determinants of African  Development Southern Africa, vol. 30, no. 3, Sept. 2013, pp. 347-366. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/0376835X.2013.817302. Holtzhausen, Lida. Non-Profit Organizations Bridging the Communication Divide in a Complex South  Public Relations Review, vol. 40, no. Public Relations and Communication Management in South Africa, 01 June 2014, pp. 286-293. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2013.10.006. Sender, John and Sheila Smith. The Development of Capitalism in Africa. Routledge, 2013. Routledge Library Editions: Development. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsebk&AN=347552&site=eds-live. Trees For The Future. Why Trees Sustainable  Trees For the Future. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6