Thompson 1 Antonio Thompson Robert Ryan ENC 1102.001 26 February 2017 Hydraulic Fracturing Scientists have come to the conclusion that global warming is changing the world internally, and humans making the situation any better. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used in the United States and around the world for extracting and retrieving oil from underwater shale formations. Although it is a very reliable technique, it tends to be dangerous due to mechanical, chemical, and human error which leads to catastrophe. BP Global is one of the largest contributor in oil and fuel. According to them, their goal and mission, to be a focused oil and gas company that delivers value over volume, pursuing their strategy by setting clear (BP Global). With the two images as a clear result of the downfall and reason this issue is brought up for discussion, BP Global show viewers the detriments of the process and uses rhetorical appeals towards credibility and emotion to communicate their audience. BP Global uses the first image (Image 1) to show its viewers detriments of what this process can do. The image shows the explosion and the quick response to stop the fire in order to prevent further ecosystem damage. BP Global states on this matter, accident involved a well integrity failure, followed by a loss of hydrostatic control of the Also, due to the incident there were also tragedies. BP also made a statement saying, people died as a result of the accident and others were injured. We deeply regret this loss of life and recognize the tremendous loss suffered by the families, friends and co-workers of those who The Thompson 2 purpose of the image is to show the detriments of the process and the tone set by the image seems informative, yet dramatic. The image also shows the mechanics being used and how the explosion is massive, which also indicates the spread of the oil throughout the ocean, affecting the ecosystem. The Smithsonian states that, from BP and Transocean (owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig), and many government agencies tried to control the spread of the oil to beaches and other coastal ecosystems using floating booms to contain surface oil and chemical oil dispersants to break it down Although BP has shown its remorse on their role in the issue at head, they also extend their hands towards their audience to give them support and help. In addition, as BP Global tries to accomplish its goal to deliver value over volume by setting clear priorities, the image presented shows appeals of credibility and emotion. Ethos, which is appeal to evidence and credibility, is proven by the fact that the photo is provided by BP Global, but is used through and alternate website that wrote an article on the BP Oil Spill in 2010. Pathos, which is appeal to emotion, is proven by, not only the image but by, the stakeholder. The stakeholder sends out their condolences to those who lost their lives during the explosion, and the explosion shows that something bad and catastrophic has happened, which leads viewers to see and understand the drama and the sadness of what has taken place. The image portrays that this issue is very serious and that viewers need to understand that without their help and support, that the stakeholder would not be able to go forward with its strategy. Furthermore, in the other image presented (Image 2), BP tries to show its viewers the aftermath and the effect the spill had on the ecosystem, and the inhabitants that conquered the area. Laboratory Equipment, a company that deals with environmental and global issues from a Thompson 3 scientific standpoint, states on the topic of the 2010 BP Oil Spill that, permanent cement plug sealed well nearly 2.5 miles below the seafloor in the Gulf of Mexico, five agonizing months after an explosion sank a drilling rig and led to the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. which means that a vast amount of oil had spread throughout the environment, contaminating the water and harming those inhabitants of the water. Not only were the animals and sea creatures affected, but also the plants and coral reefs that lived underwater as well. efforts were minimal at first, and as a result led to a criminal and civil case, where they were charged criminally and also had to pay up to 4.5 billion dollars in settlement fees with the United States Government (Laboratory Equipment). This image differs from the other, as it really appeal to credibility. Pathos is proven by the image alone. The image shows that the little bird is covered with the oil from the spill, which pushes the audience to feel sad for those who live in and around the ocean, as they are greatly affected by it. Deepwater Horizon rig, 50 miles off the Louisiana coast, sank after an April 20, 2010, explosion that was later blamed by investigators on time-saving, cost-cutting decisions by BP and its drilling partners in cementing the well while drilling the well shaft and putting cement over it to seal it took more than 3 months (Laboratory Equipment). Also, what caused the ecosystem to be greatly affected was that, well on the seafloor spewed an estimated 172 million gallons of crude in the Gulf, fouling marshes and beaches, killing wildlife and shutting vast areas to commercial (Laboratory Equipment). The amount of oil that spread throughout the Gulf of Mexico that harmed the environment and its inhabitants leads the viewer to feel a type of sadness and grief towards the cause. Thompson 4 With both images being presented, it can be said that both have done their respective job in supporting the goals of the stakeholder. Both images show the disaster and effects of the process and shows that something must be changed in order for such a thing to not happen again. Showing appeals to both emotion and credibility, the goals of the stakeholder can be shown and expressed to the viewers of the images. With the explosion being the issue of prevention, the goal of the stakeholder that is trying to be shown to the viewer is that there should be no mechanical, human, or chemical error (Image 1). Therefore, if that were to be prevented, the goal of environmental protection can be reached (Image 2). In conclusion, BP Global has gone through legal procedures and company procedures to better their work ethic and to make sure something like the 2010 BP Oil Spill in the Gulf of Mexico does not happen again. With the images provided, they portray appeals of both credibility and emotion to lead the viewers into the issue at hand and to provide information and urges them for help. As important as the issue is, the images provided effective show the detriments of the process, and help to stress the goals of enhancing the process and deliver value over volume. Although even 6 years later the effects of the incident still linger, environmental effects continue to get better. Thompson 5 Works Cited About  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Deepwater Horizon accident and  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. BP to Pay $4.5 B, Workers Face Manslaughter  Equipment . N.p., 12 May 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Frost, Emily. Gulf Oil  Portal Smithsonian . National Museum of Natural History, 05 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Thompson 6 Thompson 7