Courtemanche 1 Dylan Courtemanche Martha Heiser ENC 1102.68 24 February 2017 BMW and their Drinking and Driving ad Campaign Drinking and driving has been a serious danger since driving began, so much to the point that very strict laws have been enforced to prevent people from committing these acts; however even with the threat of legal consequences people continue to do it. Although many people understand the risks of drinking and driving they still do it; since laws have not stopped drinking and driving. Car manufacturers have created ads in an attempt to stop drivers from drinking and driving. Companies like BMW that strive to be a top notch car company have released several images in a drinking and driving ad campaign. So why would a company that makes cars care what happens to the drive after they buy the car? because they are protecting their consumers and showing their interests in consumer safety, creating a positive public image. In their ads BMW uses ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to get their point across to the consumers to stop drinking and driving. BMW is a car name that has been around since the early original designing aircraft and motorcycles; they still overcame and became one of the largest car companies in the world. Their use of ethos in their ads is them featuring their iconic blue and white circle logo in the ads for consumers to know they put the ads out. They do this not only to let consumers know that they care about their safety but also as a way of establishing credibility for the ad itself. Drivers can go almost anywhere in the world and people would know what BMW is, so if someone saw an ad featuring their logo they would most likely trust the facts or statements in the Courtemanche 2 ad because being released by a well-known car company. They also establish their credibility and expertise in their ad with some facts about their vehicles and comparing them to drinking and driving facts, not only does this further the ethos of the ads but it also adds to the logos of the ads. BMW uses a lot of pathos, or emotional appeals, in their ad campaign against drinking and driving. In their first ad BMW says parts for humans are not as original as those for what they meant by this was that when a human loses a limb such as a leg, it be replaced with another just like it instead it will be prosthetic vs when a car loses a part such as a rim it can be replaced with an exact copy. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation National Highway and Safety Administration (NHTSA) someone is injured in a drunk driving incident every two minutes (Blincoe). Although not all of these injuries may be as major as someone losing a limb, BMW is trying to put it into perspective of how bad the injury of an accident can be since they happen every two minutes. The use of pathos is to make the consumers viewing this ad feel fear and sorrow. BMW is trying to induce fear to prevent drivers from drinking and driving so that they may feel safe, and sorrow to make them feel sad for those that have had serious injuries due to drinking and driving, whether they were directly responsible or were a victim of someone recklessness behind the wheel. Their use of pathos in this ad is strongest because looking at it dills people with emotions although it may be strongest however it is not the only rhetorical device used in the first picture. The second ad by BMW features facts about their X6 SUV and its knot to 60 times as well as times it takes for crashing while drinking and driving. The use of facts in the ad appeals to the logos rhetorical appeal because it features facts about BMW and drinking and driving. While the statistic for how long it takes to fly from the vehicle when drinking and driving Courtemanche 3 an actual fact from a record or statistic, the knot to 60 time of 6.7 seconds for the BMW X6 is true of course this ad is much older however and is comparing the old Xdrive Sport model and model according to USA today actually has a knot to 60 time of closer to 4.8 seconds which is even more dangerous for those drunk drivers (Woodyard). Although their use of logos with knot to 60 ties is effective in advertising the speed of their car, BMW could have used this opportunity to both work in the good statistics about their car with true stats of drunk driving such as something like the 400 HP X6 could take you across town in 53 minutes however if you drink and drive in those 53 minutes you could be one of the 28 deaths on any day in the U.S. (System). BMW uses their ads as a way to show kairos and how serious of a problem drinking and driving is in the United States. The kairos of the ads is that both give a sense of urgency on how drinking and driving needs to stop today otherwise more people will get hurt and die. By showing an image of someone with a prosthetic leg in the first ad it shows consumers one of the outcomes of drinking and driving and how it leads to serious injuries but it say whether a driver, passenger or pedestrian that lost the log making the person viewing it unsure who could be seriously injured is so that they think twice about drinking and driving or stopping someone from doing it in the future. For the second ad it actually gives a sense of time and how quickly something bad can happen from drinking and driving it says and driving can send you even further away in just 1.0 showing people just how quickly a situation can get bad from drinking and driving. BMW has always strived to be a company ahead of their competitors when it came to track times, ride comfort, and overall vehicle safety on the roads, but when they set out on this ad campaign against drinking and driving, they wanted to do more than just show they cared about Courtemanche 4 showing off their cars but also show that they care about the people that drive them too. This made ads that were easy to understand to drivers old and young alike that anyone could relate to using ethos, pathos, logos and kairos, and were successful in showing that they cared about more than just the cars; they also cared about the drivers too, not only did they work to stop drinking and driving but they were also able to put their image out and help expand their consumer base. Courtemanche 5 Works Cited Blincoe, L. J., Miller, T. R, Zaloshnja, E., Lawerence, B. A. The Eeconomic and Societal impact of Motor Vehicle Crashes, 2010. Washington, DC: National Highway Traffic, Revised 2015. System, Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance. Impaired Driving: Get the  CDC (2014). Webpage. Woodyard, Chris. BMW adds Power to odd  USA Today (2015). Newspaper Article . Courtemanche 6