Wilson 1 Wilson Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 12 March 2017 Analyzation of Promotion of Space Exploration These two images rely heavily on each other to get the full message of the stakeholder across, completely intertwined to relay a message for the entirety of mankind. By looking at these images someone could tell that SpaceX is a space organization of some kind and that they are pro-technological and pro-space exploration (SpaceX). By looking at these images you can tell that they are constantly looking for new advancements and that they can always reach farther than what previously thought before. A person could also tell by looking at these images that they actually have evidence that they can do things previously thought impossible and that they are continuously striving to break new boundaries. The ways that the stakeholder is able to do this is through rhetorical appeals and by using them to illicit certain responses from its audience. The stakeholder, SpaceX, is a private organization ran by a man named Elon Musk. Elon Musk is a very credible man and is a great figure head for the company and its continued growth into the future. The way that Musk is so credible is that he runs numerous of other companies, such as Tesla Motors and SolarCity, that all are very successful and all have to do with technological advancements, so it definitely helps that the man who runs the organization is experienced and knows how to reach the goals that he desires and has put into place The ). This bodes well specifically for the likes of an organization such as SpaceX. SpaceX was founded in 2002 and has been ran efficiently ever since then (SpaceX). The goals that the organization have set have been or very close to being fulfilled and have been very Wilson 2 successful. Just recently the SpaceX company has announced that by next year even be able to take tourists to the Moon! The opportunities that SpaceX has been able to introduce to the public are endless: creating reusable rockets, reducing the cost of fuel, and commercializing space exploration are just a few things that SpaceX has done in its very short span of being operable (Williamson). entire goal is simply to be able to create these new opportunities for the human race endlessly in the area of space, an incredibly strange and enticing venue. In the first image shown, SpaceX uses pathos and ethos to relate its ideas onto the audience. The ethos appeal is used in the fact that the image was created by SpaceX, a very credible organization and a company that is very reliable, especially since the man who runs it is Elon Musk himself, a very driven and successful businessman. This gives the image a decisive edge over other stakeholders just in the fact that the audience would be able to easily trust what the organization has to say. SpaceX also uses pathos to illicit a response from the audience that anything is possible, creating a strong emotion of hope especially with the name of SpaceX attached to it. The beam of light that flashes across the sky in the image with SpaceX intertwined with the beam is suggestive that mankind can reach new heights and no limit to what its capable of with the help of SpaceX, which is a great example of logos that SpaceX incorporates. The light is symbolic of hope and with that hope mankind can venture into the unknown with the support of SpaceX by its side leading the way. also a fire burning on the horizon, this makes the audience feel empowered since the image is directed to all of mankind. The empowerment comes from a sense that mankind created fire, causing a burst of technological advancements. Wilson 3 SpaceX would be able to do the same thing with their exploration of space, causing numerous of other advancements that would never have been conceived otherwise. The first image also includes an array of symbols that are used to display the unknown. The entire picture is very dark and completely unrecognizable besides the light beam and the fire. This, in itself, is a symbol to show the possibilities of endless opportunities that arise from SpaceX. Is it another planet? Or is it simply just to show that SpaceX is the brightest future for mankind? This ambiguous symbol strikes the audience right at the core and makes them think in an abundance of different ways. The second image shown from the stakeholder, SpaceX, has rhetorical appeals of logos and ethos. SpaceX uses both of these appeals interchangeably to reach a more inclusive audience than the first; throwing facts and figures, proving the credibility, and showing the dependability of the company as well. The logos appeal used makes the audience believe in SpaceX even more and shows exactly what the company is capable of and why it is better than any of its other competition. Statistical evidence such as the fact SpaceX is 15 times more successful than its competitor in its ability to launch their rockets, or the fact that taxpayers have to spend money on this company to continue to thrive and entirely self-sufficient and reliant, or the fact that rockets are more than 4 times cheaper and is overall more cost efficient. This evidence, with much more, all plays a part in this ethos appeal as well. These statistics enhance the credibility tenfold while discrediting the capability of the competition as well, showing that the best option will always be SpaceX, and SpaceX has strived to actually be beneficial to the likes of mankind. Both of these images embody the entire purpose of the represented stakeholder by using rhetorical appeals and using a plethora of different details that symbolize entire ideas that the Wilson 4 company believes in. why these images are optimal for SpaceX; they show all the characteristics of the organization and can actually influence its intended audience, the entirety of mankind. This specific audience dynamic that targeting is very unique in the fact that it targets multiple different groups of humankind for multiple different reasons. One of the main audience groups that SpaceX is targeting is governmental entities. The reason that SpaceX targets this group is to influence them to be able to allow their space programs to be able to transfer ideas and inventions freely. This freedom allows a more universal space program and a more directed global goal and objective The ). Another one of the audience groups that SpaceX targets is the entire younger generation who is completely interested and excited about everything techno-related. This group is targeted by the company as a company that can give the younger generation what they want and to fulfill their lifelong dream of achieving space exploration. Another major audience group that is targeted by SpaceX is people who believe that the space industry be privatized and that it should remain under governmental control, the second image clearly shows factual evidence that proves that a private space agency is actually statistically superior than a space agency controlled by a governmental entity. Being able to target this mass multitude shows the main message that it wants to be portrayed, that it wants the best for all of mankind, with a major emphasis on all. Wilson 5 Wilson 6 Works Cited The  Foreign Policy, No. 203 (2013): 96-97. Article. SpaceX. About SpaceX. 1 Mar 2017. Website. 1 Mar 2017. Williamson, Mark. Reusables Are  Engineering and Technology, Vol 11, No 2 (2016): 28. Website.