Benrube 1 Jared Benrube Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102: Composition II 12 March 2017 Visual Rhetoric and the National Popular Vote For nearly three centuries, the Electoral College has been used in the United States to elect our president. While the system has worked for the most part, two of the past four presidential elections had the candidate that won the popular vote lose the overall election. These results have caused some to believe that the Electoral College is becoming an outdated system. One stakeholder that supports this belief is the National Popular Vote. The creators of the NPV believe that every vote should matter in the presidential election and that the Electoral College system leaves the voice of the voters unheard. There are two images used by the stakeholder to persuade the audience to support the NPV. The first image is a map of the United States that uses blocks to represent each electoral vote, and the second image is an advertisement used to inform the audience on what actions they can take to help change the system. Through the use of ethos, logos, and pathos in the images provided on their website, the creators of the NPV are able to educate people on why the Electoral College should be fixed. The National Popular Vote is an interstate compact that was created in 2006 as a method of combatting the Electoral College system. The creators of the NPV bill believe that the presidential election should be determined by the winner of the popular vote, rather than the electoral vote. According to the NPV website, the bill has been enacted into law in eleven states that are in possession of 165 electoral votes. When the bill is enacted in enough states to have at least 270 of the electoral votes, it will go into full effect (National Popular Vote). Through the Benrube 2 use of images and videos on their website, the creators of the bill are able to inform their audience about their beliefs on how the Electoral College should be fixed. The stakeholder uses the rhetorical appeals in Image A and B to persuade the audience. The first image is a map of the United States that uses blocks to represent the number of electoral votes each state has. That map is color-coded to show the states that have the NPV enacted into law, the states that have passed it in one or both legislative chambers, and the states that have or had a hearing for the bill. The second image is an advertisement that was used on their Twitter to inform their audience about their ability to contact their state legislators about the NPV bill. While it may not be apparent, both images use visual rhetoric to persuade their audience about learning more about their ideas and beliefs. Benrube 3 One of the methods of persuasion used in the images is ethos. According to Jessica McKee and Megan McIntrye in the book, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, ethos is defined as, method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee 27). The way each image uses ethos is vastly different. For Image A, ethos is used through the use of a map that uses squares to represent the number of electoral votes each state has. This shows that the image is credible because the map is being used as a graph to show how many electoral votes each state has as well as which states have and have not enacted the bill. With the information on how many electoral votes their state has and whether they have enacted the bill or not, the audience may look for more information about the bill on the NPV website. Image B uses ethos through the use of the NPV logo. This tells the audience that the image is reputable as it was made by the organization behind the bill. The use of the word in Image B is another element that helps support the credibility. By telling the audience about their ability to contact their state legislators through the NPV website, the image gives the audience a credible way of communicating their beliefs to those in charge of their states. A rhetorical appeal that usually goes hand-in-hand with ethos is logos. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic and reason as well as being the consistency and clarity of an argument (Lane 32). Image A shows this through the use of a map graph that provides a statistical representation of what states have and enacted the bill. In Image B logos is used through the text on the image. The image provides the audience with information on what they can do to contact their legislators about fixing the Electoral College. In the article Should There Be a National Popular  John Koza, one of the creators of the NPV bill, says that around 75 percent of voters support the NPV according to polls (England). This supports the logos of the Benrube 4 two images that are used because in Image A the map shows that only a select few states have not had hearings for the bill, and through Image B the audience is given the resources they need to show their support for the NPV. Another rhetorical appeal used in both images is pathos. Pathos is an appeal to emotion and it is used to make the audience feel a connection to the argument (Lee 37). While pathos fully noticeable at first in Image A, an argument can be made that the colors used to color code the map can be considered pathos. On the map there are five colors used to represent the status of the bill in each state. Green represents states that have enacted the bill into their law, orange represents states that have had the bill passed by one legislative chamber, yellow represents states that have had the bill passed in both legislative chambers but in different years, blue represents states that have had a hearing for the bill in at least one legislative chamber, and gray represents states that have not had a hearing for the bill (National Popular Vote). The colors of the map makes the audience feel that most of the US is supportive of the bill, and they may contact their legislators if in one of the states that had a hearing for the bill. In Image B the bold and underlined text makes the audience feel that what the image is saying is important and urgent. Along with this text, the American flag in the background make the viewers of the picture feel that by supporting the NPV, they have the ability to make their country better. Both elements make the audience feel a sense of urgency as well as making them feel that they have the ability to make a difference. With the information on how many states have the bill enacted and where they can contact their legislators, the audience will consider taking that step to inform others of how they feel about the NPV. Both images do a great job of using rhetorical appeals to inform the viewers of the image about the NPV bill and what they can do to help. The map in Image A tells the audience where Benrube 5 the bill has and been enacted. If the bill enacted in the state of the person looking at the map then they have the ability to contact their legislators. Image B, on the other hand, tells the audience what they can do to inform their legislators about the NPV. Since Image B was posted on Twitter with a provided link to where the audience can contact their legislators, the audience can act by sharing the image so that others can act too. With the images usage of ethos, logos, and pathos, the audience is given a general understanding of the NPV and its goal. Through ethos the creator of the images persuades the audience of their credibility. With logos they provide logic and reason to inform the audience of where the NPV currently stands and how they can help. Finally through the pathos in the images the audience feels a connection to the topic and knows what actions they can take to support it. The use of rhetorical appeals in the images gives the audience enough information that will persuade them to take action. Benrube 6 Works Cited England, Trent and John Koza. Should There Be a National Popular  U.S. News Digital Weekly, vol. 4, no. 38, 21 Sept. 2012, p. 15. EBSCOhost Web. 26 Feb. 2017 <search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=82209042&site=ehost- live>. Lane, Emily, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37- 40. E-text. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. National Popular  National Popular Vote. Web. 26 Feb 2017. <http://www.nationalpopularvote.com>.