Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Gender vs Ability Women have held powerful positions within our homes, communities and our world that many have once been thought were only accomplishable by men. Not only have women raised strong families but have also prospered as entrepreneurs with their own businesses. This just briefly reflects the large scale of possibilities that can be achieved by not only men, but women too. Although these attainments have occurred with proof, it is not always easy to detach the roles made created by societies idea of tradition. For instance, the members of Patheos, believe that women in combat undermines the traditional role of women and (Veith, 2013). American Women Veterans Foundation believes that women have always been the catalyst for the change within not just our homes but this great nation. In their entirety, these two stakeholders hold differing views but they do agree on something and that is that women are just as courageous, determined and patriotic as men. Implementing separate combat units within the United States military, will give women the equality they deserve to willingly defend their country, but still maintain separation between the sexes. The primary goal and objective of Patheos is to be premier online destination to engage in the global dialogue about religion and spirituality and to explore and experience the (patheos.com). The real question being posed by Patheos is regardless of the capabilities of women, should they be able to join combat positions? This is an important question to ask when thinking about the traditions of the United States of America and the more Student 2 common idea of men and women within their specific gender roles. There is without a doubt much convenience within a traditional household setting, where the women bear and care for the children and men provide and protect the family. This seems ideal. Adding women to the combat zone not only undermines the vital attention needed by children, but defeats the purpose of men in the same positions. Men are typically known for their strength, aggressiveness and potential for violence that is needed in combat positions. Woman will potentially overly feminize the military, leaving it at risk to become ineffective. Not only is ineffectiveness of the greatest military a probability, but it is apparent that men have more body strength than the average woman and therefore can handle more pressure at a time without injury or strain. If women became part of combat positions within the military and anatomical characteristics are not properly taken into consideration, then overtime women will become warn and brittle sooner than expected due to the constant hardship forced upon them. The primary goal of American Woman Veterans is and promoting the legacy of the servicewomen, veterans and their (americanwomenveterans.org). The American Women Veterans carry on legacies that military women have made thus far and plan on continuing to pass this power to the next generations of inspiring women. According to Security of Defense Ash Carter, long as they qualify and meet the standards, women will now be able to contribute to our mission in ways they could not (Schwartz, 2015). The physical and mental capacity tested before, during and after discharging or retiring from the military are not achievable by the average person but are possible to be reached by anyone with enough will power. There have been women who have proven this and men who could prove nor disapprove this because they themselves did not have enough will power to meet the military standards. The test is not within the gender but within everyone individually. Another prominent opportunity Student 3 offered by the military is the chance to work and support your family. It is not rare nowadays, to find single women that have made the ultimate sacrifice to choose to work for all that they need for themselves and their families. Although different from tradition, this has changed many futures for the better. It would not be fair to deny a woman the right to defend her country if she is so willing to sign her life away to protect the ones she loves and preserve her nation. Especially when any man would easily have this opportunity solely based on his sex. There may have been a point in time when women were restricted to specific tasks to maintain a stable environment for the sake of herself, her husband and her family. To this day, this is still a necessity of efficiency within a household but gender roles can be reversed, tasks can be divided or simply done by a single parent, man or woman. Neither stakeholder denies the importance of a women within the world. There is definite awareness of the power and influence of women between both stakeholders. It is important that a compromise can be made to ensure the support of this similarity. This is not anywhere near impossible considering how far this country has come from women not even being able to vote to women running for president of the United States of America. If we begin to slow down the rate of women progression, then the fight the ancestors started is not being carried on but almost instead being reversed. Though Patheos and American Women share different goals there is a solid enough similarity between the two stakeholders that an effective compromise can be settled upon. A collaborative plan that will suit the desires of each organization will be to allow women in combat positions, although in segregated units. While devising a concrete plan prior to this implementation, it would be important to be aware of the similarities and differences in general of men and women physically and mentally. This will not lead to discrimination because it will be based off scientific facts that if acknowledged can help to ensure the safety and protection of Student 4 the men and women in uniform. Each unit can oversee specific tasks and obligations that are designated to them based off their physical and mental capabilities. Allowing gender segregation not only leaves room for more gender specific tasks but provides the opportunity for a more particular set of training. Separate trainings based off needed qualities will only build our military more strong and powerful when everyone can unite and combine what has been learned. For example, men may be able to complete a task with their strength, but women will most likely be able to complete the same task at a double rate because of their better tactile skills. The incorporation of this new proposal above can support both stakeholders by providing a happy medium of their goals. If women are allowed in combat positions, there is support for American Women Veterans. If women are allowed in combat positions although in separate units, there is a great opportunity for both men and women to prosper within their natural limits. This better supports Patheos. It is important that women receive the equality they deserve, that has been fought so long and hard for up to this point of society, but do not deserve to be diminished by men based off human nature. Men can continue with the ideal characteristics that many people think of them as having but women should also continue living up to the words that commonly describe them, such as being strong and filled with empowerment. (WC: 1221) Student 5 Works Cited American Women Veterans. American Women Veterans, 2017, http://www.americanwomenveterans.org/. Accessed 26 Jan 2017 Farmer, Blake. React to Opening of Combat Roles to All Things Considered. 4 Dec 2015. http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. McGraw, Kate. in Combat: Framing the Issues of Health and Health Research for Military Medicine. 12 Jan 2017. Vol 181. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2016. Mercadal, Trudy. in Salem Press Encyclopedia. 17 Jan 2016. ds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Nordland, Rod. Vanishes on the Front Lines of Combat; As U.S. Debates the Role of Women in the Military, Edges Blur on the International Herald Tribune. 23 Jun 2011. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Patheos. Patheos, 2017, http://www.patheos.com/. Accessed 26 Jan 2017 Schwartz, Felicia. Secretary Says U.S. Opening All Military Combat Roles to Women; Effectiveness Must Come The Wall Street Journal. 4 Dec 2015. search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Thompson, Mark. Women to Time Magazine. 14 Dec 2015. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Veithe, Gene. Patheos. Patheos. 28 Jan 2013. http://www.patheos.com/. Accessed 26 Jan 2017