Patel 1 Nishi Patel Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 5 March 2017 Project 2 Intermediate: The Implementation of School Uniforms and its Effect on Students Across the United States During the reign of King Henry VIII, in order to mark a class and status, he implemented uniforms throughout the United schools. Short after, Catholic schools across the world were implementing uniforms, and today majority of schools are starting to implement them as well. a common term that is often confused with is just a set of guidelines written by an institution detailing what can and cannot be worn (Wilde). Whereas, uniforms are defined as a set outfit proposed by an institution that is to be worn by students, employees, etc. (Wilde). However, uniforms have recently taken light across the United States, reportedly showing to be a positive as well as a negative impact on schools, students, and their families. Regardless, uniforms share a heavy impact on the 1 st amendment, family life, a behavior, and a academic performance. The ongoing discussion of whether schools should adopt uniforms as a mandatory statute has its pros and cons, all being strong and very debatable, and over time only gaining strength proving uniforms to be either right or wrong, both constitutionally and morally. For many years, people have been for and against uniforms, a repetitive and common argument that has been projected by those against uniforms is that it violates the 1 st amendment. The 1 st amendment compromises of four of assembly, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, and freedom of speech. When students are told to wear uniforms Patel 2 by a school, their right to dress freely is immediately taken away because they have to dress in accordance to certain rules instead of being able to wear whatever they want (Mitchell and Knechtle 487). From 2003 to now, this stance on uniforms has only become stronger and stronger. With the rise in diversity today, it is said that uniforms not only prevent students from dressing themselves freely, but they also place on cultural expressions of (Mitchell and Knechtle 488). According to the 2012 journal article for Success? The Effect of School Uniforms on Student Achievement and uniforms can actually discard opportunities for students to affiliate themselves with various gangs, cliques, and clans through gang signs, insignia, colors, etc. (Gentile and Imberman 1). Having a uniform allows for everyone to look the same that there is no room left for such business. Till this day, specifically May 19 th , 2016, uniforms are still believed to aid in the prohibition of bullying, gangs, cliques, and such affiliations forming within the communities of schools (Wilde). Financial burdens upon individuals and families are at their highest right now than ever, and each day only is more of a struggle for some more than others. The average cost of a uniform can range from $50 to up to $100 or more, and for many families, that is not something they can easily spend money on. Let alone the high cost, uniforms allow for policies to disturb private family life with its requirements (Mitchell and Knechtle 488). This opened gateway allows for business to mix with family life which is morally wrong. Families are then expected to shape their lives around such burdening rules and regulations (ex. Uniforms) just to provide their children with the education they deserve. Not only today in 2017, but also further back in time, when Catholic schools would require uniforms families would have to contribute more money than they had to provide their children with such. Patel 3 When an individual is praised or complimented, immediately the feeling of pleasure overtakes their mind and body, and a feeling like no other. The individual then has more self-confidence and self-respect for themselves. Similarly, uniforms project the same type of feelings and glorification. Children hold a lot of respect for their parents and elders, as they grow up, they observe their parents going to work in certain outfit styles or uniforms, in their mind this creates a connection of uniforms create respect. As stated in a 2009 academic, peer-reviewed journal article, their results from a study show that students tend to have more self-respect and confidence for themselves when they are required to wear a uniform (Yueng 847). The students believe that when they put on such a proper and studious attire, they have a higher status and more respect than those who wearing a uniform (Yueng 847). Having that higher status promotes authority and achievement in the mind, making them feel more official according to 2012 studies (Gentile and Imberman 2). Students expect to receive such respect and authority, but they will only receive it if they give it, given that manner students are conformed to grant respect and authority to principals, teachers, other staff, and fellow students (Gentile and Imberman 2). So from then and now, obvious that uniforms encourage an active relationship of respect, authority, and awe amongst each and every individual within a community, especially the students. Last but not least, uniforms have shown to have a voluminous impact on a academic performance. It is commonly believed that implementing uniforms allow for students to focus more on school in lieu of how they look, what they are going to wear, etc. (Gentile and Imberman 1-2). And that was what was perceived and believed for some time, until 2009 when Ryan Yueng proved otherwise. He said that according to his results, there actually was no to little amounts of evidence proving that uniforms do in fact raise academic achievement. His Patel 4 studies showed a rather interesting discovery, that students who attended schools without uniforms actually had a better rate of achievement than those students whose school required uniforms (Yueng 849). Today and in 2016, schools are more likely to implement uniforms because they believe that it removes a source of distraction during classes. This distraction is defined as a attire during class; whether it be how short shorts are, how offensive clothing is, or even just simply how inappropriate attire is (Brookshire 49). With this distraction being gone through the use of uniforms, it is more likely for students to have a raise in their academic performances. However, as shown by the contradicting results over time, it is unsure whether uniforms can positively benefit a academic performance yet. In order for a academic performance to increase, they will also have to be in attendance to classes and actively participate. The Gentile and research shows that uniforms actually improved attendance within primary schools especially within its female students (Gentile and Imberman 2). This factor was not only seen in later times, but also in earlier times when Catholic schools had first implemented uniforms (Wilde). It is only because of the reported observations in attendance increase causing an increase in academic performance by Catholic schools that many schools also started implementing uniforms for that reason (Wilde). From the discussion of uniforms and their impact on such aspects over time as mentioned above, it can be seen that there many differences in arguments over time, rather the same arguments have gained strength through research and evidence. Uniforms taking away a 1 st rights are a bigger deal today than ever before. The intrusion and burden that uniforms put on lives today are as much as before, but only a stronger Patel 5 problem now. A behavior, self-respect, and self-confidence seems to be much more influential and impactful than ever before. However, a academic performance is still shaky based on differentiating results over time, there still seems to be some consistency. The ongoing discussion of whether schools should adopt uniforms as a mandatory statute has its pros and cons, all being strong and very debatable, and over time only gaining strength proving uniforms to be either right or wrong, both constitutionally and morally. (Word Count: 1305) Patel 6 Works Cited Brookshire, Attillah N. Impact of School Uniforms on School Walden Dissertations and Doctoral Studies, Apr. 2016, pp. 1-68. Scholar Works, doi:10.1177/ 019263659708159314. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. Gentile, Elisabetta, and Scott A. Imberman. for Success? The Effect of School Uniforms on Student Achievement and Journal of Urban Economics, vol. 71, no. 1, 2012, pp.1-17. Mitchell, Harold W., and John C. Knechtle. in Public Schools and the First Amendment: A Constitutional The Journal of Negro Education, vol. 72, no. 4, 2003, pp. 487-494. Wilde, Marian. Uniforms Make Schools GreatSchools.org, GreatSchools, 19 May 2016, www.greatschools.org/gk/articles/school-uniforms/. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. Yueng, Ryan. School Uniforms a Good Fit? Results from the ECLS-K and Educational Policy, vol. 23, no. 6, Nov. 2009, pp.