Honorat 1 Gianny Honorat Martha Heiser Enc1102-068 1 March 2017 Is a Smoke Worth it? The Food and Drug Administration is in charge of protecting the public health by making sure human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical devices are safe, efficient and secure for consumption (What We Do). The FDA is also in charge of regulating the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of tobacco products, along with reducing tobacco use by minors. In order to reduce tobacco use, the FDA has launched a number of public education campaigns, such as The Real Cost Fresh Empire, and This Free Life (Public Health Education). The main goal of these campaigns is to help educate the public, especially the youth, about the dangers of regulated tobacco products. The FDA aims to reduce the amount of young smokers by launching public health campaigns that uses rhetorical appeals to steer their audience away from tobacco products. The Real Cost is the first federally funded U.S. youth tobacco education campaign set on changing the minds, attitudes, and behaviors among youth who are supportive of smoking or who have already started smoking. According to the FDA campaign has prevented nearly 350,000 youth aged 11 to 18 nationwide from (The Real Cost Campaign). One of the campaign ads used to do this shows a picture of yellow stained teeth with the caption smile, smoking may stain your with the subscript give it to you straight. You can make your own decisions. Know the real cost of tobacco Based on the Honorat 2 context of this picture it targets anyone who values a nice smile, and uses that to influence their choices. For example, social media such as snapchat, Instagram and twitter encourages pictures. When people take pictures they usually smile and a white smile is something important for taking a good picture. Society today values a white smile. There are many teeth whitening products, toothpastes and even gum that promote clean and white teeth. Having yellow or stained teeth is something that society does not find attractive and the image really emphasizes the idea. Because society and the youth in particular values white and nice teeth they use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos and pathos to appeal to their audience. For example, they appeal to the younger emotions by showing the detrimental effects tobacco use could have on a person and uses their credibility as the FDA to deliver that message. They also use logic by showing the effects of tobacco. Tobacco actually damages the teeth and they use that information to reason with their audience. A study was done on this campaign and according to the study the researchers noted that participants who reported recall of The Real Cost slogan (n = 588), just over half (52%) reported a more negative attitude toward tobacco products after seeing or hearing the (Li-Ling). This data shows that the he way they target their audience and use rhetorical appeals in their images is working in deterring their audience away from smoking. The Real Cost campaign targets the younger audience through the use of emotional and logical appeal while The Fresh Empire campaign targets the youth by using the faces of a younger audience in order to relate to them. One of the campaign ads released by Fresh Empire is one that shows a young boy twisting his arm similarly to what hip hop dancer do with the caption get it twisted. tobacco free. This campaign mainly targets the youth who identify with the hip-hop crowd. Fresh  is first public education campaign designed to prevent and reduce tobacco use among at-risk multicultural youth ages 12- 17 who Honorat 3 identify with hip-hop culture, specifically African American, Hispanic, and Asian American/ Pacific Islander (Fresh empire campaign).This image uses ethos by using young children as their spokesperson to make it easier for their audiences relate to other young non-smokers; this encourages them not to smoke. The image uses pathos by using a pun as a comedic gesture to also entertain and draw in their audience and by using. Adding a light joke concerning a serious topic appeals to the younger audience and to the fact that most kids like to have fun and joke around. Using this method they are able to draw the attention of younger audience. They make the image fun and comfortable making it more suitable to them. It uses logos by presenting the audience with facts informing them of the reasons why smoking is bad. This ad also uses different forms of social media to reach its audience. Social media such as Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and Snapchat makes getting a point across fun and entertaining while also keeping the serious tone of the subject. The advertisement has the hashtag #freshempire. Hashtags are keywords used for specific topics or trends on twitter. Anything could be made into a hashtag and because teenagers often use them a lot this helps them draw the audience towards the message behind the image. A study was done by Ali, Mir M. and Dwyer, Debra S. on the peer effects in adolescent smoking behavior. Mir M, Ali one of the main researchers and the author of the article said findings indicate that peer effects are important determinants of smoking and could be used as a potential policy tool to reduce smoking rates among (Ali 407). The idea for the campaign must have been based off of this assumption. Smoking is often associated with being cool and because some of children do it their peers follow behind them. If the same concept is used to tell teenagers not to smoke, then it will work just as well. They promote ads that allow Honorat 4 teenagers to relate to people their age who do not smoke but who are also cool in the hip hop community. In conclusion, based on the information above the campaigns are working. The FDA might have targeted a younger audience because it might have been easier to convince someone who has not been engaging in smoking rather than someone who has spent years smoking. Another reason why they might have targeted a younger audience might be because if they can convince youths to refrain from smoking now the will not pick it up later in the future. Although they both target a younger audience they use different approaches to accomplish their goal, the job of the FDA is to promote health and one of the ways to promote health is to prevent people from smoking. Smoking is becoming very common in youths and that means it is more likely for a child to pick up a cigarette and stat smoking. Children are supposed to be nurtured and protected and the kids who smoke can be a daughter, brother, son, niece, nephew. This affects everyone and informing them about the negative effects of tobacco use is a good way to ensure a healthy future for them. Honorat 5 Work Cited Ali, Mir M. and Debra S. Dwyer. Estimating Peer Effects in Adolescent Smoking Behavior: A Longitudinal  Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 45, no. 4, Oct. 2009, pp. 402- 408. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2009.02.004. Li-Ling, Huang, et al. Impact of the Real Cost Campaign on Recall, Attitudes, and Risk Perceptions about Tobacco Use: A National  International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, Vol 14, Iss 1, P 42 (2017), no. 1, 2017, p. 42. EBSCOhost, doi:10.3390/ijerph14010042. Products, Center For Tobacco. Public Health  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Tobacco Products, 24 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Products, Center For Tobacco. Fresh Empire  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Tobacco Products, 11 Feb. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Products, Center For Tobacco. The Real Cost  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Tobacco Products, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. What We  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. https://scontent.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885- https://www.fda.gov/ucm/groups/fdagov-public/documents/image/ucm481238.png Honorat 6