Student 1 Student Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 5 March 2017 A Proposed Plan for Marijuana Legalization On the November 8 ballot, eight states sought to legalize marijuana in their state, and in each of them, some form passed (Davies). Adding to the previous 25 states, there are now 28 states with legalized medical marijuana and 3 with recreational laws (Huddleston). All around the country, voters seem to be voicing their opinions as to whether marijuana should be legalized, and how: medically or recreationally? The question as to whether marijuana should be decriminalized has been risen across the nation, and both sides claim to have evidence supporting their platform. As a key stakeholder on the policy, Drug Policy Alliance (DPA) continues their mission to achieve legislation in all 50 states and to legitimize the use of medical marijuana. Another important stakeholder, the Marijuana Policy Initiative (MPI) aims to reverse the legalization process of marijuana, and putting a dent in the cannabis trade. Despite their obvious differences, both organizations are aiming to consider the health aspects of marijuana and the education of consumers about drug consumption. Knowing that complete legalization of marijuana and total repudiation may never occur, a compromise can be made between the organizations to address both parties for the benefit of the American people. DPA is led on a volunteer basis, involved in the legislative process to roll back to excesses of the drug war, and promote sensible drug policy the Drug Policy DPA argues that consumers are punished for what they put into their bodies, not their actions, and want to influence policies in order to give power back to the people Student 2 and Since the legalization of marijuana in Colorado, arrest rates of white juveniles has dropped nine percent from 2012 to 2014 As more and more states follow the trend of Colorado, DPA hopes that the arrest patterns will drop, preventing the convictions based on drug possessions. Drug Policy Alliance maintains that Uruguay became the first country to legalize cannabis in 2013, and urges the United States and United Nations to take a similar health orientated approach rather than criminal Laws and Drug Enforcement Around the Although research on the medical uses for marijuana is limited, it may be beneficial for conditions such as glaucoma, nausea, seizures, HIV/AIDS, and even Alzheimer disease (Cavalet). By providing some health assistance, DPA offers hope to patients who find relief from such conditions through marijuana instead of traditional medications. Alternatively, MPI is non-partisan group of people have come to understand the negative local-to-global implications of an organized, legal, freely-traded, commercialized and industrialized marijuana Most of concerns are about negative health affects and the social problems associated with cannabis. The marijuana sold today is not the same from the and nearly 10 times more potent than the old-fashioned plant (McGorrian). Similar to other illegal drugs, 50 percent will suffer withdrawal (McGorrian). In a study conducted by the National Center for Biotechnology Information(NCBI), there is association between frequent use of marijuana from adolescence into adulthood and significant declines in MPI disregards the large taxable amount each state may collect from marijuana sales since the health effects outweigh any monetary benefits. While tax revenue of sales may help the state grow, it will focus much of that revenue on drug relief programs. 9% of those who experiment with marijuana will become costing the state money to fund programs fighting addiction (Volkow et al). Student 3 Both the DPA and MPI are invested in the health effects of marijuana and hope to influence policies federally and on the state levels to achieve their goals. These stakeholders are committed to passing legislation to better benefit the American people and those who use marijuana. DPA and MPI educate Americans of the benefits and disadvantages of marijuana usage, hoping others share their views. However, there is hope that a compromise can be found between the two organizations that truly focuses on the health. As of 2000, approval of marijuana legislation has been increasing, even hitting 50 percent in 2011 (Swift). As Americans seek legislation, common ground must be found to appease everyone. Past solutions have been risen in both the federal authority and individual states. As seen in the 2016 election, a majority of states approve of some form of marijuana legalization, but the federal government still disapproves of the practice despite being more laxed on laws in the past administration. The federal government should issue a new law stating legalizing medical marijuana, but as a controlled substance. Being a controlled substance, consumers would be required to have a prescription from a physician and carry it with them at all times. This would appease both stakeholders as it solves their main issues: DPA wanting to offer relief to those with medical needs, and MPI having regulation of the marijuana trade. Since dispensaries would have to be registered with the government, they can be regulated, unlike for recreational use. This is due to the remaining illegal sale of marijuana that cannot be tracked if it is readily available to anyone who seeks it out. With marijuana being structured, various types of cannabis can be restricted to ensure that only the approved chemical compounds can be added to the plant during growth. Meaning, the government would have control over which genetic variations have actual medical benefit for consumers. To implement the law, it cannot simply be passed; it must be enforced. Any state that Student 4 does not comply with the federal law should be fined until proven enforcement. As the drug would be prescription only, penalties should be enforced for any individual caught without prescription, similar to narcotics, such as oxycodone. Since the federal government has more power than the states, based on the Constitutional rights, it should be prepared and willing to place fines on any state that does not comply to the new national law. (Word Count: 997) Student 5 Works Cited  The Marijuana Policy Initiative. The Marijuana Policy Initiative. n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. About the Drug Policy  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Cavalet, Jill Vargo. The Highs and Lows of Medical  Clinician Reviews (2016): 40- 53. Clinician Reviews. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Magdalena. A Public Health of Consequence: Ask About Who  AJPH 107.3 (2016): 396-97. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Drug Laws and Drug Enforcement Around the  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. McGorrian, Dr. Grace M. Pot Used to Be Pretty Harmless, but Plenty Dangerous  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 24 May 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Mission and  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Swift, Art. For First Time, Americans Favor Legalizing  Gallup.com. Gallup Inc. 22 Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Volkow, Nora D., Ruben D. Baler, Wilson M. Compton, and Susan R.B. Weiss. Adverse Health Effects of Marijuana  The New England Journal of Medicine. U.S. National Library of Medicine. 05 June 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.