Allhim1 Fahad Allhim Ins. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1011 5 March 2017 The Impact of International Students in the U.S. Nowadays, a country that has a significant number of international students is seen a developed country. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) defines the term of international students as students who have left their countries and have gone to another one for educational purposes. Indeed, before the 2000s the United States was not concentrating in international education, but after 2005 it is considered as the largest educational provider to international students (Obst). However, after 2000 the U.S. government realized that the vast number of international students played an undoubted role in contributing an entirety of more than 24 billion dollars, which has markedly increased the economy of the U.S. (Egnatios). Also, international students play a primary part in improving the United States Higher Education (Obst). Some think that the international students are very influential in a positive way on domestic students. Because international students try their best to demonstrate the cultural differences that make them different, besides they show them the universal values, which make them affiliated (Egnatios). Therefore, conversations about international students have shifted because of the vast effectiveness of international students on economic, educational and cultural fields in the U.S. Throughout the years, the government of the United States has found out that revenue of hosting international students and providing to them the education is enormous beside the other financing sources. In fact, before the 2000s the U.S. did not recognize the significance of Allhim2 international students to the budget of the United States even though they had a quite high percentage of foreign students. So, Daniel Obst says, With its historically decentralized and competitive higher education sector, the United States lacks a coordinated international education policy to attract and recruit internationally mobile students, scholars and scientists to pursue higher education in the Regarding of the previous quote that proves the United States has not had any specific legislation for international education. Consequently, there was a slight decline in the total number of international students by 1.6% in U.S. Due to underestimating the importance of international education from the U.S government that pushed international students to stop coming to U.S and going to other educational providers (Obst). Nevertheless, he says, September 11, 2001, public awareness of the importance of international students has So, the U.S. government established a restricted policy regarding international education to stop decreasing the number of international students. Also, higher education and the U.S. government have hugely raised the tuition costs by 36% at private and 51% at public four-year institutions, so they can take advantage of having international students in enhancing the economy of the United States. Another aspect that has apparently changed from time to time is the educational impact of foreign students in the United States. Higher education and various studies have declared that international students are greatly impactful on developing and upgrading the education system and faculty in the United States. However, before the 2000s Dr.Kavita Pandit reports Blair, for example, announced in 2006 that he was putting in place a package of incentives to make Britain an even more attractive destination for international students. This represented the second phase of an initiative launched in 1999 to increase the number of non-European students studying in the U.K. In Australia, a governmental agency, Australian Education International, Allhim3 works in coordination with universities to streamline efforts to attract international In other words, the governments and institution of higher education in the U.S seemed that they did not realize the importance of international students while those other international educators have put a lot of effort in attracting international students to study in their countries. Nevertheless, after the 2000s a massive change has happened based on what she says the U.S., the Institute of International Educators recently issued a report titled U.S. Competitiveness for International Students and which calls for the federal government to develop a national recruiting strategy for international students and to make far-reaching changes in the immigration regulations and visa procedures as they impact this Therefore, we can say that after the 2000s the U.S realization has undoubtedly altered and increased about the effect of international students on fieldwork and faculty. Moreover, the idea of the cultural impact that international students cause on domestic students in the U.S has shifted over time. Indeed, international students give the local students free opportunities to be more knowledgeable and educated only by communicating with individuals from dissimilar nationalities. Similarly, the international students have to have involvements with Americans, which would influence them culturally and socially. Additionally, Lauren Moloney-Egnatios announces that IIE President Dr. Allan Goodman said that international students are a great help for domestic students the cultural differences and historical experiences that divide us, as well as the common values and humanity that unite However, Emmanuel E. Akanwa reports that Rienties, Nanclares, Jindal-Snape, and Alcott after an observation they found out that students from the same cultural background tend to work well with each other, as compared to working with those from host In other words, international students interact and connect with each other rather Allhim4 than getting engaged with domestic students that happen due to cultural barriers. Also, it seems that international students work more efficiently and dynamically with students who share the same cultural values. As a result, it builds secure fences between the domestic and international students, which make interacting with each other to be mostly impossible. Nevertheless, at the beginning of 2015, Emmanuel E. Akanwa reports the researchers came up with a solution for the communication issue between the domestic and international students, which is design of team work has a strong influence on how international and home students work and learn (274). In conclusion, it is guaranteed that conversations about international students have altered because of impacts of international students on economic, educational and cultural fields in the United States. Throughout the years, the U.S government awareness of the significance of international students had apparently changed when they noticed that international students are considered to be notionally a powerful financing source to any economy. Also, they play a certain role in enhancing and improving the education system and faculty in the United States. Another effect of international students is cultural impact where international students give the local students free opportunities to be more knowledgeable and educated only by communicating with individuals from different nationalities. Thus, the U.S government and higher education were forced to establish new policies and legislations in order to keep their market share of international students. Allhim5 Work Cited Akanwa, Emmanuel E. International Students in Western Developed Countries: History, Challenges, and  Journal of International Students, vol.3 2015: 271-300. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Moloney-Egnatios, Lauren, Gretchen Mielke, Julie Trinh, and Monika Young. The International Student Journey in the United States and the Netherlands: A Comparative  Rep. School of International Service, 5 May 2014. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Obst, Daniel, and Joanne Forster. Perceptions of European Higher Education in Third Countries Outcomes of a Study by the Academic Cooperation Association (ACA) Rep. the Institute of International Education (IIE), 2005. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Pandit, Kavita. The Importance of International Students on Our  Yearbook of the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers, Vol.69. (2007): 156-159. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.