Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Homelessness There are limitations on different views of homelessness because in all honesty nobody in the world supports it, unless they are insane. It was difficult to find stakeholders with incompatible goals but I managed to find two different organizations with different smaller goals. Both organizations have shared interests but also have differences as well which is why these two separate stakeholders were chosen. My first stakeholder is The National Alliance to End Homelessness, their overall mission is to prevent homelessness and ultimately put it to extinction for everyone. My second stakeholder that I have chosen is Stand Up for Kids, which is an organization that focuses on youth to prevent runaway children and provide homes for the ones in need. Even though the two organizations focus on different age groups and goals, both can agree that the prevention of homelessness all together is what needs to happen and that we can only reach that success by everyone doing their part in the homelessness fight and support everyone. The National Alliance to End Homelessness is the leading organization in the homelessness community and they deserve the credit they get for the hard work that they put in. The organization started forming in the early twentieth century starting with a group of concerned human beings looking out for the needy. The organization works with public and private sectors to create homes for the homelessness. The National Alliance to End Student 2 Homelessness works on a global scale and are found all over the world fighting to help everyone with their tough situations. They strive to carry out big projects helping an enormous number of people during each project after realizing that helping out a few people here and there was not going to be enough to fight the entirety of homelessness. My other stakeholder is Stand Up for Kids which is an organization that strives to end the cycle of youth homelessness throughout the United States. Founded in 1990 in California by a group of people originally forming a program for the city of San Diego, it has transformed into a national organization that is widely known throughout the United States. This organization is more on a personal level with the people that it helps out, they go out into the streets searching for children who may be in need or struggling with their lives. This organization has many different programs to teach children basic life skills who may not have the opportunity to learn them because they ran away from home. These programs range from Anger management classes to even social gatherings between children with social behavior problems. These two stakeholders focus their efforts on different objectives, yes they are both trying to end homelessness but they try to prevent it for different groups and in different ways. I understand both organizations reasoning for why they do what they do but I just believe that if there was a compromise and a combined effort of the two organizations then the ultimate problem would be solved sooner. The reason these two stakeholders have not been able to reach a compromise is because they both are ultimately using different strategies to accomplish the same goal, on one hand my first stakeholder plans to end homelessness by helping everyone globally with massive projects and on the other hand my second stakeholder gets on a personal level with every child that they help and is very influential to the life. It would be Student 3 manageable but very tough to get these organizations to merge and compromise on strategies to support the end for homelessness together. Although it would be difficult to devise a plan in which either one or both of these organizations change their strategies to compromise with the other stakeholder to reach a compatible goal, I believe it is a possible feat. For this to happen each organization will have to have the leaders and important members to meet up and discuss different strategies that will work best for the merging organization. Since The National Alliance to End Homelessness already focuses on every age group and is featured globally I think it would work well to have the other organization merge to help the first stakeholder. It would be a perfect fit because while the first stakeholder deals with the big projects the second stakeholder could help counsel the recipients of that certain project and could help out the lives of the homeless tremendously. I believe the only way this compromise works is if Stand Up for Kids stops focusing on just the youth and focuses more on everyone like the first stakeholder does. I am not saying there is anything wrong with focusing on children but just to think if the resources that they have now are teamed up with the first stakeholder then it will be a very powerful organization. All in all, I think this would be a great compromise and would speed the process of ending homelessness by an enormous amount. Although different strategies to end homelessness I believe that these two stakeholders would be able to make the necessary changes to come to a compromise on how to end homelessness once and for all. It would just take someone inside one of the stakeholders to get the ball rolling and try to merge each organization to create what would be a powerhouse organization. They have common interests that would persuade each organization that the right thing to do is come to a compromise and work together as one organization instead of separating the resources into two separate stakeholders. Both Student 4 organizations need people to donate to their cause so that they can have resources to use, but imagine how strong the organization would be if the donations all went to one place. Student 5 Works Cited About StandUp For  StandUp For Kids Helping homeless and street kids every day in cities across America About StandUp For Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.standupforkids.org/about/default.aspx>. End  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Baumohl, Jim. Homelessness in America. Phoenix, AZ: Oryx, 1996. Print. Veteran Homelessness  Veteran Homelessness Facts Green Doors. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Burt, Martha R., and Barbara E. Cohen. Differences among Homeless Single Women, Women with Children, and Single  Social Problems. Oxford University Press, 31 July 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hwang, Stephen W. Homelessness and  Canadian Medical Association Journal. N.p., 23 Jan. 2001. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.