Diamond !1 Alexia Diamond Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.045S17 25 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeal to Standardized Testing In society, the education system sees standardized testing as a crucial part in assessing students, teachers, and schools. As the use of standardized testing increases, the debate whether it truly helps or hurts education grows. The organization, National Center for Fair and Open mission is to end the misuse of standardized testing and to make sure that the procedure used to evaluate students, teachers, and schools is fair and educationally beneficial. This group believes that standardized testing wastes valuable classroom time and increases high school drop out rates. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing uses pathos and logos in their advertisements in attempt to convince their audience that standardized testing is wrong. The first advertisement from the National Center for Fair and Open Testing is titled, Wrong With Standardized The poster targets couples with children that attend schools that require standardized testing. It uses orange text to draw the eye to what they consider important words and phrases that have negative connotation, such as: poor measures, educational quality suffers, not fair, not reliable, bias, and not objective. Orange is used to set objects apart from the other words surrounding it (Morde 2016). Not only does the use of orange draw the eye of the audience, but it also gives them a sense of caution against testing. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing uses this poster to convey that standardized testing is not the best way to evaluate students, teachers, and schools. In an attempt to make this poster less Diamond !2 negative, it poses possible solutions in a circle in the middle of the page drawing the eye since it is different. The solutions they suggest consists of: good teacher observation, documentation of student work, and performance-based assessment, which they see as more efficient. Authors use rhetorical appeals to develop their claims and respond to opposing arguments (Weida 2013). The National Center for Fair and Open testing uses both logos and pathos embedded in their advertisement. Throughout the poster, there are many boxes with information about why standardized testing is not helpful to students. In each box there are different colored text (blue and orange) to draw the eye to that information. For example, one of the boxes state, and short-answer tests are poor measures of student achievement, particularly of the ability to understand and use complex (fair test). By using words and phrases that have negative connotation, after reading this poster, parents start to feel concerned for their children and start to doubt the current educational system. The words and phrases that will stand out to parents include: poor measures, narrowed, mental or emotional state, educational quality suffers, and subjected human beings. By reading these words parents start to create doubt if standardized testing is benefiting or harming their education. Another advertisement created by National Center for Fair and Open Testing titled, High-Stakes Testing Feeds the School-to-Prison tries to scare parents into opting out of standardized testing. The poster uses an image of a maze that leads from a school to a prison. Along the maze, there are little boxes with reasons on why high-stake testing can lead their teenager to prison. This advertisement again targets couples with students that take standardized tests. The purpose is to create fear into the parents reading this poster in hopes that the parents will listen to their cause. They hope by seeing what may come of their children if standardized Diamond !3 testing continues, they will support their cause and opt out of these state mandated tests. The color red can indicate a lot of different things. It can mean passionate love, seduction, violence, danger, anger, and adventure (Morton 2016). In this case, using the color red helps indicate that standardized testing is dangerous. The first thing the eye is drawn to is the big red pipeline amongst all the white surrounding it. By using this pipeline leading from a school to a prison, parents are prompted to read how these high-stake tests can lead their children to trouble. In addition to the last advertisement, this poster uses the same rhetorical appeals to support their argument against high-stake tests. Along the obvious big red pipeline is little text boxes that explain how educational system can lead their children to prison. These text boxes include information that fall into a domino effect. Each box leads to the next until ultimately these teenagers end up in prison. For example, the first text box states, force many classrooms to focus on test then students are most likely to act which leads to other examples they found, then ultimately leads to teens more likely to get in trouble, end up in (fair test). This information causes enough fear and interest for parents to stop what they are doing and read the poster and see the website url at the bottom of the page. With the fear still embedded into the parents they have enough interest to look up the website and read more about their cause. On the website there are many articles about the flaws in standardized testing and how to stop it. The National Center of Fair and Open Testing uses both posters to advertise the negative side to standardized testing to parents everywhere. FairTest promotes open, valid, and educationally beneficial evaluations for students, teachers, and (Schaeffer 2016). They work to eliminate racial, class, gender, and cultural barriers posed by standardized testing so Diamond !4 everyone has an equal opportunity to a quality education. They hold many different projects to help improve the educational system, some examples include: working with other groups in testing resistance and reform spring to help build campaigns and link up with one another and leading the national forum which seeks to maintain the Elementary and Secondary Education Act/No Child Left Behind. Both posters promotes their cause by advertising standardized testing in a negative way. Although the advertisement states different information, the ultimate goal to both is to stop standardized testing. The first advertisement uses more words and knowledge to get their audience to understand the negative side, whereas the second advertisement uses more images and little words. In the end, The National Center for Fair and Open Testing has created two very different, but similar advertisement to help explain why standardized testing is harming the educational system. By using the rhetorical appeals, pathos and logos, FairTest targets couples with students taking these standardized tests in hope they will support their cause and end standardized testing. Not only do the advertisements focus on the negative effects of standardized testing, but they also pose a solution. Good teacher observation, documentation of student work, and performance based assessments can be used to testing students and teachers and can undo the damage by reversing the zero tolerance caused by standardized testing. Diamond !5 Work Cited Morton, Jill.  Red. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.colormatters.com/the- meanings-of-colors/red>. Parents & Kids Against Standardized  Parents & Kids Against Standardized Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://m.facebook.com/117479641627357/photos/a. 484433368265314.98815.117479641627357/505888819453102/? Schaeffer, Robert. The National Center for Fair & Open  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.fairtest.org/>. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: Establishing Arguments. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/588/04/>. Diamond !6 Image one: Image 2: