Student 1 Student Professor N. Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Standard Energy and Alternative Energy: Finding the Middle Ground Overwhelming evidence of climate change is agreed upon by 97% of climatologists world-wide (J. Cook et al). The idea that humans are destroying the Earth through greenhouse gas emissions, or GHGs, is not a new one. One of the greatest creators of GHG emissions is the gas and automotive industry. Because of backlash from environmental groups on the automotive industry, and a demanding rise for cleaner and more efficient vehicles, there has been a rise in new electric vehicles in the past few years. These vehicles run primarily on lithium-ion batteries, with a small reliance on standard gasoline. Some vehicles, for example the Tesla Model 3 can get up to 215 miles per charge (Tesla). Tesla is also pioneering advances in solar energy to help reduce the environmental costs of standard gas. The gas industry is not blind to the issues that have been created from mass oil consumption. According to Exxon Mobil, their company has reduced their own air emissions by 45% in the last ten years. They have also created new high efficiency fuels for the maritime industry, and even have patents on some vehicle parts that increase fuel efficiency (Exxon). Tesla and Exxon Mobil have both taken significant steps to help improve our environmental situation, but they still stand on opposite sides of the issue. Exxon is through and through a standard energy producer. vehicles continue to have a low standard energy dependence, but more and more the company is utilizing Student 2 solar energy like in the Tesla Energy home. A profitable compromise could be met if Exxon Mobil would include a Tesla Supercharger at some Exxon locations. Tesla was founded in 2003, and Elon Musk bought the company is 2004. Since then, Tesla has gone through many ups and downs. Their first car, a luxury sports car called the Roadster was, sold poorly. Several years later, they began selling the Model S which was meant to be an affordable family sedan. They later released the Model X SUV and are rolling out the even more affordable Model 3 in 2018. While the main focus is simply selling vehicles, Elon Musk has had big plans for the company. SolarCity, a solar power provider was recently acquired by Musk to be included with his Tesla Energy products. Tesla Energy includes solar roof shingles and large battery units installed within homes or businesses that store collected solar energy. These can be used to Power a home in excess of a day without any standard energy resources. The units are stackable, and can be installed all over your home and store energy independently. This collected solar energy will also charge your Tesla vehicle. The ramifications of this type of energy consumption are massive for the gas industry. If every home and business in America became outfitted with this system, not only would environmental pollution be almost completely eliminated, but the oil companies like Exxon Mobil would be in big trouble. According to Business Wire, electric vehicle industry clocked a turnover close to USD 54 Billion in and the market is expected to hit a new peak in 2017. Every year that electric vehicle sales go up is another year that the gas industry takes a hit. For example, the Tesla Model 3 can go 215 miles on a full charge. 215 miles that standard energy see nearly no profit on. The electricity that they use to power the cars is still usually coal fueled at the source, but the energy is stretched much farther than gas. If Tesla vehicles get charged at home with solar power, standard energy is completely out of the equation. One of Student 3 newest endeavors is the Tesla Supercharger, a specialized EV charger designed just for that can charge any Tesla vehicle in approximately 7 seconds. While these stations are incredibly convenient for Tesla owners, there availability is very limited. There are enough stations in the US to get Tesla drivers from coast to coast, but range limitations are often an issue for Tesla drivers. Fortunately, the vehicles are capable of warning drivers when they are in danger of going out of range of a location to charge their car. Tesla would have to supplement about $8 billion in investments in order to have the Supercharger network available for every Tesla driver to have a 4 minute drive to the nearest Supercharger (Ferris). Exxon Mobil was originally the Standard Oil Company, and was formed in 1870 (Exxon). Though they claim to be the largest publicly traded energy company, Forbes Magazine estimates them at about the 4 th largest after Saudi Aranco, Gazprom Group, and the National Iranian Group. Saudi Aranco is reported to have approximately double the amount of oil production per year of Exxon (Rapier 5). The ailing energy giant also experienced a 34.2% decrease in revenue from 2014 to 2015. The same SWOT Analysis reporting the loss in revenues also reports a suspected increase in global energy needs by 25% in the near future (Market Line 7-12). While there is room for growth, Exxon is likely in need of new endeavors to get them on top. Loss in revenue is agreed upon by an investment action plan from Regional Business News, but they also report to watch the stock in case of significant increase. We all stand at a precipice from which progress can flourish. Two companies that stand at the opposite ends of the industrial and environmental categories, can come together to form a meaningful compromise. There will never be a time in the United States where there will be a zero reliance on standard energy. However, there is an increasing demand for alternative. share trends are expected to stumble upon strong changes from the current trend by Student 4 2017 which would lead the market dynamics to new as reported by Regional Business News. This is why I propose that Exxon Mobil partners up with Tesla to get a Supercharger within 4 minutes of every Tesla driver in America. As previously mentioned, it would take about an $8 billion investment to accomplish this. Some of the operational costs include building facilities for the Supercharger. However, if Exxon would agree to begin having Superchargers installed at Exxon locations it could bring down installation costs, and bring up to 90,000 Tesla owners somewhere they would have no business going otherwise (Young). While there are some Superchargers in the US, they are few and far between. There are roughly 11,000 Exxon stations in the United States by my calculations. If a Supercharger was built at every location, it would complete a third of 30,000 Supercharger goal (Ferris). Tesla and Exxon are both companies that are trying to sell us products, plain and simple. While Exxon is a long standing company with enormous resources, they are failing to return significant revenues. Tesla is a young upstart with a great idea and a lot to prove. Together, they can create a brilliant partnership. If Exxon could provide facilities for Tesla to create their $250,000 Superchargers, they could ramp up production quickly with very little cost to Exxon (Ferris). Once the Superchargers are built, they can begin installation at Exxon stations all over the country. An agreement can be made that could be very profitable for both Exxon and Tesla. Similar successful endeavors are currently being attempted at Ruby across the country (Business Wire). Not only will the sale of go up because of a relaxation of Range Anxiety, but Exxon stations would see 90,000 customers who would never have had anything to buy from Exxon before. These customers pay at the pump, where a split of profits is collected by Exxon and Tesla, and then go inside the station and shop for whatever corner store items they Student 5 might want. Installation of units would be relatively simple, with the Supercharger simply being installed alongside the normal pumps. In conclusion, two pioneering companies stand a lot to benefit from a partnership. Placing Tesla Superchargers at Exxon stations can revitalizing a struggling oil giant. This can also provide one of the very basic services hindering sales; freedom to roam the country. With no Range Anxiety to hold the drivers back, Tesla drivers will drive further and farther than ever before, and Exxon will be poised to reap the benefits with little to no effort. Student 6 Works Cited Accelerating Sustainable  Tesla. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Exxon Mobil Corporation SWOT  Exxon Mobil Corporation SWOT Analysis, 12 Sept. 2016, pp. 1-11. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bah&AN=118232346&site=eds-live. Ferris, Robert. Tesla will need billions to make US Supercharger network compete with gas stations, says  CNBC. CNBC, 03 Mar. 2017. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. J. Cook, et al, Consensus on consensus: a synthesis of consensus estimates on human-caused global  Environmental Research Letters Vol. 11 No. 4, (13 April 2016); DOI:10.1088/1748-9326/11/4/048002 Kumparak, Greg, Matt Burns, and Anna Escher. A brief history of  TechCrunch. TechCrunch, 28 July 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Learn about air emissions reductions at  ExxonMobil. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Learn about the history of  ExxonMobil. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Tesla Bids for Biggest US Solar Energy  Daily Telegraph (London, England), 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgbe&AN=edsgcl.455991441&site=eds-live. PR, Newswire. Global & United States Electric Vehicles Market Forecast & Opportunities,  PR Newswire US, 16 Aug. 2012. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bwh&AN=201208160825PR.NEWS.USPR.SP58588&site=eds-live. Student 7 Put Apple, Tesla, Amazon, Boeing, Exxon on Your Investing Action  Investors Business Daily, 22 Oct. 2016, p. 1. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bwh&AN=119029023&site=eds-live. Rapier, Robert. The 25 Biggest Oil And Gas Companies In The  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 27 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ruby Tuesday, Inc. Ruby Tuesday to Unveil a Series of Tesla Supercharger  Business Wire (English), 6. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bwh&AN=bizwire.c69531860&site=eds-live. Young, Angelo. Tesla Motors (TSLA) 1Q 2016 Sales: 14,820 Model S, Model X Cars Were Delivered In First Three Months; Model S Sales Jumped  International Business Times. International Business Tiimes, 04 Apr. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017