Mitchell 1 Jessica Mitchell Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 12 March 2017 The Search for Compromise between a Rock and a Hard Place Throughout history, people have been punished when a crime has been committed. But typically the idea was that the punishment would match the crime that took place in order to ensure just sentencing. Although today, many of the individuals who are incarcerated, have sentences which do not appear to match their crimes. Especially, when considering majority of those crimes were non-violent offences related to drugs. The increase in the sentencing and incarcerating of those with non-violent offences has steadily proliferated since the 1980s (Shapiro 9). With this rise of bodies sent to be mass incarcerated began the forming of private prison industry specifically Corrections Corporation of America (CCA). This forming of for profit prisons made the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) make a call to action as stated in their website that American economy should not include locking people in cages for of Criminal Justice). This statement is a reflection of both images that represent the ACLU and their message that private prisons benefit from putting more people in prison and these benefits are financial and do not reflect a decrease in crime to help better the communities which the crimes are committed and surround the location of the prisons. Since the time the ACLU was formed, they were proponents of being the voice for those who were disenfranchised, or unable to speak on their own behalf in cases of unjust or questionable treatment. They believe that the government has the power to violate one rights, it can use that power against everyone. We work to stop the erosion of civil Mitchell 2 liberties before it is too the The ACLU journey to help prisoners began when they took on cases of unconstitutional conditions of confinement and with their founding of the National Prison Project (NPP) in 1972 History: Prisoners are seen as not having rights because they violated the law, which is why they are rarely given someone to advocate for their treatment. This being said that currently the remains the only organization that litigates challenges to prison and jail conditions on a nationwide History: since their forming the consistency to be that voice for those whose voice has been silenced whether it be because of their own doing or forced upon them by oppressive forces. In the first image, the use of Uncle Sam the fictional character that is used to evoke a sense of patriotism because his image is typically used in times of war when wanting individuals to enlist and support their country. Also the statement want you in is very profound because, the undertones of how the private prisons are said to play a role in the amounts of people who are sentenced and attempt to make the viewer of this image become saddened. Because of Uncle Sam a well-known fictional figure in American Society who was used during times of war to express and convey a sense of urgency to men. The posters would usually say things like NEED to show that the government needed the help and enlistment of men into the armed forces to help fight a battle. This use by the ACLU of the image is saying that Want You in as Uncle Sam points his finger toward the observer of the image. In the image Uncle Sam can be seen as a representing CCA and other private prison corporations because of what they benefit from incarcerating people. The appeal to Kairos would be the use of the word instead of because it is a specific entity that wants people to go to prison. Also timeliness is shown through the use of Mitchell 3 and being much larger than the other words emphasizing the feelings of how important it is to the private prisons. The colors on the image are those which appear on the American flag can been seen as a fallacy because America is known as the land of the free but has the highest amount of people in prison in the world. The appeal to reason that Image 1 is trying to make is based on the reason for the why the image even says Want You in is because of the known benefits private prisons gain financial when there is an increase in bodies in their facilities. The second image which represents the ACLU stance and position of the issue, is one of a person in darkness with their hands wrapped on bars made of money while there is a single light bulb. The picture is in black and white and there is no face that is pictured with the hands. By not showing the persons face and merely hands it can be seen as symbolizing that it is not just based on race or simply the anguish of one person. Because typically when prisons are used and talked about there are images of black people, but by having only the hands showing and there being no color it can represent any human being in that situation. There are many aspects of this picture that appeal to Pathos, the use of Andrew Jackson and making sure each bill with his face is toward the observer, the way the hands are placed as though the person is still in handcuffs, the one lightbulb that barely is illuminating, and the fact that the face is not being shown and there is just darkness. Andrew Jackson is known as the president who signed off on the Trail of Tears and is actually being removed from currency in the United States because of the atrocities which he allowed to happen while president. This use of him rather than Lincoln, Benjamin Franklin, or George Washington is an appeal to the audience to see the corruption of the money that the private prisons are getting from the Mitchell 4 imprisonment of more people. The subtle use of Jackson can be viewed as an appeal to logic as well because of how he was known to do negative things that did not reflect this country in a positive light as well as how private prisons do the same by allowing financial gain from incarcerating people. When viewing the second image, the placement of the hands being so close together is a way of observing that while in these cells they are shackled still and uncomfortable. This is targeting the empathy of an observer to try and relate to the emotions and physical pain a prisoner may feel. The light bulb that is in the right top corner of the image is a symbol of hope and light that could be seen through change, that although everything is dim and dark within the actualities of the lives and private prison system there is hope and possibility of change. That is if there can be an agreeance and compromise between the ACLU and CCA that light is one that can be ignited and lit through action which is the appeal to Kairos. By demanding change that light can possibly become brighter for those in prison who are left in darkness. The darkness is an appeal to how it feels internally for those in the penal system as though their life is nothing but darkness, which can also be associated with negativity, despair and hopelessness. Because of this a face does not need to be shown since their emotions are covered by the darkness that they are forced to live in. These images, which show the ACLU message about private prisons use two different ways to address essentially the same message. That message being CCA and other private prisons are using people for their financial gain and that needs to be changed. The key aspect which is in need of change is CCA and other private prisons, attempting to use humans as a means to an end, rather than treating them with the dignity which they deserve. That is why the ACLU makes a call to action from citizens of this country through use of rhetorical appeals to Mitchell 5 evoke empathy and to express the need for help that these human beings need even though they are in jail. Mitchell 6 Works Cited the American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. History: American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Alexander, Michelle. The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness. New York: New, 2010. Print. Brown, Kalee. Slavery Was Never Abolished & Simply Evolved into the Prison System Collective Evolution. N.p., 28 Nov. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017 Hallett, Michael A. Private prisons in America: A Critical Race Perspective. n.p.: Urbana: University of Illinois Press, c2006., 2006. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Image 1 http://www.phawker.com/2012/05/10/aclu-vs-the-private-prison-industrial- complex-because-locking-up-the-underclass-in-cages-for-fun-and-profit-is-immoral-and- obscene/ Image 2 https://www.aclu.org/banking-bondage-private-prisons-and-mass-incarceration of Criminal American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web 23 Feb. 2017 American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017 Shapiro, David. on Bondage: Private Prisons and Mass Banking on Bondage (2011): n. page. Banking on Bondage. American Civil Liberties Union, 2 Nov. 2011. Web. 27 Feb 2017. Useem, Bert, and Anne Morrison Piehl. Prison State: The Challenge of Mass Incarceration. n.p.: Cambridge; New York: Cambridge University Press, 2008.,2008. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mitchell 7 Yankovich, David. Prisons Embrace Corruption to Boost The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 22 Sept. 2016. 27 Feb. 2017. Mitchell 8 Image 1 Mitchell 9 Image 2