Byerly 1 Kelsey Byerly Ms. Campbell ENC 1102.097 February 9, 2017 Adequate Training in the Education System Quality education is a high-order concern in the United States because it is crucial to remain globally competitive. The National Education Association (NEA) is a teacher union committed to providing successful futures in the public education system. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation aims to ensure students are prepared to succeed in postsecondary school with the aid of Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The NEA is in support of the Bill Gates Foundation advocacy of CCSS but is in opposition of the implementation process of curriculum because it lacks structure. The absence of structure leaves teachers feeling confused and frustrated with no direction as to how to prepare students for the assessments CCSS expects students to score well on. Both organizations share a common ground that of which is providing students with a strong academic foundation to promote a successful post-secondary education and career. Teachers of the NEA are passionate about their careers and students and are seeking aid from the Gates Foundation. With the willingness of both organizations, a five-week training program should be hosted by the Gates Foundation to train teachers of the NEA the most effective methods when teaching students curriculum that supports the CCSS. The teachers of the NEA must be willing to sacrifice five-weeks during the summer to grasp an understanding of the implementation process. It is imperative the Gates Foundation and the NEA establish a strong relationship in order to ensure the success of students after high school. Byerly 2 The NEA strongly declares its support of the Common Core State Standards because the NEA sees the potential it has to advance education in America. The formation of the organization is based upon the principle that the voices of teachers be heard in order to use constructive thoughts and ideas that will enhance the education process. The National Education Association withholds an ongoing commitment to bridge the gap between implementation and standards through curriculum, training, and support. In doing so, they constantly revisit and revise the standards in order to adapt to the changes in education quality. The NEA applauds, yet criticizes, the allows teachers to exercise professional judgment in planning instruction that promotes student Core State It is the quality of in which the Gates Foundation finds the CCSS to be innovative and effective. In light, it allows teachers to use their experience to best ensure the academic achievement of students, but from the viewpoint it creates a lack of certainty if the standards will be met come time for the administration of the assessment. For example, in regards to the writing portion of the standards, than 70% of students in grades do not display adequate writing skills to meet classroom (Mo et al 446). The lack of proper writing skills places students at a disadvantage when they get older because expectations rise. It has been noted by Michigan State University scholars that 75% of college faculty rate their writing as only fair or (Mo et al 446). A demand for assistance and direction is made by the NEA that an implementation process be devised in order to build a specific set of criterion that should be followed when teaching. It is the common ground, student success post-high school, that motivates the NEA to push for quality education. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation supports initiatives, such as the Common Core State Standards, in efforts to promote high-quality education from K-12. The Common Core Byerly 3 Initiative consists of learning goals at each grade level that outline specific concepts students should be able to know and identify. In order to ensure the academic success of students, the foundation is seeking to improve the learning process by targeting the development of teaching methods. The goal is to education through by building on and sharing effective tools, strategies, and school leaders, and nonprofit partners across the country can transform U.S. public & Melinda Gates The CCSS emphasizes that standards establish what students need to learn, but do not dictate how teachers should The Gates Foundation views CCSS as an innovation that allows teachers the freedom to develop materials that aid the learning process. The goals of CCSS are consistent across all the states and the program is voluntary, meaning that not all states have to commit to the program but it is highly suggested. The Gates Foundation believes that materials based on the Common Core State Standards can deepen understanding of key concepts and skills and more fully engage them in their & Melinda Gates The Gate Foundation has developed tools, such as the Literacy Design Collaborative (LDC) and the Math Design Collaborative (MDC), that allow teachers flexibility and creativity when teaching the Common Core State Standards. These particular collaborative tools have shown to improve student learning, boosting the success rate. study of Kentucky classrooms using the LDC tools found that students gained 2.2 months of reading achievement compared to similar students in classrooms not using LDC. With MDC, students gained 4.6 months of & Melinda Gates The Gates Foundation has developed a tool that supports the Common Core State Standard Initiative, which provides a structurally sound foundation for postsecondary success and a greater chance of obtaining a degree or certificate. Byerly 4 Both organizations seek to enrich the lives of students through quality education in order to ensure a successful postsecondary education and career. The NEA consistently claims its support for CCSS but hopes to develop a relationship with the Gates Foundation that allows for open communication of ideas regarding implementation. It is evident that both organizations should work together to dissolve the issue out of the best interest of students. Once both organizations layout a plan of action to clear up the confusion, the NEA can confidently go forth in educating children to their fullest potential without uncertainty. The issue at hand is clear; teachers view the CCSS as a hindrance in the learning process because they are unsure if their professional judgement is correct when teaching the curriculum. In order to evade the murkiness of implementation, the Gates Foundation should provide a five- week training program that hones in on the implementation of the standards. The training program will provide an environment for teachers to collaborate and share personal experiences about what tools and methods provided the best results. It is vital that teachers across the country use so effective programs can be expanded and valuable insights and ideas from specific states, districts, and charter management organizations can be broadly & Melinda Gates On the other hand, teachers of the NEA must be willing to give up five weeks of their summer to participate in the training program. Teachers will attend the sessions that correspond to the grade level they teach. During those sessions, members of the Gates Foundation will breakdown and analyze what is expected of the CCSS and how teachers can meet those expectations. of professional learning communities, provide comprehensive assessment standards and (Khuanwang et al 884). The collaborative element of the training program will not only provide teachers with an understanding of a proper implementation process but also new resources and references if clarity is needed during the Byerly 5 school year. Although the program will be a lengthy, compact process, voices will be heard and ideas will be taken into consideration. The Gates Foundation will receive reports from the CCSS regarding the assessment results. These scores will allow them to file a request for the alteration of the standards if necessary. It is pivotal the education system bridges the gap between standards and the implementation process because the overarching goal of both organizations should be to strengthen the relationship between teachers and students to ensure optimal success. Although the NEA is in support of CCSS, it is the lack of training and resources to properly implement the policy that is the point of conflict. Implementation is vital in order for the Common Core State Standards to be met, so the NEA is requesting guidance from the Gates Foundation. After further communication, a five-week training program should be hosted by the Gates Foundation in the summer to provide an informational, collaborative environment for teachers to develop lesson plans that offer the highest success rate. The ultimate goal of both organizations is the success of students after high school in postsecondary education and careers. With this compromise, the prospect of success for students is unlimited. Byerly 6 Works Cited Bill & Melinda Gates  K-12 Education. N.p., n.d. http://k12education.gatesfoundation.org/. Accessed 9 Feb 2017. Common Core State  NEA. N.p., n.d. http://www.nea.org/home/46653.htm. Accessed 9 Feb 2017. Development  Development Process Common Core State Standards Initiative. N.p., n.d. http://www.corestandards.org/about-the-standards/development-process/. Accessed 9 Feb 2017. Khuanwang, Watcharaporn, Nuttaporn Lawthong, and Siripaarn Suwanmonkha. Development Of Evaluation Standards For Professional Experiential Training Of Student  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 217 (2016): 878-886. ScienceDirect. Mo, Ya, Rachel Kopke, Lisa Hawkins, Gary Troia, and Natalie Olinghouse. The Neglected In A Time Of Common  The Reading Teacher 6 (2014): 445. Academic OneFile.