GUSAM 1 Rishi Gusam Harley Campbell ENC 1102 Composition 2 30 January 2017 The federal legalization of Marijuana is a topic that has been debated for ages. There is a lot of controversy that surrounds it, with various questions aimed at the topic. Is it safe for use? Is it considered a gateway drug? Are there any medical benefits with marijuana The National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) argues against legalizing marijuana, argue that there is still little research on it, and that legalization would be a rash decision, one that might be regretted in the future. However, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) argues that a waste of time to fight against it, and may provide more benefits than expected. The NIDA fears that abuse rates are going to increase, and with the legalization of marijuana, it will be at the expense of the general public. But with legalization, it saves all the Americans with possession charges, having a significant impact on their future. One thing that NORML and NIDA can agree on is ensuring that marijuana is used responsibly. Whether marijuana is legalized, safety is the number 1 priority, which is agreed with all. NORML was founded by Keith Stroup in 1970. His vision was to create an organization that protected cannabis users, and to change the opinion on marijuana (NORML). One of the biggest issues with NORML, is how the government deals with those who have been caught smoking or possessing marijuana. Enforcement is expensive, costing an estimated $10 billion annually and results in the arrest of more than 693,000 individuals per (NORML). NORML is against people getting arrested, relating to marijuana cases. Marijuana has been used medically for over 5,000 years (NORML). NORML argues that there is medical GUSAM 2 benefits, which must be considered. Recent research shows that marijuana has various medical uses, pain relief -- particularly of neuropathic pain (pain from nerve damage) -- nausea, spasticity, glaucoma, and movement (NORML).There is even research stating that it helps protect the body from various tumors. Multiple trusted health organizations support the use of marijuana medically. According to a study done by Harvard, 44% of oncologist, which are doctors that treat tumors, have recommended to their patients to use marijuana, as a form of therapy (NORML). If multiple health organizations are implying that marijuana should be considered as an alternative to medicate certain conditions, it makes one question or at least consider using it. On the other hand, if marijuana is abused and not safely used, it can cause havoc in the life. The NIDA was created on January 3, 1973; their mission is to understand drug abuse and use the knowledge to improve public health (NIH). The NIDA is especially worried about the effects it has on teenage users. Studies prove that also affects brain development. When marijuana users begin using as teenagers, the drug may reduce thinking, memory, and learning functions and affect how the brain builds connections between the areas necessary for these functions (Drugfacts). Another study showed when people started smoking heavily, during their adolescent years, it reduced their IQ by an average of 8 points, and were unable to restore their IQ (Drugfacts). Breathing problems are a common issue with users, since marijuana smoke irritates the lungs. As a result, marijuana smokers are more prone to various lung diseases and infections, and produce more phlegm (Drug Facts). Various mental issues occur among users, such as temporary hallucinations, paranoia, depression, anxiety and issues with patients who suffer from schizophrenia. suggests that 30 percent of users may develop some degree of problem use, which can lead to dependence and in severe cases takes the form of GUSAM 3 facts). NIDAs biggest fear is a national issue with marijuana dependence and addiction. Marijuana withdrawal symptoms, include increased irritation, sleeplessness, and anxiety; without medication to relieve such symptoms (Drug facts). Another issue with NIDA is driving under the influence, in terms of marijuana. Marijuana impairs judgement of time, distance, and coordination, which are all important aspects of driving safely. studies have shown negative effects of marijuana on drivers, including an increase in lane weaving, poor reaction time, and altered attention to the road. Use of alcohol with marijuana made drivers more impaired, causing even more lane (Drugged driving). Current drug testing methods look at THC levels, which will show positive for weeks, even if they high. There is no to determine if someone is high while driving. Teens driving under the influence, pose a higher risk of an accident, due to the lower experience with driving. study of college students with access to a car found that 1 in 6 had driven under the influence of a drug other than alcohol at least once in the past (Drugged driving). The statistic is high, despite marijuana being federally illegal. The NIDA questions how much higher it will become, after legalization. To my knowledge, NORML and NIDA have never directly worked together or directly made a statements against each other. They still have opposite views on legalization of marijuana, each having different reasons and opinions. Despite their difference, they share one common idea, which is public safety with marijuana use. Both organizations are in support of the general population being safe, and will take the measures to better prepare and educate citizens on that. Based on their shared viewpoint, the solution is to educate the general population on all the effects of marijuana. I propose that both NORML and NIDA should joint lobby the federal government into legalizing marijuana. They would argue that extensive education on marijuana GUSAM 4 would ensure safe usage. With legalization, it allows medical patients to benefit from the medicinal properties. The Colorado school of Public Health conducted a survey on the education of marijuana in the state of Colorado, after the legalization of marijuana. After legalization, majority of adults surveyed, believed in responsible usage of marijuana. Around 92% of adults believed that the age should be set at 21, 96% believed that users driving under the influence, should get cited (Colorado Gov). Regarding recreational use, the minimum age should be 21, since research supports that usage during teenage years results in a lower mental capacity. If a person, 21 or older, decides to purchase marijuana from a licensed dispensary for the first time, they must take an online course. The course would be composed of general history and education of marijuana, with a test at the end, which must be passed with an 80% or higher. If a person fails the test, they must retake the course and retake the test. The course will be jointly created by both NORML and NIDA, to ensure that the information is accurate and not biased. Both stakeholders should be satisfied, since marijuana will be legalized, and users will be more responsible, due to education on it. With this compromise, the general population will understand the benefits and disadvantages with marijuana, allowing people to make safer choices. Whether marijuana, alcohol, or any other substance, users is should generally be aware of what they are using, and should have an understanding of how to use it in a safe manner. Regardless if you are pro or anti legalization, misuse is the number one issue, and putting yourself or others at risk is something that everyone is against. GUSAM 5 Works cited Drugged  DrugFacts: Drugged Driving National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). NIH, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017  DrugFacts: Marijuana National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). NIH, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. MHS, Kevin P. Hill MD. Medical Marijuana for Treatment of Chronic Pain and Other  Medical Marijuana for Treatment of Chronic Pain and Other Problems Demyelinating Disorders JAMA The JAMA Network. The JAMA network, 23 June 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. National Institute on Drug Abuse  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 05 Apr. 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 Teen Drivers: Get the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 13 Oct. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  About Marijuana. NORML, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  Introduction - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. NORML, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. .