Pemberton 1 Michael Pemberton Professor Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 12 March 2017 Anti-Piracy Hollywood is most easily related to the American film industry, and the place of residence of a few long standing American film studios. Out of scores of American film studios, Universal Pictures stands as the oldest. Universal Pictures is owned by Comcast, through their subsidiary NBCUniversal. Prior to the contemporary state of affairs, Universal Pictures was founded in 1912 as the Universal Film Manufacturing Company. Over the century thus far the company has produced quite a few movies that will go down as classics, and countless more that were major box office success stories High sales numbers will always be a priority of the studio; therefore, it is within their best interest to be strongly opposed to piracy. Piracy especially in the case of films is an ever-growing concern. Whilst major film studios like Universal Pictures generate vast amounts of income, the claim is made that piracy is having adverse effects on the film making industry. Probable consequences may be seen in reduced quality of future films, with the worst-case scenario being the halting of production all together. Universal Studios as a whole also covers other mediums in the entertainment industry, one of the more popular being their division of Universal Music. Being against piracy movies in particular the studio has been advocating against it with a warning preceding any film that they have produced. Universal campaign against piracy has undergone only a few changes Pemberton 2 over the years, but their most recent campaign advertisement will be compared to their previous method in terms of their approach and the overall effectiveness of the appeal made. For instance, the first image is fairly common, as it appears at the start of any legitimate copy of a film, as well as preceding the showing of Universal Pictures movies in the theatre. However, as such a legacy staple this image may go largely unnoticed; as to a consistent viewer it has become commonplace. In this image, Universal Pictures borrows the credibility of two well-known figures of authority. Both the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Homeland Security have their logos featured as the topmost element of the image. This direct association with law enforcement organizations brings attention to the legal implications associated with piracy. The studio also uses a logical approach made through the following text. The text in the image explicitly states the consequences of pirating films, giving exact details as to the penalties one may incur. The image is intended for viewing not just by consumers of the film, but any individual who may intend to resell the film or by any means gain revenue from it. Due to the context of the image, it is available for viewing by anyone who it possibly intended for, being at the beginning of the film. The intended purpose is not so much to induce fear or anxiety, but to inform viewers of the consequences of piracy. Individuals viewing this image would make the association between piracy and legal actions, the presence of the authoritative backing of the law enforcement institutions bolster the effectiveness of the image. On the contrary, the second image is one out of a rather recently run anti-piracy campaign by Universal Pictures. This campaign was originally run in Brazil, starting out in Sao Paolo; however, the internet has made it widely available to the public. The content of the image is undoubtedly an attempt to garner the attention of not just the intended audience, but anyone who may happen to glance at it. The image exhibits a dismembered finger, still grotesquely covered Pemberton 3 in blood, with the likely intent of instilling a feeling of disgust. There is some accompanying text in the advertisement as well, Destroying the band you like. Say no to music (Image 2). The only support provided to give some sort of credibility and legitimacy to the image is the Universal logo add following the text. Nonetheless, the advertisement holds no context to explain the content of the image. For example, why is the image of a severed body part? Or what relation is there between that and piracy? Is the claim being made that music piracy can lead to you losing a finger, or maybe a member of your favorite band? This advertisement was expressly released in Brazil, in an attempt to combat music piracy in that region. There may have been a preconceived plan to later release the image in other regions as well, depending on how well it was received. At first glance, most viewers of the second image may feel a deep disgust towards the image, due to its content. With continued viewing, one may come to the relation that this is a consequence of music piracy. Following the previous analyses it can be seen that both images take vastly different approaches in their attempt to deter individuals from pirating commercially provided media content. Image 1 uses a strong ethical approach through their reference to the law enforcement agencies that back their movement. The second only source of credibility is the producer of the image Universal, which by all accounts has its own agenda and could quite easily be misleading viewers for their benefit. The first image only has a small emotional effect on viewers as it may inspire a bit of anxiety or even fear, as there is an outright claim to the illegal aspect of piracy. In contrast, the second makes use of a direct emotional tug as the basis of the campaign against piracy. Both the text and the background image itself in this advertisement attempts to invoke a feeling in the viewers. In terms of logic applied, the first image gives exact consequences of piracy, stating the amount of possible jail time and fines that would be due upon Pemberton 4 conviction. The second image gives no such statistics, and may even leave the audience wondering how the image and the text itself relate to piracy. In regards to timeliness, both images address a contemporary issue, that is well known to the general public. Albeit, the first image was more readily available to a wider audience than the second. All in all, the images used by Universal urging against piracy makes a good effort in the attempt to raise awareness on the issue. In spite of that, the attempt of criminalizing the act and associating it with a feeling of disgust or even contempt may not be the best choice. Wan Man Jason Fung in his article peer-to-peer file sharing of copyrighted material via anti- piracy laws: Issues, trends and makes the claim that, individual downloads may not be a practical and cost-effective approach and may, instead, create more problems than it (Fung 401). At this time of this publication, Fung was working in affiliation with the City University of Hong Kong School of Law. Fung goes on to state that a more plausible effort in the anti-piracy movement would be making the act itself rather difficult so as to deter the pirates. However, other researchers conclude that piracy is not wholly bad. Gilles Grolleau is a Professor of Economics at Montpellier SupAgro in France and a researcher at the Burgundy School of Business. Grolleau in his article, with pirates: how companies can win the states that, can increase demand for goods that are complementary to the pirated (Grolleau 33). Whereas content producers first thoughts on the topic of piracy may be to eradicate it, they could use the opportunity to regain some otherwise lost income through sales of complementary goods to their content. In conclusion, visual rhetoric may take many forms even while attempting to further the same goal, with some approaches being more reliable and relatable to different audiences. Pemberton 5 Pemberton 6 Works Cited UniversalPictures, www.universalpictures.com/about. Accessed 23 February 2017. Fun, Wan Man Jason and Avnita Lakhani. Combatting Peer-To-Peer File Sharing of Copyrighted Material via Anti-Piracy Laws: Issues, Trends, and Computer Law and Security Review: The International Journal of Technology and Practice, vol. 29, 01 Aug. 2013, pp. 382-402. Grolleau, Giles, et al. with Pirates: How Companies Can Win the Journal of Business Strategy, no. 3, 2016, p. 30. Pemberton 7 Image 1 Image 2