Almeida 1 Felipe Ganem Cadar de Almeida Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 1 March 2017 Playing With The Future Since the research started about either violent games cause violent behavior or not on children, people have not reached a clear and precise conclusion about the theme. However, researchers found out some information that led the subject one step ahead from the past 20 years, which stated that playing violent games is a way broader subject than they were expecting, as violent gaming is only one risk factor among many. Each person has its own risk factors, such as depression, trouble at home, academic performance, and others. With that, each case is singular, unique, and human behavior cannot be treated as some general pattern or conclusion. Although, people now know that playing videogames can be not only harmful but also helpful if managed correctly. Children who play videogames 1 hour a day, 3 days a week, can be better academically in school, also have less tendency to become an aggressive person than children who play. Extensive research has been made about whether violent videogames can negatively influence behaviors or not, so over time, researchers have developed differing opinions on this subject, but a definite conclusion has not yet been reached. In 2008 it was reported that 97% of youth ages 12 to 17 played some type of videogame. Another analysis made, found out that more than half the videogames considered appropriate for children over 10 years old, contain violence. As the industry of technology has been Almeida 2 increasing and producing more videogames as the years go by, children each day tend to start playing videogames at an earlier age. With that, parents started getting worried about their children developing bad behaviors, and thinking if their exposure to violent actions in games could be harmful or not for them in the future, as they are at an age in which people are learning and creating concepts about right or wrong in life. People are split in two sides and two points of view on the subject of violent gaming and violent behavior and there are supportive arguments about it and counter arguments also. The American Psychological Association (APA) said are evidences proving that playing violent games could cause some aggressive behavior in people, but it is not sufficient to lead people to commit Some people support the idea that children playing violent games could more of a concern that parents than really a problem for their future, and maybe parents are just themselves turning virtual into reality. John Bingman, a leader in Oxford Oxford Internet Institute, also adds that are just one more type of media, so why caring so much about that, and forgetting about television, journals, websites? Games might have something more than just violence for children to like playing it for long What he is trying to say is that people are so much worried about children playing violent videogames, that they forget about other kinds of media, such as journal or websites, that could also show bad and violent news, and influence thoughts about violence. Also, he supports the idea that it could have many reasons for a children to be into playing videogames, and it is not necessarily the fact that it wants to play it because of the violence. Otherwise, some people still think that violent gaming is not good for mental health and that it has to be considered as a really strong risk factor for their lives. Toppo Greg supports the opinion that games are not good for children and he said we practice Almeida 3 repeatedly affects the brain. If we practice aggressive ways of thinking, feeling and reacting, then we will get better at With that conclusion, people have a reason to be worried about children playing during long times, because as our brain learns how to ride a bicycle for example, if we practice that, then it could learn how to treat itself as violent and that could lead children to violent behavior. Another researcher who thinks children should not be allowed to play this kind of videogames is Gordon Hall, who thinks that is true that playing violent games is liked to increased aggression in players, but it is not a fact yet that it could cause criminal violence or violent behaviors. Not only that happens, but also people get a decreased prosocial behavior and Even though violent gaming could not lead children to commit crimes and take bad actions, if it is something that along time is going to make them more aggressive, parents should take care of it. As the years go by, people are doing extensive research about the theme in question as it is something that worries not just parents but the population in general. No one until now has a proof that can support any of the sides, whether it is harmful playing games, or it but what we should do is take some precautions, such as limiting how many hours children could play every day, if every day, and parents always have to look for risk factors on their children, and not only playing violent games. At the end, what matters is many factors together, and not only one, so that we have a better idea on how the behavior is being influenced by playing violent games.