Al-Khaldi: 1 Mansoor Al-Khaldi Meredith Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 20 February 2017 Impact of Online Booking on Travel and Tourism The era of the Internet changed the way people communicate with each other. At the same time, it is not the only effect of the development of technology. The Internet provided people with the opportunity to buy products and services online. This development, in its turn, offered new possibilities for businesses and changed the way a lot of businesses worked. It is especially true when said about the industry of tourism and travel. Because of the development of the informational technology, people now can have the comfort of planning their trips and making all the necessary preparations in front of their screens. It is not surprising that the rising trend of online booking has attracted the attention of researchers. That is why, several authors attempted to find out what online booking means both for the industry and for the customers. A close look at several articles from different years shows that the attitude towards the trend gradually changed from positive and enthusiastic to more critical and cautious. For example, in 2009 the industry representatives were encouraged by the new opportunities opened to them by informational technology. For example, Wolfram Al-Khaldi: 2 focuses on the positive changes technology has brought to the industry of tourism. They include the advances in transportation and in the informational technology that make both the travel itself and the stay at the chosen hotel more comfortable and pleasant for the customers. Moreover, the author argues that the Internet offers great opportunities for previously unknown hotels because they can offer their services directly to potential visitors all around the world 75). Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that in 2009 online booking was believed to be a great source of opportunities for the travel and tourism industry. This observation allows concluding that, back at the time, the researchers supported the opinion that in order to stay in the competition any hotel has to offer its visitors the option of online booking. It means that online booking was understood not as an option for the industry, but as a next logical step in its development. Although it is not stated directly in the source, it is reasonable to suggest that people expected that online booking would become the main if not the only way of purchasing travel and touristic services. The article written by Crnojevac et al. in 2010 can also be described as the one approaching the issue of online booking positively. As well as in the case with the source discussed above, the authors claim that online services are the important element of keeping pace with the development of the industry. They also point to the fact that the popularity of online booking is increased not by the convenience and easiness of the process itself but by the fact that the Internet offers a lot of information about different destinations. At the same time, the experimental research conducted by the authors has shown that offline booking is not likely to Al-Khaldi: 3 disappear totally (Crnojevac et al. 48). It is true that online booking becomes more popular, but it does not mean that it replaces more traditional method of doing it. Instead of that, it serves people who enjoy the new type of tourism and traveling promoted by the influence of the Internet and the accessibility of information about various destinations. As it is already mentioned, in the first ten years of the twenty-first century, the researchers were enthusiastic about the popularization of online booking of trips. However, the more recent articles on the topic show more critical approach towards the issue. For example, Sigala et al. admit that the Internet provides the customers the advantage of quick access to information that allows them to make informed and well-considered decisions (65). However, this issue also means risk for the customers of touristic services because the providers of the services tend to lie about the true value of their products to attract potential customers. That is why, it is reasonable to assume that in 2012 when this article was written, the experts in the area of tourism understood the possible negative impacts of moving the industry into the field of the Internet. The same can be said about the article of Violetta Molchanova written in 2014. The author claims that despite all the positive effects of online booking on the industry, the level to which it increased competition does not promise anything good for the customers (78). The fact that the author paid attention to this problem tells that in 2014 researchers changed their attitude towards the problem to more critical one compared to that of 2009. Al-Khaldi: 4 To sum it up, the attitude to the issue of online booking in tourism industry changed gradually as the initial enthusiasm was replaced with the understanding that such dramatic change cannot bring only positives. Indeed, the most recent articles on the topic are concerned more with negative impacts of online booking than the benefits it can bring to the industry in the long run. Al-Khaldi: 5 Works Cited Crnojevac H, Igor, Jadranka and eTourism: A comparison of online and offline bookings and the importance of hotel  Journal of Information and Organizational Sciences, vol 34. No.1, 2010, pp: 41-54. Wolfram. Information and Communication Technologies in Tourism 2009: Proceedings of the International Conference in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 2009. Wien: Springer-Verlag GmbH, 2009. Print. Molchanova, Violetta S. The Use of Online Service Booking in Tourist  European Journal of Social and Human Sciences vol 2. No. 2, 2014, pp:75-80. Sigala, Marianna, Evangelos Christou, and Ulrike Gretzel. Social Media in Travel, Tourism, and Hospitality: Theory, Practice, and Cases. Farnham, Surrey, Burlington, VT: Ashgate Pub, 2012. Print.