Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Label It a Compromise GMOs (Genetically Modified Organisms) are a major issue in the world today. The undetermined consequences of consuming these altered foods have left scientists and the public wondering what GMOs do to our bodies, not just our bodies but the economy and the environment too.There are many companies that have an interest in this topic but two in particular have firm and incompatible goals. GMO Awareness is a stakeholder that is determined to see the end of the use of GMOs. They claim that GMOs are not only dangerous for humans to consume but are also dangerous for the environment. The use of genetic engineering might have an effect on the human body that we are not quite sure of, since the generations alive today are among the first to ever have a diet mostly composed of genetically modified food. The second stakeholder is called Just Label It and has a similar belief to the first. The second stakeholder also believes that GMOs are not entirely studied and may in fact cause many issues for health in the near future, they also cause in environmental distress. However, the difference between the two stakeholders is that the first wishes to completely ban the use of GMOs in foods, this way consumers are unable to consume the dangerous materials while the second stakeholder wished to put a label on the the boxes of foods that contain the genetically modified organisms. In order to bring the two stakeholders to an agreement that satisfies both their wants, Student 2 a proposed compromise is instead of small, basic type on the labels of food products containing GMOs they are replaced with warning labels that mimic the ones used for tobacco products. The first stakeholder is called GMO Awareness, the pain purpose of this stakeholder is to raise awareness about the dangerous of GMOs (genetically modified organisms) and consuming them. GMO Awareness tells its readers about the dangers such as the potential health risks, environmental hazards, and economic concerns. GMO Awareness tells elaborates the on the risks. The reason the concerns for the health of the consumers is a worry is because of the way GMOs are created. Scientists create the modified organisms by altering the DNA of the plants used in certain food products, since there are many things about DNA scientists are unsure about, the reaction between the changed genetic code and the human body cannot be predicted until it happens. Organisms that are modified also danger the environment based on this source because of the way they cause harm to different organisms through their change, since genetically modified organisms have increased the need for the use of pesticides, they have indirectly put certain other organisms in danger. An example of this is the monarch butterfly, since the increased use of pesticides have killed many milkweeds, the monarch has lost most of its food source, slowly killing them out (GMO Awareness). Studies on the page also include those detailing the health risks shown in animal studies and GMOs, the increase of GMOs and the increase of diabetes, autism, and food allergies (GMO Awareness). For all of these reasons this stakeholder believes that the use of GMOs should be ceased all together. The danger is too great to allow the threat to continue. The second stakeholder is called Just Label It, this organization pushes for the use of labels on food products containing GMOs. The thought behind this proposal is that if GMOs are Student 3 labeled outright (instead of using QR codes that disguise the information). The reason this stakeholder believes that labels should be placed on every box of food containing any ingredients that are genetically engineered is because of the way the public reacts to the subject. According to Just Label website, of mothers and 88% of fathers favor requiring labels for foods that have been genetically engineered and countries around the world require labeling of genetically modified (Just Label It). The stakeholder argues that the consumer population deserves the right to know if what they are consuming contains ingredients that might be harmful to health. In a journal article written by Carl H. Nelson from the university of Illinois, he states that the adverse reaction to the use of GMOs is a healthy reaction to something that is unknown to what the consequences might be. Since so much of the main ingredients in nearly everything eat (i.e. corn and wheat) have now been genetically modified to create a larger yield supposedly making the industry more profitable and more affordable for consumers and businesses alike, it is a natural reaction that citizens would like to know what they are putting into their bodies (Nelson, 2). These two stakeholders seem to have goals that would never be able to reach a compromise with, one wanting a complete ban while the other seems satisfied with simply getting manufacturers to put the words on the packaging. The proposal detailed ahead will satisfied both parties in their goals by making each give a little in what they want in an end goal. Creating a label on boxes of food that contains ingredients that have been genetically engineered will create a bridge to both parties and settle them on their middle ground. It be just any label, like the one proposed by the second stakeholder, it will be one that is similar to the types of labels found of tobacco products. The labels on tobacco products are not Student 4 just labels but warnings. They detail the possible consequences of the usage of the product that they are put on, written in bright colors with large fonts that cover much of the packaging. This way, consumers are unable to avoiding reading the dangers that come not only to them but the environment as they continue to consume the products. This will automatically satisfy the wants of the second stakeholder, giving them the labeling that they had been fighting for but also satisfies the first stakeholder by making sure the risks are unavoidable to the public. This might be a step down for complete banning of the use of GMOs but it certainly insures that the consumers remain informed about the possible health risks that consuming genetically engineered organisms might cause. (Word Count: 1061) Student 5 Works Cited GMO  GMO Awareness. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. It, Just Label. Just Label  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Nelson, Carl H. Risk Perception, Behavior, and Consumer Response to Genetically Modified