Fukuda 1 Mayo Fukuda Professor Luce ENC1101 Composition I 24 February, 2017 The Impacts of Water Scarcity on Food Production Water has helped develop every creature on the Earth dramatically. Human beings use water every single day for survival and the future development; however, they are facing water scarcity because of the over usage of water. The global population is growing and the demand of food is increasing simultaneously. People take advantage of having enough water every day, but this is the time to think about that water is limited and people need to use this limited resources wisely for their descendants who will also need water. According to United Nations, the world population will be 9.7 million by 2050. Because of the increase of population, there will be higher demand for food. What they need for the food production is the water. Usually people just see the food and they do not realise how much water was used in the process. Therefore, it is significant to know how the condition is changing and what could happen to food production in the future caused by water scarcity. Gordon, Line J., C. Max Finlayson, and Malin Falkenmark. Managing Water In Agriculture For Food Production And Other Ecosystem  Agricultural Water Management 97. Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture (2010): 512-519. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This paper is focusing on how people can reduce the negatives from the consumptions of water for agriculture. There are three ways to reduce the negatives which are developing water management, making better relationship with aquatic systems, and focusing on how we can improve water management in order to create multifunctional agro-ecosystem. Line Gordon, a deputy science director & associate professor in Stockholm Resilience Center. She earned a doctorate in natural resources management from Stockholm University Fukuda 2 in Sweden. Furthermore, she has done her postdoctoral work at the international Water Management located in Sri Lanka. By looking into this paper, it will introduce some part of solutions to water scarcity caused by food production. Hess, Tim, et al. The Impact Of Changing Food Choices On The Blue Water Scarcity Footprint And Greenhouse Gas Emissions Of The British Diet: The Example Of Potato, Pasta And  Journal Of Cleaner Production 112.Part 5 (2016): 4558-4568. ScienceDirect. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. This article discusses about the shift of the food consumption can affect the environmental impacts including water scarcity. It also mentioned as one of the reasons of the impacts that people substituted to meat-based diet from plant-based diet. The consumers do not make a decision of buy-in food based on the environmental burdens they have by buying foods, so it is significant to inform the suppliers in order to reduce the impacts as much as possible. Tim Hess has earned his bachelors in Geography and his masters in Agricultural Engineering (Land Resource Management). Moreover he has done his phD on impact of climatic variability over the period 1961-1990 on the soil water balance of upland soils in the North East Arid Zone of Murphy, E., et al. Water Footprinting Of Dairy Farming In  Journal Of Cleaner Production 140.Part 2 (2017): 547-555. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Murphy focuses on how much people use water in dairy farming in Ireland. This article shows the statistics on the amount of water used for milking. Taking 690L/kg of milk requires 684L/kg of green water and 6L/kg of blue water. This is about 0.4L/kg of water footprint which indicates that the production of each litre of milk can affect the issue of water Fukuda 3 scarcity. Furthermore, the study showed the future needs for feeding animals non water related foods to reduce the usage of freshwater. Eleanor Murphy works for Animal and Grassland Research and Innovation Centre located in Ireland. She is also a part of Animal Production System group at the Wageningen University. The group looked for the unrevealed things about livestock production in order to create more sustainable future. Focusing on the dairy farming in Ireland can give the feeling of familiarity on this issue. Noemi, Mancosu, et al. Water Scarcity and Future Challenges for Food  Water, Vol 7, Iss 3, Pp 975-992 (2015) 3 (2015): 975. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Noemi et al discussed how the water scarcity can affect the food production in the future. They also mentioned about 90% of water is used for agriculture in the world. From this fact, it is impossible to keep running the food consumption without having enough water. Some researchers figured out that 1385 square meter of water was used in a year per person. 92% of them is relating to the consumption of agricultural product. This source is showing how much people use water and how influential the water is in our life. Moreover, People can develop use in food production by increasing water productivity including the development of water irrigation system and the farming system. Knowing about it will help understanding how can we solve this issue. Mancosu Noemi, a specialist on impacts on agriculture, forests and ecosystem services. She has worked for some projects called CLIMAFRICA and GEMINA as a postdoctoral. Moreover, she has Ph. D. in the field of Agrometeorology and Ecophysiology of Agricultural and Forest Systems at the University of Sassari located in Italy. This can indicate Fukuda 4 that the relationship between water and agriculture. How important to have enough water in order to continue growing foods. Ran, Y., et al. Review Article: Assessing Water Resource Use In Livestock Production: A Review Of  Livestock Science 187.(2016): 68-79. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. By 2050, there will be the double amount of the needs of animal-source foods. This paper focuses on identifying the differences, strengths, and weaknesses of the pleasant way of using water in livestock production. It is obvious that people need to recognise the needs of reconsidering the methods they use now in order to avoid the severe water scarcity. To do that, it is necessary to separate the usage between blue and green water. The blue water refers to freshwater and the green water is those in soil which we need to save for the future use. Moreover, grey water should not be mixed up with other kinds of water. Making sure that these assessments can be easily understood by everyone. These are the improvements suggested in this paper. Ylva Ran graduated from Gothenburg University with a major in environmental sciences. She works for SEI Stockholm which is an international research institute focuses on environmental and relating issues not only locally but also internationally. This article shows the needs of being aware of how much blue, green, and grey water are. Knowing this information can help people to realise the fact that water is limited in order to improve the awareness of water scarcity. Ridoutt, Bradley G., et al. Meat Consumption and Water Scarcity: Beware of  Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 28, no. Working towards a more sustainable agri-food industry: Main findings from the Food LCA 2010 conference in Bari, Italy, 01 June 2012, pp. 127-133. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jclepro Fukuda 5 2011.10.027. This paper focuses on the relationship between livestock production and water scarcity. Dr Bradley and other researchers concluded that the meat production will not become the deadly environmental burdens compared to the other food productions. Furthermore, there is a shift of the way the producers run livestock production. The most significant thing to focus is that keeping the different forms of the production of meat to keep the producers and the consumers motivated. Bradley Ridoutt is a Principal Research Scientist with national science agency The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO). He has graduated from University of Melbourne with his bachelor of Forest Science. He has also earned his PhD from University of Melbourne. This article is credible because his expertise is in life sustainability assessments. In addition, this article showed that a different perspective; Indicating the significance of keeping different meat production.