Mygrant 1 Miranda Mygrant Emil Smith ENC1101.015 February 5 th 2017 The Effects of Gun Control on Floridians The topic of gun control is one that is very controversial for many and not only do some feel their rights are being put at risk, but their safety as well. Gary Kleck reported in Gun Control Reduce Violent that the United States has a much higher percentage of people who privately own guns than any other industrialized nation and this has led many people to believe that guns are responsible for the increased homicide rates. The crimes that are being committed with firearms usually tend to be murders, robberies and theft. Also, guns sometimes accidentally end up in the hands of a child or minor which may result in shootings that were not intentional but have a deadly cost. In an attempt to eliminate these crimes and accidents, the U.S throughout the past few decades has added and revised laws regarding these weapons in order to make the nation safer as a whole. Individual states such as Florida, are also able to make their own gun regulations which can contribute to the beliefs of many people that some states are than others. Has the safety of Floridians throughout the past decade been jeopardized by the changes in gun control? Kleck, Gary, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellos. Gun Control Reduce Violent Criminal Justice Review, vol.41, no. 4, 2016, pp. 488-513, Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Mygrant 2 The purpose of gun control laws is reduce crime and violence rates by restricting the availability of firearms among persons believed to be at higher risk of committing acts of (Kleck et. al. 489) The article Gun Control Reduce Violent explores the various laws and factors that are incorporated with guns through an experiment done by researchers. Upon beginning their research to find out if high gun level rates influence the rate of crimes, they found that there were previous small studies on their same topic of guns. However, they discovered that the previous studies could all be criticized on methodological grounds. (Kleck et. al. 490) According to the researchers, the problems that appeared in the past studies varied from failure to include outside influencing factors, failure to study homogeneous states, not taking into account control for gun ownership levels and many more. (Kleck et. al. 490) For example, a very common experiment design was the ITSD which stands for interrupted time- series design. They pointed out that this form of testing the theory effective due to the state legislatures change the gun laws so often, that the study would be nearly impossible to distinguish the effects of the new laws versus the old ones. They discovered that in the state of Florida, legislature passed an annual average of general bills, including an average of 2.45 gun control bills per year (Etten, (Kleck et. al. 490) Upon taking these issues from past studies into consideration, they formed their own experiment that had independent variables that included the outside influencing factors such as the mental state of mind the person in ownership of the gun is in. After investigating, they proposed that state and local laws banning criminals and mentally ill persons from buying guns reduced aggravated assault. (Kleck et. al. 502) However, after countless months finding data, the final results they concluded was that evidence fails to support the hypothesis that gun control laws reduce violent (Kleck et. al. 507) Mygrant 3 Gun Control Reduce Violent was published in December of 2016 by Gary Kleck, Tomislav Kovandzic and Jon Bellows. Gary Kleck has had a variety of surveys, studies and research in the area of gun control throughout his life. One of major has been his theory that increasing the levels of punishment will not increase the deterrent of punishment. This makes him a credible source of information because he has extensive background in the field of study. Tomislav Kovandzic is a professor at UT-Dallas and teaches subjects on crime, gun control and research methods. He also represents a credible source since he is a professor and teaches research methods which would relate to the experiment explained in the article. Jon Bellows is a trial court administrator which is beneficial for the article since they studied court cases relating to crimes. This article is timely with this research question since it was published in 2016 and was also published in SagePub which has access to many other academic articles. This article was able to provide the research with trustworthy information about what gun control is and its relation to violence. Violence is directly connected to the safety of U.S citizens, so it is important to know if there has been any correlation between guns and crime rates. It even offers insight on laws that are constantly being passed and changed at a rate of 2.5 gun control bills per year, as mentioned by Kleck. The experiment done by the researchers is also very useful when looking for cause and effect correlations with guns and safety. Zbrzeznj, Lydia. Controversial Gun Policy: Liberally Permitting Citizens To Arm Themselves And Broadly Recognizing The Right To Act In  Florida Coastal Law Review 2 (2012): 231. InfoTrac LegalTrac. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article written by Lydia Zbrzeznj, primarily examines self-defense laws leading up to the recent one called Stand Your Ground. Zbrzeznj begins with a section explaining the Mygrant 4 true original meaning of self-defense to be use of force, including a deadly force, in self- (Zbrzeznj 231) This basic understanding is the foundation for all the laws made about gun control. It is further mentioned by research that when a person claims self- defense, she is stating that killing the aggressor was the right thing to (Zbrzeznj 231) Florida, prior to Stand Your Ground, upheld the English Common Law that when a victim is presented with an aggressor, the first thing that they were expected to do is retreat. Retreating is attempting to get away and as much distance as possible from the attacker. This was made to help verify that the victims one and only choice was to resort to killing. However, this was very hard in court to establish because according to the article, the law failed adequately account for the difficulty in making a reasonable decision as to the availability or feasibility of retreat in a split-second, life or death situation. (Zbrzeznj 231) Florida later re-evaluated and made slight changes to the retreat law such as a person did not have to retreat in their home from anyone in the premises. This was made to ensure that people in situations such as domestic violence, were protected because retreating always be the best option. The author provided history of the self-defense laws in Florida to lead into what Florida has now established, Stand Your Ground. Zbzeznj included that the law changed in three major ways by repealing the duty to retreat, eliminating the burden to prove that they were in danger and criminal and civil immunity is provided for cases that are justified with self-defense. The Stand Your Ground law always directly involving guns, however, it is labeled a gun law. Gun laws affect the safety of civilians and in this article Floridians specifically. In Florida , it is required to have a concealed weapons permit and now with the new law, Zbzenj mentions that more people are likely to shoot in self-defense. Overall, the article ends with the controversy of gun control-laws relating to self-defense and the safety of people. Some people view that Mygrant 5 lenient policy in granting gun permits acknowledges the reality of the violence facing Floridians in their daily lives. (Zbrzeznj 231) Stand Your Ground was made to help ensure that everyone has their equal rights when faced with a life or death situation. Controversial Gun Policy: Liberally Permitting Citizens to arm Themselves and Broadly Recognizing The Right to Act in was written by Lydia Zbrzeznj and published in 2012 by Florida Coastal Law Review. Lydia Zbrzeznj is a credible author because she has received many awards such as Constitutional Law I and II and Criminal Procedures, that demonstrate her knowledge in the field of study. This article was posted in 2012 so it includes mostly recent and all relevant information. It also provides specific information about the laws and changes in the state of Florida which is beneficial to the exact research being done. The publisher Florida Coastal Law Review is also a credible source because it is edited and published three times a year by law students which shows that the journal is maintained and constantly being filled with more information. Hunter, Stephanie. More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime And Gun-Control  Harvard Journal On Legislation 37.2 (2000): 293. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. In the article More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime And Gun-Control , John Lott explains his viewpoints on why gun laws that allow concealed carried weapons drastically reduce crime rates, resulting in a safer society overall. Lott begins his argument by pointing out the typical American misconception on guns that are portrayed through the media. Entertainment media including television shows, movies and games according to Lott publicize tragic, yet rare, gun-related incidents that are guaranteed to rouse sympathy and (Hunter 294) This caused him to urge Americans to look at their views and decide whether or not laws Mygrant 6 allowing concealed handguns are actually putting safety at risk. One of major arguments in favor for the law, is his claim that are motivated by self-preservation and can be deterred from committing violent crimes if they fear that their potential victims have a concealed (Hunter 295) He was able to support his claim with a survey he conducted in ten state correctional facilities with inmates. The survey results showed that fifty six percent of the inmates admitted they would not attack a potential victim they knew was armed (p. (Hunter 295) Lott held his strong belief and called referred to it as the deterrence effect. He found that states such as Arizona, Florida, Oregon and Pennsylvania have records showing that with more concealed gun permits issued, the less crime that occurred. Lott however, did acknowledge a finding in his data that showed more concealed guns resulting in a slight increase in non-violent crimes. He assumes the rate of these non-violent crimes including auto thefts and robberies only rose due to criminals wanting to have less contact with the victim in fear they possessed a concealed weapon. final outlook on the controversial topic was that laws save (Hunter 297) Ultimately, he found evidence that showed the law correlated with the decrease in crime rates and further mentioned that the common American fears about guns were not found. More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime And Gun-Control  was written by author Stephanie Hunter and published in the Harvard Journal on Legislation in 2000. Stephanie Hunter would be a credible reviewer of John R. book because she was able to post in the Harvard Journal of Legislation. The Harvard journal is published by scholarly students and updated semi-annually, giving the most up to date information as possible. Since this article was published in 2000, it as timely with the research being done on gun control laws. However, it is more beneficial than some of the other articles because it allows the statistics and data to be Mygrant 7 compared to the more current articles that have been published in the past decade. The article is relevant to the research because it adequately provides information and reasoning that supports a claim on gun control by John Lott. John R. Lott is an author that has been employed at many Universities such as Yale and the University of Chicago. He has done a mass amount of research about the gun rights and restrictions in order to be an advocate in the gun rights debate. Karan, Judge Amy, and Helen Stampalia. Domestic Violence And Firearms: A Deadly Combination The Juxtaposition Of Federal And Florida  Florida Bar Journal 79.9 (2005): 79. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article Domestic Violence And Firearms: A Deadly Combination The Juxtaposition Of Federal And Florida  written by Judge Amy Karan and Helen Stampalia, discusses the federal and Florida state laws regarding to guns and how they affect domestic crimes. When taking a look at the federal law, it convicted felons from possessing a firearm or (Karan and Stampalia 79) In addition, the  of 1996 makes it a federal law prohibiting person with a  misdemeanor domestic violence conviction from possessing, shipping, or receiving a firearm or ammunition which has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign (Karan and Stampalia 80) Karen and Stampalia include the statistic, and intimate assaults involving firearms are 12 times more likely to end in fatality than those not associated with (79) To keep statistics like this from rising, the federal laws were created to help protect the safety of citizens, especially families, from having a gun be obtained by a person who has already committed an offense and likely to repeat. The Florida law on the other hand, is very similar to the federal law. It states that is unlawful for a person subject to a final judgment of injunction for protection against domestic violence, pursuant to F. S. to have a firearm or ammunition in their Mygrant 8 care, custody, possession, or (Karan and Stampalia 81) To be sure that convicted felons do not have the ability to purchase a firearm, each vendor must run potential buyers through the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE). The FDLE will process the information and conduct a background check with the Florida Crime Information Center (FCIC) to see if they qualify to purchase. In addition to the background check, each potential firearm purchaser must fill out ATF form 4473. The form includes the question Have you been convicted in any court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic  and warns that it is a third-degree felony to obtain a firearm under false information. (Karan and Stampalia 81) If answered to this question, the person will not be allowed to make the transaction. Both the federal and state laws regarding gun control apply in the state of Florida. While the article states that Floridians still have their constitutional rights to bear arms, hunt, etc., the Florida Legislature wants to prevent the use of firearms in crimes. Karan and Stampalia conclude the article with the conclusion that every lawful citizen should have their constitutional right to bear arms, however that right must be taken away from people who have committed acts of domestic violence to keep every American safe. (82) Domestic Violence And Firearms: A Deadly Combination The Juxtaposition Of Federal And Florida  was written by Judge Amy Karan and Helen Stampalia and published in October 2005 by the Florida Bar Journal. Judge Amy Karan was an administrative judge since 1997 and worked for the Domestic Violence Court in Miami. She would provide credible information because she has researched many cases involving domestic crimes in the state of Florida and according to the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges, she was leading authority on the issue of firearms and domestic violence. Helen Stampalia is a lawyer in Boca Raton Florida, showing she was able to provide adequate information about the Florida and Mygrant 9 federal laws. This article was published in October of 2005 which is still timely with the research being done because it provides a bit of history on where the laws first arose from along with some laws that continue to affect the society today. It was published in the Florida Bar Journal which is a credible resource because it is written by qualified lawyers and provides information for the general public and Bar members about the Florida Bar. This particular article is beneficial for the research because it provides specific information about Florida gun control laws and how they are overall aiming to protect the safety of citizens. Unlike other gun control articles that primarily center around robberies and murders, this one focuses on domestic crimes which commonly thought about when relating guns to illegal actions. Megale, Elizabeth. A Call For Change: A Contextual-Configurative Analysis Of Stand Your   University Of Miami Law Review 68.4 (2014): 1051. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This article written by Elizabeth Megale, specifically focuses the law Your in the state of Florida and the negative effects it has had on Floridians. The law was enforced in 2005 and purpose was to empower individuals to protect themselves through acts of (Megale 1079) However, now it has become problematic and Megale wishes expose the imbalance of power and conflict in values represented by Your (Megale 1054) main difference from the prior laws established, was that it took away the duty to retreat. Duty to retreat overall means that a person must try to avoid and escape a situation before acting with violence or assault. In addition, the law gave people the right to claim self-defense and use a gun if it was a place where they were allowed to be. Many people have seen this as giving an excuse to criminals who commit homicides because it allows them to simply say in court that they felt threatened therefore, used a deadly force. Megale Mygrant 10 believes that are created through the influence of existing values, institutions, and other elements of the social (Megale 1065) With this stated, she views that Stand Your Ground is only beneficial for some people and its effectiveness is all based on individual perspectives of people in a society. She has researched and found that since 2005, the number of justifiable homicides in Florida has risen dramatically. (Megale 1072) This means that there has been an increase in murderers being let free in Florida because they simply declare that their reasoning for the homicide falls under the protection of the Stand Your Ground law. The article mentions an example of a case in 2012 when one night a young teenager Treyvon Martin was shot and killed by George Zimmerman in Sanford, Florida. (Megale 1072.) Martin was unarmed and simply walking home in his neighborhood when Zimmerman approached him because Martin appeared suspicious due to his hoodie. After confrontation, Zimmeran pulled out his gun and shot Martin because he felt threatened. Zimmeran was immediately arrested but pleaded not guilty in the court of law because he reasoned his shooting was in act of self-defense and protected by law. In result, a Florida man who murdered a teenager roams free in the streets of society. According to the article, many people never questioned the new law changes until this case occurred. Megale now believes that Floridians safety has decreased and that away with has become easier in the state of Florida. (Megale 1072) This article was written by Elizabeth Megale and published in 2014 by the University of Miami Law Review. Elizabeth Megale is a credible author because she works at Barry University and graduated from law school in the year 2002. In addition, she has extensive knowledge and personal experience with the Florida laws because she worked as a public defense lawyer for two and a half years. The University of Miami Law review consists of by respected authorities such as judges, professors and practitioners. The law review Mygrant 11 is also updated quarterly with releases in fall, winter, spring and summer. Since this article was published in 2014, it is fairly timely with the research because it incorporates information with the Stand Your Ground law that would still be seen today in 2017. This article is beneficial to the research because it provides a viewpoint that Floridians have less safety due to the changes in laws regarding gun control. It also provides a specific murder case involving Treyvon Martin as evidence for the authors analysis of the Stand Your Ground Law. Hardy, Marjorie S. Keeping Children Safe Around Guns: Pitfalls And  Aggression And Violent Behavior 11.(2006): 352-366. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This article written by Marjorie Hardy, focuses on the law controversy regarding gun control and children safety. According to the article by Hardy, risk of homicide, suicide, and unintentional deaths and injuries is greater when a firearm is present, particularly when the firearm is stored (Hardy 352) There are not many laws that hold parents accountable for their supervision, only against actually leaving a child un-supervised. This means that there many laws that say how to supervise your child as long as they are being watched and not neglected. This article claims that the laws involving firearms need to be strict with parents, enforcing that minors do not have the ability to possess one. The accidental homicides and suicides are in result of a firearm not being properly stored and locked away from a access. Only twenty states have enacted the Child Access Prevention (CAP) laws that require parents to keep all guns locked or unloaded. In the states of Florida, Connecticut and California, any violation of this law is always a felony. However, some people believe that these laws are violating the rights and privacy of parents who own guns. Many who are against the CAP laws believe that the parents should be responsible to supervise and control their children in the way they believe is most appropriate. Others also believe that the CAP laws are hard to put Mygrant 12 into effect in the court of law because a jury would be unlikely to convict grieving parents of a recently lost child. In four years since the CAP law was put into effect, Hardy reports that the unintentional shooting deaths reduced by 23% in twelve states. The most significant reduction was noticed in the state of Florida. As this law is only evident in twenty states, there needs to be something done about the rest. Hardy suggests that child education in firearm prevention programs are not even enough because it only gives parents a misconception that their child would be able to make the appropriate decision in an extreme moment involving a weapon. So instead, he suggests that society should work together to overall modify the perceptions and behaviors of parents so they can help reduce the number of shootings with children. Majorie Hardy has done a lot of research with psychology and the study about the future of children. She is not as credible as the other authors because there much information about her education and history, however she provides an in-depth analysis of protecting children against firearms. This article was published in Aggression and Violent Behavior by Science Direct, which provides many journals, periodicals, articles and books relating to many topics. Since this article was posted in 2006, it does not have new and current information about statistics and laws pertaining to the research. However, this article is beneficial because it provides a look at gun control controversy relating to accidental shootings and children. Most gun control controversy is about the safety of citizens against criminals and it is commonly forgotten that accidents occur too when a firearm is obtained by the wrong hands. Mygrant 13