Mirakhmedova 1 Komila Mirakhmedova Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 1 March 2017 The Effects of Divorce on Adults and Children Over the years the divorce has been causing most of the negative outcomes in the lives of children and adults, which include psychological well-being, risk behavioral problems, attitude towards future romantic and social relationships. Moreover, and adjustment to marital disruption vary and mostly depend on themselves and society around. According to researches from 2000-2017, the United States has had significantly high rate of divorce throughout the years. However, since 2010 the rate has been increasing much faster and the reasons are: a freedom to seek happiness and self-fulfillment outside of existing social norms. In addition, economic developments led to an increase in standards of living and helped people realize they are able to be self-reliant. As the research from still supports the idea of negative consequences of divorce for adults and children, the conversation has not changed. Many studies have compared children with divorced and continuously married parents on a variety of effects. Researches state that children with divorced parents have more emotional problems, have lower grades and are more social isolated. Divorce is also causing weaker emotional ties with parents, especially with fathers. Children who grew up in the family with divorced parents usually obtain less education, less income, are more likely to have non-marital Mirakhmedova 2 births, are more depressed and have lower levels of health. Moreover, they report more problems in their own marriage and also see their marriages end in disruption. Paul R Amato says, with divorced parents had poorer outcomes, on average, than did children with continuously married (13). According to the Journal of American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers, fathers have become more heavily involved in the daily activities and the physical care of their children, and as more mothers have resumed working full time in the pre-school years, shared parenting after parents separate has become more common (81). A lot of surveys have been carried out that children in shared parenting families had better outcomes than those in sole residence even when there were a conflicts or where one of the parents had been to share. The researches concluded can share their residential time even though they are not talking to each other or trying to coordinate the children rearing environments of their two (92). There are two types of shared parenting, the first one is co-parenting and the second one is parallel parenting. The point of co-parenting is that parents are in more cooperative, friendly relationships, they are solving problems together, trying to show the child that he is still getting love and attention from both of them. Parallel parenting is more likely to be distant, relationships, where they run households and parent the children as each sees fit, minimizing communication between each other. Recent studies show that the most divorced parents are more likely to have parallel parenting rather than co-operating one, even after couple of years after divorce. One more fact that is worth mentioning is that gender appears to play a role in decision to share the parenting. Sons are more likely than daughters to live in a shared parenting. Researchers suggest that is maybe because of Mirakhmedova 3 fears of raising boys on their own. Also fathers feel more comfortable living with the son rather than with a daughter. A divorce rate from illustrate that a considerable number of children are experiencing family disruption every year. Geir Gustavsen says has shown that an experiences in an early life may cause serious consequences later in (474) generally called risk behavioral problems. The potential instability and insecurity could induce substance abuse, crime and low educational outcomes. Different age groups are affected in different level, some have mental health problems, such us scariness of society, relationships and become fully introverted, some have risk behavioral problems. According to the results of the survey, in particular children aged 12-18 years, experiencing parental separation were more frequently involved in binge drinking, alcohol consumption, tobacco and marijuana use than their counterparts from families. All these frequencies increased as they grew older. Fanie Collardeu says, parental divorce can exert long-term consequences on attitude toward marriage and (24). The survey that has been carried out by the author illustrated that pretty high percentage of people who grew up from divorced families are having pretty much problems in their future families and end up with divorce, other part have a families at all, and pretty low percent of those young adults are happy in their marriages. People who are having problems in their marriage are, by statistics are having girlfriends on side, they are in the theory that every marriage is disrupting in the end. Those who actually have their happy families with kids, are on the opposite side trying to build a good family, avoiding mistakes which were done by their parents and prove that happy ending still exists. By statistics provided in the article by Fanie Collardeu, men are more likely to stay Mirakhmedova 4 single in an adulthood, it supports an idea that women are better recovering after negative experience from childhood. To conclude, divorce has always been negative experience for children as well as for adults. Public and scientific concern has been significantly high through out the years, which has generated a lot of research literature regarding the consequences marital disruption. Though, there are many ways to soften in a possible way the effects of divorce. Nowadays there are a lot of programs, organizations, even just a psychologist can help to somehow avoid negative outcomes for children and help a parent to recover faster, without going in deep depression. Work Cited Amato, Paul R. consequences of divorce for adults and children: An Druvstvena istrazivanja 1 23 (2014): 5-20. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Amato, Paul R., Sobolewski, Juliana M. Effects of Divorce and Marital Discord on Adult Psychological American Sociological Review 66 (2001): 900 921. Web. Gustavsen, Geir Wahler. Effects of Parental Divorce on Teenage Risk Behaviors: Incidence and  Journal of Family and Economic Issues 37.3 (2016):474-487. Web. Tracle O. Afifi, Jonathan Boman. Relationship Between Child Abuse, Parental Divorce and Lifetime Mental Disorders and Suicidality in a Nationally Representative Adult Child Abuse and Neglect 33.3 (2009):139-147. Web