Phuong-Anh Nguyen Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Languages change the way you think Language is how we communicate in our everyday life but did you know that having to think in different language can make a huge difference in your way of thinking? One way to think about language is that it is a cognitive faculty which forms the primary basis of your thinking and so there are certain thoughts that cannot be made or are totally different in some languages. The principle of linguistic relativity, popularly known as the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, holds that the structure of a language affects its world view or cognition. In other words, language shapes the thoughts about many aspects of the world. Looking at the four sources collected from the year of 2000 to 2015, we will see whether the conversation about how languages change the way people think has changed over this period of time or not. When you learn a new language, you are also learning about a new culture. It goes the opposite way too. If you want to learn about a culture, you cannot skip the language because the influence they have on each other is tremendous. You can think about language as a gateway to culture. You can learn a part of a culture by trying out their foods, seeing their movies, listening to the melodies of their music, learning about their history, but only until you learn the language can you fully understand that culture. In the book The Language published in 2010 by Guy Deutscher, he rejects biologically based explanations of language and states that the rules of grammar are meant to be coded in the genes, then one could expect the grammar of all languages to be the same, and it is then difficult to explain why grammars should ever vary in any fundamental then comes to the conclusion of language being the first and foremost artifact of culture. He also explains that biology also does not provide a complete grammar of a language, but rather the building blocks out of which such a grammar can be made. It only offers a range of possibilities from which culture can choose. Therefore, since culture is the main factor that creates the language and because all cultures greatly differ from each other, languages do the same. This leads to an idea of cognitive processes of people from different cultures vary since they are affected by their own distinct values. Beside from the effects coming from cultures, researchers also look at the relations between language and nonlinguistic thought. In the conference paper called Deep Are Effects of language on Thought? Time Estimation in Speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek and by Casasanto D. proceeded for the 26 th Annual Cognitive Science Society in 2004, he discusses the results conducted from two non-linguistic psychophysical experiments in native speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek, and Spanish, who all use spatial metaphors to talk about time, to see whether metaphoric mappings between time and space vary across languages. In this paper, it finds that experience may not teach us to map time onto space but it is language instead. The effects of distance interference and quantity interference on time estimation in speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek, and Spanish corresponded strikingly to the relative prevalence of distance metaphors and quantity metaphors found in these languages. This paper concludes that particular languages that we speak can influence not only the representations we build for the purpose of speaking, but also the non-linguistic representations we build for remembering, acting on, and perhaps even perceiving the world around us. New sources found in the years from 2000 to 2015 discuss about other aspects of how language can affect thinking. Science article called a second language may change how you see the by Nicholas Weiler looks at different studies and their results on how speaking a second language may change how you see the world. This article finds that Russian speakers are faster to distinguish shades of blue than English speakers, for example. Japanese speakers tend to group objects by material rather than shape, whereas Koreans focus on how tightly objects fit together. The second study asks if different minds exist within one and finds a particular difference in how English and German speakers treat events. According to this study, German speakers are more likely to focus on possible outcomes of actions, but English speakers pay more attention to the action itself. Bilingual speakers, meanwhile, seemed to switch between these perspectives based on the language most active in their minds. The results of this study suggest that a second language can play an important unconscious role in framing perception: having another language, you have an alternative vision of the The last source is on grammatical gender and thought in early and emergent by B. Bassetti and E. Nicoladis, published in 2015, reviewing recent research on how speaking a language that marks gender grammatically might affect thinking. It also discusses about the relationship between grammatical gender knowledge of more than one language, and thinking, in both early and emergent bilinguals. It comes to a conclusion that grammatical gender can affect thoughts in bilinguals. After analyzing these four sources above, we can come to the conclusion that the conversation about how thoughts change depend on the language they are speaking has not changed. Although each of these sources look at their own particular aspects of what the affects of language can have on thinking, they all agree that language can change the way you think and affect how you perceive and experience the world. Works Cited: Bassetti, B., Nicoladis, E., on grammatical gender and thought in early and emergent International Journal of Bilingualism, vol. 20, no. 1, SAGE journals, 21 Sep, 2015, journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1367006915576824. Accessed 19 Feb, 2017. Weiler, Nicholas. a second language may change how you see the Science, American Association for The Advancement of Science, 17 Mar. 2015, sciencemag.org/news/2015/03/speaking-second-language-may-change-how-you-see- world. Accessed 13 Feb 2017. Deutscher, Guy. Through the Language Glass: Why the World Looks Different in Other Languages. New York: Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt and Co, 2010. Print. Casasanto, D., Boroditsky, L., Phillips, W., Greene, J., Goswami, S., Bocanegra-Thiel, S., et al. (2004). How Deep Are Effects of language on Thought? Time Estimation in Speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek and Spanish. In Kenneth Forbus, Dedre Gentner, Terry Reiger (Ed.), Proceedings of the 26th Annual Cognitive Science Society. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.