Dec 1 Khristian Dec Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 04/03/2017 Drinking Age Before 1984, the legal drinking was 18 years old. That is the age you become an adult. However, in 1984 it was changed by an organization called MADD, which stands for Mothers against drunk driving. MADD argued to raise the minimum drinking age from 18 to 21 for the sole purpose, which is to reduce drunk driving. As time has passed the argument has changed. The argument used to be that you become and adult at 18 and if you can serve our country, you can have a beer. Which is still used today. The more recent arguments are now involving college students and binge drinking. There are also studies starting to come out like this one, Barnhill suggests that is no correlation between drunk driving and the legal drinking (2014). The legal drinking age should be lowered to 18 because it has no correlation to drunk driving, this will reduce binge and/or dangerous drinking, your frontal lobe fully develop until age 25 which means the difference between 18 and 21 is no difference at all, and finally if you can serve our country at 18, you should be able to have a beer. Originally the argument was that the age of 18, change is big in a life. Now officially adults, teens become legally responsible for themselves. They are free to make adult decisions, able to vote, compelled to be socially independent, and urged to live on their own and pay their own bills. But they buy a (Roanoke 2004). This means you can vote at 18, you can buy a car at 18, you go into debt at 18, you can serve our country at 18, you get the idea. If you can do whatever you want at 18 why you consume alcohol ? The legal Dec 2 drinking age was raised to reduce drunk driving. Well now there are more arguments and better ones. Arguments that not only help to make sense of the drinking age being 18. Arguments that use technology we have available in the early like the development of the frontal lobe, or fake ID sales (which really pick up until 2008, and even it skyrocket until after 2010), or binge drinking and how many college students it kills every year. It even proves that there is no correlation between drunk driving and the minimum drinking age. The argument now is nothing like the argument back then, especially now with the resources that are available to us, it has changed greatly. Throughout the years more and more studies have been coming out and this one is one of the most important. Holloway states that rational part of a brain fully developed and be until age 25 or (2017). [Your frontal lobe or prefrontal cortex is what allows adults (people who are 25 years old or Respond to situations with good judgement and an awareness of long term consequences. Teens process information with the amygdala. This is the emotional part [of the (Holloway 2017). This means that the difference between the legal drinking age being 18 or 21 is no difference at all, because either way your frontal lobe still fully developed, so either way your ability to make decisions sober or not is still impaired. Paglia states was stampeded into this puritanical law by Mothers Against Drunk Driving, who with all good intentions were wrongly intruding into an area of personal choice exactly as did the hymn-singing 19th century temperance crusaders, typified by Carrie Nation smashing beer barrels with her hatchet. Temperance fanaticism eventually triumphed and gave us 14 years of Prohibition. That in turn spawned the crime syndicates Dec 3 for booze smuggling, laying the groundwork for global drug trade. Thanks a lot, (2014). Another point is that the perks of minimum legal drinking age being changed from 18 to 21 is non-existent. Barnhill states appears to be no correlation between the minimum age and drunk-driving fatalities. In fact, the US data does not correlate with that of Europe, where fatalities have been decreasing since 1982, although the minimum drinking age is (2014). What stating is that in countries where the minimum drinking age is lower than the us (normally around 16-18) there are less drunk driving accidents. This is because alcohol is introduced to teens at a younger age therefor by the time they are ready to drive they are already aware of the effects of alcohol and what it has on a ability to drive. Even more so this law is hurting more than it helps. In college, kids are binge drinking every day, consuming alcohol at unhealthy levels. They must do it unsupervised, because they want to get caught. CDC [Centers for Disease reported that alcohol is responsible for more than 4,300 deaths annually among underage youth. The CDC also found that young people between the ages of 12 and 20 drink 11 percent of all the alcohol consumed in the U.S., and more than 90 percent of this alcohol is consumed during binge (Cary 2014). 1,825 college students between the ages of 18 and 24 die from alcohol-related unintentional injuries [this includes binge (NIH.gov 2015). When it comes to drinking in college most kids are going to break the law. Everyone knows this, even colleges agree with this. Why do you think they make freshmen take an entire course about drinking and how to drink safely, twice, in one year? They know going to do it. This law is continuing Dec 4 to harm our country by increasing binge drinking, fake ID sales, and an increase in drug abuse (Cary 2014). This law is harming more than its helping. All-in-all, there are plenty of studies out there that have changed the way and direction this law is going. The argument has changed over time but as you can see, if anything it grew stronger because more have been added. Over the studies have shown that if the law was lowered it will reduce binge drinking, it will also reduce drunk driving accidents, as well as fake ID sales and drug abuse. People are starting to pick up on it and its why more and more people are allowing 18 year olds to drink, even though against the law. Works Cited a. SHOULD THE LEGAL DRINKING AGE BE LOWERED? Roanoke times, vol. 29, sept. 2004. b. Barnhill, John H. Age Salem Press Encyclopedia, January,2014. c. Cary, Mary K. to Lower the Drinking U.S. News Digital Weekly, vol. 6, 18, May 2014, p. d. Paglia, Camille. The Drinking Age Is Past Its  Time. Time, 23 Apr. 2014. Web. 11 Dec. 2014. e. Holloway, Beth RN. University of Rochester, https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=1&C ontentID=3051