almeshhen: 1 Faisal almeshhen Composition March 6 2017 Social Media Influence Social media is an inevitable part of the modern life. It exists in every aspect of human activity. The possibility of sharing and collecting of information creates different points of view concerning a variety of cases and phenomena. Politics is one of the dimensions which is covered by social media. Debates, political campaigns, and advertisement - all of these events can be overviewed and discussed because of social media. During the second half of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st, social media got a rapid leap. It has opened new dimensions of the information exchange and views sharing. This evolution allowed candidates to communicate with electors on the more close level and provide their campaigns more accurate. Modern social media ways of communication created bunch of possibilities for influential on politics. Technological revolution and wide spreading of the Internet allow people not only contact each other in person but also to share their thoughts with the community. Political aspect caught this tendency, and at 2007 and 2008 a research connected with political-oriented sites was done. The aim of such sites was to provide more information concerning different political almeshhen: 2 courses and give people actual political news. address this question, we analyzed the news content from five Web sites: DailyKos.com, FreeRepublic.com, FoxNews.com, AssociatedPress.com, and (Baum and Groeling, 346). There was such phenomenon as partisan sites. These web resources published information which improved their reputation and did harm to the one. political partisanship is by no means the only dimension upon which niche-marketing strategies might be based, in the realm of political information, partisanship is one of the key lines of demarcation allowing Web sites to attract a relatively loyal (Baum and Groeling, 347) Traditionally such resources were divided into left and right wing, but among these sites were also resources which provided party-neutral and critical information. Because of such variety of opinions people get the chance to make more conscious choice of candidates. Apart from political sites, such aspect of political communication on the Internet as blogs exists. Personal thoughts and ideas, mostly independent, increase evolution of political views and exchange of the information among its readers. Despite this fact, there are such phenomena as political polarization because of these blogs appeared. People who stick to one political movement will read a blog which devotes to it and ignores blogs which are devoted to political point. 94% of political blog readers consume only blogs from one side of the ideological spectrum. The remaining 6% read blogs from both (Lawrence and almeshhen: 3 Farrel,11 ) However, such polarization creates stronger participation in the political life. People become more active in standing their political point of view and progress. Facebook also proved itself as a platform in which people can share their political thoughts. Researches which are connected with Arab Spring showed that youth take more active part in the political life because of Facebook. implies that social media (Facebook) provides the youth with more political space to that of traditional politics. (Ahmad and Sajjad Sheikh, 352). However, such platform can not be fully trusted because there is no possibility to check the credibility of the information and political stories which engaged in it. This way should be studied more careful and improved as well for the political education of young people. Such tendencies can not be ignored by political candidates and politicians. The Internet became a new platform for the realization of different programs and communication with an electorate. In 2010 and 2013 there were such experiments as Twitter accounts of candidates. The research was performed in Norwegian. This research compared politicians who showed themselves in the Internet space and politicians who did not. Such communication platform as Twitter allowed candidates to show their electorate their personal side and make them closer to people who vote for them. In the context of the contemporary Norwegian campaign, social media are now one of the most important communication tools for candidates in their campaigning efforts, and even in this party-centered environment, candidates emphasize the possibilities to convey almeshhen: 4 their personal side in these media. (Karlson and Enjolras, 352) Candidates who showed themselves in Twitter gain more recognition than candidates who did not. Nevertheless, this section of social-media still concedes to traditional sources: television, radio, and newspapers. Social media is constantly evolving and opening new dimensions of communication. The electorate has the possibility to exchange their political views free and observe point of view. Such platforms as Twitter and Facebook widen horizons of communication between electorate and politicians. The Internet sources of social-media create more activity in the lines of the politically active readers. Politicians have the possibility to study their voters closer and show themselves as persons who deserve trust. Nevertheless, new ways of communication and political influence have poor credibility and need strong resources. Social media and political maneuvers are still evolving, so there will be new ways of social-media influence of the politics. almeshhen: 5 Works Cited Matthew A. B, Groeling,T. Media and the Polarization of American Political Political communication, 2008, pp345-365, Accessed 10.03.2017, Lawrence E., Sides J., Farrel H., or Deliberation? Blog Readership, Participation, and Polarization in American Department of Political Science George Washington University, 2009 Karlsen R., Enjolras B., of Social Media Campaigning and Influence in a Hybrid Political Communication System: Linking Candidate Survey Data with Twitter The International Journal of Press/Politics Vol. 21(3), 2016, Ahmad.K., Sajjad Sheikh K., Media and Youth Participatory Politics: A Study of University A Research Journal of South Asian Studies Vol. 28 (2), 2013, pp. 353-360