Rahman 1 Aashik Rahman Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 5 March 2017 The difficulties faced by children of same sex parents Different children have to face different types of problems and live through difficulties in their lives. But the one topic has people talking about is, does the children of same sex parents face more difficulties in their life compared to children of heterosexual parents? Before 2010, research in this matter indicated that the children of same sex parents had to face many more problems compared to the children of heterosexual parents. But even after 2010, as new types of researches are being done related to this matter, it still shows that the children raised by same sex parents are at a disadvantage compared to the children raised by heterosexual parents in certain aspects. There are different ways children of same sex parents are at a disadvantage. As new researches after 2010 show the same results, conversations, about the difficulties faced by children of same sex parents has not changed. Before 2010, researches were based on how the children raised by married mom and dad were better off than the children raised by same sex, divorced and single parents. The results were usual, children raised by heterosexual parents had less problems in their lives compared to the children raised by same-sex parents. According to Glenn T. Stanton, reliable research indicates that children in same-sex homes do as 2). He talks about how children need both their biological parents to have a healthy lifestyle. After 2010, researchers based their Rahman 1 researches on topics like how the children of same sex parents behave physically, mentally and psychologically. And also whether same sex marriage will increase Rahman 2 sexual confusion in their kids. According to Trayce Hansen, sex marriage no doubt will increase sexual confusion and sexual experimentation by young 8). She also says, find children raised by homosexuals are more likely to engage in homosexual behaviours themselves since extensive worldwide research reveals homosexuality is primarily environmentally 9). Researches also showed that after the children who later engage in non-heterosexual behaviours are at a higher risk of suffering from psychiatric disorders and abuse alcohol and drugs. Another aspect regarding this matter is the adoption of kids by same sex couples. As the homosexual people got married they wanted to have a family. Most homosexual people fulfilled their family by adopting children. But there were negative sides to this. Before 2010, researches showed that adopted children would ask about why they have a father or a mother in a lesbian or gay household. a researcher and writer says, sex parents give their children a second class upbringing by exacerbating normal problems that adopted kids 2). In this research she asks a lesbian mother about what she answered to her son when he would want to have a father. The lesbian mother said that if he had a father, he would not have her as a mother. says, She made her son feel that his natural desire for a father is a rejection of her. This is a terrible burden to place on a little 9). In 2015, four adult child with gay and lesbians parents filed a lawsuit against same sex marriage. They talk about their personal life experiences, the problems they had to deal while growing up in a gay or lesbian household. This shows how most of the children in homosexual households have very little interaction with heterosexual couples while growing up. Dawn Stefanowicz, who had gay fathers, said, Rahman 3 surrounded by average heterosexual couples, partners slept and ate in our home, and they took me along to meeting places in the LGBT communities. I was exposed to overt sexual activities like sodomy, nudity, pornography, group sex, sadomasochism and the 4). This shows that she was exposed to sexual activities due to meeting with homosexual people. Robert Oscar Lopez, who had lesbian mothers, said, I had an inexplicable compulsion to have sex with older males, I wanted to have sex with men who were my fathers 11). This shows the sexual confusion due to the lack of a parent. In conclusion, researches on the difficulties faced by children of same sex parents changed over time but the result stayed the same. Before 2010, the researches were based on the difficulties faced by children without the happily married mother and father. But after 2010. it changed to specific topics, like how it affects the psychological and mental behaviour, and the differences they face with homosexual parents. But one thing that remains the same is the outcome of the results. They all indicate that children raised by same sex parents do face some difficulties when compared to children of married heterosexual parents. Rahman 4 Brown, Lauretta. Adults Raised by Gay Couples Speak Out Against Gay in Federal  CNS News. N.p., 23 Jan. 2015. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. Hansen, Trayce. Same-Sex Marriage Is Harmful to  Gay Marriage, edited by Debra A. Miller, Greenhaven Press, 2012. At Issue. Opposing Viewpoints in Context,eztcc.vccs.edu:2048/login?url=http://link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/EJ301 0014234/OVIC? Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Originally published as Same-Sex Marriage: Not in the Best Interest of  The Therapist, 2009. Staff, ZENIT. Dangers of Same-Sex Couples Adopting Children (Part  ZENIT English. N.p., 05 Nov. 2004. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. Stanton, Glenn T. Are Children with Same-Sex Parents at a  Facts About Youth. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017.