Haynes1 Yohance Haynes Professor Phillips Composition 1102 12 March 2017 The Department of Human nutrition has many different objectives that it goes after. Their main goal is to provide safe, sufficient, and nutritious foods to supply to the American people. They are centerpiece for Michelle campaign to bring up a healthier generation of (USDA, 2017). Moving forward with healthier and more nutritious foods is the goal. Their goal not only affects children, but all areas such as fast food menus and restaurant choices. Helping pass acts like the Hunger free Kids Helping solidify the stance in the fight for a healthy society. Presented with the stakeholder are two photos from the website that embodies the goals they chase. Image A displays a healthy foods challenge that invites the reader to partake in the movement. Image also provides examples with what to do to complete the healthy challenge. The stakeholder used this image to effectively display pathos and ethos the picture. Accompanying Image A is Image B that contains a food wheel along with a plate full of nutritious alternatives. Using this image, the stakeholder shows ethos, pathos, and other appeals. These images well define the goals and missions of The Department of Human Nutrition. Studying the images more closely you will find the rhetorical appeals, visual rhetoric of the eyes intriguing photos appealing to the reader to encourage the message of eating healthier. Both of these pictures include some strong health conscious messages that encourages the stakeholders goals of eating healthier. They include a couple rhetorical appeals in each one. Yet Haynes2 some are more present in one picture than the other. In image A, the picture is pretty colorful and has words printed all over the piece. This image contains one appeal that the other picture does not have implemented in it. That appeal is called Kairos. This picture has a lot to do with time, they want an immediate response. Comments on the website like up today and invite others to participate with (USDA, 2017) give the reader a urgent sense of time. The image and comments like these call for a 3 week challenge of a healthy-food diet. Most likely ruling out any fast food products because they are not apart of the diet. And to keep the reader on track in those 3 weeks, the picture provides a set of healthy things to do and eat. But on the other hand you have ethos and pathos that is prevalent in both Image A and Image B. Here is Image B showing the appeal ethos by providing a credible source of Giving the picture more authority in encouraging people to eat better. Ethos is also shown in image A using #MyplateChallenge as a source of authenticity. Presenting the reader with alternatives and healthy foods embodies their goals of getting more nutritious foods to the people. And also their stance against the fast food companies and their unhealthy menus. The last appeal observed in the images was pathos. Image A appeals to emotion by implementing My Plate New into the picture. This recall and play on words of the New Year attacks the sympathy for the day by bringing up good memories of celebrating the holiday. Image B also uses pathos by making the meal on the picture as appetising as possible. Appealing to the readers love for good looking foods. Haynes3 Also associated with the pictures are visual rhetorics that play a big role in the development of the pictures and goals of the company. Both images are beautifully made, with vibrant colors to get the attention. They are designed to grab attention and be eye intriguing for the person observing the image. Image A has lights, bright colors and a centered challenge plan that draws the audience in. The different colors involve all of the readers senses. The color red is an engaging and emotive (Walker, 1) and encourages motive by putting the red grapes in the photo. While Image B has a food plate with various colors that engage the senses. They also share a purpose and message that gets across to the onlooker. The images of fruits and showings of charts and wheels show the goals the stakeholder wants to get across. The healthier eating and nutritious foods that the stakeholder talks about are clear to see from these pictures. The visual aspects of the images make them a great asset to the company. The designs are intelligent and provide validity to the claims. The pictures were used for even greater purposes than seen on the surface by drawing the reader in for more information. There are specific reason the stakeholder used the images they did to get their message out. Image A displays a the efforts to put a fire under the butts of the reader to eat healthy. Gives them a challenge to eat the suggested nutritious foods. Also adding New years and 3 weeks to show the importance of time. They do not want you to waste time in eating better. Or even comments like are still three weeks remaining in the Challenge and it too late to (USDA, 2017). It is a now or never mindset that the company is trying to put in the head. Image B on the other hand has a more subtle approach. It provides the reader with healthy options and shows how good it looks while leaving it to them to choose. No pushing for time, just the availability of healthy options. Image A also Haynes4 has a guide to help the onlooker move toward a more healthy lifestyle. Both pictures have their ways of coaxing the reader to eat better. But they also have different ways of doing so. This combination of two different styles is very effective in capturing two types of groups. The Department of Human Nutrition is using these pictures in a very effective way. In addition, both images provide references back to the healthy website. They give the reader a channel to an even wider range of healthy eating. There was a lot of information that was acquired by analyzing the two images. Analyzing them both showed the intricate designs of the pictures to catch the eye, or indulge their senses. The colors and the way they were structured brought the audience in for a closer look. Once the look was established, the rhetorical appeals started to appear from the pictures framework. They used many of the appeals to get more validation and attention from the reader. Like a crunching of time, or an attack on emotion and wants. These appeals helped the stakeholder establish their goal into the mind more. The pictures were very well made and used to insert certain feelings or urges inside of the reader. All of which had to do with eating better and having more nutritious foods. By dissecting the images and their meanings the reader can appreciate the efforts of the DHN spreading their word of a healthier world. And hopefully take this message and apply it to their daily life. Haynes5 Works Cited Food and Nutrition  and Nutrition USDA, n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017 Walker, Morton. The Power of  N.p., 2001. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 What Nutritional Items Will Be on the Menu This School Year in Miami-Dade Department of Food and Dade Schools, 2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Department of Nutrition and Food  and Food Studies - NYU N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017