Wilson 1 Ashley Wilson Composition II Professor Lewis 5 March 2017 Two Goals, One Mission stress disorder, or is a serious potentially debilitating condition that can occur in people who have experienced or witnessed a natural disaster, serious accident, terrorist incident, sudden death of a loved one, war, violent personal assault such as rape, or other life-threatening Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is an important concern because individuals and their loved ones are struggling to cope with this awful disorder. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is a terrifying condition that nearly 7.8% of Americans will experience in their lifetimes (ptsd.ne.gov), but there are treatment options available. The Lone Survivor Foundation is a nonprofit organization that promotes and provides therapy for patients with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. They set up therapeutic retreats for the patients and their loved ones in order for them to heal. A different approach comes from from the company Pfizer. Pfizer sells a prescription drug called Zoloft that is popular in treating Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Both stakeholders have the same interest in treating patients with PTSD but they have different approaches. When people disagree about how to treat this disorder, it makes it difficult for people with Post-Traumatic Stress disorder to decide what treatment options are best for them. Although the drug company, Pfizer and the nonprofit organization, Lone Survivor have different approaches to treating patients with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, there is a way for Wilson 2 these stakeholders to find a reasonable compromise in order to help PTSD victims use the treatment that is best for them. The nonprofit organization, The Lone Survivor seeks to help individuals and the families that suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. According to their website Lone Survivor Foundation restores, empowers, and renews hope for wounded service members and their families through health, wellness, and therapeutic This organization believes that therapeutic support and scheduled retreats will help individuals that suffer from PTSD, as well as their families. A study done by Dr. Edna B. Foa assess the use of cognitive behavioral therapy for patients with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. This research describes exactly how PTSD is treated therapeutically. It says that treatments can be divided into three categories: exposure procedures, anxiety management procedure, cognitive therapy. The study also shows the results of these treatments. Positive responses from these treatment methods were very high. Exposure therapy showed the best results with 93% improvement. These results show that therapeutic treatments for PTSD, as done by the Lone Survivor Foundation, have a positive effect on patients with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. The drug company, goal is to is to help patients who are living with the emotional pain of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. website states, Pfizer, we innovate every day to make the world a healthier place. It was the vision of Charles Pfizer at the very beginning and it holds true today in everything we do. From scientific discovery to breakthrough products to our essential partnerships around the world, committed to quality healthcare for Because every individual This company works hard to ensure that patients with Post-Traumatic Stress disorder, as well as other illnesses, seek Wilson 3 medical treatment to help with their symptoms. A publication, Drug Store News. Nov 29, 1999, Vol. 21 Issue 19, 21, states that in 1999, drug Zoloft, was the first drug to be recommended by the FDA to treat Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. An article written by an unknown author discusses the positive effects she received from taking the prescription drug Zoloft. In her article, she states that it took about a month for the drug to take full effect but once it did she felt safe and her lifestyle changed dramatically for the better. Once she decided that she was better, she decided to try to go off of the medication. When she did this all of her negative symptoms came back in full effect, so she decided to continue with the medication. One of her last statements is that Zoloft had cured her (ExperienceProject). These articles show that the prescription drug Zoloft, which is distributed by the company Pfizer, is beneficial to patients with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. While these two stakeholders seem to have different goals, they both have the same mission which is to help people who struggle with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Both The Lone Survivor and Pfizer share the same interests and concerns. Based off of their missions and goals, they both place the needs of the patients first and foremost, and they developed their brands with the intent to help patients. Since these stakeholders share the same desire to help people with PTSD, it is reasonable to assume that they would also be interested in working together to develop a solution for individuals who are conflicted and want to chose a treatment that will work best with their case of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Currently, there are advertisements for both types of PTSD treatments, therapy and prescription medication. Since these stakeholders have different approaches it would be difficult for people with PTSD to decide what treatment options would work best for their specific case. Wilson 4 In order for the individuals to make the best decision for them they should be encouraged to work with their doctors, but ultimately chose therapy first and then if it has not helped they should take the next step and talk to their doctors about receiving a prescription for an anti-depressant. The reason for this is because while Zoloft has helped many individuals cope with PTSD and other mental illnesses, it is a very strong medication that should only be taken if it is absolutely necessary. The book of Age on Zoloft: How Antidepressants Cheered Us Up, Let Us Down, and Changed Who We by Katherine Sharpe discusses reliance on antidepressants. Antidepressants are a serious form of medication that are not taken seriously enough. In order to solve this problem people should begin with some form of therapy for a period of time before they decide that it is in their best interest to take a prescription drug like Zoloft. Since both stakeholders claim to have the best interest of the patient, this should be an easy compromise for them to make and will benefit them in the same way because it is ultimately best for the patient. Although Pfizer has helped many individuals it is not the best option for everybody. I also believe that this helps Pfizer in another way, this compromise will most likely lower the rate of lawsuits against Pfizer. Although main interest is in bettering the health of those who take Zoloft, not every person reacts to medication in the same way, unfortunately this means lawsuits are bound to happen. If this drug is not encouraged and the patients make the choice on their own to take the medication, after they have decided that therapy is not sufficient, the number of lawsuits should decrease. This compromise will also be in the best interest for The Lone Survivor Foundation because more people with PTSD will start by seeking therapy. This compromise benefits Pfizer and The Lone Survivor Foundation because Wilson 5 it will satisfy both of their missions to help those who suffer with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. In order for this compromise to work, there needs to be a practical way to implement the idea. This should be done by medical doctors encouraging patients to seek therapeutic advice before starting an antidepressant. Another, more severe, option would be to make it required for patients with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder to attend therapy sessions before a doctor is allowed to write a prescription. This option would require the FDA to get involved to make it official. This is a realistic and practical compromise because antidepressants have harsh side effects and they dramatically change the lifestyles of many people. This compromise will reduce this risk by only letting patients who need an antidepressant to have access to the drug. Both Stakeholders, The Lone Survivor Foundation and Pfizer, want to cure people who suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. This compromise would hopefully make their shared mission a reality. Many people feel like medication is their only option and sometimes it does more harm than good. In order to help those people, therapy should be considered before prescription drugs. This compromise would benefit both stakeholders as well as the people with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder who are struggling to decide which option will work best for them. (WC:1400) Wilson 6 Works Cited Advisory Panel Recommends Zoloft for PTSD  Store News , no. 19, 1999. Dr. Edna B. Foa, Behavioral Therapy for for the Treatment and Study of Anxiety. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. I Am Taking  Blog post. Project . Experience Project 2017, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Never  Survivor Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Pfizer: One of the Premier Biopharmaceutical  One of the Premier Biopharmaceutical Companies . Pfizer, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder  and Depression Association of America, ADAA . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Post Traumatic Stress  Traumatic Stress Disorder . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Sharpe, Katherine. of Age on Zoloft: How Antidepressants Cheered Us Up, Let Us Down, and Changed Who We Are . New York: HarperPerennial, 2012. Print.