Meneghel 1 Artur Cianfarani Meneghel Ashley Tisdale ENC1101 6 March 2017 Marijuana Legalization: Why Not? One of the biggest discussions of the last 20 years is the legalization of marijuana, especially in America where in 1996 the State of California legalized the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes, the first big win for the legalization movement. But since then much has changed, more people are understanding that it is not a big deal to live in a state where marijuana is legal. As of now in 2017 America has 8 states where pot is legal for recreational and medicinal use, and 20 other states where it is legal for medicinal use only. In 2016 the polls indicated that 60% of Americans are for the legalization of marijuana. Even with all that support, pot sellers and smokers face big issues. Christopher Ingraham stated that are also hesitant to do business with the marijuana industry for fear of a federal crackdown, which makes legal weed a de-facto cash-only proposition, with all of the risks and dangers that The conversation around the legalization of marijuana, for recreational and medicinal use, has changed significantly because much research has been made, that supports the benefits of the usage of the drug, and eliminates bad stigmas about its side effects. In the last couple decades, researchers discovered and tested marijuana in several different ways, even though there is still much to be done, the progress is translating positively for the movement. Research is one of the main reasons people are believing more on the cannabis movement. Researchers say cannabis mimics the very natural process of increasing exercise-induced which is one of several discoveries made this last 20 years (greatist.com). Another main factor that influenced the growth of the movement is increasing popularity, Dr. Ours said that is the most popular illegal drug. Meneghel 2 Between 2.8% and 5.0% of the population aged uses cannabis at least once a (993). One of the main events that show that the peoples opinion on cannabis has changed is the fact that in 2014, four states legalized recreational marijuana, this was a big thing because before that it was only available for those who were sick, which is not the main goal of the movement. Recreational legalization meant that now anyone over the age of 21 could purchase cannabis products, to consume as responsible adults, for whichever reason they wanted. In November 2016, the biggest win for the movement happened another four states legalized the use of marijuana for recreational purposes, but the most important one was California, with the largest population between all states and, the largest state economy, as Amanda Paulson said to the states that have already legalized marijuana, about 1 in 4 Americans now live in a state where pot is legal. It continues a growing momentum toward a state-by-state relaxation of marijuana (Paragraph 4). One of the biggest concerns of the supporters of the movement is what is going to happen with the Trump administration, most of his right-hand mans are big opponents of legalization. But a between State and Federal law would not be the best option for Trump either, because besides the movement having 60% of American support, the congress is also as supportive as it has ever been, and that would not be easy to handle. Of course, very unlikely that Americans will see Donald Trump signing a bill to legalize marijuana, almost impossible, but the best-case scenario would be states keep doing their thing, with all the they had until now, and the Federal Government will turn a blind eye to them. The future of the legalization movement is looking bright, the number of supporters is increasing, as well as the number of states which are legalizing cannabis. Most of this is due to research that has been demystifying stigmas around the uses of the drug, not Meneghel 3 everyone that smokes pot is lazy and does not have a future, nor does marijuana harm your body more than alcohol or tobacco, bot which are legal. Hopefully in the next four years some more states start legalizing cannabis both for medicinal and recreational use, if that happens, soon the Federal Government should start making changes to their laws, to adapt to the new trend. Specially with Canada being on the process of legalizing weed, which will influence opinions, and help with the making of the legislation. There is still a long way for marijuana to be legalized and accepted by society, because the research areas are very broad, the researchers analyze all the way from cells to entire state populations, which makes the process lengthy. But the way to do it, the accomplishments of the supporters are only due to the research results, it cannot stop. Meneghel 4 Works Cited Gallup, Inc. Support for Legal Marijuana Use Up to 60% in  Gallup.com. N.p., 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. legal weed market: $700 million in sales last year, $1 billion by  The Washington Post. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Kelly, Erin. Why More Athletes Are Turning to  Greatist. Greatist, 14 Oct. 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Ours, Jan C. Van, and Jenny Williams. Cannabis Use And Its Effects On Health, Education And Labor Market  University of Journal of Economic Surveys 29.5 (2014): 993-1010. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Paulson, Amanda. legalization: big wins in California and The ChristianScience Monitor 10 Nov 2016: ProQuest. Web. 11 Feb 2017. Meneghel 5