Meqwar !1 Husain Meqwar Instructor Ashely Tisdale Composition 1 28 February 2017 Euthanasia The topic of euthanasia is very contradicting since, with the development of technologies, medical service and the general speed of life, health system views euthanasia differently in different periods of time. Without a doubt, this action can alleviate the pain, help them to stop suffering. It is a well-known fact that euthanasia is applied when the patient has an illness very difficult or even impossible to cure when there is no point to continue treatment since the patients will only suffer or hope for nothing. Many scholars and medical workers see the euthanasia as a mean of helping those who will not have success. Still, during different decades their point of view transformed and there are those who consider it as the last option and others completely support it as a thing that helps them and saves. One of the scholars who disagree with applying euthanasia is Novak who wrote his article sanctity of human in 2007 and showed his attitude to all the health system that allows people to die and even do it with their hands. Novak sees the euthanasia as a murder since to his point of view nobody can take life only God It did make me more aware of the sanctity of human life, how [precious every child 124).This opinion has a right to exist since Novak is convinced that people have to die only when their natural time comes. Medical workers violate the natural laws thus many people against Meqwar !2 it(Novak, 135). In that time, the medicine was developed but still not so modernised as it is now that is why many hospitals had a right to do euthanasia to lessen sufferings because the medicine was sapless. Personally, I think that people deserve to die by themselves, but if they ask about euthanasia, then their families can allow it to happen. Today, we have more variants to fight the most of the diseases and sometimes it is necessary to wait for the remedy. Without a doubt, God gives us our life and hand has a right to cut it short despite some inevitability. In the second decade of twenty-first-century people were scared of euthanasia but saw no other alternatives for their and their close lives. What is more, if somebody considered it to be the violation of the natural rights, others had less knowledge to understand the point of the procedure. In their article with Dinchi expresses another point of view on euthanasia. The point is that with the time different diseases occurred and some of them were impossible to treat that is why many medical workers considered euthanasia as releasing pain. Dinchi states that it is better to die without feeling any pain than cry and suffer during the whole life. What is more, in 2010, euthanasia was not seen as an attempt to kill people and without permission to end their lives but their rescue. Then it was not a murder but the easiest way to save people from helplessness, from being a burden for their families and considering their life useless(Dinchi).Furthermore, many medical workers convinced the relatives that euthanasia is a way to die in a worthy and calm way rather than feeling sharp pain or screaming. God gives us our life, but at that time people believed that he would not like his people to suffer if there was a way to pass away with dignity. To continue, euthanasia is a dubious process since in one way we take life, but from the other side, we save them from agony. In world, everything concerning it Meqwar !3 has changed but not considerably. Earlier, euthanasia was supposed to be allowed from the point it could help people to stop suffering while now, people decide for themselves whether they want to live with their pain or they want to die since there is no chance for recovery. The article right to die, surely, as much as a right to claims that people are free to choose their way and if they want to end it by euthanasia than it is their wish. The most important is that patients have a right in what way and where they want to die. The author is convinced that in world, euthanasia is a normal phenomenon since people see it as a better variant than slowly dying being left by their relatives. hope that one day a compassionate society will recognise voluntary euthanasia as the dignified way to end a life no longer worth Sydney Morning Herald). Still, some institutions are concerned about it because in many cases doctors make mistakes and apply euthanasia to people who can be treated. The matter is that nowadays it is allowed to ask the medicines for euthanasia but only for those who are terminally ill(Brennam, Frank). To sum up, the problem of euthanasia has changed considerably, but the point is that for all the times, there will be people who support it and those who consider it to be a murder. Euthanasia will exist, and it is important because not everybody can accept the life illness, but all the cases should be thoroughly examined. I firmly believe that the opinions about euthanasia will only change with the decades since we can not stop the process of modernization and innovations in the healthcare system. Meqwar !4 Works cited Dinchi,. Death With . The Baltimore Sun, 2010,. Novak, David. The Sanctity Of Human Life. 1st ed., Washington, Georgetown University Press, A Right To Death, Surely, As Much As A Right To . The Sydney Morning Herald, 2017, http://www.smh.com.au/federal-politics/letters/a-right-to- death-surely-as-much-as-a-right-to-life-20121021-27zd4.html. Oregon On The Euthanasia Slippery Slope - Eureka . Eurekastreet.Com.Au, 2017, http://www.eurekastreet.com.au/article.aspx?aeid=26939.