Johnson 1 Liam Johnson February 15, 2017 Ms. Campbell ENC 1102 The definition of physician assisted suicide is by a patient facilitated by means or information (as a drug prescription or indication of the lethal dosage) provided by a physician aware of the (The New England Journal of Medicine 1991). With the nature of this topic literally being life and death it is naturally one of high controversy. In recent years the desire to use this alternative form of end of life care that before could only be found in select countries has hence spread to the United States. One of the organizations that works to aid in the integration of physician assisted suicide in the U.S. is Death with Dignity. In opposition of the use of physician assisted suicide is the American Association of People with Disabilities. While these two and many others are having difficulties compromising it is not impossible. In other countries such as Canada, various stakeholders have compromised on the use of physician assisted suicide within its borders. We can learn from observing the trials and tribulations that the Canadian legislature underwent to reach a compromise that is fair for both of the stakeholders in the U.S. By revising the requirements and making the physician assisted suicide screening process more rigorous many of the stipulations that the two stakeholders hold unconditional can be satisfied, resulting in a joint campaign to lobby for appropriated amendments in the American legal system. Death with Dignity is a non-profit organization that supports the use of physician assisted suicide in the U.S. Created in 1993 Death with Dignity has advocated legislature that Johnson 2 the freedom of all qualified terminally ill Americans to make their own end of life decisions, including how they with However, this organization does not advocate the common use of physician assisted suicide or for loose guided legislation concerning its use, but to only have it as an option. Death with Dignity also focuses on providing information to the public to educate family members, patients, health care professionals and the media about the various end of life options that are available for terminally ill patients. Additionally Death with Dignity lobbies and campaigns for progressive end of life legislation nationally and within the various states that lack them, mounting legal defense. They believe that in many cases physician assisted suicide is the only option that will give the individual a dignified death, making it a human right even if it means suicide (Goel 2008). Laconically speaking Death with Dignity does not desire the open use of this extreme end of life option but a scrupulous screening process similar to the proposed compromise. The American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) is an enormous organization that operates beyond the use of physician assisted suicide. Their vision is to be converter, connector and a catalyst for change, increasing the political and economic power of people with (AAPD). While the AAPD advocates for what is best for people with disabilities in the many realms of life they do have a political stance on the use of physician assisted suicide. The AAPD opposes any legislation on the legalization of physician assisted suicide in the U.S. In spite of that the organization fully supports the ability of disabled people to make decisions regarding all aspects of their life. Their contentions with physician assisted suicide is the medical mistakes, misinformation and coercion that make it increasingly difficult for people with disabilities to make well informed and independent decisions on such a consequential option. The AAPD also opposes death with dignity legislation on a more Johnson 3 philosophical level, they believe the legalization of such legislation would devalue the lives of people with disabilities both physical and mental (Curlin et al. 2008). In likeness of the proposed compromise the AAPD strives for what is the in the best interest of peoples with disabilities. What both Death with Dignity and the AAPD demand is the best health option possible for individuals put in a situation where they would consider death as a health care solution. Since there is a desire for the use of physician assisted suicide in the U.S., many individuals who seek its use will travel internationally to other countries where it is legal. This poses several problems the grandest is that suicide tourism makes it difficult to ensure that this end of life treatment is in the best interests of the individual and not for a quick buck (Miller 2013). Death with Dignity works on a national level to pass appropriate legislature but does not focus on compromises in many of the individual states. The root of disagreement in the two organizations is that the AAPD believes that with proper health care there would be enough options available that would enable individuals to live independently with dignity in a way that would not warrant physician assisted suicide as a viable option. Instead the AAPD believes that the focus of all stakeholders should be on obtaining affordable health care for all so that physician assisted suicide is not wanted nor needed. Our neighbors to the north Canada, had similar issues concerning physician assisted suicide. In 2014 the province of passed Bill 52, which allows for Physician assisted suicide is also legal in many countries in Europe and recently even a few states in the U.S. While each government has its own rules and regulations regarding physician assisted suicide they all follow the same rudimentary guide. Following Bill 52 in particular, my proposed compromise between the stakeholders, Death with Dignity and the AAPD would prompt the joint advocation and lobbying of legalizing physician assisted suicide Johnson 4 along with improvements for affordable health care. Like Bill 52 this compromise would have strict guidelines concerning who and why this end of life options is wanted. This option would only be available to those who have an advanced incurable illness, irreversible decline in their abilities/ quality of life and only those whom are at the end of their life. In addition to qualifying for this end of life care option the candidates will undergo a detailed rigorous screening process involving several professional opinions both physical and psychological to ensure that this ultimate option is truly the best treatment for that particular patient. Cardinally, this compromise would advocate for improved health care options in general and a larger effort in providing all information and health care options available to the patients. This being said there would be concessions for both organizations. The AAPD would be required to support the assiduous use of physician assisted suicide and Dying with Dignity would have to settle for stricter regulations and requirements then previously wanted. As controversial as it is the topic of physician assisted suicide is not going anywhere and we need to find a compromise in this country before the argument escalades. By accepting the terms of this compromise we would be able to move forward together in the advancements that are ultimately for the same goal, to improve the care and quality of life of those who need it the most. This would help stop the suicide tourism industry, provide more health care options, and would create a larger need to educate the public about the unfortunate realities that some people are faced with. In summation this compromise would ensure that those individuals who wish to pursue this form of end of life care receive the best information and health care possible, which is ultimately what is wanted most by all stakeholders. Johnson 5 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. Death with Dignity National Center, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Curlin, F. A., C. Nwodim, J. L. Vance, M. H. Chin, and J. D. Lantos. To Die, to Sleep: US Religious and Other Objections to Physician-Assisted Suicide, Terminal Sedation, and Withdrawal of Life  American Journal of Hospice and Palliative Medicine 25.2 (2008): 112-20. Web. Goel, Vaibhav. Euthanasia- A Dignified End of  Academicjournals.org. International NGO, 2008. Web.  AAPD. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Shondell Miller, DeMond, and Christopher Gonzalez. Death Is the Destination: The Business of Death Tourism despite Legal and Social International Journal of Culture, Tourism and Hospitality Research, vol. 7, no. 3, 2 Aug. 2013, pp. 10.1108/ijcthr-05-2012-0042. Sullivan, Nora. Quebec Legalizes Euthanasia, Compromises  Charlotte Lozier Institute. N.p., 10 June 2014. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.