Simonetti 1 Gianna Simonetti E. Smith ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Brain Injuries in Professional Hockey Players Recent controversy has brought much attention to the effect of brain injuries in professional athletes, in particular, the NFL. However, there has been much less research and attention done on hockey players, NHL players in particular, who actually undergo the same risk as football players in their professional careers. It has been brought to the attention that repeated brain injuries may be the cause of a progressive degenerative disease known as Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy or CTE. Individuals who experience the effects of the disease have symptoms such as; loss of memory, difficulty controlling behavior, unpredictable or erratic behavior, aggressive and depressed behavior, and symptoms that are similar to forms of dementia. Many of the sufferers of CTE commit suicide because of the effects of their behavior. The disease is not only detrimental to the individual, but to the families of the individuals (Hodge). Doctors and scientists, like Dr. Bennet Omalu, have been trying to compromise with the NFL in particular to raise awareness on the issue and try to decrease the number of athletes that show the symptoms. However, the NFL has not been very compliant with scientists concerns and safety propositions. Opinions on this topic vary based on the publics opinion of health and professional sports. While the focus has been mainly on the NFL due to publicity and numerous lawsuits, the NHL is often overlooked (Maroon). These major Simonetti 2 companies fail to inform the athletes of the long term effects of injuries and the NHL lacks a neurologist to properly assess the injuries. How do repeated brain injuries affect professional hockey players later in life? Edwards, J. C., & Bodle, J. D. (June 2014). Causes and Consequences of Sports Concussion. Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics, 42(2), 128-132 The issue of brain injuries is extremely underrated in the NHL. The topic has become a major debate in the NFL, but is overlooked when it comes to the NHL. Football and hockey players are prone to numerous brain injuries throughout their entire playing careers. Almost everyone involved in the NHL played for the NHL at some point. Because of this, many people that may be experiencing symptoms of CTE are uncomfortable speaking up. The NHL claims that the players are aware of the risks of playing in the NHL. Another major issue with the NHL is that there is no neurologist on the panel. The NHL panel is made up of commentators, doctors, trainers and managers. The panels intentions are to help the players be successful and play the best they can. The players best interest should always be in the intentions of the individuals on the panel. Without an educated neurologist on the panel, players can underreport their brain injuries and continue playing without proper treatment and/or time off. With the NFL, many people began to hear information on the crisis and what it does to people, which caused numerous lawsuits and controversy for the league and the retired players. Knowing that their lives are put to risk after the damage may already be done, decreases the players pride in the leagues and in their careers. Edwards and Bodle are considered credible sources due to their prior education and current careers. Dr. Edwards studied at Wake Forest School of Neurology. He is also a professor Simonetti 3 and contributed his knowledge to the Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics. Dr. Bodle graduated from Indiana University School of Medicine and is affiliated with many hospitals. Both doctors are actively taking patients and experienced with modern health concerns and technology. Hodge, S. D., & Kadoo, S. (2014). A heads-up on traumatic brain injuries in sports. Journal of Health Care Law & Policy, Vol. 17, 155-186. There is no concrete definition of a brain injury. Traumatic brain injuries or vary in severity and can have many different symptoms. Concussions are known as mild and historically have been overlooked. This is likely because a person can have a TBI and still show little-to-no symptoms. Athletes are also under pressure to help their team win, meaning spending as much time as possible playing. Issues with brain function often become obvious after the damage is done and can no longer be fixed. Permanent damage is likely caused when players return to physical activity too soon after an injury. When players are unaware of the risks they are taking for their careers, a major legal concern is brought up. Professor Samuel D. Hodge wrote about all the legal matters and the players options when faced with the issue. Professor Hodge graduated from Temple University for Law and Anatomy. While Shipla Kadoo has only been licensed for 3 years, Kadoo also studied at Temple University and graduated from the Beasley School of Law. Maroon, J. C., & Winkleman, R. (2015). Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy in Contact Sports: A Systematic Review of All Reported Pathological Cases. PLoS ONE, 10(2), 1-16. This neurodegenerative disease is commonly associated with professional football. However, the disease has a much wider demographic. After much research, it is known to have a major impact on football players, hockey players, boxers, wrestlers and even military Simonetti 4 veterans. In each case studied, players experience some sort of substance abuse and death at a young age by suicide. Scientists tend to struggle with diagnosis and with the media because of inconsistencies with the disease. Symptoms and severity are unique based on the individual and factors that affect the individual through their life. These factors can involve traumatic experiences, severity of and how many head injuries the individual has had. Dr. Joseph Maroon graduated from Indiana University School of Medicine and is known for his work studying concussions and CTE. done extensive research on many injuries and health issues involving the brain ad spine. Dr. Maroon is known as one of the best neurosurgeons. He specializes in neurosurgery and sports medicine. Dr. Maroon is an athlete himself and practices his own beliefs. Dr. Marc Winkleman graduated from Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine. His clinical expertise is in neurology and diseases of muscle and peripheral nerve. Stern, R. A. (2011). Long-term Consequences of Repetitive Brain Trauma: Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. Concussion Supplement, 3(10), 2nd ser., 460-467. The more permanent damage done, the higher the chance of a person forming the tau protein which is found in the brains of CTE victims. The tau protein tangles itself in other vital cells and destroys the cells leading to degeneration in the brain. Many safety measures must be put in place to protect athletes from the disease. The only way safety measures can be put in place is by making companies like the NHL and the NFL change their TBI protocols. This of course would require the companies to admit to the risks, which would negatively impact the money making aspect of the sports. It is the responsibility of the companies to protect their athletes by properly informing those injured of the severity of their injuries and to advise them Simonetti 5 against returning to play without properly healing. Although companies agree to inform their athletes, many still fail to do so properly and fully. Dr. Robert Stern received his Masters and Ph.D. from the University of Rhode Island and is currently a professor of Neurology at Boston University. He is also the Director of the BU Disease Center. Being that the symptoms of CTE can coincide with the symptoms of disease, his affiliation is extremely relevant and credible for this topic. However, he is also the Director of the BU Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy Center. Dr. Stern researches a number of different neurological and physical issues and looks for methods of treatment. Guay, J. L. (n.d.). The Era of Sport Concussion: Evolution of Knowledge, Practice, and the Role of Psychology. American Psychologist, 71(9), 875-887. Not only has the number of reported concussions increased in the last decade, but so has the research done on the issue and its effects. As more people become educated on the current issue, more people are seeking medical attention and treatment for their head injuries. The more research done, the more concrete evidence and proof can be found and reported to make sports safer for the athletes. Many of the findings overlap with other neurodegenerative diseases which makes scientists jobs very difficult. For example, in both CTE and autopsy reports show proof of brain tissue actually shrinking and even disappearing. By more professional athletes donating their bodies to science, hopefully more research can be conducted to help the issue. CTE is still in the early research stages but could possibly become an epidemic if nothing is done about it. Dr. Julie Guay is a psychologist from Illinois School of Professional Psychology. She specializes in issues that have to do with cognitive function, depression, anxiety, post- Simonetti 6 concussion syndrome and other neurological issues. Being that she has 8 years of experience, she is experienced enough to research CTE and share her findings and medical opinion on the issue. Dr. Guay evaluates her patients herself and assesses the types of therapy best fit for her patients. Hudson, R., & Spradley, B. (march 2016). Concussions: A Sport Ethics Commentary. Sport Journal Without being fully informed of the risks of professional hockey and accurate evaluations of injuries, players put themselves at major risk of contracting CTE later in life. There have been reports of the protein being found in the autopsies of retired players. These autopsies show consistent results amongst the players. According to the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine, there are about 3.8 million sports related concussions every year and about 50% of them go unreported. Athletes have a natural urge to do whatever it takes for the team to be successful, which often means putting themselves at risk. If the players knew of the effects of CTE and the possibility of them getting the disease, brain injuries and protocols may be taken more seriously amongst the players. Dr. Hudson has done an abundant amount of research on athletes and how safe their equipment is. Both Dr. Hudson and Dr. Spradley are members of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine and have conducted a huge amount of research on concussions and their effects on the brain.