Aguilar 1 Luis Aguilar Professor ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Deferred Action: Students Stay or Leave http://www.olarazainc.com/d-a-c-a/ Action DACA, special program for immigrants non-permanent for the Aguilar 2 https://raymondpronk.wordpress.com/tag/illegal-aliens-voting-in-u-s-elections/ Per the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 124,166 cases of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals were approved last year. These are students who entered the US before the age of 16 and can temporarily stay in the US to study if they prove their stay since 2005. This was an executive order presented by previous president Obama. In our modern day, the topic of immigration appears to be a reoccurring issue. And will continue to be so long as it is pushed away from the forefront of this agenda. There are many speculations on what immigration reform method is the best and how to go about its implementation. One thing is for certain the survival of programs like DACA are currently in question (as portrayed in two sided photos I will be analyzing in this paper). And if there are alternative methods it is highly likely they will be executed soon with President administrative promises on immigration policy. Aguilar 3 My Stakeholder organizations are Farmworker Justice Fund and the Federation for American Immigration Reform(FAIR). Farmworker Justice fund is a non-profit organization that advocates for the rights of agricultural labor workers contracted outside of the US. Their stake in my topic is that many of these farmworkers have families who are and would be split based upon the decision of a DACA termination. Studying children will be sent home and fathers will go working for no purpose. The Federation for American Immigration Reform(FAIR) is also a non- profit organization looking to unionize the efforts of many Americans to America This includes limiting the number of immigrants into this country for many reasons. environmental sustainability, educational burdens, jobs, and security being some of which they have listed. They had high doubts in the executive Order of past-president Obama deferred to further the future development of this nation by ensuring the top caliber students are attracted and invested their stay in the United States. However, DACA does no such thing in their eyes. FAIR even said, Obama administration marketed DACA to keep high school valedictorians, gifted students, and other high achieving young people in the United States. However, the demographic data on DACA applicants belies those claims. Most applicants were adults at the time they enrolled in the DACA (FAIR). And they continue to say that 64% of DACA are past the age of high school enrollment. So, they are attempting to state the purpose of retaining gifted students even being accomplished by the order. However, they fail to account the students that did come to the states before the age of 16 and therefore can pursue secondary educational institution enrollment way past the high school threshold (31 years or younger on June 15 2012). Per Southern Poverty Law Center; Stein, the executive director, has warned that certain immigrant groups are engaged in competitive  aimed at diminishing white (SPLC). more than just a Aguilar 4 sustainability to issue to some members in the organization and this can be seen by the actions of its management and fund supporters. In conjunction with the views and ideologies of DACA both sides on can find illustrations that defend their stance. And some examples of both are given below. The objectives of each stakeholder are clear. Two familiar general goals but highly different beliefs in execution and rights pertaining to immigrants and their motives. In photo number one we see a student who recently graduated from an institution of learning. Because of the text safe to say a DACA or possible DACA recipient. This gives a sense of validity to the image. His cap and gown gives the portrayal of knowledge. While his additional stole furthers the appeal of for the student being top of his class. This is a reason why like Farmworker Justice Fund Inc. believe students are and should be given the right to stay. Because they have so much to contribute to society. He is also seen looking to an open door of the United States flags. The flag also gives a sense of credibility to the image because all the freedom and opportunity it inherently displays. The door is open because the door of opportunity. This is all in a cloud of hope displayed by the young thoughts. his dream to stay and study in the United States. This is supposed to appeal to pathos and the emotional backing of us seeing this young vision of making it in the land of opportunity. The bottom of the image reads Action DACA, special program for immigrants non- permanent for the insisting how importantly it is now (Kairos) for students to apply to DACA for it is not a promised long term solution and it is in danger of being terminated very soon. This image is predominantly blue that like the ocean, gives the illusion of death and stability. Much like the message of hope trying to be portrayed in the image. Aguilar 5 In the second image, we are given a political cartoon. a big sign saying keep However, even though the boarders are being enacted they being upheld per the image. giving a falsified portrayal of structure when in actuality there are people coming into this country illegally and are using all our scarce resources and benefits. The border fence and sign of gives a sense of ethos or justification of the topic and how even though the country is powerful it is weakened by the sense of illegal immigration. And organizations like FAIR share that distinct feeling of a fight against exploitation. The free jobs, free healthcare and free education stands demonstrate the sense of exploitation that people are feeling. And DACA can easily be falling under This is further hyperbolized through the first stand that offers to even give out free lemonade to the illegal immigrants and the map like rubric of how to exploit the country. The appeal to pathos in the case is the feeling of American fairness that is being exploited by immigrants and that must be haunted to ensure the overall wellbeing of our beloved country. Consequently, Stakeholders like Farmworker Justice Fund and The Federation for American Immigration Reform have opposing sides on the topic of immigration and deferred action students. However, in many cases they are all rational and the appeals can all be validated bases on the views of the organizations. Having credibility is important, yet the topic of immigration seems to be one in question for many years to come. And until a consensus is found, be ready to hear both sides. For immigrations, has always proven to be an important aspect of the development of this nation. Aguilar 6 Works Cited About Farmworker  About Farmworker Justice Farmworker Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Sixty-Four Percent of DACA Applicants Past High-School  Sixty-Four Percent of DACA Applicants Past High-School Age. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Anti-Immigration  Southern Poverty Law Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Resources/Reports%20and%20Studies/Immigration%20Forms