Terrell 1 Rebekah Terrell 17 February 2017 Emelia Smith ENC 1101 How does living in captivity affect the lives of killer whales? Over time there has been a worldwide debate on whether keeping animals in captivity is helping them to have longer or shorter lives, and what quality of life do they have. When we think about sea world, or any other amusement park that is home to captive animals, we think about the entertainment these animals bring to us and the enjoyment we get out of seeing them, very few people actually think about how these animals feel living in these conditions and how it affects their lives. Now specifically talking about killer whales it was found that when compared the lifespan of killer whales in captivity is significantly lower than those in the wild. There are also many health and behavioral concerns that researchers talk about with keeping these whales in captivity. On the other side of the argument however, some believe that the lives of the killer whales are actually better and healthier in captivity. There were two studies done in 2015 about the lifespans of killer whales in captivity and those in the wild where two different researchers came to two completely different conclusions. One found that the lifespan was shorter in captivity, while the other found the opposite to be true. Another study done in 1979-1980 showed how the behavior of killer whales changed negatively after they were trained to work for Sea World. These studies are just a couple of the many that have been done over time about this topic, and each one has had different results. This shows that for a long time people have been Terrell 2 debating this topic and there is no sign of a conclusion being found any time soon. So how does living in captivity really affect the lives of killer whales? Anderson, Robert; Waayers, Ryan; Knight, Andrew. Behavior and Subsequent Aggression Associated with Oceanarium Animals 6.8 (Aug 2016): p 1-21. Web. This article is talking about how it is difficult to study orcas in the open ocean, so in 1979-1980 researchers were able to interact with juvenile orcas in an unstructured way they were able to study the behaviors and interactions of the orcas. By doing this they were able to find emotional self-control, and empathetic behaviors in the orcas. However when they took these same orcas and studied their behaviors and interactions after being trained to work for sea world, they found the orcas acted more aggressive and less friendly. This article relates to my topic because it is talking how the behavior of juvenile orcas went from friendly to aggressive after being trained to work in Sea World. It is showing that by having them go into captivity affects the behavior of these animals. This is a reliable source because it is a peer reviewed article and all three of the publishers have a background in animal behavior. Callaway, Ewen. over killer whale captivity: lifespan of animals kept in parks is at centre of  Nature 531.7595 (March 24, 2016): p. 426-427. Web. This source is comparing the lifespan of killer whales in captivity to in the wild. It talks about with the last major published study before 2015 was in 1995 and since then the lifespan in captivity has increased but it is still lower than in the wild. This article also mentions how there are dramatically different conclusions on two studies that were done in 2015 on the lifespans of killer whales in captivity. One study found that being in captivity was good for the whales that have been there their whole lives and found that they were livening longer than those in the wild. Terrell 3 While another researcher found that actually killer whales living in the wild are living longer lives. The reason for this difference is where their research stands and what they represent, the one who found that killer whales are living long in captivity works with one of the amusement parks that uses the killer whales for entertainment, while the other researcher This source relates to this topic of how living in captivity affects the lives of killer whales, because it talks about the lifespan of killer whales comparing living in captivity to the wild. Also this article shows the different opinions and results that have come from different studies on this topic. Ewen Callaway has been a reporter for nature since 2010 and is currently the senior reporter of nature in London. Before this he spent 2 years at the New Scientist as the Boston-based biomedical reporter. He attended the science writing program at the University of California, Santa Cruz and earned his masters in microbiology at the University of Washington. Michael. Keiko, Shamu and Friends: Educating Visitors to Marine Parks and  Journal of ecotourism 6.2 (Dec 22, 2007):127-138. Web. This article argues that keeping marine mammals like killer whales in captivity is a good source of education especially for younger children, and all the marine parks offer different programs geared towards education. talks about how killer whales bring around 500 visitors each show to marine amusement parks. This article talks about the different methods used in the parks and the different education programs that use these animals at these parks. It compares the educational systems that these parks have in the western parks to the parks in Japan. This article relates to my topic because it is showing a different side to the argument that maybe keeping the killer whales in captivity could be a good thing, while most of the articles are against it. It is showing how the killer whales in captivity are benefiting us with education about Terrell 4 them and therefore it is educating us to save them more in the wild. has published many articles and papers on the topic of marine tourism and marine life in general. He is a reliable source because of his knowledge on this topic. Morgan, Kathleen N. Sources of stress in  Applied animal behaviour science 102.3 (2007):262-302. Web. This article talks about the many different conditions found in captivity that cause the animals stress. Some of these include the lighting, sound, inability to hide, and the constant interaction with humans. The lighting and sound in captivity may be different then what certain species are used to in the wild or what they are comfortable with. In captivity Humans make the habitats for animals which may not include good hiding places for them to go if they get scared or tired. Finally being in captivity means that the animals are in constant interaction with humans which could cause some stress on the animals. Morgan talks about how these factors play a role in causing stress for these animals living in captivity and also why it is not good for them to live like this. While this article may not be talking specifically about killer whales, it is showing the factors that lead to stress in captive animals which include killer whales so this article relates to my topic because it is talking about how living in captivity affect these animals. Kathleen N Morgan has a PhD in comparative psychology from Wheaton College, she also has background in Neuroscience, Zoology, Biological Psychology, and Animal Communications. With this background Morgan is a reliable source for this topic. Terrell 5 Robeck, Todd. Scientific Correspondence : Killer whale (Orcinus orca) survivorship in captivity: A critique of Jett and Ventre  Marine mammal science 32.2 (2016):786-792. Web. In this article Robeck discusses the survival rates of killer whales in captivity and in the wild. They do this by using factors such as sex, place of birth, and current location. It was found that survival to age milestones was significantly lower in captive whales then those in the wild. In the wild approximately 73% of the whales lived to the age of 15 and about 59% reached the age of 40, while in captivity only about 27% lived to 15 and only about 2% lived to 40. This relates to the topic because it is giving examples of what the lifespan of the whales are in captivity and in the wild, It is also showing the difference between the lifespans. Dr, Todd Robeck is the vice president of theriogenology at seaworld parks and entertainment. He started his career with marine mammals as a marine animal trainer at Sea-Arama Marineworld in Galveston, while working toward a BS degree which he obtained in 1985. In 1985, he began pursuing his Ph.D. in Reproductive Physiology at Texas A&M University. In 1987, while in graduate school he began working with SeaWorld on reproductive research in the killer whale. While continuing his research with killer whales, he began veterinary school in 1988. After finishing his preliminary exams for his Ph.D. in 1993 he began working for Sea World San Antonio as a veterinarian and Busch Entertainment Corporation (BEC) as a reproductive physiologist. He graduated with his Ph.D. in 1996 and in 2000 began working full time with BEC in his current position. In 2006, Dr Robeck co-supervised the completion of the SeaWorld & Busch Gardens Reproductive Research Center in San Diego California. He has been the principle or co-principal investigator in developing the first successful methodology for artificial insemination in the killer whale, bottlenose dolphin, Pacific white-sided dolphin and the beluga, Terrell 6 as well as the birth of the first pre-sexed zoological species, an Atlantic bottlenose dolphin. Dr Robeck is responsible for the development and application of assisted reproductive technology to the animal collection at SeaWorld and Busch Gardens, and coordinates ART programs among numerous aquaria worldwide. Dr. Robeck is a member of the International Association of Aquatic Animal Medicine, the European Association for Aquatic Mammals, and the International Embryo Transfer Society. (N.A). harm marine USA Today. Vol. 138 Issue 2779, p15 (Web). This article was written as a reaction to the orca who injured his trainer at SeaWorld in Orlando Fl. The author was stating that the orcas have to swim in circles all day or float at the surface of the water. This leads them to boredom and causes them to act in ways they normally act in the wild. A connection that the author made was saying that breeding these animals in captivity is like raising a child in a bathtub its whole life. This comparison is a great way of showing what it is like for the orcas to live in captivity. This relates to the topic because it is giving reasons as to why orcas act the way they act in captivity and how different then when they are in the wild. It is talking about the differences of their quality of life in captivity compared to the wild. Since there is no author this source may not be entirely reliable.