Student: Davi Oliveira de Camargo Instructor: Sarah Roth Class: Composition 1 Date: 02-16-2017 Title: Living in a Globalized World difficult not to notice how our society has changed drastically in recent decades. The signs of a modern and globalized world are everywhere: smart phones, computers, smart watches, social media, the internet and international flights. Living with stress and lack of personal relationships has had a big impact in humans. According to The National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS), the number of people diagnosed with depression has increased by 450% since 1987 (Buchan, Globalization and human cooperation). A lot has changed from 1987 to 2017. The world is much more connected, people are much more But this connection we have a real one. a virtual connection, through social media. According to Paul Booth, PhD, an Assistant Professor of Media and Cinema Studies in the College of Communication at DePaul University in Chicago, been a shift in the way we communicate; rather than face-to-face interaction, tending to prefer mediated he says. Social media is one of the many effects of globalization. Globalization has been shaping how we see each other and how we interact as a society. weakening the relevance of ethnicity, locality, or nationhood as forms of identification. losing pieces of our identity, of that sense of belonging and losing the ability to have face-to-face interactions. Yet a useful tool to be connected with those far from us (Sawyer, The Impact of New Social Media on Intercultural Adaptation). But what are the effects of a globalized world in our lives? Buchan, Nancy R., Gianluca Grimalda, Rick Wilson, Marilynn Brewer, Enrique Fatas, and Margaret Foddy. Globalization and human  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. N.p., 21 Jan. 2009. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Globalization magnifies the problems that affect all people and that require large-scale human cooperation, for example, the overharvesting of natural resources and human-induced global warming. However, what does globalization imply for the cooperation needed to address such global social dilemmas? Two competing hypotheses are offered. One hypothesis is that globalization prompts reactionary movements that reinforce parochial distinctions among people. Large-scale cooperation then focuses on favoring own ethnic, racial, or language group. The alternative hypothesis suggests that globalization strengthens cosmopolitan attitudes by weakening the relevance of ethnicity, locality, or nationhood as sources of identification. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America is a highly credible source. It is a scientific journal that has been around since 1915. It is one of the most cited scientific journals in the world. It publishes articles from a variety of areas such as biological, social sciences, physical, etc. It not only focus on issues and topics from the United States of America but it also addresses topics from all over the world with a global focus. Many of the contributors are from outside the United States. The website receives millions of accesses every month. And it is often used as a research source. Sawyer, Rebecca. The Impact of New Social Media on Intercultural  University of Rhode Island, May 2011. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. New social media have become increasingly popular components of our everyday lives in globalizing society. They provide a context where people across the world can communicate, exchange messages, share knowledge, and interact with each other regardless of the distance that separates them. Research shows that people tend to use new social media to become more integrated into the host culture during their adaptation and to maintain connections to their home countries. This research project attempts to investigate the impact of using new social media on the intercultural adaptation process. In-depth interviews of international students at the University of Rhode Island were conducted, and their social media usage as it impacts their intercultural adaptation was analyzed. This paper was written by Rebecca Sawyer a Communication Major student and it was part of her research paper for her Senior Honors Project at the University of Rhode Island. It is a credible article because it was written based on research papers of Advisor at the University of Rhode Island, Guo-Ming Chen. Many of papers used for her project can be found on the University of South library website. Rebecca paper can also be found at the University of Rhode Island website. Milanovic, B. Can We Discern the Effect of Globalization on Income Distribution? Evidence from Household Budget  Center for Global Development . N.p., Aug. 2002. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Despite the substantial body of literature concerned with the ways in which digital media are transforming contemporary society and institutional life, we have relatively little understanding of the ways in which new technologies feature in day to day organizational conduct and interaction. There is however a growing corpus of empirical research which places the situated and contingent character of new technologies at the heart of the analytic agenda, but as yet, these studies are relatively little known within sociology. They include ethnographies of command and control centres, financial institutions, the news media, and the construction industry. They address the ways in which tools and technologies, ranging from paper documents through to complex multimedia systems, feature in work and collaboration. In this paper, we discuss these so-called and consider their implications for our understanding of organizational conduct, social interaction and new technology. This article was published on the Center for Global Development website and was found on the library system of the University of South Florida. The Center for Global Development it is an American non-profit think tank that was founded in 2001 and it is established in Washington, DC. It is a credible source, it was ranked the 13th most prominent think tank in the international development field. Keller, Maura. Social Media and Interpersonal  Social Work Today. N.p., May & june 2013. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Social effect on our ability to interact and communicate is visible throughout all areas of society, so what does this mean for interpersonal communication? According to Booth, studies have shown that people actually are becoming more social and more interactive with others, but the style of that communication has changed so that not meeting face-to-face as often as we used to. That said, our interactions on social media tend to be weak is, we feel as personally connected to the people at the other end of our communication as we do when face-to-face. while communicating more, we may not necessarily be building relationships as Booth says. with every new communication technology comes changes in the style and type of interpersonal Booth says. the bigger the influence of the technology, the more changes we see in communication This article is a credible source, it can be found on Google Scholar tool. The author, Maura Keller, cites two professionals with PhD degrees, giving more credibility to the article. Social Work Today is the national leading bimonthly newsmagazine that provides articles examining issues and challenges of social workers in order to help professionals. Amin, Amit. Is Depression really on The  Happier Human. N.p., 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. It is an idea repeated so often that it is now taken for fact depression is on the rise. If true, modern society has messed up. In 1985, 10% of people had no one to discuss important matters with. By 2004, that number had grown to 25% one out of every four people! We are spending less time with other people, eating worse food, and getting less exercise, sunlight, and sleep. Is the idea that the rise of depression is more media sensationalization than hard journalism one of them? If we count and compare the number of people being diagnosed with depression, we should have the answer. The National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) found that the number of people diagnosed with depression has increased by 450% since 1987. National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) is an American survey created to collect reliable data about the use of ambulatory medical care services in the United States of America. It is a very credible source, it is part of the CDC (Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention) ,that is a government organization, and it can be found on the data base of the University of South Florida library website. Snow, Emily. Intimacy and Face-to-Face versus Computer  Bridgewater State University. N.p., 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article starts talking about how intimacy is a term which is often used, but difficult to define. One idea of the concept of may be quite different than that of another person. A recent study concluded that intimacy contained four main components: self disclosure, love and affection, personal validation, and trust (Hook, Gerstein, Detterich & Gridley, 2003). In an earlier study subjects reported that positive feelings toward their partner, talking (especially about topics of an intimate nature) and sharing activities are associated with intimacy (Helgeson, Shaver & Dyer, 1987). However, intimacy is not always viewed in the same way between the sexes. In one study, men directly associated sex and physical contact with intimacy, whereas women rarely mentioned sex and mentioned physical contact simply as a way of expressing other components of intimacy (Helgeson et al., 1987). Intimacy and Face-to-Face versus Computer Interaction is a credible source because it is a research paper from the Bridgewater State University. It can be found at the database system of the Bridgewater State University and on Google Scholar as well. It describes the methods and procedures used in the research and it also cites several experts in the fields of communication and psychology.