Kevin Fee Fee1 Mrs. Theodosiou Composition II January 25, 2017 Gun Control Although the debate of how regulated gun control should be has been around for a very long time in the United States, the issue still continues and even grows with random gun attacks in public places. Some groups such as the Coalition To Stop Gun Violence argue that more gun regulation will decrease firearm violence while others, such as the National Rifles Association(NRA), argue that we need guns to defend ourselves. Even though the stakeholders that are for more regulation and those for less regulation have opposite opinions, I believe there is plenty of common ground that can lead to compromises such as more education in certain areas as well as better evaluation of the firearm buyers. One of the most known stakeholders for less regulation on firearms is the National Rifles Association(NRA). This organization has been around since 1871 and has been rapidly increasing in size ever since. Today, the NRA has as many as around five million members, so they have a lot of influence. This stakeholder has a large political influence in the United States. Most of the NRA have very similar political views which are very similar to the Republican This does not mean they are all required to have the same beliefs but most of their support goes to that party. The NRA is against most new laws regarding more gun regulation partially because there is already many federal and local government gun control laws already. James D. Wright states, are more then 20,000 gun laws of various sorts already in the Fee2 books in the United 4). The belief system is strongly built around the second amendment which is the right to keep and bear arms as well as have a regulated militia. On the main site, it states, widely recognized today as a major political force and as foremost defender of second amendment rights, the NRA has, since its inception, been the premier firearms education organization in the 1). Even though this primary goal is to try to reduce gun regulation laws, it also cares about the safety aspect of it too. This organization has firearm training and safety courses for people of all ages and are found all over their site. On the homepage one can find information on their firearm training and safety courses they offer. This makes it much easier and way more accessible for those who are interested in owning a gun or even those who are already owners. Most gun violence is on accident and from a lack of education especially from minors playing with their firearms. This is why the website has firearm education for minors and adults. This allows children to be taught at an early age that guns are not toys and should not be played with. One of the major anti gun stakeholders is the Coalition To Stop Gun Violence. This group was developed because many people believe that there is not enough regulation on firearms currently. By joining together this organization believes they can reduce gun violence by putting more regulation on guns and gun owners as well. Most of the major supporters to this group are public health professionals, social justice organizations, religious organizations, and child welfare advocates. Their main belief is that they can achieve better safety by putting more regulation on firearms as well as doing extensive research on gun violence. This group directly Fee3 opposes the NRA who stand for almost the exact opposite views when it comes to gun regulation. On the Coalition to Stop Gun Violences site it states, too long, progress on life- saving gun reforms has been stalemated by legislative gridlock. Our politicians, intimidated by the political power of the National Rifle Association, have refused to act in the wake of tragedy after 1). This quote shows that the open conflict between these two stakeholders and what the Coalition To Stop Gun Violence is doing in response to the amount of power the NRA has over them. One of the Coalition To Stop Gun main issues is gaining enough support to ban assault weapons for the general public in the United States. The primary argument that is given is, military-style firearms are designed for one purpose: to kill people en masse, and 1). The counterarguments made against this claim is that the there is a large amount of grey area when considering what is Another type of firearm that this group is trying to gain support for is the banning of handguns. The reason handguns are a big issue is because they are small and easy to conceal. In most cases, handguns purchased for protection do more harm than good. Surprisingly, every intruder killed by a handgun, six homeowners or their children are killed by 3). The first strategy they put towards fighting against the NRA is using social media and advertisements to get more control over public opinion. The second strategy they have is building relationships with local and state officials who are anti gun activists for support. They are the first gun violence protection group to actively interpret the second amendment differently and in there own way opposed to the interpretation. This group uses the term to describe the interpretation of the second amendment. Fee4 Even though these stakeholders have very different views towards gun control, there is common ground that both sides can compromise on. There has already been compromises already done, such as the many federal and local gun regulation laws established, but both stakeholders hold very strong views. Both sides just want safety for the public but both stakeholders have different opinions on how this safety should be implemented. One possible compromise could be better firearm education that must be required in order to purchase a gun. This could be implemented in school so children learn early on how to safely handle firearms and also for the general public in workshops. The NRA already has many gun safety programs and classes found on their website but none are required in order to buy a gun except for a concealed carry permit. Required gun education may lead to much fewer accidents as well as less gun violence. Many anti gun groups such as the Coalition To Stop Gun Violence would recommend outlawing firearms in the state, or very strict gun sale regulation, but this has already been done in the state of California. California has very strict firearm regulation that makes it much more difficult for criminals to get guns from retail stores. The issue with this is that criminals are still able to buy older guns already sold to other individuals. Dr. L Pierce recorded that, was associated with the oldest recorded crime guns compared with guns associated in other 40). This experiment shows that criminals will still have access to firearms through other resources such as going out of state or buying from an individual who does not have a criminal history or even through stealing. This should just tell us that having firearm regulation is helpful up until a certain point but we must look at other factors that could impact gun safety. The most important thing we can do is educate the public and more Fee5 importantly those who buy guns on firearm safety. We also must analyze gun violence situations more carefully to make sure we understand the causes and type of people who commit these crimes such as criminals or those who are just mentally ill. This is where background checks are a very crucial part of what we need to be doing for both criminals, depending on the crime, and patients with mental illness, depending on the severity. A basic psych evaluation would be a good idea for people purchasing firearms ,especially first time gun buyers, for those mentally ill people who have not been professionally diagnosed yet. I think citizens should still have weapons to defend themselves and so criminals have less motivation to commit a crime because they want to get shot either. Overall, firearms can be a dangerous weapon if used the wrong way but gun violence can be decreased if the right steps are taken. Understanding motivation behind crimes is the first step we can take when trying to prevent future gun violence situation from happening. These two stakeholders could come together to educate more people on safety as well as find out how much regulation is enough so that more difficult for the wrong person to obtain a firearm but someone who meets the requirements to own a gun is able to make that purchase. As long as we learn from experience, we can take that information to make a change and prevent any similar tragedies in the future. Word Count 1485 Fee6 Works Cited About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The Coalition To Stop Gun Violence is a major stakeholder in trying to enforce more regulation on owning and obtaining firearms. Most of the major supporters to this group are public health professionals, social justice organizations, religious organizations, and child welfare advocates. They talk directly about the National Rifle Association on their website showing the opposition of both sides. They use methods such as social media and advertisements to spread their message. I believe this stakeholder fits into my paper by showing its direct opposition to the National Rifle Association by having different views on what should be done about gun violence. The Coalition To Stop Gun Violence holds an important political role that can influence new laws and regulation if passed. NRA  NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The National Rifle Association is also a huge stakeholder involving this issue of how much gun regulation there should be. This organization has a very strong belief in the second amendment. The website gives information on firearm training as well as education courses. There are roughly five million members in the NRA today which holds a very large political force. The National Rifle Association is a great stakeholder in my paper because of its many members and strong influence it has in America. Although they hold their beliefs about having less regulation on firearms very strongly, their is still room for compromise. I believe if the right research is done then a compromise between the two groups may save many lives. Fee7 Braga, A.A., Hureau, D.M. Strong gun laws are not enough: The need for improved enforcement of secondhand gun transfer laws in Massachusetts (2015) Preventive Medicine, 79, pp. 37-42. This source suggests that the restriction to buy firearms decreases gun violence because of lack of availability. This academic source is about the firearm sale in California and how the law is more strict in that state then any other state in the United States. This research compares the gun violence in states with more regulation with states with less regulation. This academic source perfectly fits in to my paper as a real life example of how more regulation has an impact on gun violence opposed to less regulation. If there is little to no change then it is not a good solution and even if there is a change there may also be the possibility of other factors influencing this. If you look at it as an experiment point of view you can not be one hundred percent sure from just the first trial and one variable. Banning Handguns Would Reduce Violence (from Gun Control, P 208-213, 1992, Charles P Cozic, Ed. -- See Ncj-160164). United States, 1992. Print. This source is a book written by the Coalition To Stop Gun Violence Washington DC. Specifically it goes into detail about the how handguns should be banned and how more gun violence is from accidents around the house such as with kids or neighbors rather then protection. This article fits nicely into my paper because it gives direct ideas of what Fee8 the Coalition To Stop Gun Violence believe should be done and statistics to back them up. There is great detail given on handguns which is a specific example of one if the main issues. Wright, J. D. (1988). Second thoughts about gun control. The Public Interest, 0(91), 23. Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1298115845?accountid=14745 This source explains more of the disadvantages of having more strict gun control. This explains how citizens have rights and freedoms that should not be taken away. It also tells how self defense is very important and how greater restrictions on firearms can only keep people safe to a certain extent. This source would will fit nicely into my essay because it gives more detail and information explaining main reasons more gun regulation would be less beneficial then just concentrating on other solutions.