Mendola 1 Vincent Mendola Prof. Penuliar ENC 1102 29 Jan. 2017 Gun Control Gun Control is a major topic in America at the moment due to issues with gun violence and public shooting tragedies. Two stakeholders however are at odds with each other on the issue of gun control. One being the NRA or National Rifle Association, whose and objectives include protecting the right to keep and bear (NRA). The other opposing stakeholder being the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence who to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement, and effective policy (Coalition). Although both sides have opposing viewpoints, there will be a detailed analysis on both stakeholders point of views and a possible and potential compromise composed of tougher background checks, gun safety and reform laws. The NRA was founded in 1871 and is the leader in firearm education with over 125,000 certified instructors who now train about 1,000,000 gun owners a year (NRA). To establish the credentials of this organization, the NRA became the only national trainer of law enforcement officers with the introduction of its NRA Police Firearms Instructor certification program in 1960 with more than 13,000 NRA-Certified Police (NRA). Although the National Rifle main goal is to preserve the rights of our Second Amendment, they do care about the safety of the use of firearms for appropriate reasons and the precautions to take when in control of the weapon. In correspondence with the Association, James Surowiecki with his Ph.D. Mendola 2 studies in American history states, biggest asset is in fact the devotion of its members and the stance they take to represent the NRA in the most professional manner (Surowiecki). This shows that the NRA is a tuff organization to combat against due to their size in numbers and experience in maintaining the second amendment. On the opposite side, The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence was founded in 1974 as the of Handgun originally to combat the ongoing battle against gun violence. Just like the NRA, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence has many credentials like being composed of 47 National Organizations working to reduce gun violence (Coalition). Also, the Coalition to Stop Gun website introduces many statistics like 87 Americans being killed a day due to the ongoing issue of gun violence and it will make you think about why the organization was formed in the first place. Furthermore, the New England Journal of Medicine said, kept in a home for self-protection are 22 times more likely to kill someone you know than to kill in self- (Riczo). This is a shocking statistic to those that first hear of it and it end there. According to the Physicians of Social Responsibility, a gun is kept in the home, about 3 times as likely that a death will occur in that Risk of suicide is also 5 times greater in households with (Riczo). The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence also addresses a three-part strategy to break the gridlock of the political power and the that are intimidated by it as well. Part one of the strategy takes an aggressive approach with political advocacy. Their message stating, era of no accountability is over. If you do the bidding and put our loved ones in the line of fire, we will educate your constituents about your (Coalition). This approach involves the use of social media campaigns and hard hitting T.V., Radio, and Print ads in order to caution the public about gun safety and the need for reform. Part two addresses that the victims and survivors of gun violence are on the CSGV staff Mendola 3 and are the leaders in their lobbying effort. Their goal is to facilitate the advocacy of State/ Local activists whenever and wherever they can (Coalition). While part three states, CSGV is First gun violence prevention group to address the issue of democratic values and the term to describe the treasonous interpretation of the Second (Coalition). Their final part means that the first major group to combat the NRA and their self-benefitting beliefs. Ladd Everett of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence said, control people were rattling off public health statistics to make their case, while the NRA was connecting gun rights to core American values like individualism and personal (Surowiecki). This quote meaning, the NRA has a higher influence on their goals for gun control by projecting their viewpoint from a traditional American standpoint. With that being said, rights groups, funded by gun manufacturers, have given more than $30 million to federal candidates since 1989, compared with just under $2 million by their such as the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (Macgillis). This shows that the NRA has a huge funding advantage, although the Coalition does have much support on the issue as well. Amongst best-known gun-rights advocates is Robert Levy, who said the of the background check proposal was a mistake both politically and and current US Senator, Joe Manchin says that his gun reform bill is going (Macgillis). This is a representation of the power the Coalition and the persistency of those who support their cause. With some background on both stakeholders, now the subject of current gun laws and how they can be further improved for the general safety and concern of all springs up. Under the 1993 Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, gun buyers at a gun store, online website, or pawn shop must pass a background check but if this background check takes longer than 3 three days then the sale can proceed (Korte). However, White House correspondent Gregory Korte Mendola 4 explains that, at a gun show do not require a federal license if made between two people in the same state, and they do not require a background check. This is also known as the show and there have been several unsuccessful attempts in congress to close it. In addition to this current law allows for sales between private citizens, [for family, friends, and There are also ten types of people that get rejected from a background check and they include: felons, fugitives, drug-addicts, mentally ill, illegal immigrants, some legal immigrants, people renounced US Citizenship, people with restraining orders, people convicted of domestic violence, and anyone charged with a crime that can bring more than a year in prison (Korte). Understandably, there are many loopholes in order to obtain a firearm legally and without the say of the numerous illegal ways there are too. Due to both sides having conflicting views, compromise the easiest of options to accomplish but often can be met by a common goal that each may share. In the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence they believe that numerous gun laws should be reformed for the safety of everyone as a whole. A few gun law reforms from them include universal background checks, assault weapons, and mental health. According to the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, approximately 40% of all gun sales are made without background checks which gives convicted criminals, the mentally ill and other dangerous people access to firearms. While on the issue of assault weapons, they also believe that, military-style firearms are designed for one purpose: to kill people in mass, and (Coalition). This shows background that the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence believe that semi-auto rifles are for sport but instead only for the killing of people. In regards with reform on mental health and gun ownership, health screening for gun buyers in the United States is shallow, arbitrary and often (Coalition). In connection with the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence on their reform idea Mendola 5 on assault weapons, the goals would object with that idea because they are an association of rifles and firearms meaning semi-auto weapons classify as rifles, so the NRA would be in no position to make that sort of agreement. The NRA will do anything to preserve its fellow Americans the Second Amendment. In fact, according to the article Taking on the NRA, respectful of gun owners and focused on screening and background checks. a sensible strategy. also an accommodation to the political reality that the NRA (Surowiecki). In terms of compromise one of the few but common goals between the few would be better gun safety procedures, universal background checks, and laws that make it more difficult for people to obtain firearms that obtain them in the first place due to their current status report as a US Citizen. In order for this process to work the NRA and Coalition to Stop Gun Violence would need to enforce higher security standards for owning a semi-automatic rifle, make the background check before purchasing a gun a longer process that makes sure the person applying is responsible enough, and to reform old gun laws that allow for easy loopholes for those who have ownership of a firearm. Gun control is such a big issue in America that rather than two different stakeholders battling for victory and power, they should combine their great attributions and gun reform ideas together and come to compromise. By both sides accepting the proposed compromise more could be done for the safety of everyone in America and instead of continuing an ongoing fight and issue they will end it as a team. Both the NRA and Coalition to Stop Gun Violence are very dedicated to their work and a compromise of tougher background checks, gun safety and reform laws will be the long-lasting solution Americans need to properly combat this issue without affecting each main goals and beliefs. Mendola 6 Works Cited Korte, Gregory. a gun legally in the US USA Today. USATODAY. 20 June. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Macgillis, Alec. is How The Nra New Republic 244.9 (2013): 16-23. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Riczo, Steven. America, and the 21 st USA Today (Magazine) 2001: Academic One File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Surowiecki, Jim. on The The New Yorker 2015: Literature Resource Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence Seeks to Secure Freedom from Gun Violence through Research, Strategic Encouragement and Effective Policy Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Mendola 7