Watkis 1 Phillip Watkis Emil Smith ENC1101 26 January 2017 Dangers within Rugby and American Football The world of sports has been evolving over the past few decades and the more these sports evolve, the more the rules and safety regulations are changing to ensure the safety of players as well. No matter what sport you play, there are chances of you getting injured. It can range from a simple sprain of your ankle while playing tennis to getting a severe concussion while playing football. A controversial research topic discussed throughout several articles is the topic of the dangers of American football in comparison to rugby. Compared to rules and safety regulations, NFL Football is a whole different ball game compared to the Rugby Union. A lot of people would think that Rugby is way more ferocious than American football due to all the padding they wear in football. What we know is that American Football is on the same level of intensity as Rugby, if not even more dangerous because the hits the players receive in football are far more unexpected compared to Rugby (Martyn Williams, 2015). So that brings the question is the Rugby Union more dangerous than American football. Willigenburg, Nienke W., et al. Comparison of Injuries in American Collegiate Football And Club Rugby: A Prospective Cohort  The American Journal Of Sports Medicine 3 (2016): 753. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article mostly focuses on the injury rate of players in the NFL (National Football League) and the Rugby union. The author also discussed the different rates of injury during the Watkis 1 games and also during practice. The Rugby injury rate was three times higher than the injury rate in the NFL, it also showed that players often get injured more in practice in Rugby than they do in the NFL. In addition, he also mentioned that in football players get injured without contact the most compared to rugby. This is most likely true because in Football players have to do a lot of movements to try and catch the ball and also on the defensive side there is a player that cover the player catching the ball. The author also went on to say that Rugby is more tiring than football because there are no timeouts in Rugby so, therefore, players tend to get tired really fast. Overall the article proved that injury rates in Rugby were higher compared to injury in football. The Authors Nienke W. Willigenburg Ph.D. James R. Bochers MD, Richard Quincy PT, Christopher C. Keading MD and Timothy E. Hewett Ph.D. are credible sources because they did this investigation at The Ohio State University. This article is relevant because it talked about the injury rates in American football and the Rugby Union. Headey, Julia, John H. M. Brooks, and Simon P. T. Kemp. The Epidemiology Of Shoulder Injuries In English Professional Rugby  The American Journal Of Sports Medicine 9 (2007): 1537. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. One of the most common injuries in Rugby is a shoulder injury and this is what this article mainly focused on. The author went on to inform us that, In current study, the incidence of shoulder injuries was similar between wearers and non-wearers of shoulder  This information is informing us that the pads they wear in rugby are not as protective as we would assume. Compared to American football where players are required to wear protective gear because they are tackled in many different areas compared to Rugby. As mentioned in the article Watkis 1 97 percent of the shoulder injuries in Rugby happens during contact. Shoulder injuries are detrimental to Rugby because out of all the injuries shoulder injury is what cause the players to miss most of their training and also their play time on the field. Julia Headey is credible fort this source because she is a private psychotherapist who specializes in some of the best sports performances, along with her colleagues John Brooks and Simon Kemp did this research at the University of Birmingham. This article is relevant because it describes the dangers and risk factors of shoulder injuries. Mall, Nathan A., et al. Spine And Axial Skeleton Injuries In The National Football  The American Journal Of Sports Medicine 8 (2012): 1755. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The author of this article talks about spine injuries and axial injuries and how career threatening it could be for players in the NFL. As a contrast to Rugby, spinal injuries are not the most common injury for the NFL as shoulder injury is for the Rugby Union. Spinal Injury might not be the most common injury but it is one of the most severe injuries in football. It only cause a player his game time but it also might cause the player his life. The article also proved that spinal injury mostly come from fierce tackles and lumbar spine injuries occur when a player tries to block another player. The main concern though is that spinal and axial injuries are occurring constantly in the NFL and is causing the players to miss their practice and game time. Nathan A. Mall is a credible source for this paper because he is an Orthopedic Surgeon physician and he and his colleagues conducted this investigation at the Washington University School of Medicine. The article is also relevant because it discussed the fact that spinal and axial injuries can cause a player his game time and not only that but also his life. Watkis 1 Kevin Young, Philip White, and William McTeer. Body Talk: Male Athletes Reflect On Sport, Injury, And  Sociology Of Sport Journal 11.2 (1994): 175-194. Education Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In this article, the author talked about the masculinity of the football players. In other words, the author is talking about if players should return to football games after receiving serious injuries and if the players do return it shows great masculinity. If players should take themselves out of a game after an injury they worry of being criticized by their peers and also the fans. The author stated, This ultra-masculine gesture is accorded even greater status if by returning to action the athlete puts himself at risk to be permanently disabled if he is  For example, safety Freddie Joe Steinmark who played for the Texas Longhorn had his leg amputated after playing a full season with an injury in his leg without telling his teammates or any of his coaches. Joe Steinmark died a year later because his leg was amputated up to his waist. With this being said, players should care less about how others would view them if they take themselves out of the game because they would be many other games to show their skills. The authors Kevin Young, William Mcteer and Philip White studied at the University of Calgary, Wilfred Laurier University, and McMaster University in that respective order, they also study the sociology of sports which makes them credible sources. This article is relevant to the topic because it talks about the masculinity of the players and because of that they are worried about their masculinity and some of them would rather face the dangers of the sport and play throughout injuries. Watkis 1 Cresswell, Scott, and Robert Eklund. The Nature Of Player Burnout In Rugby: Key Characteristics And  Journal Of Applied Sport Psychology 18.3 (2006): 219. Publisher Provided Full-Text Searching File. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The author of this article talks about the different experiences that rugby players go through of how demanding and exhausting it is to play in the rugby league. The author also mentions that training itself for the rugby players is on a whole different level of intensity so there the game brings out the character in the players. The author stated, Increasing demands with the introduction of professionalism to rugby union in 1996 has resulted in an increased injury rate among  With this being said, it would be similar to what the players go through in the NFL because both players face serious judgment and high demand for what they do. The players talked about their experience of  a fatigue feeling that the players get that not only affects them physically but mentally as well. Players would describe this feeling as being sick and having a lack of performance success. The feeling that these players get could be very detrimental to their careers, because of the lack of performance it could cause them to not play like themselves. This is a credible source because Scott L. Cresswell works at the School of Human Movement and exercise science at University of western Australia and Robert C. Eklund works in the Educational Psychology and Learning Systems at Florida State University. This article provides relevant information towards the topic because the demands from the coaches drive the players to extreme measures which may cause them severe injuries. Roberts, Simon P., et al. Concussions And Head Injuries In English Community Rugby Union Match  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 45.2 (2017): 480-487. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Watkis 1 The last article mostly talked about concussions in the Rugby union and the danger it causes to the on and off the field. The author of the article stated that Most head injuries were incurred during a tackle, with the illegal collision tackle in particular being the highest risk contact event in terms of injuries per . This statement from the article proves that there are more safety rules in the NFL to protect the players than there are rules in the Rugby union because of the illegal tackles. This article also proves that over the past few seasons concussion incident has been increasing compared to the NFL where other studies and articles proved that it is decreasing. The author Simon P. Roberts, Ph.D. is in the Department of Health and his colleagues Grant Trewartha, Michael England, William Goodison, and Keith A. Stokes all conducted this research at the University of Bath in the United Kingdom. This article shows great relevance to this topic because it discussed the effect that concussion has on the Rugby Union and by reading the article a reader can compare the results of concussion is the NFL.