Shwe 1 Myitzu Shwe Anastasia J. Khawaja, MS ENC 1101: Composition I (Section 903) 2017 February 28 Islamophobia and Health Disparities Among Muslim Americans The ongoing terror and refugee crisis in the world has led to growing numbers of stigma and hate crimes against innocent Muslims this negative and discriminatory conceptualization around Muslim population can be termed as The recent rise in Islamophobia calls for a research that considers perspective for Muslim American population and how it has been affecting their wellbeing physically, psychologically and spiritually in the context of population health framework. My research will explore the patterns of racial disparities in health and multiple ways which systemic anti Muslim sentiments can affect the wellbeing as well as quality of health care received among marginalized Muslim Americans. Amer, Mona M., and Anisah Bagasra. Research With Muslim Americans in the Age of American Psychologist, vol. 68, no. 3, 2013, pp. 134-144. This article expresses concerns that there is a critical need for psychology communities and medical communities to better understand and safeguard mental health well-beings of Muslim Americans because this minority group in North America has been facing up-hill struggles including surveillance, hate crimes and institutional discrimination. Writers believe that affairs of Muslim Americans dominate mainstream media coverage in the United States and yet academic and medical communities have ignored scholarly endeavors in concentrations such as forensic, industrial/organizational and school psychology related to Muslim Americans. Reviews and analysis of literature in this article suggests Shwe 2 barriers encountered by previous researchers including unclear definition of target samples, unavailability of culturally sensitive measures, sampling difficulties and obstacles to participant recruitments. experiences were used to illustrate framework for researches that can help in overcoming unique ethical and methodological challenges of Muslim Americans. Increased understanding by scholars can reduce many disparities in mental health well-beings of this marginalized population in America. This article will be used to explore underlying reasons and barriers of racial disparities in health among stated population then, the illustration and suggestions will be used to portray ideas in decreasing racial discrimination in care of holistic health. American Psychologist is the official peer-reviewed academic journal of the American Psychological Association. Mona M. Amer is an associate professor at the American University of Cairo specializing in minority mental health in Arab and Muslim American minorities she is also a licensed psychologist in the state of Connecticut and has practiced with Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine. Bleich, Erik. Is Islamophobia and How Much Is There? Theorizing and Measuring an Emerging Comparative American Behavioral Scientist, vol. 55, no. 12, 2011, pp. 1581-1600. This article attempts to conceptualize the term of Islamophobia which is widely used in stigmatizing Islamic population socially and politically. Since there was a lack of operational definition as well as lack of research tools for the term of Islamophobia, the author believes that conceptualization benefits future research progress. The article comes to a conclusion defining Islamophobia as negative attitudes or emotions directed at Islam or The author believes that better conceptualization and shared understanding of Islamophobia enables us to have a deeper understanding of the related and causal question and so does to this paper. This defined concept of Islamophobia can benefit Shwe 3 this paper as it provides a fundamental understanding of Islamophobia, smoother application in practice and to follow guideline researched on this paper. This article has appeared in a peer-reviewed academic journal of American Behavioural Scientist and published in 2011. The author, Erik Bleich, is a professor of political science at Middlebury College in Vermont. His researches have been focused on minorities, races, and ethnicity in politics. His study on this particular topic can be seen in Muslim and the State in the Post-9/11 West which he contributed and edited. I will be using this article to operationally define the term islamophobia and also will refer this how the meaning islamophobia has changed over time. Hatzenbuehler, Mark L., Jo C. Phelan, and Bruce G. Link. as a Fundamental Cause of Population Health American Journal of Public Health, vol. 103, no. 5, 2013, pp. 813-821. Stigma influences several physical and mental health outcomes through multiple mechanisms; disrupts or inhibits access to resources that could lessen poor health outcomes. As with other forms of stigma associated with HIV status, sexual orientation or race, stigma experienced by Muslim Americans involves being labeled, stereotyped, loss status and being discriminated against. From a public health prospective, the social climate of Islamophobia in the United States is a risk factor for poor health as it includes stigma and discrimination which are known fundamental causes of determinants of adverse health. American Journal of Public Health is a peer reviewed academic journal and Dr. Hatzenbuehler is an associate professor at the Columbia University who focuses his research on the role of structural stigma in the production of health inequalities. Huseman, Jessica. in Irving, Texas feared Islam well before they thought Ahmed Clock was a Slate, 16 Sep. 2015, Shwe 4 Accessed 28 Feb 2017. The author of this popular press article highlight the concept that Islamophobia and anti Muslim sentiments in the United States are not isolated events but that the ignorance has been deeply rooted in the systems by highlighting the arrest of a young Ahmed Mohammed in Texas after bringing a home made clock to school. The author conveys that the school boards in Texas has carefully filtered so called in public school textbooks on purpose although many Americans have identified themselves as Muslims. This article will be used to highlight the change of conversation of Islamophobia in the United States within the government system and how the stigma of it has been there for a period of time. Slate is an online progressive magazine that covers current affairs, politics and culture in the United States since 1996 as part of the Washington Post Company. Samari, Goleen. and Public Health in the United American Journal of Public Health, vol. 106, no. 11, 2016, pp. 1920-1925. The ongoing terror and refugee crisis in the world has led to growing numbers of stigma and hate crimes against innocent Muslims this negative and discriminatory conceptualization around Muslim population can be termed as The article focuses on the impact of Islamophobia on the health implication of Muslim Americans. The literature review from the article supports the hypothesis that Islamophobia does affects Muslim Americans negatively as a consequence of being labelled, stigmatized and being discriminated by their choice of cultural and religion. Research shows that through three different routes of racism: individually, interpersonally and structurally; can produce negative health outcomes such as paranoia, psychological distress, and health disparities at institutionalized level. Shwe 5 This article can support the research question of my paper how Islamophobia can negatively influence on population health of affected US Muslim population. The article is written by Dr. Goleen Samari, who is with the Population Research Center, the University of Texas at Austin. The article was recently published in 2016 November inside the edition of American Journal of Public Health, which is a peer-reviewed academic journal that has been around for over 100 years. Recent dramatic US political trends that lie towards conservative ways have attributed towards increase in Islamophobia among the US public therefore, this article provides one of the latest studies of the correlation between Islamophobia and suffering of US Muslims. Williams, David R., and Selina A. Mohammed. and Racial Disparities in Health: Evidence and Needed Journal of Behavioral Medicine, vol. 32, no. 1, 2009, pp. 20-47. Writers convey in this article that there is an evidence based discrimination problem persists in multiple context of American society including housing, employment, criminal justice and education racial disparities in health in the United States are large and pervasive that in most of the leading causes of death including heart disease, diabetes and homicide, minorities have higher death rates than whites. Perceived discrimination and other aspect of racism are risk factors for both physical and mental diseases. This article reviews affects of racism on multiple social determinants of health among minority population in America and its association with health outcome then, calls for a fix in health policy across multiple societies. This article will be used to explore different social determinants of health that predicts health outcome and how complex systemic racism are negatively effecting social determinants of health especially among Muslim Americans. Journal of Behavioral Medicine is a medical journal involving different interdisciplinary departments addressing behavioral Shwe 6 sciences with other fields of medicine. David R. Williams is a professor of public health at the Harvard School of Public Health. He focuses on social influences on health outcomes and has developed Everyday Discrimination to assess perceived discrimination in health studies. Shwe 7 References Amer, Mona M., and Anisah Bagasra. Research With Muslim Americans in the Age of American Psychologist, vol. 68, no. 3, 2013, pp. 134-144. Bleich, Erik. Is Islamophobia and How Much Is There? Theorizing and Measuring an Emerging Comparative American Behavioral Scientist, vol. 55, no. 12, 2011, pp. 1581-1600. Hatzenbuehler, Mark L., Jo C. Phelan, and Bruce G. Link. as a Fundamental Cause of Population Health American Journal of Public Health, vol. 103, no. 5, 2013, pp. 813-821. Huseman, Jessica. in Irving, Texas feared Islam well before they thought Ahmed Clock was a Slate, 16 Sep. 2015, Accessed 28 Feb 2017. Samari, Goleen. and Public Health in the United American Journal of Public Health, vol. 106, no. 11, 2016, pp. 1920-1925. Williams, David R., and Selina A. Mohammed. and Racial Disparities in Health: Evidence and Needed Journal of Behavioral Medicine, vol. 32, no. 1, 2009, pp. 20-47.