Pircher 1 Lauren Pircher ENC 1102 Ms. Theodosiou Feb. 15, 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: The Debate on GMO Labeling GMO labeling is a heated and controversial topic that the government and public consumers are debating. Since 1980, genetically modified organisms, also commonly referred to as GMOs, have begun to change the way food is made and in 2012 a non-GMO movement emerged to require mandatory labeling of genetically modified organisms. Major food corporations greatly opposed this proposition as they believe it is unnecessary and falsely alarms the public (Bain 9457). Growing concerns from consumers and scientists has led to a spark among the public about whether or not genetically modified foods should be labeled. The American Association for the Advancement of Science and Consumers Union are two organizations in opposition regarding the debate of labeling GMOs. The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), is an organization that is dedicated to advancing science through engineering and innovation for the benefit of all. AAAS is strictly against the proposition of GMO labeling, as they believe it is not necessary and does more harm than good. On the other hand, Consumers Union is an organization that is committed to assuring food safety and believe that consumers have a right to know what is in their food. Despite the controversies these organizations present, a compromise can be made in order to satisfy both parties and their Pircher 2 missions. Through the use of educational workshops, both AAAS and Consumers Union can come together to educate the public about the good and the bad of GMOs. Consumers Union (CU) is an organization that has been an advocate of food safety and policy as well as a leader on issues that affect consumers food choices such as GMOs, pesticides, use of antibiotics in factory farming, and BPA in food packaging. CU has been working for the benefit of consumers for over eight decades. CU strongly believes that consumers have a right to know what is in their food and want manufactures to make products that are safe, reliable, honest and fairly priced (Halloran 1). Consumers Union supports the proposition that genetically modified organisms (GMOs) should be labeled in order to allow consumers clarity and transparency in terms of food choices. The CU organization claims that GMOs are more harmful than conventional foods stating, produced through genetic engineering are significantly different than conventional foods, pose potential health risks and increase herbicide (Hansen1). In addition, this company hopes to pass consumer protection laws in the states and in congress (Halloran 1). According to an article written by Marta Tellado, is a simple and common sense solution to protect consumer (Tellado 1). The company is campaigning to require mandatory labeling as they believe all consumers deserve to know what is in their food and/or products. Tellado also states that the cost of labeling would come out to less than a penny a day, a cost many large corporations can handle (Tellado 1). On the other hand, the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) is an organizations that greatly opposed the proposition of labeling genetically modified organisms. AAAS was founded in 1848 and is the largest multidisciplinary scientific society. They are the first organization to promote the development of science and engineering at the national Pircher 3 level. Stated as their motto, The American Association for the Advancement of Science seeks advance science, engineering and innovation throughout the world for the benefit of all 1). This organization is against the labeling of genetically modified foods as they believe that genetically modified foods are not harmful in any way and therefore do not need labeling on products. According to an article written by the American Association of the Advancement of Science, foods containing ingredients derived from GM crops is no riskier than consuming the same foods containing ingredients from crop plants modified by conventional plant (AAAS 1). They also believe that labeling will only serve to mislead and falsely alarm consumers (AAAS 1). The American Association for the Advancement of Science also believes that labeling genetically modified foods is a costly and unnecessary component of the food industry (Hemphill 438). Stated in an article by Bain and Dandachi, US Food and Drug Administration, the government agency responsible for food safety of GMO crops, has determined that GMO foods are substantially similar to non-GMO foods and therefore labeling is not 9457). The American Association for the Advancement of Science supports companies such as Monsanto, who work to provide farmers with sustainable agricultural products and solutions to help farmers with better harvests. Monsanto uses genetically modified seeds and other modified products to help sustain crops better and more efficiently than conventional crops. The American Association for the Advancement of Science believes that the use of modern technology and science can help to advance products such as GMOs and allow for less harm on the environment (Monsanto). Although both these organizations have obvious disagreements, there are common goals shared between the organizations. Consumers Union and the American Association for the Pircher 4 Advancement of Science both believe that safety is the most important concern regarding genetically modified organisms. Consumers Union urges the public to research genetically modified organisms further to reach a firm conclusion. With each goals in mind, a compromise can be made to satisfy both of the organizations missions and with sacrifices being made on both sides. A solution to this disagreement would to use the American Association for the Advancement of research skills to further examine the issue and safety of genetically modified foods along with using an informative company, Procedia, to help better inform the public. With this information and the research from AAAS, both organizations can come together to educate the public of what GMOs are and which are safe for consumption as well as production. Information regarding the risks and rewards of genetically modified organisms within food and production will be shared in these educational workshops. Information such as, have been links made between genetically modified organisms and immune problems, accelerated aging, faulty insulin regulation, changes in major organs and gastrointestinal system and (Kocher 928). This will help to show the the negative and risky side of GMOs. In contrast, the educational workshops should also include information that supports GMOs such as, major rewards of genetically modified organisms are the increased yields at lower cost for farmers. The lower prices are then passed to the consumer...without these altered food crops more of the public would be less able to buy food and put at a risk of 929). It is necessary to include both the pros and cons of GMOs to fulfill an equal resolution between these organizations. From this compromise, the American Association for the Advancement of Science will be sacrificing their time and effort with research and Consumers Union will need to expose the full truth on genetically modified organisms, including Pircher 5 information regarding GMOs that necessarily bad. In addition, Consumers Union would have to contribute to the cost of the research thusly losing money from their campaigns, in hopes of promoting and eventually passing labeling laws for GMOs. The American Association for the Advancement of Science would have to agree to honest research and agree to require labeling laws for all genetically modified foods in order to provide a transparent food industry. With this compromise both organizations are sacrificing, but also benefitting making it a fair and equal solution to the disagreement. Overall, the disagreement between Consumers Union and the American Association for the Advancement of Science may never officially resolve, but a compromise can be made for both organizations to look past their differences and come together for the benefit of the public. Promoting further research and joining to educate the public on genetically modified organisms will not only satisfy the Consumers Union organization by achieving their wish to have GMOs looked at more closely, but it will also allow for the American Association for the Advancement of Science to gain more knowledge with research on genetically modified foods. Genetically modified organism are to be labeled in order to achieve transparency in the food industry and to allow consumers a right to know what is in their food or products. If the proposed compromise does not work for the organizations, both parties will be unable to reach their goals and ultimately the consumers will continue to be unsure about the effects of some genetically modified foods. Pircher 6 Works Cited Bain, Carmen, and Tamera Dandachi. Governing GMOs: The Movement for Mandatory and Voluntary Non-GMO  Sustainability. MDPI AG, 18 Dec. 2014. Web. This article is highly credible and reliable due to the credentials and the publisher of the site. One author, Carmen Bain, is an associate professor at Iowa State University in the department of Sociology. Bain teaches undergraduate and graduate classes in sociology of agriculture and food. Bain has also conducted research in countries including the U.S., Uganda, Chile, and New Zealand. The second author of this publication, Tamera Dandachi, earned a of Science in Sociology from Iowa State University and was a contributor of this article. The publisher, MDPI, publishes open access journals. All articles, manuscripts, and journals are strictly and thoroughly peer-reviewed, making this article a reliable source for use. Halloran, Jean, and Hansen, Michael. Label  Consumers Union. N.p. Web. This source was found directly off of the Consumers Union website, a credible website working to bring transparency and food safety to consumers. An author of this article, Jean Halloran, is a director of Food Policy Initiatives as Consumers Union. Halloran has served on the U.S. State Advisory committee on International Economic Policy. Halloran has also received her B.A. with honors from Swarthmore College. Another author of this article, Michael Hansen, has been working with Consumers Union for more than 20 years. Hansen is a biologist and Pircher 7 ecologist and has received his PhD. Hansen has also published and contributed to many publications regarding food safety issues. Hansen, Michael , Dr. Consumers deserve to know what is in their  Boston Globe. Consumers Union, 2 Apr. 2016. Web. The author of this article, Michael Hansen PhD, is a senior staff scientist working with Consumers Union and is mainly responsible for Consumers Union research and positioning on food safety, labeling genetically modified organisms, and testing. Hansen has a number of respectable memberships with organizations such as serving on the advisory committee for USDA of Agricultural Biotechnology and California Department of Food and Agriculture. Hansen earned his undergraduate degree with highest distinction from Northwestern University and doctorate in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from the University of Michigan. Boston Globe is the site of publication for this article. Boston Globe was founded in 1872 and has been awarded 26 Pulitzer prizes since 1966. Hemphill, Thomas A., and Syagnik Banerjee. Genetically Modified Organisms and the U.S. Retail Food Labeling Controversy: Consumer Perceptions, Regulations, and Public  and Society Review. N.p., 2015. Web. This source is credible and reliable for use from both credentials as well as the websites. One author of this article, Thomas A. Hemphill, is a professor at the University of Michigan teaching strategy, innovation and public policy in the school of management. Hemphill earned his PhD. and has been published in journals such as Technology Analysis and Strategic Pircher 8 Management. The second author of this publication, Syagnik Banerjee, is also a professor at the University of Michigan and teaches Marketing. Banerjee received his PhD. in business marketing from the University of Rhode Island. Banerjee is a member of the collaborative Neuro-marketing group at Northwestern University. The website from which this article was found on, Business and Society Review, is a highly reviewed and credible site. The website covers topics regarding business society and the public good. The site also publishes papers from researchers and business professionals members of the legal profession. Statement By the AAAS Board of Directors On Labeling of Genetically Modified  American Association for the Advancement of Science. N.p., 20 Oct. 2012. Web. The American Association for the Advancement of Science, widely known as AAAS, was founded in 1848 and has been the largest general scientific society. They are a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing science for all people. The president of AAAS, Barbara A. Schaal is the dean of the faculty of arts and sciences at Washington University in St. Louis. Schaal has contributed and written countless publications on topics regarding the evolutionary genetics of plants. This website is credible and reliable as it is a national organization website and obtains a well-honored board of committee. Kocher, Jimmy, and Muhammad Rashid. Engineering Our Food: Possible Risks Versus Re  . Procedia, 2014. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. This article is highly reliable not only due to the fact that is a peer-reviewed source, but also because of the credentials. One author, Muhammad Rashid, is a professor at the Pircher 9 University of West Florida. He obtains a Ph.D, M.S., and B.S. in electrical and electronic engineering, all from the University of Birmingham (UK). Rashid is also the author of many publications, including this article about GMOs. The second author, Jimmy Kocher, is a student at the University of West Florida, working under his professor Muhammad Rashid. The website, Elsevier, is a well-known website that provides the public with peer-reviewed, scholarly articles, mostly on topics regarding science.